An H II region or HII region is a region of interstellar atomic hydrogen that is ionized.
It is customary in astronomy to use the Roman numeral I for neutral atoms, II for singly-ionised—H II is H+ in other sciences—III for doubly-ionised, e.g.
O III is O++, etc.
It is typically a cloud of partially ionized gas in which star formation has recently taken place, with a size ranging from one to hundreds of light years, and density from a few to about a million particles per cubic cm.
The short-lived blue stars created in these regions emit copious amounts of ultraviolet light that ionize the surrounding gas.
H II regions—sometimes several hundred light-years across—are often associated with giant molecular clouds.
The Orion Nebula, now known to be an H II region, was observed in 1610 by Nicolas-Claude Fabri de Peiresc by telescope, the first such object discovered.
The term H II is pronounced "H two" by astronomers 
Such regions may be of any shape, because the distribution of the stars and gas inside them is irregular.
They often appear clumpy and filamentary, sometimes showing bizarre shapes such as the Horsehead Nebula.
H II regions may give birth to thousands of stars over a period of several million years.
In the end, supernova explosions and strong stellar winds from the most massive stars in the resulting star cluster will disperse the gases of the H II region, leaving behind a cluster of stars which have formed, such as the Pleiades.
H II regions can be seen to considerable distances in the universe, and the study of extragalactic H II regions is important in determining the distance and chemical composition of galaxies.
Spiral and irregular galaxies contain many H II regions, while elliptical galaxies are almost devoid of them.
In spiral galaxies, including our Milky Way, H II regions are concentrated in the spiral arms, while in irregular galaxies they are distributed chaotically.
Some galaxies contain huge H II regions, which may contain tens of thousands of stars.
Examples include the 30 Doradus region in the Large Magellanic Cloud and NGC 604 in the Triangulum Galaxy.

