The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross , or simply the Knight's Cross , and its variants were the highest awards in the military and paramilitary forces of Nazi Germany during World War II.
The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross was awarded for a wide range of reasons and across all ranks, from a senior commander for skilled leadership of his troops in battle to a low-ranking soldier for a single act of extreme battlefield bravery.
, as well as the Waffen-SS, the Reichsarbeitsdienst  and the Volkssturm , along with personnel from other Axis powers.
The award was instituted on 1 September 1939, at the onset of the German Invasion of Poland.
A higher grade, the Oak Leaves to the Knight's Cross, was instituted in 1940.
At the end of 1944 the final grade, the Knight's Cross with Golden Oak Leaves, Swords and Diamonds, was created.
Over 7,000 awards were made since its first presentation on 30 September 1939.
Analysis of the German Federal Archives revealed evidence for 7,161 officially bestowed recipients.
The German Federal Archives substantiate 863 awards of the Oak Leaves to the Knight's Cross, along with the 147 Swords and 27 Diamonds awards.
The Golden Oak Leaves to the Knight's Cross was verifiably awarded only once, to Hans-Ulrich Rudel on 29 December 1944.
The Prussian king Friedrich Wilhelm III established the Iron Cross at the beginning of the German campaign as part of the Napoleonic Wars.
The design was a silver-framed cast iron cross on 13 March 1813.
Iron was a material which symbolised defiance and reflected the spirit of the age.
The Prussian state had mounted a campaign steeped in patriotic rhetoric to rally their citizens to repulse the French occupation.
To finance the army, the king implored wealthy Prussians to turn in their jewels in exchange for a men's cast-iron ring or a ladies' brooch, each bearing the legend "Gold I gave for iron" .
With the outbreak of World War II on 1 September 1939, Adolf Hitler in his role as commander in chief of the German armed forces decreed the renewal of the Iron Cross of 1939.
A new grade of the Iron Cross series was introduced, the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.
The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, without distinction, was awarded to officers and soldiers alike, conforming with the National Socialist slogan: "One people, one nation, one leader".
The legal grounds for this decree had been established in 1937 with the German law of Titles, Orders and Honorary Signs  that made the Führer and Reichskanzler the only person who was allowed to award orders or honorary signs.
The re-institution of the Iron Cross was therefore a Führer decree, which had political implication since the Treaty of Versailles had explicitly prohibited the creation of a military decoration, order or medal.
The renewal for the first time had created an honorary sign of the entire German state.
As the war progressed four additional grades were introduced to further distinguish those who had already won the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross or one of the higher grades and who continued to show merit in combat bravery or military success.
The Knight's Cross was eventually awarded in five grades: The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross instituted on 1 September 1939.
Its appearance was very similar to the Iron Cross.
Its shape was that of a cross pattée, a cross that has arms which are narrow at the center and broader at the perimeter.
The most common Knight's Crosses were produced by the manufacturer Steinhauer &amp; Lück in Lüdenscheid.
The Steinhauer &amp; Lück crosses are stamped with the digits "800", indicating 800 grade silver, on the reverse side.
Ribbon bar Ribbon bar  Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves  was instituted on of 3 June 1940.
Before the introduction of the Oak Leaves only 124 members of the Wehrmacht had received the Knight's Cross.
Prior to Case Yellow 
[29] The German Law about Titles, Orders and Honorary Signs  regulates the wearing of the Knight's Cross in post World War II Germany.
German law prohibits wearing a swastika, so on 26 July 1957 the West German government authorized replacement Knight's Crosses with an Oak Leaf Cluster in place of the swastika, similar to the Iron Crosses of 1813, 1870 and 1914, which could be worn by World War II recipients.
[30]

