Adventure Time is an American animated television series created by Pendleton Ward for Cartoon Network.
The series follows the adventures of Finn , a human boy, and his best friend and adoptive brother Jake , a dog with magical powers to change shape and grow and shrink at will.
Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo.
Throughout the series, they interact with the show's other main characters: Princess Bubblegum , the sovereign of the Candy Kingdom; the Ice King , a demented but largely misunderstood ice wizard; Marceline the Vampire Queen , a thousand-year-old vampire and rock music enthusiast; and BMO , a sentient video game console-shaped robot that lives with Finn and Jake.
The pilot first aired in 2007, and it was later re-aired on the incubator series Random!
Cartoons on Nicktoons Network.
The pilot eventually leaked onto the internet and became a cult hit on YouTube.
After Nickelodeon declined to turn the short into a full-fledged show, Cartoon Network purchased the rights, and Adventure Time launched as a series on April 5, 2010.
Season seven, which also contains a special mini-series, began airing on November 2, 2015.
The show has also been renewed for an eighth season, and a feature-length film—which is being developed by Chris McKay and Roy Lee—is also in the works.
Each Adventure Time episode is about eleven minutes in length; pairs of episodes are often telecast in order to fill a half-hour program time slot.
The first four seasons each contain 26 episodes, the fifth contains 52 episodes, the sixth contains 43 episodes, and the seventh contains 39.
For the first five and a half seasons, the show aired on Monday nights.
[nb 1] However, starting with the sixth-season episode "Breezy", the show began to shift both its timeslot and its day of airing.
Ever since its debut, Adventure Time has been a ratings success for Cartoon Network, with the highest-rated episodes scoring over 3 million viewers.
The show has received positive reviews from critics and has developed a strong following among teenagers and adults, many of whom are attracted due to the series' animation, stories, and characters.
Adventure Time has won two Annie Awards, six Primetime Emmy Awards, two British Academy Children's Awards, a Motion Picture Sound Editors Award, a Pixel Award, a Peabody Award,[21] and a Kerrang!
Award.
[22] The series has also been nominated for three Critics' Choice Television Awards,[23][24] two Annecy Festival Awards,[25][26] a TCA Award,[27] and a Sundance Film Festival Award,[28] among others.
Several compilation DVDs have been released.
In addition, the first six seasons have been released on DVD and Blu-ray.
Adventure Time is produced by Cartoon Network Studios and Frederator Studios.

