The victory of Korean animation: ‘Leafie, a Hen Into the Wild’
Only ten days since its release on July 28, the Korean animation film “Leafie, a Hen Into the Wild “is already causing a sensation in the domestic movie industry, attracting more than 800,000 viewers. 
The story is based on a bestselling children’s novel, which sold more than 1 million copies in Korea. “Leafie, A Hen Into The Wild” is a story about a hen named Leafie who is fed up with living the same old life on a chicken farm.
 One day, she decides to carve out her own destiny and set out to wilderness by escaping from the coop. However, life outside the farm is not as rosy as she had imagined. Leafie faces many challenges. She is almost killed by a one-eyed ferret. But she soon develops a reason to survive after she adopts a duckling and begins to raise him as her own son.
 From that moment on, she begins a journey in search of true freedom.
 Leafie’s struggle to live a meaningful life by pursing her dream and learning the true meaning of love through her son touched viewers’ hearts.
 The movie took nearly six years and cost 5 billion won to be completed. A group of talented Korean illustrators and 20 professional dubbing artists participated in the production. 
Veteran Korean actors including actor Choi Min-sik, actress Moon So-ri and rising teen star Yoo Seung-ho voiced the main characters. Moon So-ri starred as Leafie. The duckling is played by Yoo Seung-ho.
 A reputable Korean production company, Myung Film signed copyright contract with the story’s author, Hwang Sun-mi in 2005 and experienced animation producer, Oh Seong-yoon directed the film. IU, a popular young Korean singer sang the film’s title song.
 The film’s background is based on the beautiful scenery of Upo wetlands in Changnyeong, South Gyeongsang Province. Creators of the movie said that they tried to show the Korea’s unique natural beauty.
 It became the first animation film to be simultaneously released in Korea and China. “The film’s painting-like feature would appeal to Chinese audiences,” said Shim Jae-Myeong, CEO of Myung Film.
