Gender equality leads to a better world: World Bank
On Sept. 18, the World Bank posted a press release detailing the results of a report which showed that countries with better opportunities for women and girls could boost a nation’s productivity and development. 　
 According to the World Development Report 2012: Gender Equality and Development results, while significant progress has been made in narrowing the gender gap in education, more has to be done for the remaining gaps. 
In fact, the report cites specific examples of how countries could benefit from gender equality. Improving women’s access to agricultural participation in Burkina Faso for example, would “increase total household agricultural production by about 6 percent, with no additional resources - simply by reallocating resources such as fertilizer and labor from men to women.” 
The report also claims that eliminating barriers that prevent women from working in certain occupations or sectors could improve the productivity of employees in any country by 3 to 25 percent. 
“Blocking women and girls from getting the skills and earnings to succeed in a globalized world is not only wrong, but also economically harmful,” said Justin Yifu Lin, World Bank chief economist. “Sharing the fruits of growth and globalization equally between men and women is essential to meeting key development goals.”
 While women now represent 40 percent of the global labor force, 43 percent of the agricultural labor force and more than half of university students, gaps in gender equality are still prevalent all over the world.
 The worst disparity in gender comes from the mortality rate of women compared to men in developing countries. According to the report, nearly 4 million women from low- and middle-income countries go “missing” each year. Globally, about two-fifths of women are never born due to a preference for sons, a sixth die in early childhood, and over a third die in their reproductive years. These losses are growing in Sub-Saharan Africa, especially in countries hard-hit by HIV/AIDS. 
“We need to achieve gender equality,” said World Bank Group President Robert B. Zoellick. “Over the past five years, the World Bank Group has provided $65 billion to support girls’ education, women’s health, and women’s access to credit, land, agricultural services, jobs, and infrastructure. This has been important work, but it has not been enough … Going forward, the World Bank Group will mainstream our gender work and find other ways to move the agenda forward to capture the full potential of half the world’s population.”
 In other words, according to the World Bank report, countries that have better opportunities and conditions for women and girls can raise productivity, improve children’s futures, make institutions more representative, and also provide the people and country overall, an opportunity to develop. 
