Psy, 8th most intriguing person of 2012 by CNN
CNN revealed the list of the Most intriguing people of 2012 on Dec. 24.
Among the world’s leaders, athletes, and public figures, Korean artist Psy snatched the eighth slot on the list, becoming the first Korean to make in the top 10. 
The sensational fame of Psy’s music video "Gangnam Style" instantly turned him into one of world’s most coveted entertainers. The number of views of his music video on YouTube exceeded 1 billion, making it YouTube’s all-time No. 1 music video.
At the end of every year, American news broadcasting network CNN selects 20 people who it thinks have captured the attention of people around the world in that year. Then viewers make final decision to choose top 10 most intriguing people of the year. 
In 2012, people thought that U.S. President Barack Obama, who grabbed re-election victory over Republican rival Mitt Romney was the most intriguing person. Mitt Romney also made the top 20. 
Obama was followed by Malala Yousafzai, a girl protestor who got shot by Taliban after having argued for women’s rights for education. Kim Jong-un, leader of North Korea also made it to top 20.
Here are the top ten most intriguing people of the year, as selected by CNN readers:
　1. President Barack Obama
　2. Malala Yousufzai
　3. Gabby Douglas (award winning Olympic gymnast)
　4. Chris Christie (New Jersey Governer)
　5. Felix Baumgartner (man who made the first parchute jump from space)
　6. David Petraeus (the former director of the CIA)
　7. Mitt Romney
　8. Psy
　9. Marissa Mayer (New Yahoo! CEO)
　10. John Roberts (conservative Chief Justice who cast the vote that changed health care in America forever)
Others on the list were: Mohamed Morsi, Egypt’s leader; Trayvon Martin, a teenager who was fatally shot by a neighborhood watchman; Lance Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles after a doping scandal; E.L. James, author of Fifty Shades of Grey; Bashar Al-Assad, President of Syria; Sophia Vergara, the Colombian-born star of Modern Family who became TV’s highest-paid actress; and Nate Silver, a statistician who predicted the U.S. election result. 
