Fun and quirky ideas to spend your New Year’s Day
Fireworks and electric music are no longer enough for the perfect New Year‘s party. Nowadays, people are avidly searching for ways to spend a spectacular New Year’s Eve. Here are some of the world’s more unusual New Year celebrations you may seriously take inspiration from.
Swim in frosty water
How about spending New Year’s Day by soaking in a sub-zero lake at the annual Loony Dook Swim? Every year, a thousand New Year revelers take part in the swimming activity which opens in the River Forth in front of the Forth Rail Bridge, in the east of Scotland.
Similar events - whether it would be a frozen river or sea - are found across many parts of the planet, in particular, chillier corners of the northern hemisphere from Sweden to Siberia. Swimmers from Scotland to Siberia are undeterred by hypothermia or frostbite as they prepare to swim through the freezing ocean until their skin turns blue. 
Grapes
Now, how about following the tradition of Mexico, Chile and Costa Rica? In these South American countries, grapes are served at New Year’s Eve parties. Twelve grapes are consumed on New Year’s Eve as each grape represents a month of the coming year. Also in Spain, grapes must be eaten in accordance with the 12 chimes of midnight for good luck.
Chairs
In Denmark, chairs are used in an unusual New Year celebration. Believing that leaping from chairs will shed bad spirits, people use chairs as launching pads.
Dead birds
Sailors believed that plucking feathers from a dead wren on New Year’s Day could protect them from dying from a shipwreck. They also thought that it was unlucky to begin a voyage on Dec. 31.
Pig race
In the Swiss ski resort of Klosters, the first day of January is celebrated with a piglet race. Ten tiny pigs race through the snow to win the year’s town mascot status. 
Molten lead 
Germans celebrate New Year’s with molten lead. A spoonful of leaden metal is melted over a candle and dropped into a bucket of water. Shapes formed by the droplets are used for the year’s fortune telling. An oval shape signifies a growing family, a clover means luck and a hat shape means good news. 
Bed
What a surprise! More than a third of Great Britons, especially in Scotland, prefer to be tucked up in bed on the stroke of midnight instead of going bacchanalian at overrated parties on New Year’s Eve.
Bright underwear
At La Font de la Figuera, Valencia, Spain, people take part in the 30-year-old "San Silvestre" New Year‘s race in brightly colored underwear. In Italy, Spain and South and Central America, bright colored underpants -- red or yellow -- carry a special meaning of luck or romance.
Flying fridges
One dangerous tradition in South Africa is throwing fridges out of windows during the New Year’s holiday. A similar yet now extinct New Year tradition in Italy was throwing old unwanted TV sets out of windows. Flying fridges and TV sets sometimes led to unwanted injuries and arrests.
