Relationship between childlessness and early death
Couples without a child but who want one may suffer an early death, a study in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health has found.
A study looked at more than 21,276 childless couples seeking IVF (in vitro fertilization) treatment in Denmark from 1994 to 2005. During the period, a total of 15,149 children were born and 96 women and 220 men died.
The study suggested that having a child can reduce the risk of early death, particularly among women. Women who were unsuccessful in having a child were found to be four times more likely to “die prematurely from circulatory disease, cancers, and accidents than those with children.” Childless men were twice as likely to die early, the study stated.
Having a family gives a strong psychological strength that helps people “hang on” to life in the face of life’s challenges, it argued. 
“Being childless without a doubt reduces your fight for life,” Dr Helen Nightingale, a clinical psychologist, claimed. ”If you draw on cancer as an example - the support of a family, the focus on your children - your grandchildren and the desire to watch how they will turn out drives your psychological resistance to survive,“ “You fight for them, people hang on - it shows the power of relationships.” 
However, the risk of early death was low - with just 316 people in total dying over the 11 year study - making it hard to determine the underlying cause of the early death.
Researchers say that the study only shows a link between childlessness and premature death, not a cause. “The association is not the same thing as causation; our results suggest that the mortality rates are higher in the childless,” they commented.
As people who are involuntarily childlessness are desperate for a child, so if they are unsuccessful they may get depressed and this can be another big cause of premature death, Ingrid Collins, a consultant psychologist, pointed out. 
Asides from having a child, researchers add that other factors, such as deep spiritual belief, being married, and having a higher social class, can all help people maintain a longer life.
