Benefits of family meals
In today’s fast-paced society, family dinners have become a rare occurrence, especially if both parents have full-time jobs. 
Koreans in particular, tend to forgo family meals due to schedule conflicts between parents’ jobs and children’s school and various afterschool activities. However, having a meal - dinner in particular - as a family has numerous, significant benefits.
A recent study by researchers at the University of Leeds found that not only do family dinners promote healthier eating habits, but just doing so occasionally was enough to boost children’s fruit and vegetable intake by an average of 1.2 servings. 
“Even if it’s just one family meal a week, when children eat together with parents or older siblings they learn about eating,” study supervisor Janet Cade of Leeds University’s School of Food Science and Nutrition, said in a press release. 
“Watching the way their parents or siblings eat and the different types of food they eat is pivotal in creating their own food habits and preferences,” she added.
For those worried about losing precious time for studying, having dinner together as a family has also been linked to better grades for teenagers. In fact, a survey conducted by Columbia University in 2005 found that teenagers who had frequent family dinners were 40 percent more likely to get A’s and B’s.
Other than better grades and healthier eating habits, children who have family dinners five or more times a week were also found to be significantly less likely to drink alcohol, smoke cigarettes and engage in other unhealthy activities.
While family meals in Korea tend to be few and far between, a growing body of research points to the importance of family meals in children’s development. 
“There are more benefits to having a family meal together than just the family’s health,” said Cade. “They provide conversational time for families, incentives to plan a meal, and an ideal environment for parents to model good manners and behavior.”
“Since dietary habits are established in childhood, the importance of promoting the family meal needs to be more prominent in public health campaigns,” added Meaghan Christian, who conducted the study as part of her Ph.D. 
