Zambezia’ - An adventure in teamwork
A heartwarming tale of teamwork and equality to the beat of African music, “Zambezia” is a movie that is sure to delight people of all ages. 
The film tells the story of Kai, a young falcon on the cusp of adulthood. Bored and lonely living in a remote area with his strict father, Tendai, Kai learns of Zambezia, a paradise tree city full of other birds, after a chance encounter with Gogo the stork and a weaver bird named Tini. After a big fight with his father, Kai decides to run away in search of the mysterious Zambezia. 
While Kai enjoys the city life, a group of vengeful Marabou storks – who have been excluded from Zambezia and are being forced to scavenge for scraps - team up with a big lizard named Budzo to try and take over the tree city. 
Will Kai and the Hurricanes, an elite defense patrol made up of the best fliers in Zambezia, be able to save the city? Or will Zambezia fall into the hands of Budzo and the Marabou storks?
“Zambezia” opened in theaters across the nation on Dec. 25, 2012.
Meet the actors! 
The Korean release of “Zambezia” features several famous voices including fellow “Infinite Challenge” members Haha (Cecil) and Noh Hong-chul (Morton), as well as the “nation’s father,” Yoo Joon-sang (Tendai). 
“Zambezia” required a lot of delicate acting, “which is why I would love to try my hand with this genre again,” said Yoo. 
“In spite of myself, I actually started flapping my arms whilst dubbing,” Yoo confessed. 
During the press conference, Noh Hong-chul was once again forced to confront his recent drop in ranking from the most handsome member on MBC’s “Infinite Challenge” to being picked as the ugliest member during the show’s “Let Me Introduce My Ugly Friend Festival.” 
When asked how he felt about comments that he seemed to resemble his character perfectly, Noh stated that “prior to working on this film, I couldn’t empathize with the character.”
“It’s because the character I portray, Morton, is ugly,” he explained. “I got this way in the process of dubbing [for the film],” he added, bringing laughter amongst the attendees. 
“I think this is the perfect job for Noh Hong-chul since only the voice is revealed when dubbing for animated films rather than the face,” Haha joked. 
Noh and Haha play two Marabou stork cousins who start off as bad guys but end up switching sides. 
“I’ve always wanted to play the villain,” Haha said of his experience.
“My character, Cecil, is naïve and good, which was a little disappointing, but I had a lot of fun working” on the film, he added. 
