Feel the love at the Garden of Morning Calm
It is no secret that the cold temperatures of winter make spending time outdoors less enjoyable. With the shorter days and longer nights, spending time outside has very few perks. That is, unless you find something worth being outside for.
One such worthy option is the Garden of Morning Calm, located in Gapyeong, just under two hours from the heart of Seoul.
For those already feeling wistful about the end of the winter holidays, a trip to the Garden of Morning Calm is a must. Not only will the dazzling light decorations help keep the Christmas spirit alive, but the winter chill and stroll between the trees will help you feel refreshed after spending the day cooped up indoors.
Every winter, the Garden of Morning Calm goes from being a simple arboretum by day, into a breathtaking light show at night. 
For the sixth consecutive year, the Garden of Morning Calm is hosting the Multicolored Starlit Garden festival. This means that every night starting at sundown, visitors can enjoy three hours engulfed in a beautiful light festival.
This year, the decorations at the Garden of Morning Calm are bigger than ever. Designed according to the theme, “Falling in Love,” the ambiance of the 6th Annual Multicolored Starlit Garden Festival is nothing short of romantic. 
Consider taking a trip with your loved ones this winter and feel the love at the Garden of Morning Calm for the 6th Annual Multicolored Starlit Garden Festival, taking place until March 3, 2013. 
For more information, go to: http://www.morningcalm.co.kr 
The history of the Garden of Morning Calm 
The Garden of Morning Calm is an outdoor garden of over 300,000 square meters. Not just an environmental beauty, it is now a cultural masterpiece thanks to the hard work of a professor at Sahmyook University, Han Sang-kyung. Han founded the arboretum in the early 1990s in the hopes of creating a unique garden to represent the beauty and elegance of Korean culture and tradition. He chose the name “Morning Calm” in honor of Sir Tagore, an Indian poet who referred to Korea as the “Land of the Morning Calm” when describing Korea’s natural beauty in the early 20th century.
