Studying grammar is more important than practicing conversation skills
PRO 
To survive in the era of globalization, English is a must, and there are many people who say conversation skills are much more important than grammar. I am opposed to that idea for the following reasons.
First, grammar is essential when people try to make themselves understood. Even in Korean, this takes a long time when people speak long phrases using incorrect grammar. It will be more problematic when we speak a foreign language using a weird structure.
Second, command of the English language will improve only when accompanied by grammatically correct sentences. However hard you may try in speaking English, speaking strange sentences will not help you much.
Finally, proper structures will also help you when practicing conversation skills as well. If you want to talk with foreigners, you should be quick in producing sentences. This is when knowledge of grammar shines. If you have a comprehensive knowledge of grammar and structure, you will be much faster in producing great sentences.
So, for the reasons I mentioned, I think studying grammar is much more important that practicing conversation skills.
CON 
Many Korean students go to English language schools and study grammar more than conversation skills. However, practicing conversation skills is far more important than studying grammar for the following reasons.
First of all, in real life, we need conversation skills more than grammar. You can live without knowledge of grammar, but not without communication. I think the only situation when people need grammar is in tests.
Moreover, when you learned your mother tongue, Korean, you first spoke and then wrote. If you would like to learn foreign languages quickly, you had better improve your speaking skills first before studying grammar as you learned Korean in the same way.
Also, you will not be able to speak well if you study grammar only. When you think too much of grammar, you will lose the chance to speak.
Lastly, what is important in communication is delivering messages. You can make yourself understood well in foreign languages even if you are not perfect in grammar. We can see many foreigners in Korea nowadays who can express themselves well using body language.
As I said above, you can be a great speaker when you expose yourself to English conversations. You can work on your grammar step by step as you speak in sentences.
