What are YOUR New Year’s Resolutions?
Every year on Jan. 1, people from around the world celebrate the beginning of a new year. The celebrations may vary between cultures but one theme remains constant: the celebration of a new beginning.
The New Year gives everyone a chance at a fresh start; to let go of the past and look forward to the endless possibilities of the future. It gives people a chance to consider the direction of their lives and consider ways to improve it, while also looking back and appreciating all the successes and failures that have shaped who they are. 
What is a New Year’s resolution?
A New Year’s resolution is a commitment made by a person towards one or more personal goals for the New Year. Unlike other goals set by people throughout their lives, a key element to the New Year’s resolution is that it is made in anticipation of the New Year and all the implications associated with a new beginning. 
While some New Year’s resolutions are made with sincerity, others are more lighthearted. 
Popular New Year’s resolutions
One of the most popular New Year’s resolutions made every year is to improve one’s physical well-being. In fact, many gym-goers will notice a sudden surge of people at the gym in the weeks following Jan. 1. Going to the gym is a New Year’s resolution made by almost everyone at some point in their lives. With parents and doctors constantly warning you about the dangers of a sedentary lifestyle, nowadays, getting more exercise remains a top priority for individuals and governments alike. 
Another popular resolution is to improve one’s financial situation. This resolution tends to vary from a pledge to start saving money to actively trying to get out of debt. Regardless of age, most people understand the significance of money and its role in our lives. For younger people, money is generally associated with the ability to buy something they want. For older people, money is the difference between having to worry about paying the bills and having the luxury of eating out with loved ones every once in a while. Regardless of the reason, money plays an increasingly important role in keeping us happy and satisfied in life, making it one of the top New Year’s resolutions made by people around the world every year. 
Speaking of loved ones, spending more time with family and friends is another New Year’s resolution that people make every year, as is expanding one’s horizons. The desire to spend more quality time with loved ones becomes overwhelming as the concept of time and aging becomes more apparent with the end of one more year and the start of another. With ample time for reflection during the holiday season - usually spent with family and friends - the regret of not having spent enough quality time with loved ones causes people to make pledges to do so more in the New Year. It is for these same reasons that people feel the urge to learn a new skill, visit new places or try new things as well. 
Other than making resolutions to start new habits, many people make resolutions in the hopes of stopping bad habits as well. For example, many people make New Year’s resolutions to stop eating too many chocolates or drinking too much soda. These types of straightforward resolutions are easier to keep compared to the more complex emotional ones like trying not to get stressed out as much or trying to be happier. 
Tips on keeping your New Year’s resolutions:
1. Be realistic – Do not go overboard with your New Year’s resolutions. Try to be realistic when it comes to setting goals for yourself. Instead of promising never to eat junk food again, for example, just set a limit like only allowing yourself to indulge a few times a week instead of every day.
2. Talk about it – Telling your friends and family about your goals will help you stay motivated. Not only will they provide support, but the mere fact that you told them will motivate you to keep going for fear of disappointment.
3. Reward yourself – Staying on track with your New Year’s resolution is something to celebrate. It is difficult to start a new habit or change your behavior so be sure to reward yourself to keep you motivated. 
4. Never give up
New Year’s Resolutions on Twitter 　
@WorldofSmithy
My New Years resolution was to try and quit holding onto grudges but instead I’m just hoping others made a resolution not to piss me off.
@KenJennings 
My New Year’s resolution is for everyone to be nicer to me and give me stuff in 2013.
@Breadery 
My new years resolution is to finally admit I am not a Pokemon master and to stop catching wild animals in metal cylinders.
@AshOfPalletTown 
My New Years resolution is to be the very best, like no one ever was.
@keefycameradude 
My New Years resolution is to try and avoid things that make me fat. Mainly things like photographs, mirrors and thinner people..
@alaykhan 
new years resolution: remember to write 13 instead of 12 on my paper
@deerhuntingdiva
my new years resolution is to stick with this pic.twitter.com/xjFcbPQD
@BrielleZolciak 
2013 new years resolution: stop procrastinating in 2014.
@nachosarah 
is it anyone’s new years resolution to bring me a pizza
@hollycandy 
My New Years Resolution is to get Knighted. And learn the words to Gangnam Style.　
