Manage your pocket money
Rising star Lee Hi, a 17-year-old singer who ranked well in SBS’ “K-Pop Star” in 2012, revealed how she used to manage her monthly pocket money when she attended middle school.
Lee used to receive 10,000 won per month from her parents and used half of it to recharge her transportation card, she said during a recent interview with “Star Column,” an online entertainment magazine run by Naver.
Lee made the best use of the remaining 5,000 won throughout the middle school years, and even now she receives 10,000 won from her parents while attending Seoul Performing Arts High School.
Ten-thousand won a month might be too little for some students of Lee’s age, but she could manage through her school life with the money while learning how she could make the best out of the given amount.
Opening of a new year will be a great time for us to start our pocket money management.
Whether your monthly pocket money is 10,000 won like Lee or hover around 50,000 won, how much you will have left at the end of the year depends on your financial management.
Visiting wikiHow (http://www.wikihow.com), an online knowledge sharing community, you can learn some of the best ways to make great use of your money.
It actually gives six tips on how teenagers can earn and manage their money effectively.
It first recommends you make some money; you can either do work around the house or run errands, after which you can ask for allowance. 
Second, you should try your best to save as much of the money as possible. 
Third, you can ask parents to open up a savings account for you, which is to stop you from reckless or meaningless spending. 
Fourth, you can further find your own way to make money by, for example, working out a deal with your parents involving your school grades. 
Fifth, draw up a savings plan, with which you can calculate how much you will have accumulated by the year’s end. 
Sixth, prepare a notebook and three pens -- red, blue and black -- with which you can record the money that goes in and out of your pocket.
Now, if you have fully understood the six tips, why not try them out? We should strike while the iron is hot.
