 Study finds recess just as important as studying
Good news for kids who love to play. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recently published a new policy statement in support of what most students look forward to the most in school: recess. 
In light of the ongoing discussions on educational reform, pediatricians from the AAP have come forward to say that recess is a “crucial and necessary component of a child’s development.” 
“Children need to have downtime between complex cognitive challenges,” Dr. Robert Murray, a professor at Ohio State University and co-author of the statement, told TIME magazine.
“They tend to be less able to process information the longer they are held to a task. It’s not enough to just switch from math to English. You actually have to take a break.” 
According to AAP pediatricians, recess provides numerous cognitive, academic, social, emotional and physical benefits to students. 
Studies have shown that not only do students tend to be more attentive and perform better cognitively after recess, the unstructured nature of recess allows children to explore their creativity and develop their imagination, providing further benefits to cognitive development. 
In fact, even with adolescents, the mere act of socializing made students more attentive and more productive in the classroom.
The pediatricians at AAP also advocate recess because it allows students the opportunity to develop communication skills - such as cooperation and sharing –- as well as other such social skills that are otherwise not acquired in a school environment. 
Furthermore, recess helps students get exercise that would help counteract the time they spend sitting in class. In fact, an analysis of 14 studies published in January of 2012 found that kids who get more break time scored higher on measures of academic performance. 
“Although not all children play vigorously at recess, it does provide the opportunity for children to be active in the mode of their choosing and to practice movement and motor skills,” the statement reads.
Even more important, “recess affords young children free activity for the sheer joy of it,” rather than being forced to do so.
The policy statement was published in the January 2013 issue of the journal Pediatrics.
