One 8th Junior Herald Student reporter’s stellar achievement!
The Junior Herald has started the New Year with immensely empowering news from one of our former Junior Herald student reporters, Lee Ji-ye. She recently told the Junior Herald that she had been accepted to CheongShim International Academy (CSIA) in Gapyeong, Gyeonggi province. 
CheongShim International Academy is one of Korea’s most celebrated international schools, known for its top-notch academic level, teachers and facilities. This year, she starts seventh grade at CSIA. As we congratulate her exemplary academic feat, let’s hear more about the story behind her shining success.
As a local elementary school student who had not lived abroad, she managed to build her strong English skills by reading lots of different types of English books, such as books on history, economy, culture and science, as well as fiction. As she began delving into non-fiction reading, she started subscribing the Junior Herald and participated as a Junior Herald student reporter with her younger brother, Lee Ji-min. The two siblings have contributed articles for the Junior Herald and recently the two went to a debate camp sponsored by the Herald Corporation. 
Moreover, after a short trip from the U.S., she became obsessed with Hannah Montana and Selena Gomez and watched many U.S. sitcoms. Basically, she said that she studied English while playing. 
Throughout her elementary school days, she served as class head several times and finally as president of school. She garnered a number of awards, including one from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for her scientific, explorative and creative excellence. Lee also attended the Youth Summit for the 12th Asia-Pacific Conference on Giftedness in Dubai as a representative of Republic of Korea. She recalled the event as the most memorable part of her elementary school.
Message from Lee Ji-ye
I feel so happy to being admitted to ChungShim International Academy. My interest in English began with reading English books. A brief visit to America also added my interests in English study. Then I started reading the Junior Herald. The Junior Herald has student reporters’ pages and I really wanted to participate as a student reporter, submitting my articles. So I applied and in the end, I and my brother got in. At the Herald’s Debate camp, I learned to take part in a debate properly. I think the Junior Herald has been a great help to me along the journey. Now as I am about to step into a new world, I want to keep in mind the lessons my parents taught me: To live in the present and keep going back to basics. 
