Extreme winter sports
Most winter sports are played on snow or ice. They are usually some variation of skiing, ice skating or sledding. Common winter sports that people are familiar with include downhill skiing, cross-country skiing, snowboarding, ski jumping, figure skating, ice dancing, speed skating, bobsledding, luge and snowmobiling. However, for those who seek more thrilling and exciting challenges, they turn to extreme winter sports for the mixture of fun and danger that satisfies their craving for the adrenaline rush. 
Extreme Skiing ? Extreme skiing is performed on long and steep slopes that exceed 50-plus degree descent. Skiers must often be taken to the top of the slope by helicopter because of the treacherous and inaccessible terrain. Hurtling down a mountain at such steep angles and frantic speed means that a single mistake at the wrong moment can cause serious injuries or death. Swiss skier Sylvain Saudan is widely considered the father of extreme skiing with 18 of the world’s most difficult descents, including Gasherbrum I, Mont Blanc, Kilimanjaro, and the Karakoram, to his credit. 
Ice Climbing ? Ice climbing is performed on frozen waterfalls or cliffs and rock slabs covered with ice refrozen from flows of water. The climbing surface ranges from a 60 degree slope to a vertical incline. Climbers choose equipment according to the slope and texture of the ice. Common ice climbing gear includes mountaineering boots fitted with crampons (shoe attachments with spikes), ice axes and ropes. Ice climbing requires detailed knowledge of techniques such as rope systems, tying in, belaying, leading, abseiling, and lowering.
Ice Surfing ? Ice surfing is a hybrid sport mixing the speed of ice boating and the maneuverability of wind surfing. It takes place on large ice surfaces such as frozen lakes or rivers. An ice-surfing board is shaped like a skateboard, but with sharp blades instead of wheels. It has a sail similar to the sail on a wind surfing board. By maneuvering the sail properly, ice surfers can move almost three times faster than the prevailing wind and reach speeds of more than 110 kilometers per hour. Ice surfers use a “sheet out” technique to let the wind out of the sail to slow or stop the board.
Polar Bear Plunge ? In winter, while most people are bundled up from head to toe to ward off freezing temperatures, some people prefer to take a dip in frigid waters to ring in the New Year or raise money for charity. A polar bear plunge, or swimming in ice-cold water, has become a popular activity in many parts of the world, particularly in Canada, the Netherlands and the United States. Some swimmers rush into the shivering ocean surf for a quick swim; some jump into icy ponds for a quick dip; and others cut through frozen lake surfaces and plunge in for a few icy laps. 
Snow Kayaking ? Going down a snow-covered mountain in a kayak may sound like sledding ? a child’s play of fun and harmless spills. The fact that very few ski resorts allow it on the slopes is indication that snow kayaking is indeed an extreme sport. Imagine shooting down a steep slope in a well-waxed kayak at a frighteningly high speed with no brakes and only a paddle for control. Snow kayakers must traverse bumps, turns and obstacles to reach the finish line, and then comes the most difficult part ? carrying the cumbersome kayak back up the mountain for another exhilarating run. The potential for injury is very high in this sport. 
Skeleton ? Although the skeleton is a recognized Winter Olympics event, it is not a sport for the faint of heart. A skeleton rider lies face down and head first on a heavy sled with no braking or steering mechanisms and races down a frozen track. The skeleton can reach a top speed of 135 kilometers per hour, during which the rider can experience forces up to 5 g (g-Force). Steering can only be done by shoulder and leg “manipulations” of the sled.
