A founding father of Korean economy, Lee Byung-chull
1)Chairman Lee Byung-chull’s early days
 Samsung is one of South Korea’s most successful conglomerates. While many people are familiar with the current Samsung chairman, Lee Kun-hee, the founder of Samsung, Lee Byung-chull, is less well known. However, without Lee Byung-chull’s dedication, commitment and foresight, Samsung’s current renaissance might not have been possible. 
 Lee Byung-chull had the pen name “Ho-Am.” The name means to fill up a space with clear water, as a lake (Ho), and being unrelenting as a large rock (Am). He was the one who started Samsung from the scratch and built the robust foundations that supported the company’s limitless growth. Along the way, he also made a profound contribution to Korea’s economic development. Lee’s service to his country was so great that he could well be referred to as a founding father of the Korean economy. 
 Lee Byung-chull was born in Feb. 12, 1910 in 723 Junggyo-ri, Jeonggok-myeon, Uiryeong County, South Gyeongsang Province. He was the second son of his family. His family was quite wealthy and Lee began studying Chinese characters at Seodang at an early age. In fact, Lee’s grandfather founded the Seodang he attended. Lee was not the brightest student of the class and did not seem to enjoy studying that much, but he was an extremely competitive boy who hated losing. Lee was a hard-working student and in five years, he managed to master the Confucian Analects. Lee repeatedly said that the wisdom contained in the Confucian Analects was the single most influential thing he had followed throughout his life. 
 At the age of 11, Lee Byung-chull left his hometown of Uiryeong County to study at a modern school in Jinju. After studying in Jinju for a while, Lee could not wait to move to Seoul to carry on his studies and experience new things. In Seoul, Lee had difficulty fitting in, not only with his studies, but also with his classmates. This was because almost all of his classmates were junior to Lee and they teased him about that and about his weird accent. A few months later, Lee took intensive courses to skip to middle school studies.
 When he turned 16, Lee got a message from his father back home. His father asked him to get married. At that time, marrying young was the norm in Korea. Still, Lee thought it was too much responsibility, because he was afraid of being the head of a household. Lee complained, but eventually followed his father’s orders. Lee married Park Doo-eul in1926, and together they had three sons and five daughters. 
 To Lee, Korea was small and staying in the country could not satisfy him. Lee made up his mind to go abroad to study. He told his father about his decision to go to Japan. When his father heard that his son would leave Korea without finishing his studies, he was very upset. He did not want to see his son to be a quitter. He hoped Lee would be more perseverant and patient. Lee’s father, though, had a firm belief in his son and allowed Lee to pursue his plan. Throughout his life, Lee’s father was always supportive of him and to Lee it was a true blessing. 　
 On his way to Japan, Lee Byung-chull had seasickness. He tried to go to the other side of the vessel where many Japanese people were riding. Japanese police accosted him and insulted Lee, saying he could not move to the other room because he was a Korean. At that time Korea was under Japanese colonial rule. The incident made Lee realize that a country must be independent to be powerful. He wished such shameful incidents would never happen to him and his nation. So, from that day on, Lee resolved to engineer Korea’s economic development. 
 While in Japan, Lee got accepted to Waseda University, one of Japan’s most prestigious universities. He majored in political economy and gradually developed a joy of learning. However, Lee fell sick and was unable to continue his studies. He tried hard to regain his health, but nothing worked. As a result, Lee had to come back to Korea in less than two years, without a diploma. 
 For some time, Lee Byung-chull wandered around. At face value, Lee was unemployed and killing time day after day, but in fact, he was not simply wasting time. Every night before he went to sleep, he dreamt a big dream. He was a man with a great ambition. He always had a positive mind and finally on one day, he decided to become an entrepreneur. He knew being a businessman was his calling. Yet, he never forgot the bigger objective in his life: Lee wanted to make his country stronger by promoting its economic growth. Lee wanted to make Korea a powerful nation. Making money and being rich was not the ultimate goal for him. 
 Lee’s noble and ambitious dream touched his father and he offered Lee some money to help Lee start his own business. This was the beginning of Lee Byung-chull’s story in business. 
