Warren Buffett shares his wealth
 “If you are in the luckiest 1 percent of humanity, you owe it to the rest of humanity to think about the other 99 percent.” – Warren Buffett
Warren Buffett is an American business magnate, an investment guru and a renowned philanthropist. He is the primary shareholder, chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway - an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska. Listed by Forbes as the third-richest man in the world in 2012 with a personal fortune of $46 billion, Buffett is also the most generous philanthropist in history. He has pledged to give away 99 percent of his fortune to charitable causes. 
Warren Buffett is a self-made billionaire. He started working and saving money when he was just a school boy. He first became a millionaire at age 32 in 1962 as a result of his earnings from various investment partnerships. In that same year, Buffett invested in a textile manufacturing company, Berkshire Hathaway, and became its CEO in 1970. He expanded the company’s business to diversified investments, manufacturing, property and casualty insurance. Today, Berkshire Hathaway is the eighth-largest public company in the world, with more than 260,000 employees worldwide. 
Warren Buffett is widely considered as the most successful investor of the 20th century. Under his stewardship, Berkshire Hathaway averaged an annual growth in book value of 20.3 percent to its shareholders for the last 44 years. The company’s stock produced an astounding total return of 76 percent from 2000-2010 versus a negative 11.3 percent return for the S&P 500 companies. His amazing achievements in the world of business and finance notwithstanding, what makes Warren Buffett truly stand out is his willingness to share his wealth with those in need, and his ability to inspire fellow billionaires to do the same. 
Warren Buffett has always been forthright about his plans to redistribute his wealth in the tradition of great philanthropists before him -- such as Andrew Carnegie and John D. Rockefeller. In June 2006, Buffett announced a donation of $37 billion -- the largest ever charitable donation by an individual -- to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The foundation is dedicated to enhancing health care, reducing extreme poverty globally, and expanding educational opportunities and access to information technology within the United States. 
The tradition of giving runs through the Buffett family. Each of Buffett’s three children runs charitable foundations to put the family’s vast fortune to good use. His daughter Susan Alice Buffett’s foundation supports education and antipoverty programs. His son Howard G. Buffett’s Foundation funds agricultural-resource development for small farmers and clean-water programs in Africa and Central America. His youngest son Peter Buffett’s NoVo Foundation focuses on “improving the status and well-being of girls and women worldwide.”
In 2010, Warren Buffett and Bill Gates started a campaign called The Living Pledge. The purpose of the campaign is to encourage the wealthiest people in the United States to make a commitment to give half of their wealth to philanthropic causes. The then 80-year-old Buffet worked tirelessly, leveraging his social network and the media, to convince other billionaires to follow his example and donate generously to worthy causes. To date, Buffett and Gates have successfully persuaded 92 of America’s wealthiest families to commit to the pledge. The Living Pledge has since been expanded overseas. Buffett met with wealthy individuals from China, India and France to talk about philanthropy.
In addition to his record-breaking donation in 2006, Warren Buffett continues to be among the top donors each year. In 2012, Buffett accounted for more than half of the year’s 15 biggest gifts to charitable causes. He pledged $3.09 billion in stock to be divided equally among three foundations run by his children. The next largest donation was $498.8 million, made by Mark Zuckerberg -- chairman and CEO of Facebook.
