Should rifle possession be allowed in the United States?
PRO - Imagine that you are living in a peaceful American household, and all of a sudden you hear someone screaming for help. You look out the window and see a man pointing a gun at your neighbor. It is too late to call the police and the man is about to shoot the person. Unless you have a gun, you cannot possibly protect the neighbor. The United States should not ban gun ownership because doing so is inefficient and will jeopardize people’s safety.
To start with, gun possession should not be banned because the related process will take too long. In order to ban gun ownership in the country, the government authority should take guns away from people and shut down all rifle shops offering the owners alternative jobs. Why take this demanding task? Shooting sprees can be easily prevented by reasonable gun control and education.
Secondly, banning guns will not strengthen but worsen security, different from expectations. Many American households own at least one gun per family and some actually use them for protection. Banning guns will only bring danger to weaker individuals including the elders and women. 
Furthermore, banning guns will not help much because criminals can and will buy them on the black market. In other words, banning gun ownership will not change anything but rather increase the casualties caused by shooting because innocent citizens will be the only ones who will lose their guns.
In conclusion, gun ownership is protected by U.S. law, and banning gun possession might be an ideal but will never a practical option. That is because banning guns will bring nothing but economic losses and more casualties to the country.
CON - In the wake of several merciless massacres that have ravaged the United States and left countless families bereft of their happy children, gun control has been an extremely controversial subject with its own partisan opinions. I am personally against the idea of rifle possession.
Even though the second amendment to the U.S. Constitution states that people’s right to bear arms shall not be infringed, it does not openly encourage people to carry arms or weapons.
The scope of firearms is immense, and a relatively simple gun can be heavily modified and turned into a sniper rifle. Needless to say, technology has catalyzed the development of a new dimension to death. Also, the United States has the most heavily armed populace in the world -- 90 pistols for every 100 people. This requires the government to think rationally and take appropriate measures.
I advocate the abolition of high-powered guns and the control of all firearms in the United States. Highly esteemed nations in both political and economic spheres, like Japan and Finland, have less than 10 gun-related homicides per year, a statistic that contrasts with the 14,800 on average murdered in the U.S. per year.
The abolition of guns is not a panacea for the homicide rate in America, but it will be a small step toward the extinction of violent crimes in the country.
