Dog registration law takes effect
Starting this year, all dog owners in Korea are required to register their dogs to the city or district offices or they will face fines of up to 1 million won ($942).
The Seoul Metropolitan Government said that all dogs three months and older need to be registered mandatorily except for those owned by people who live in neighborhoods with less than 100,000 residents.
The government says this new registration system is part of the revised Animal Protection Law which aims to discourage people from abandoning pets and to facilitate the process of finding lost dogs. “The animal registration system will reduce the number of abandoned animals by making owners more responsible for their pets,” said Kim Seon-gu, an official at the Animal Protection Department of the Seoul city government.
Owners have to visit designated local animal hospitals to either insert a microchip chip under the pet’s skin, or to have them wear an electronic tag inserted collar or a regular name tag. The electronic tag will show registration number of the dog when reading through a scanner while the regular name tag will show owner’s name and contact information. The price range of regular name tags is 10,000 to 20,000 won. 
Yet the new regulation raised eyebrows of a few pet owners, veterinarians and animal protection activists. They talk about additional financial burdens on pet owners, especially for those who own more than one dog. 
They worry that the shot to put microchip inside dogs may cause a bad reaction such as infection. The dog’s collar could be damaged or taken off, drastically reducing the effectiveness of the regulation. Some even say, what about cats? Why don’t we protect them?
There are about 4.4 million dogs raised nationwide and 55,902 dogs were abandoned in 2011, says the Animal, Plant and Fisheries Quarantine and Inspection Agency, which is under the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. It cost about 8.78 billion won to run shelters for them. 
For further information about the new registration policy, call the Animal Protection Department of the Seoul city government at 02-2133-7656.
