 Making the most out of your holiday
Once the holiday begins, the only thing students can think about is playing. In fact, for most people, holidays are a time for fun and relaxation. Every student looks forward to that last day of class before the holidays, eagerly planning how to spend the holidays. 
Most people will remember fondly all the good times had during the holidays, commenting on how quickly they seemed to pass. Of these people, some will have no regrets about how their precious time during the holidays was spent while others are not so lucky. In fact, there will always be people who have some regrets about time wasted sitting in front of the computer playing games or plopped in front of a TV all day watching reruns of dramas or entertainment shows. 
Who says you can’t have both a fun and educational holiday?
For those looking to make the most of the holiday -- be it summer or winter -- why not consider going to a camp? Of course, once school ends, the last thing students want to do is think about studying. Though camps are definitely educational, there is an important thing to remember about camps: They are diverse and fun.
Going to camps provides a completely different atmosphere of learning compared to schools. Whereas schools tend to have a more rigid structure, camps are all about fun and education.
Not only will a camp provide an opportunity to make a whole new set of friends, but it will also prevent your parents from nagging you about studying during the holidays. In fact, it gives you a chance to become independent as you spend 24 hours a day among peers. The mere fact of spending time away from family for a few days and spending it surrounded by your friends is enough to keep you motivated and enjoying the educational experience. 
Why you should consider going to an English camp
When choosing to go to a camp during the holidays, there are a wide variety of camps to choose from. From language camps to sports camps, there are an unlimited number of camps offered in Korea, as well as abroad. Of these camps, one way to make the best of your holiday is to attend an English camp within Korea.
As the “Science” article on page 11 pointed out, the benefits of speaking more than one language is not limited to just your education. Since Korea has an abundance of different English camps to check out both internationally and domestically, why not take advantage of the numerous benefits of being bilingual? 
When choosing an English camp, many agonize over choosing between a camp that takes you abroad or keeps you in Korea. 
Of course, English camps that are run abroad provide numerous benefits, including gaining first-hand experience in dealing with foreigners and the chance to be immersed in the language and culture. However, in order for these to be truly effective, you would have to stay there longer than just a couple of days or even a week. This is where attending an English camp within Korea has its benefits. 
The thought of being separated from your family for a long time can be terrifying for many people, but if, at the very least, you are in the same country as your parents, it’s easier to deal with than if you were separated by national borders. 
Another benefit of domestic English camps is the cost. Without the cost of purchasing an airplane ticket, travelers’ insurance and other such expenses, domestic camps are just cheaper. With the growing number of foreigners traveling to and working in Korea, it is not difficult to find a camp that will guarantee a learning experience that is comparable to one overseas. 
For those worried that an English camp will only be about learning English, fear not. Since the camps are geared toward ensuring that the student has fun at their camp, the programs tend to include a variety of interesting and fun classes along with the boring ones. 
Herald Corp, for example, runs a variety of camps throughout the year. Most recently, in conjunction with Samsung, Herald Corp. organized the 2013 Samsung Digital City Junior English Camp, held at the Seoul English Village in Pungnap-dong, Seoul. Although the camp was geared toward learning English, the students were able to do so through fun programs such as learning the lyrics to popular ABBA songs, reenacting scenes from Toy Story 3, competing in an English version of Golden Bell and participating in a mini-Olympics (which included games like charades and musical chairs).
Testimonials from students who attended the 2013 Samsung Digital City Junior English Camp
Name: Michelle (강채연)
Grade: 6th grade, Puncheon Elementary School
Favorite moment at camp: Being given the chance to shine
“I was very happy because I met a lot of very nice friends through this camp. My dad was worried that my English wasn’t good enough, but my group’s English was very bad so I had to act as the translator for my group.”
Name: Sophia (엄현지)
Grade: 5th grade, Bansong Elementary School
Favorite moment at camp: Sharing a room with friends
“I’m really happy I came to camp during my holiday and would recommend it to friends as well.”
Name: Brian (성연재)
Grade: 5th grade, Doseong Elementary School
Favorite moment at camp: Making animals with clay
“Although staying at home is more comfortable, you can make many friends and can do and experience many fun things when you go to camp.”
Name: Kevin (고재민)
Grade: 5th grade, Bopyeong Elementary School
Favorite moment at camp: Make-your-own English newspaper
“I thought the camp was kind of nice. My special message for The Junior Herald readers is ‘study hard!’”
