Bilingualism helps keep brain decline at bay
It is no secret that mental acuity declines with age. In fact, for many people, the brain’s decline is one of the greatest fears associated with aging. This is evident in the popularity of different exercises and therapies marketed to people looking to enhance and sustain their mental aptitude.
A growing number of studies in recent years, however, have brought great news for those who speak two languages. 
Most recently, researchers from the University of Kentucky have found that seniors who had been bilingual since childhood were better at using their brains more efficiently than those who only spoke one language.
Speaking more than one language “doesn’t make you young like a young adult, but it makes you faster than your peers who only speak one language,” explained Brain Gold, a neuroscientist at the University of Kentucky. 
Although speaking two languages doesn’t stop aging-related declines in brain activity, it has been found to be beneficial in slowing the process down. 
“If they can keep it up, it will not only help them as a child. It will also help them as they age,” Gold told Discovery News. 
In an interview with the Guardian, co-researcher Ellen Bialystok compared bilingual adults’ greater cognitive flexibility to a car’s reserve tank. The study’s findings show that bilingual adults tend to have a greater cognitive reserve which allows the mind to run longer and more smoothly as they got older.
“When you run out of fuel, you can keep going for longer because there is a bit more in the safety tank,” she said. 
Other studies have suggested that people who speak multiple languages are better at multi-tasking as well as helping protect the brain from certain age-related diseases, such as delaying the onset of Alzheimer’s. 
The idea behind bilingual people’s enhanced cognitive functionality is that by learning to switch easily between two languages, the brain becomes skilled at switching between different tasks as well as suppressing information it doesn’t need. This type of cognitive flexibility is important in many areas of life, though it naturally tends to decline with age. 
