Korean UFC fighters
Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) is the largest mixed martial arts promotion company in the world. It is based in the United States, and it produces events worldwide featuring the best fighters in the sport. In recent year the UFC has outperformed professional boxing events in terms of total pay-per-view numbers. One of the main reasons for the popularity of UFC is its roster of fighters with different martial arts backgrounds and fighting styles from all over the world. The number of Korean fighters in the UFC is increasing, and a few of them have become bona fide stars.
Kim Dong-hyun – Nicknamed “Stun Gun”, Kim Dong-hyun is a southpaw fighter in the welterweight division of the UFC. He is a judo expert with a fourth-dan black belt who excels in ground-and-pound and submission holds. Kim started his mixed martial arts career with the Japanese DEEP organization where he was undefeated in 10 bouts with a record of nine wins and one draw. He made his UFC debut in 2008 and has compiled a record of seven wins, two losses, and one no contest. Despite his success as a UFC fighter, Kim spoke out openly against the organization over the unfair pay and treatment of Korean fighters.
Jung Chan-sung – Jung fights in the featherweight division of the UFC. He is a black belt in taekwondo and has training in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, judo and hapkido. He earned the nickname “The Korean Zombie” for his ability to continue to charge his opponents aggressively after absorbing heavy blows. Jung fought in Pancrase, Korea FC, DEEP and Sengoku before he joined the UFC in 2010. He lost his first two UFC fights and then won the next three in spectacular fashion. At the UFN 24, he applied the first submission via the Twister in UFC history. At the recent UFC on Fuel TV, he submitted Dustin Poirier with the d’arce choke to win the 2012 Fight of the Year honors. 
Benson Henderson – Henderson is the No. 1 ranked MMA lightweight fighter in the world and the current UFC lightweight champion. He is proficient at Muay Thai, Taekwondo, Wrestling and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. He has compiled a professional MMA record of 18 wins and 2 losses at both the WEC and the UFC. Henderson became the lightweight champion at UFC 150 in August, 2012 by winning a split decision over defending champion Frankie Edgar. He successfully defended his title at UFC on Fox in December 2012 with a unanimous decision over challenger Nate Diaz. Outside the cage, Henderson, who was born to a Korean mother and an African American father, is known for his deep Christian devotion and wholesome lifestyle.
Yoshihiro Akiyama (Korean name Choo Sung-hoon) -- Akiyama is a fourth generation Japanese of Korean descent. He won a gold medal in judo at the 2001 Asian Championships for Korea, and a gold medal for Japan at the 2002 Asian Games. He is a highly skilled judoka with respectable striking abilities. While fighting at K-1, Hero’s, and Dream promotions, Akiyama compiled a record of 12 wins, one loss, and two no contests. All of his fights ended in either submissions or knockouts. He joined the UFC in 2009 and earned a split decision victory in his debut. Akiyama found it difficult to compete in the middleweight division, and he was soundly defeated in his next three fights. He moved down to the welterweight division at UFC 144 but lost the fight by unanimous decision.
Denis Kang – Kang is a Canadian mixed martial artist of Korean and French descent. He is a second dan black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and is one of the most experienced MMA fighters with 55 fights to his credit, and an overall record of 35 wins, 16 losses, two draws and two no contests. He fought three times at the UFC, lost two of the fights, and was cut by the UFC in 2009.
