Shinzo Abe
 “I want to learn from the experience of my previous administration, including the setbacks, and aim for a stable government.” -- Shinzo Abe
Shinzo Abe became the prime minister of Japan again after his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and coalition partner New Komeito party ousted the ruling Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) and secured a majority in the lower house in the recent parliamentary elections. In 2006, Abe became Japan’s youngest prime minister since World War II; however, he resigned less than a year later due to numerous scandals involving his cabinet members and plummeting support for his administration. 
Shinzo Abe was born in 1954 into an influential political family. His grandfather Kan Abe was elected to the House of Representatives and oversaw Japanese-occupied Manchuria’s development in the 1930s. His father Shintaro Abe was a leading member of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and was Japan’s longest reigning postwar foreign minister. His mother Yoko Kishi is the daughter of Nobusuke Kishi, Japan’s prime minister from 1957 to 1960. Nobusuke Kishi was a member of the Hideki Tojo cabinet during World War II who was arrested, but never charged, as a suspected war criminal after World War II.
Shinzo Abe graduated in political science from Seikei University and studied public policy at the University of Southern California. He entered government service in 1982 and was elected to the House of Representatives in 1993. He rose quickly within party ranks and became the deputy chief cabinet secretary in the Junichiro Koizumi Cabinets in 2003. He was appointed secretary-general of the Liberal Democratic Party in the same year. In 2005, Abe was nominated chief cabinet secretary of the fifth Koizumi Cabinet. On Sept. 20, 2006, he was elected the president of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, and six days later, he was elected prime minister.　
Known as a right wing hawk, Prime Minister Abe wanted a more assertive foreign policy that supports a greater role for Japan on the world stage. His actions, however, caused controversy and negative reactions abroad. He angered neighbors Korea and China by visiting the Yasukuni Shrine, taking a strong stand on territorial disputes, and denying that women (known as comfort women) were forced to become sex slaves by the Japanese army during World War II. He also pushed for a bill that set the stage for holding a referendum on revising the country’s pacifist constitution.
Domestically, Abe’s administration was marred by accusations of cronyism, incompetence, as well as a series of corruption scandals involving his cabinet ministers. One of the most damaging scandals to hit Abe’s government was the revelation that over the years the Japanese government lost pension records that affected more than 50 million citizens. His job approval ratings were abysmal, and his Liberal Democratic Party suffered heavy losses in the July 2007 upper house elections. On Sept. 12, 2007, Abe announced his intention to resign as prime minister - citing poor health due to a “chronic bowel ailment” - at an unscheduled press conference.
Abe’s political comeback started on Sept. 26, 2012 when he defeated Minister of Defense Shigeru Ishiba in a run-off vote to win the LDP presidential election. A general election was held in Japan on Dec. 16, 2012. Japanese voters gave the Liberal Democratic Party a landslide victory, ejecting the Democratic Party of Japan after three years in power. On Dec. 26, 2012, Abe was elected prime minister by the Diet in a landslide victory, winning the support of 328 members of the 480-seat lower house. Abe vowed to learn from the mistakes made during his first term as prime minister and do everything he can to prop up Japan’s troubled economy. He also indicated that he would take a strong stance on territorial disputes with Korea and China. 
