Mt. Everest waste reborn as work of art
Since it was first conquered by Sir Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa guide, Tenzing Norgay in 1953, the Mount Everest has been the most cherished and coveted trekking course to all mountain climbers. 
Thousands have challenged themselves in climbing the world’s highest mountain. 
According to the Nepalese Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation, more than 3,500 people have scaled the 8,848-meter mountain and last year alone some 350 people climbed it. Yet there is a major downside to that, CNN News reported on Jan 16: The more people climb the world’s highest peak, the more trash the mountain accumulates. 
As a way to turn this trouble around, a group of 15 artists in Nepal came up with an idea to recycle the trash into art. The project, created last year, is called “Mt. Everest 8848 Art Project I.” 
Under the project, the artists have gathered 11.5 tons of garbage carried down by climbers from the mountain. For a month they transformed 1.5 tons of trash, including oxygen cylinders, cans, glass bottles and discarded trekking tools, into astonishing 74 pieces of art.
“With this collaboration we aimed to raise awareness about pollution at Everest,” explained Kripa Rana Shahi, director of Da Mind Tree, the organization that initiated the project.
The first exhibit for the “trash art” was held in November. It has attracted more than 3,800 visitors. The pieces at the exhibit were priced from $17 to $2,400. So far, nineteen pieces have been sold and part of the proceeds will go to the Everest Summiteers Association, which has collaborated with the project. The association initiated the cleanup movement in Mt. Everest in 2005 and has continued to make efforts to make the mountain pollution-free, according to the report.
“Many of the artworks reflect mountain life and mountaineering experiences,” says one of the artists, Sushma Shakya. “It was interesting what we came up with, and how this trash could turn into something beautiful.”
“The visitors are amazed by the artwork, and we’ve received encouraging feedback. We hope our creations will help inspire action against pollution at Everest,” Nara Bahadur BK, another artist, said.
According to the association, biodegradable garbage was separated from the collection and turned into compost at Namche Bazaar, a stop point before the base camp. Yet most of the garbage collected was non-degradable items and turning them into art was a clever move to save the environment. 
“We hope our creative works of art will inspire and encourage people to keep the mountains clean,” Shahi pointed out.
