Rising into orbit - Spaceship launch in 2013
2013 is expected to be a boom year for space development. China is ready to send manned spaceship into space again in June, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States is preparing for three major space missions throughout the year. Let’s take a look at some of the major spaceship programs for 2013.　
According to Xinhua News Agency, China plans to launch 20 spacecraft in 2013, including the country’s fifth manned spaceship Shenzhou 10 and third lunar probe Chang’e 3.
Shenzhou 10 will be used for a docking test between orbiting target module Tiangong 1 and the spaceship itself, whereas the Chang’e 3 will carry out the second stage of China‘s lunar probe program.
China’s space development represented by the Shenzhou program has a long history. The country’s first efforts for human spaceflight started in 1968, and the first unmanned flight of the spacecraft was launched in 1999 when the project name “Shenzhou” was proposed by then Chinese leader Jiang Zemin. Shenzhou is translated as “Divine Craft” or “Divine Vessel.”
The four manned test flights under the Shenzhou program were in 2003, 2005, 2008 and 2012, and Shenzhou 10 will be China’s fifth spaceship carrying people.
The launch of Shenzhou 10, which is scheduled in June, will mark another step forward in China‘s ambitions for a bigger presence in space, which will include the construction of a space station by 2020, according to news reports.
The crew of Shenzhou 10 will likely include one female and two male astronauts, news reports said.
The new plan follows the successful flight of the Shenzhou 9 spacecraft, which returned to Earth in late June. Shenzhou 9 put China’s first woman in space and completed a manned docking test critical to Beijing’s space station plan, Reuters explained.
In the United States, NASA is planning three major spaceship launches in 2013.
The first is Iris, short for Interface Region Imaging Spectrograph satellite. Iris’ mission is to study the Sun to analyze the flow of energy in the star’s atmosphere. The flight is scheduled for late April.
The second mission is called Ladee - The Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Experiment. Ladee is a moon orbiter intended to study the moon’s atmosphere and dust particles. It is due to launch aboard a U.S. Air Force rocket in August.
The third is Mars Maven. The next Mars orbiter is expected to be launched between November and December, and scheduled to enter the Mars’ orbit in September 2014. Maven, short for Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution, will study how the Red Planet loses atmospheric gases to space.
Canada is preparing for the launch of Cassiope, short for Cascade Smallsat and Ionosperic Polar Explorer spacecraft. It will launch aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from a U.S. Air Force base in April. It will have a series of instruments to study solar storms.
Korea is preparing in earnest for its third launch attempt with the Naro space rocket. Previous attempts in 2009 and 2010 both failed due to technical glitches. The launch is expected to come between Jan. 30 and Feb. 8, according to the Korean government on Jan. 16. The third launch was originally set to take place on Oct. 26 but was delayed due to a damaged connector between the rocket and the launch pad.
