Smart wallet
The increasing use of smartphones is changing people’s lives, and some of the most significant changes are seen in the way how people spend money and buy products.
It has already been a long time since people started using credit cards instead of cash, but the history of people carrying no money at all in their wallet is not very old.
People who used to wait in a long line to buy their products of choice at local discount outlets do not any more bother to waste such time, order them online instead.
According to a recent government survey asking people’s general opinions about smartphones, 60 percent of the respondents said they did mobile banking and mobile shopping, up 12.9 percent and 10.7 percent from the previous year. Over 80 percent said that smartphones were changing their lives in a positive way.
With domestic smartphone users topping 30 million, 6 out of 10 people are making great use of their smartphones either for banking or shopping.
Only decades ago, it was not easy to imagine for people to live their lives without carrying cash. But nowadays, they can do almost all kinds of financial transactions - paying for products and transportation, wiring money or paying debts - with smartphones.
With smartphones in hand, people can even use membership points or buy products with their online coupons or gift cards. The so-called era of the “smart wallet” has arrived.
The number of smart wallet users who prefer online transactions has reached 10 million in Korea as of late 2012. Also, the daily amount of money spent through mobile transaction topped 800 billion won during the same period, according to the Financial Services Commission.
With the rapid development of the mobile transaction market worldwide, experts predict that yearly mobile transactions around the world will reach $600 billion by 2016, soaring from $170 billion at the end of 2012.
The mobile transaction market will also likely create new job opportunities in computer software and related hardware industries, say experts.
