The mystery behind wrinkled fingers
Everyone knows that spending a long enough time in water will cause your fingers to develop wrinkles. It is both kind of gross and kind of cool at the same time. What is even more interesting about wrinkly fingers and toes is that scientists have only just begun to understand why they form.　
Though scientists had assumed for a long time that the wrinkles were caused by skin swelling in water - much like what happens when a roll of toilet paper dries after getting wet - it wasn’t until recently that scientists began to understand that the development of wrinkles may actually serve a purpose. 
Specifically, scientists began to theorize that the wrinkles on our hands and feet formed due to blood vessels constricting in reaction to the water; an active response controlled by the body’s sympathetic nervous system. 
The significance of this find indicates that the development of wrinkles on the skin is something that the body does on purpose. That it is a trait passed on from our ancestors through evolution.
“If wrinkled fingers were just the result of the skin swelling as it took up water, it could still have a function but it wouldn’t need to,” Tom Smulders, Ph.D. co-author of the study and senior lecturer at Newcastle University, told BBC News.
“Whereas if the nervous system is actively controlling this behavior under some circumstances and not others, it seems less of a leap to assume there must be a function for it, and that evolution has selected it. And evolution wouldn’t have selected it unless it conferred some sort of advantage,” he added.
To test this theory, scientists from Newcastle University set out to see whether wrinkled fingers caused by being submerged in water helped improve the handling of wet objects.
Volunteers were asked to pick up marbles with one hand and transfer them through a hole to the other hand. They were asked to do this once with dry marbles and another time with marbles which were placed in a bucket of water. 
Interestingly, the study found that when the marbles were wet, volunteers with wrinkled fingers were faster at completing the task than those with smoother fingers. When the marbles were dry, however, neither those with smooth fingers nor the ones with wrinkly fingers had any advantage. These results show that the wrinkles on fingers and toes helped make handling wet objects easier.
Though our ancestors may not have had to pick up wet marbles, the wrinkled fingers and toes could have played an important role as they foraged for food along river banks and lakes. 
