Armstrong admits doping in interview with Winfrey
It was a true fall of a legend on Jan. 14, when Lance Armstrong, once a seven-time Tour de France champion, finally came clean on his use of performance-enhancing drugs during an interview with one of his closest friends, Oprah Winfrey. 
It was an emotional and candid interview taken in his hometown of Austin, Texas, said Oprah magazine. Lance Armstrong vehemently denied doping for years but finally admitted that he used steroids while winning seven Tour de France titles.
“I just think it was about the ride and losing myself, getting caught up in that, and doing all those things along the way that enabled that,” Armstrong said to Winfrey. “The ultimate crime is, uh, is the betrayal of those people that supported me and believed in me. They got lied to.”
The confession might lead him to pay back some of his prize money and funds that he received from various sponsors at the height of his cycling career. The U.S. Postal Service paid more that $31 million to sponsor the cyclist and his team while he was winning six of his Tours de France.
Armstrong began winning the championship in 1999 and he even fought back testicular cancer and won the Tour from 1999 to 2005. He raised millions of dollars through his Lance Armstrong Foundation to help cancer victims and survivors.
Yet he was stripped of his titles and banned from cycling for life in Oct. 2012 when the United States Anti Doping Agency (USADA) accused him of using blood-doping during competitions. Weeks later, he stepped down from the board of his foundation, Livestrong, in disgrace.
Before he went to the interview, Armstrong reportedly dropped by his cancer charity Livestrong Foundation and apologized to the staff. He offered a “sincere and heartfelt apology” and urged them to keep working hard to help cancer survivors and their families, the report added. 
After the interview, Oprah Winfrey tweeted: “Just wrapped up more than two-and-a-half hours with Armstrong.” The interview was aired on Jan. 17 in the Untied States on the Oprah Winfrey network.　
