 Korean weightlifting legend Jang Mi-ran
Korean weightlifting legend Jang Mi-ran became the sweetheart of women’s weightlifting since her well-publicized achievements during the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
Born in 1983, Jang was just 15-years-old when she embarked on a path that would later earn her the nickname “the female Hercules.”
After 16 illustrious years as a competitive weightlifter, Jang Mi-ran announced her decision to retire during a tear-filled press conference at Goyang City Hall on Jan. 10.
“Weightlifting turned a 15-year-old girl, who had no confidence in her appearance and no dreams for the future, into [someone] who ended up being loved by so many,” she said.
“I am happy that a growing number of people have more positive opinions of weightlifting because of me.“
Jang Mi-ran began her athletic career in 1998 with the encouragement of her father, who was also a weightlifter. During her time as a weightlifter, Jang was able to generate more recognition and awareness in weightlifting than any other athlete in the field had in the past.
With countless accomplishments under her belt, Jang choked back tears as she admitted she could no longer keep up with the rigors of competitive weightlifting.
“I didn’t have the confidence that I had the strength to continue my career,” she said. “My decision to quit wasn’t so hard once I realized my physical limits.”
The soft-spoken athlete had been plagued with injuries as of late, which contributed to Jang failing to achieve her dream of earning a third straight Olympic medal during the 2012 London Olympic Games. 
The world watched with a mixture of sadness and awe as Jang knelt down and kissed the barbell after her final failed attempt, when it became clear she would not win a medal. 
“The London Olympics is the most memorable moment in my entire career since I never realized until then that so many people were still rooting for me even though I failed to live up to their expectations,” she said of the moment.
In terms of her future plans, Jang expressed interest in becoming an elected member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
“I will try to be an IOC member,” Jang said. “I’d like to serve the community from a better platform.”
“An IOC member can have a big influence on sports and as it is in line with my foundation, I want to undertake that challenge,” she added.
Jang had established a foundation in February of 2012 offering financial sponsorships to those in need as well as supporting athletes in the lesser-known Olympic sports.
