‘Hello! Madagascar’
In collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), The Hankyoreh offers families a chance to explore and learn about the African country of Madagascar.
Although the “Madagascar” film franchise by DreamWorks Animation has successfully brought more interest to the island country than any other effort, it is little more than an animated film.
The goal of the “Hello! Madagascar” exhibition is to provide an opportunity for parents to include their children in learning more about what Madagascar has to offer outside of lemurs dancing along to “I Like To Move It.”
“The exhibition was set up in order to target families, including kids,” explained the exhibition coordinator Yang Su-jin. 
Although there have been numerous photo exhibitions showing the beauty of Madagascar to the world, it has done little to attract the attention of a younger crowd. In order to target younger people, the “Hello! Madagascar” exhibition incorporates fun into their exhibitions. 
“The two most popular sections of the exhibit amongst the kids are the Augmented Reality (AR) and Drum Dance experience sections,” Yang said.
The fact that these two sections are the most popular amongst kids is not surprising. In fact, although many other parts of the exhibition are certainly educational and enjoyable, there is no competing with seeing yourself on a big screen projection hanging out with computer-generated radiated tortoises, chameleons and other animals native to Madagascar. 
Similarly, while photos of the famous Baobab trees - featured in the classic “The Little Prince” story - are undoubtedly breathtaking, how can it compete with the chance to beat as hard as you can on drums as the music blares in Zone 4 and colorful computer-generated chameleons dance around on a screen?
Running through to Mar. 10, 2013, the “Hello! Madagascar” exhibition is being held at the NEMO exhibition hall of Bluesquare. All proceeds made from the exhibition will be donated to the UNICEF fund.
For more information, call (02) 710-0764 or visit www.hellomada.kr
What is augmented reality (AR)? 
Augmented reality refers to the use of computer generated sounds, videos or graphics to show a modified version of reality. In the case of the “Hello! Madagascar” exhibition, computer generated videos of animals native to Madagascar are superimposed on a live video feed of Zone 2. 
