Do aliens exist?
Yes – People have long believed that aliens exist with concrete proof. I believe aliens definitely exist for the following reasons.
To begin, there are countless galaxies and stars across the universe, so it makes no sense that only Earth has living creatures. What about other galaxies and stars that we have never been to? There could certainly be aliens in other galaxies’ planets.
In addition, there are many incidents in which people say they have seen aliens for themselves. NASA has recorded many relevant occurrences. Also, in some areas, flying objects appear routinely. What could those objects be when nobody has reportedly launched anything into the sky? It is possible that it is a UFO.
Finally, there are many substances that make life in the universe. Humans and other living creatures on Earth were made from this, too. Because of this, there is a huge possibility that these substances made other creatures on other planets.
In conclusion, I think aliens exist because there are many possibilities in the universe in which another living creature could have developed.
No - On Earth, humans exist. Some people say that extraterrestrials exist on other planets. Long ago, people believed that aliens existed, and even today, some still believe so. However, I do not think aliens really exist. Let me share the reasons with you.
First of all, many scientists published research papers and reports on the existence of aliens. But they have not given proof of their existence so far. 
Science proves certain ideas based on fact, but the existence of aliens is simply a rumor. Even if scientists insist aliens exist, we have not had any clear evidence yet. The materials to support their argument for the existence of aliens are only hearsay.
Secondly, science and technology are constantly developing, and no rumors about aliens have proved true even with such high-technology. If aliens really had existed, science and technology would have found it out long before. So I do not believe that aliens exist. 
Last, if aliens exist, there should be reported influence and effects on our planet. But we do not see any relevant data. Plus, watching via satellites from outer space, we do not see any aliens at all. 　
Nobody knows for sure whether aliens really exist or not, but for the reasons I have pointed out, I think it is impossible for aliens to exist in reality. 
