New Year’s celebration in Korea and other Asian countries
Koreans celebrate New Year’s Day twice a year: the solar New Year’s Day called “Sinjeong” in Korean on Jan. 1 according to the Gregorian calendar and Lunar New Year’s Day called “Gujeong,” which falls on the first day of the lunar calendar. 
Most Koreans celebrate their New Year’s holiday, also known as “Seollal” based on the lunar calendar. New Year’s holiday is one of the most celebrated traditional holidays in Korea. The year’s New Year’s Day falls on Feb. 10. As we prepare ourselves for this well-preserved national festivity, let’s learn about the history and customs of the Korean New Year’s Day.
The historic record finds that celebrating New Year’s Day in Korea dates far back as the period of the Three States - Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla. According to The Chronicles of the Three States, the New Year celebration took place in the year 261 in Baekje period and the year 651 in Silla period. In the past, the day was served to pay blessings to the King.
New Year’s Day in Korea 
Korean New Year’s Day is a family-based holiday. People spend the holiday by visiting their hometowns and meeting parents and relatives. A massive number of people go home, creating catastrophically heavy traffic. 
During the holiday, many Koreans dress up in colorful traditional Korean clothes called hanbok. The traditional food that Koreans eat during the New Year’s holiday is tteokguk, a hot soup with thinly sliced rice cakes. Eating a bowl of tteokguk signifies becoming a year older for everyone. It is said that people who miss on the soup will lose luck throughout the year. 
Ancestral rituals are widely done across the nation during Seollal. Family members present a variety of food - tteokguk, soup, alcohol and sweet rice drink - to their ancestors. After the rituals, they share the food with members of the family because they believe when you eat the food that had been served to ancestors; you will receive your ancestors’ wisdom. 
Traditional activities are a large part of Seollal as well. Children perform big bows to elders and wish for a happy and healthy New Year in the morning of Seollal. In return, elders give them pocket money, wish them good luck for the year and offer words of wisdom, called deokdam. In the past, parents used to give out rice cakes to youngsters instead of money.
Other activities people play on New Year’s Day include “yunnori.” You can assess your New Year’s fortune by playing the game. Flying rectangular kites, or “yeonnalligi” and a game of jumping on a seesaw, “neolttwigi,” are also popular. A common Korean myth says that if you do “neolttwigi,” you could prevent getting athlete’s foot throughout the year.
Another superstition associated with Seollal is if you wander around in morning of New Year’s Day and hear a magpie’s call you will have a lucky new year. In contrast, if you hear crow crying, you will have bad luck in the New Year. What’s more, ancient Korean people believed if you lost your shoes on the night of New Year’s Day, you will also have an unfortunate year. 
New Year Day’s is also celebrated in other Asian countries. Yet even within many Asian countries, customs and traditions regarding the New Year celebration vary widely. Here is how some other Asian countries celebrate their New Year’s Day. 
China
Like Korea, New Year’s Day is the most important traditional holiday in China. New Year’s Day is called Chūnjié, translated as “Spring Festival.” The day marks the end of the winter season. It is a time to spend money on presents, food and clothing in China. 
During the holidays, families gather and make traditional Chinese dumplings and share them in an annual reunion dinner. Supper is the main feast of the whole festivity. Food includes pork, duck, chicken and sweet delicacies. 
In the morning, children greet their parents by wishing them a healthy and happy new year, and they receive money in red envelopes. In China, windows and doors are adorned with red paper decorations with popular themes of “good fortune” or “happiness,” “wealth” and “longevity.” Various events are held in the city’s Temple of Heaven and the Summer Palace and the night of New Year’s Day ends with fireworks. Since 2011, a 3-D light and sound show has been held at The Bund in Shanghai a few minutes before midnight. 
The meaning of the Chinese New Year is to reconcile, forget all grudges and sincerely wish for peace and happiness for everyone.
During Chūnjié, an immense exodus of people from the cities is headed for their hometowns, even taking several days of traveling. 
Japan
New Year’s Day in Japan has been celebrated since 1873 on Jan. 1 of every year according to the Gregorian calendar. In Japan, New Year’s Eve is usually spent in preparation to welcome the New Year’s god. In order to greet the god, people clean their houses so that they can sweep away any ill-fortune and make way for good incoming luck. They also prepare Shimenawa - braided rice straw rope used for ritual purification - to welcome the god before New Year. At Buddhist temples, monks ring bells 108 times at midnight according to the traditional Japanese myth that 108 bells release unwholesome mental states from people in the coming year. 
On the first day of New Year, people usually go visit shrines and visit their friends and colleagues’ houses to offer New Year’s blessing. On the second day of New Year, Japan’s emperor comes out of the palace’s balcony to greet its people in public. 
Vietnam
Vietnamese New Year is called Tết and usually is an occasion for pilgrimages and family reunions. During Tết, Vietnamese visit their relatives and temples and spend time letting go of the troubles of the past and hoping for a better new year. Similar to Chinese, Vietnamese consider Tết as the first day of spring and call the festival as Hội xuân (spring festival). 
In Vietnam, people prepare watermelons on the night of New Year’s Eve and cut it in half with their family members. They believe that redder the watermelon’s color, the better the New Year’s luck will be. Traditionally, Vietnamese eat glutinous rice cakes cooked with pork and mung bean stuffing that are cooked inside banana leaves on New Year’s Day. 
Thailand 
The New Year’s holiday in Thailand is called The Songkran festival. It is celebrated from April 13 to 15. It coincides with the New Year of many calendars of South and Southeast Asia. The most famous Songkran celebration is held in the northern city of Chiang Mai, where the festival continues for six days or longer. It is a great opportunity for foreigners to learn about the culture of Thailand. For more information about Thailand, turn to the Travel section on page 17 in this week’s Junior Herald.
