Study suggests fast food may contribute to childhood asthma and eczema
Though many studies have shown the effects of a fast-food diet on obesity, recent research points to a possible link between fast-food and allergy-related disorders as well. 
In a study published in the journal Thorax, researchers analyzed data from more than 319,000 teens (aged 13-14) from 51 countries and more than 181,000 children (aged 6-7) in 31 countries that were involved in the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC) research project. Study authors found that a fast food diet may be to blame for rising levels of severe asthma, eczema and rhinoconjunctivitis (rhinitis). 
The study initially looked at the relationship between the severity of allergy-related symptoms and certain types of food that have already been associated with having damaging or boosting effects on health. Analysis of the data showed that fast food was the only type of food to show the same associations across both age groups, pointing to the possibility of a causal relationship.
Having three or more weekly servings of fast food was linked with a 39 percent increased risk of severe asthma amongst teens whereas children saw an increased risk of 27 percent. A fast food diet was also linked with higher risk of severe rhinitis and eczema overall. 
Eating three or more weekly portions of fruit, on the other hand, was found to cut the risk of severe asthma, eczema and rhinitis by 11 percent and 14 percent amongst teens and children, respectively. 
The study authors theorized that a plausible explanation for the finding was that fast food generally contains high levels of saturated- and trans-fatty acids, which are known to affect immunity, while fruit contains copious amounts of antioxidants and other beneficial nutrients.
They concluded that “If the associations between fast foods and the symptom prevalence of asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis and eczema is causal, then the findings have major public health significance owing to the rising consumption of fast food globally.” 
