 Exhibit on history of glass
Today, glassware is so common that people often forget about their significance in our daily lives. Surprisingly, the discovery of the unique properties of glass came as early as 4,000 years ago in the Mediterranean region - Mesopotamia, Egypt and the Roman Empire - and West Asia. 
The ceaseless efforts of ancient glass craftsmen helped shape today’s practical glassware. In order to show the roots and history of glass production, the National Museum of Korea has opened a special exhibition titled “History in Glass: 3000 Years of Glassware from the Mediterranean and West Asia” on the first floor of the museum’s permanent exhibition rooms. The exhibition runs until Feb. 17. 
Roughly 370 dazzling glass artifacts produced between B.C. 1500 and A.D. 1500 are on display in the National Museum of Korea. The fascinating artifacts came from Japan’s Hirayama Ikuo Silk Road Museum. The Silk Road Museum possesses about 9,000 artifacts from the Silk Road region. 
The exhibition consists of three parts:
1. Period B.C. 1500- A.D. 100: The beginning of glass making
Glass made in this period was mostly in the form of marbles with no hollow center. In B.C. 1500, a glass container was first discovered in Mesopotamia and Egypt. Until B.C. 100, when the technique of glass making using a tube was developed, glass items were mostly used for decoration and they were luxurious items that only people of high social ranks could possess. 
2. Period B.C. 100- A.D.700: Introduction of tube blowing technique in glass making 
In B.C. 100, artisans in Syria and Palestine developed the most innovative glass making technique, which was inflating glass through blowing air through a tube. The method facilitated the mass production of glass and dramatically lowered the price of glass items. With the ground breaking innovation, average people could also purchase glass. The technique spread out to the Roman Empire. 
3. Period A.D. 400-1500: New glass making methods added 
In Sassanian Persia (today’s Iran), different types of glass items were created using the techniques of Mesopotamia and the East Mediterranean. Artisans of Sassanian Persia enhanced the techniques of glass making to perfection and this laid the foundation of the glass production of Islam. The glass industry in the area flourished and a new types of glassware such as gold-coated glass emerged. This luxurious glass decoration techniques laid the foundations for modern glass production.
The exhibit is free and is open on Feb. 11. For more information about the exhibit, call (02) 2077-9000.
