Lee Sang-hwa sets new world record
 “I didn‘t expect the world record here. I was hoping to set it next week in Salt Lake City (at the world sprint championships).” - Lee Sang-hwa
Korean long track speed skater Lee Sang-hwa became the fastest woman on skates when she set a new world record in the 500 meters at the 2013 Essent ISU World Cup speed skating event at the Calgary Olympic Oval in Alberta, Canada. Her time of 36.80 seconds was 0.14 seconds lower than the mark of 36.94 set by China’s Yu Jing at the world sprint championships on the same track last January. Lee’s record-shattering performance - her eighth consecutive victory of the season - firmly established her as the most dominating sprinter in the 500 meters event.
Lee Sang-hwa faced strong competition in Calgary. The field featured China’s Yu Jing - the first female skater to go under 37 seconds a year ago, and USA’s Heather Richardson - the current Grand World Cup overall standings leader. Lee put on an awesome display of power and speed from the outset by covering the first 100 meters in 10.26 seconds. The quick start compared favorably to her gold medal-winning performance at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics in which she covered the same stretch in 10.34 seconds. From there she sped away to a comfortable victory margin and became the first Korean female speed skater to set a new world record. 
Lee’s excellent performances this season have a lot to do with her new training regimen. She shed several kilograms of body weight while gaining more muscle mass in her thighs, thereby giving her the explosiveness necessary to establish an immediate advantage at the start of a race. The changes in her physical proportions and the focus on quick starts have maximized her potential in the 500 meters sprint. Her current form and condition bodes well for her chances to defend her title at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. 
Lee Sang-hwa started skating while she was an elementary school student. Her talents were recognized early and she was given the opportunity to continue her training. She made her mark internationally as the youngest competitor at the ISU 2004 World Junior Championships in Roseville, Minnesota. She placed third in the 500 meters event. In the following season, she competed in some test races and participated in ISU World Cup events in Nagano, Harbin, and Calgary. Her performance improved steadily and she finished in the top 10 five times. 
During the 2006 season, Lee continued to improve in the 500-meter events and finished on the podium on four occasions. She also set a new world junior record of 37.90 seconds in 500 meters at the Utah Olympic Oval. She represented Korea at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy and placed fifth in the 500-meter race. In 2007, Lee won the gold medal at the Winter Universiade in Torino, Italy, as well as a silver medal at the winter Asian Games in Changchun, China. In World Cup events, she finished the season third in the overall standings.
Lee Sang-hwa’s greatest career triumph came at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, Canada. In the 500-meter event, she shocked the world by beating overwhelming gold medal favorites - world record holder Jenny Wolf of Germany, and world No. 2 Wang Beixing of China. She finished with an aggregate time of 76.09 seconds in the two-heat race, narrowly edging Jenny Wolf by five hundredths of a second. Wang Beixing finished third in a time of 76.63. Lee became the first Korean female skater, and the first Asian female skater, to win Olympic gold in long track speed skating.
