Influential first ladies of the United States
 “The search for human freedom can never be complete without freedom for women.” -- Betty Ford
The first lady of the United States is the wife of the president. The position of the first lady, though it is not an elected one and carries no official duties, is highly visible in the government. A first lady is traditionally the hostess of the White House, who organizes and attends official ceremonies and functions of state either with, or in place of, the president. The role of a first lady has evolved over the years, and some first ladies wielded significant power and influence during their time in, and after they left, the White House.
Dolley Payne Todd Madison -- Dolley Madison was the wife of James Madison Jr., the fourth president of the United States. She led a very visible public life with her interest in politics and her enthusiastic support of worthy causes and public projects. She helped to establish a home for young orphaned girls in Washington D.C. However, her most endearing legacy was her display of courage and patriotism shortly before the burning of Washington by British troops during the War of 1812. She refused to leave the White House without saving as much of the national treasures housed in it, including the large portrait of George Washington, as she could. 
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt –  Eleanor Roosevelt was the wife of Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR), the 32nd president of the United States.  She is perhaps the most influential and inspiring first lady of the United States because of her enormous contribution to, and achievement in, human rights. Because of FDR’s partial paralysis from polio, Eleanor Roosevelt travelled extensively on his behalf to promote civil rights and rights for women. Her public service did not stop after she left the White House. She served as the first chairman of the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHCR) and was on the board of directors for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). 
Jacqueline Lee Bouvier “Jackie” Kennedy – Jackie Kennedy was the wife of John Fitzgerald Kennedy (JFK), the 35th president of the United States. With her keen interest in the arts, she restored the White House to the style befitting a national symbol and treasure. She searched government warehouses for furniture, art objects and paintings to redecorate the White House, and upon completion of her project, took Americans on a televised tour of the White House on a CBS special “A Tour of the White House with Mrs. John F. Kennedy”. Her beauty, charm and elegance were much admired as she traveled around the world as ambassador for the United States.
Elizabeth Anne Bloomer “Betty” Ford -- Betty Ford was the wife of Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr., the 38th president of the United States. She was an outspoken supporter of the Equal Rights Amendment and the right of a woman to have an abortion. When she was diagnosed with breast cancer and went through a mastectomy, she openly and candidly discussed her treatment and recovery process. Her actions were instrumental in promoting the examination and early treatment of breast cancer. After leaving the White House, she spoke honestly about her problems with alcohol addiction and rehabilitation experiences. She later created the Betty Ford Treatment Center to help people overcome substance abuse and chemical dependence.
Hillary Rodham Clinton --  Hillary Clinton is the wife of William Jefferson “Bill” Clinton, the 42nd president of the United States.  She was extremely powerful as the first lady -- charged with directing policy as the head of the Task Force on National Health Care Reform.  She became even more powerful after she left the White House. She was elected as the United States Senator from New York in 2001; she ran for the presidency of the United States in 2008; and in 2009, she became the Secretary of State in President Barack Obama’s administration.
