 Thailand: Land of smiles
Also known as the “Land of Smiles,” Thailand is a popular tourist destination for world travelers. The tropical getaway that is Thailand attracts people of all backgrounds and means. 
With a tropical climate, fascinating culture, beautiful beaches and internationally popular food, Thailand has everything you could want in a holiday destination; be it rest and relaxation or an outdoor adventure. 
Kanchanaburi and Ko Chang are excellent places to check out for outdoorsy, adventurous visitors. With easily accessible waterfalls and national parks, Kanchanaburi is often described as offering a lighter version of Thai “trekking,” which generally involves elephant rides, short hikes and bamboo rafting. While at Kanchanaburi, it is also worth checking out its various World War II museums, as Kanchanaburi is also home of the infamous bridge over the River Kwai. 
Once a quiet, deserted island, Ko Chang has quickly become a tourist hotspot in Thailand. With long, white sandy beaches, Ko Chang is considered to be one of Thailand’s most beautiful islands. The island of Ko Chang offers visitors a glimpse into a lost world; a world of rugged waterfalls and impenetrable jungle filled with fascinating wildlife. 
History and architecture buffs, on the other hand, should take some time out to visit Thailand’s first capital, Sukhothai, located about 450 km from Bangkok. With a name that roughly translates into “the dawn of happiness,” the city of Sukhothai is a popular tourist destination because of its proximity to the ruins of a kingdom considered to be the “golden age” of Thai civilization. In fact, the Sukhothai Historical Park, which covers the ruins of the ancient Sukhothai Kingdom, has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1991.
For more information on Thailand, visit the Tourism Authority of Thailand’s official tourism website: www.tourismthailand.org.
Thais celebrate three different new years on three different days. Much like most of the world, many Thai people will gather on Dec. 31st for the countdown to Jan. 1. And again, much like other Asian countries, some Thai people will also celebrate the Lunar New Year, also known as the Chinese New Year (Feb. 10, 2013). In addition to these two widely celebrated new years, however, Thailand has its very own traditional Thai new year called the Songkran festival, which is celebrated from the 13th to the 15th of April.
