Are liberal arts subjects important in education?
Yes 
We put more emphasis on science and technology than liberal arts because people think science and technology make a lot of money, while liberal arts do not. The same is true of education. However, I think liberal arts are as important as science in education.
One reason for the importance of liberal arts has to do with our happiness. The reason why we study is to lead a happy life in the long run. Arts subjects such as music make us happy as well. A happy life requires many things, including money and power, but there is no denying that music is a component of happiness. Therefore, education needs to include liberal arts.
Another reason of importance of liberal arts has to do with future society. Future society needs integration of science and liberal arts. For instance, Steve Jobs and James Cameron have already succeeded across the world due to integration of science and liberal arts. Education should do their part for a better future. Not only science but also liberal arts should be treated as important subjects in education.
To conclude, liberal arts, including art, music and philosophy, are important in education. Education is about leading a happy life. To live a happy life and prepare for the future, we need education on liberal arts.
No 
We have a variety of liberal arts subjects, such as music, and philosophy in the school curriculum. Some think that it is not important for students to learn those subjects, while others assert that they are critical in education. I am one of those who are opposed to learning liberal arts subjects at school.
Above all, students can learn about the liberal arts later on. There are other subjects which are only possible to learn in school, such as mathematics and science. However, students can learn liberal arts anytime at art museums and music concerts after graduation. 
Moreover, liberal arts are not very important in our lives. A lot of people might disagree, but I believe not many people really need to know what liberal arts are about unless they would like to have a job in such fields.
I might be wrong, but the subjects that I consider important are mathematics, which enables us to calculate amounts of money, and English, with which we will survive in the era of globalization.
So, for the reasons I stated, I surely think liberal arts subjects are not very much important in school education.
