Labrador defends America‘s top dog title for 22 years
What is your favorite kind of dog? Are you a small dog kind of person or do you prefer big dogs? Well apparently, big dogs are popular among Americans, according to The American Kennel Club, which reveals the most popular dog breeds every year.
The American Kennel Club (AKC) released the list of the most popular dog breeds of 2013 on Jan. 30 and the Labrador retriever held onto its staunch 22-year reign as America’s top dog. 
The Labrador retriever’s 22-year feat is tied to that of the poodle, which also topped the spot for 22 straight years, mostly in the 1970s and 1980s. 
“Bigger breeds are making their move,” spokeswoman of the American Kennel Club Lisa Peterson said. 
“Labradors are just everyday, intelligent, loving animals,” said Micki Beerman, an owner and fan of the top dog breed. “I have five [Labrador retrievers], and she never leaves my side,” Beerman said of Sheena, her 5-year-old chocolate Labrador retriever. 
Among the top five, another big dog breed, the German shepherd, made the No. 2 spot followed by the golden retriever and the beagle. While large dogs like Labradors are in the lead, once-cherished smaller breeds such as the Yorkshire terrier and the miniature poodle are losing ground, said Reuters. This year, poodles were ranked eighth and the popular Yorkshire dropped to sixth.
One noticeable feature in this year’s popular dog ranking: Bulldogs are gaining unprecedented popularity. “The bulldog has muscled his way into the top five,” Peterson said. 
On a regional basis, bulldogs have become the second most famous breed in New York while the French bulldog came in third. “They’re a wonderful family pet,” one bulldog enthusiast commented.
In New York, Labradors were, unsurprisingly, picked as the most popular dog breed.
The AKC’s rankings came a month before Westminster Kennel Club dog show, the most prestigious dog competition in the U.S. The show picks “best in show” awards to selected dogs annually at the Madison Square Garden, New York City.
