Korea successfully launches Naro rocket
Korea succeeded in launching a satellite from its own soil for the first time on Jan. 30, after two previous failed attempts in 2009 and 2010.
The Korea Space Launch Vehicle-1, also referred to as Naro, blasted off at the Naro Space Center in South Jeolla Province, having the satellite STSAT-2C.
The satellite transmitted its first signal to a ground station in Norway around 6 p.m. on Jan. 30, and made first contact with the Satellite Technology Research Center at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology in Daejeon at 3:27 a.m. and again at 5:11 a.m. the next day.
The Ministry of Education, Science and Technology said the successful launch has brought Korea a step forward in advancing its space technology.
With the launch, Korea became the 11th nation to have successfully sent a domestic satellite from its own soil.
The achievement marks a momentous boost for Korea’s space ambitions and national pride, which were dampened by two previous failures. However, experts say there is a still long way to go before catching up with the global leaders in the field including Asian rivals China, India and Japan.
“Korea bought the first stage of Naro from Russia, which means we still lack the technology to build a liquid fuel engine,” said Cho Jin-soo, professor of the department of engineering at Hanyang University.
Korea aims to develop an indigenous 10-ton thrust liquid-fueled rocket engine by 2016, a 75-ton thrust engine by 2018, and a 300-ton thrust engine that can carry a 1.5-ton satellite into outer space by 2020.
However, Cho noted it may take longer than expected. 
“I believe we should now focus on developing our own technologies, own engine, rather than depending on other advanced countries,” he added. 
Korea’s ambitious space program has already been hampered by the continuous delay of Naro’s launch. 
The Naro space program began in 2002 in the face of a growing need to send satellites and tap into the huge space market. This prompted the country to seek its own means to deliver satellites. Korea sent all of its previous 14 satellites from foreign soil, using foreign space vehicles. 
The Korea Aerospace Research Institute, the state-run space program developer, built the two-stage Naro rocket in cooperation with Russia.
Russia designed and manufactured the lower part, which uses kerosene as its fuel and liquefied oxygen as its oxidizer, while KARI developed the upper part that uses a solid fuel system with a 7-ton thrust engine.
Korea failed in its previous two attempts in 2009 and 2010. The first launch attempt on Aug. 25, 2009, ended in what the KARI called a “half-success” as the rocket reached its target altitude but was unable to deploy the satellite it carried, due to a problem with the fairings that protect the payload.
During its second attempt, the rocket exploded 137 seconds after liftoff.
Critics insisted that Korea had wasted money on the Naro project without gaining core rocket technologies from Russia, citing that the Russian partners signed an agreement not to disclose confidential information on rocket engines.
But Kim Seung-jo, president of KARI, said earlier that he believes the Naro launches, including two previous failures, were a crucial lesson for the development of the Korean space program.
“We learned a lot through the investigation with Russia. We now know what systems we need to look at and what kinds of sensors are necessary to detect when the rocket fails,” he told The Korea Herald during an interview.
“This is important in running a space program,” he added. 
Kim also noted that Korea learned know-how in launch pad design and operations, as well as some key technologies needed to develop a liquid-fueled rocket engine from the Russian experts.
With the success of the Naro launch, KARI will now focus on developing a 75-ton thrust engine. But it is a still long way off, experts say.
The country first needs to upgrade its current space vehicle test center, but in order to do that KARI will have to secure a budget of more than 300 billion won ($264 million).
“We still don’t have the facilities to test a large-scale rocket engine and test-fly it. We need to upgrade the Naro Space Center,” Kim said.
Experts reiterate that government support is crucial in developing rocket technology as it requires a wide range of expertise from physics and chemistry to engineering and information technology. 
“It’s crucial to secure not only more funds, but also more highly skilled personnel in order to develop the domestic rocket,” Cho added.
