Tiger Woods in retrospect - from birth to today
Tiger Woods is one of the greatest professional golfers in the history of the sport and the most recognized athlete in the world.  He held the number one position in the world rankings for the most consecutive weeks (281) and for the greatest total number of weeks (623). He has been awarded PGA Player of the Year a record ten times, and has the record of leading the money list in nine different seasons.  In 2010, Tiger Woods became the first athlete to reach $1 billion in career earnings from prize money and commercial endorsements. 
 Tiger Woods was introduced to golf at the age of two by his father. He proved to be a child prodigy. He shot a round of 80 on a regulation golf course when he was eight years old, and broke 70 at age twelve. He won the Junior World championships six times, the first of which when he was only 13 years old. As a high school student, he won the U.S. Junior Amateur Championship for a record three straight years.  In 1994, Tiger Woods enrolled at Stanford University on a golf scholarship.  He excelled in numerous competitions as a member of the golf team and became the first golfer to win three consecutive U.S. Amateur titles. 
 After two years at Stanford, Tiger Woods left school and turned professional in 1996. He immediately signed endorsement deals worth $40 million with Nike and $20 million with Titleist. These were the highest-value endorsements in golf history at that time. In his first professional tournament, Tiger Woods tied for 60th place, but he went on to win two events in the next three months and qualified for the prestigious Tour Championship. He was named Sports Illustrated’s 1996 Sportsman of the Year and PGA Tour Rookie of the Year. A major star was born.
 In 1997, his second year as a professional golfer, Tiger Woods won the Holy Grail of the PGA Tour -- The Masters -- with a masterful performance. He posted a record score of 18-under-par 270 and won by a record margin of 12 strokes, becoming the youngest player, and the first African-American player to wear the winner’s green jacket. After only 42 weeks as a professional golfer, Tiger Woods rose to number one in the Official World Golf Rankings. He went on to dominate the PGA Tour for the next 13 years, winning a total of 14 major golf championships and 71 PGA Tour events.
 In 2009, Tiger Woods stellar career came to a crashing halt following disclosures of his multiple marital infidelities. He announced an indefinite leave of absence from professional golf to deal with his personal and family issues. He returned to golf in 2010 but has failed to regain his dominant form. He struggled through injuries, sub-par performances and a very public breakup with his long-time caddy and friend Steve Williams. On Oct. 31st, 2010, Tiger Woods lost his number one world ranking and now languishes at number 46, his lowest ranking in 15 years.
