Cellphones dirtier than toilet
If you are one of the many people who find toilet seats too dirty and disgusting to touch, get ready for some bad news. Recent tests have shown that an average cellphone - a device that has constant contact with our hands and faces every day - has more bacteria than the average toilet.
“Cellphones are 10 times as dirty as a toilet seat,” Charles Gerba, a microbiologist at the University of Arizona, told ABC News.
In tests, researchers found that cellphones held up to 10 times more bacteria and viruses that can cause nausea and stomach problems than toilets.
Gerba suggests that the reason why cellphones may be dirtier is because people tend to be hesitant about cleaning electronics, whereas toilets get cleaned more regularly because they have long been associated with germs and bacteria. 
It is not surprising that cellphones have become a breeding ground for germs. In fact, a lot of people use their phones while sitting on the toilet. Gerba, however, points out that the amount of germs your phone carries is not as big of a problem as the sharing of phones between people.
Cellphones are very often borrowed by and shared amongst people as society has become very technology-dependent.
“If you don’t share a cellphone you don’t have to worry because it’s only your germs,” Gerba told ABC News. “But if one person has the flu virus on their hands, it will be on the hands of 40 percent of other people … within four hours.” 
Unfortunately, cleaning cellphones poses a bit of a conundrum. Simply wiping it down with a damp cloth may make it look cleaner, but it will not eliminate germs, bacteria or viruses. On the other hand, most manufacturers do not recommend using anything stronger than water. 
While some companies have begun to offer cleaning products designed specifically for electronics, they are not yet widely available. Until they are more widely available, one way to minimize exposure is to use a hands-free device.
More dirty objects 
Sadly, cellphones are not the only commonly handled items to come off worse than the toilet. Other commonly handled objects like remote controls, computer keyboards, shopping carts and first-floor elevator buttons were also found to be hotbeds for unseen diseases.
