Artworks inspired by Hangeul on display
Many people are aware of the value of Hangeul, the Korean alphabet; but few people realize that it could also be a great inspiration for works of art. 
That is why a group of 17 Korean artists have come up with an idea to introduce artworks inspired by Hangeul to local museum-goers. 　
At an exhibition titled, “Korean Alphabet: The Art of Inspiration and Interaction,” a total of 50 artworks of 17 contemporary Korean Artists share their unique takes on “Hangeul” through various forms of art, such as calligraphy, handwriting, designs, drawings and paintings. 
Participating artists include fashion designer Lee Sang-bong and calligrapher Kim Jong-won. At the exhibition’s opening ceremony, Kim showed his Hangeul calligraphy performance and Lee’s fashion robot was introduced to the public. 
The purpose of the exhibition, which is Seoul Museum of Art (SEMA)’s 27th Seoul Art Exhibition, is to promote the beauty of Hangeul, a core component of Korean culture. 
The exhibition is made up the three parts: First, “Hangeul as Art,” second, “Hangeul as Inspiration” and lastly, “Hangeul as Interaction.”
On the first floor of SEMA’s Southern Seoul Auxiliary museum, the exhibit’s first session, “Hangeul as Art” is on display. The work on show reveals the beauty of the three elements of Hangeul: Sky, land, and people. Pieces in the section range from calligraphy to graphic designs and sculptures.
In the second session, “Hangeul as Inspiration,” the Korean alphabet is used as a source of creation and pieces try to show balance and harmony with the environment. 
In the third session, “Hangeul as Interaction,” the scientific quality of Hangeul is interpreted in formative works of art. 
All in all, the exhibit’s various Hangeul artworks offer an opportunity to see how Hangeul is adopted and applied in the modern society.
The exhibit runs until Feb. 17 at SEMA’s Southern Seoul Auxiliary museum in Gwanak-gu, Namhyun-dong. For more information about the exhibit, visit, www.seoulmoa.org. 
