Djokovic and Azarenka reign supreme at Australian Open
At the recently completed 2013 Australian Open, world No. 1 Novak Djokovic of Serbia defeated Andy Murray of England to become the first player in the open era to win three straight men’s singles titles. It was also his fourth title overall in Melbourne and his sixth Grand Slam title. On the Women’s side, top-ranked Victoria Azarenka of Belarus overcame Li Na of China to win her second consecutive ladies’ singles title. 
Novak Djokovic started his Australian Open campaign in fine form. He cruised through the first three rounds without dropping a single set. In the fourth round he faced the tournament’s 15th seed, Stanislas Warinka of Switzerland, and the result was an epic battle that lasted more than five hours.  Waringa played the best tennis of his life and put enormous pressure on Djokovic by blasting magnificent backhand winners repeatedly and running the top-seeded player all over the court. After splitting the first four sets, the players entered the deciding fifth set under the no tie-breakers rule.  They matched each other serve-for-serve, shot for shot until the 22nd game of the set, when Djokovic fought back from 40-15 down and won the match with a sublime crosscourt backhand winner.  
Djokovic dispatched fifth seed Tomas Berdych in the quarterfinals in four relatively easy sets. In the semifinals, he overpowered fourth seed David Ferrer, dropping only five games in a straight-set rout that lasted a mere 89 minutes. He advanced to the finals to meet his longtime friend and main rival - third seed Andy Murray. Djokovic and Murray traded booming serves and powerful ground strokes from the start, and the first set went the full distance with Murray winning it 7-2 in the tie-breaker. Djokovic returned the favor and won 7-3 in the second set tie-breaker. After that, it was all Djokovic as he cut down on his unforced errors, hit sharper ground strokes, approached the net with greater frequency, and steadily wore down Murray. He won the championship match 6-7(2) 7-6(3) 6-3 6-2 in three hours and forty minutes. 
Women’s top seed Victoria Azarenka was barely tested as she marched through the first five rounds, losing only one set in the process. She was headed for a semifinals showdown with her main tormentor - third seed Serena Williams - who owns a one-sided career head-to-head record of 11-1 against her; however, Serena was upset by rising American sensation Sloane Stephens in the quarterfinals. Azarenka’s path to the finals appeared cleared with Serena out of the way, but controversy awaited her in the semifinals. She won the first set 6-1 against Stephens. In the second set, she took a medical timeout, not because of an injury, but to compose herself after she had just squandered five match points. She won the match but was accused of manipulating the rules and unsportsmanlike conduct. 
Azarenka’s opponent in the finals was the sixth seed, Li Na of China, who had yet to drop a single set in the tournament. The popular Li entered center court to a rousing ovation, while Azarenka received a less than enthusiastic welcome. Even without the lingering controversy from the semifinals, the championship match produced its own drama. Li Na won the first set 6-4, but in the second set, she rolled her ankle while chasing down a shot and required medical attention to treat her injury. Azarenka went on to win the set 6-4. In the final set, play was interrupted for 10 minutes during the firework display to celebrate Australia Day. When play resumed, Li fell on the same ankle again and hit the back of her head on the hard surface. She had to be checked for concussion before the match could continue. In the end, Azarenka’s consistent play won the day, and she secured her second Australian Open title.
