Shin Jae returns to the music scene with full-length solo album
Best known for his work on soundtracks for dramas, Shin Jae is finally ready to make a name for himself in the Seoul music scene.
Despite having a successful career as a soundtrack singer for popular dramas, including “49 Days” and “I Need Romance 2012,” Shin Jae has remained mostly a "faceless singer" in Korea. 
Following his success as an artist in Japan, however, Shin Jae has set his sights on Korea, releasing his first full-length solo album, titled “Love” on Jan. 22.
Having begun his career as a faceless singer of original soundtracks, Shin Jae is finally ready to shine as a solo artist. 
“The type of music I want to do is music that whispers,” he said. 
Rather than soundtrack songs, which require more emotional expression and rhythmic singing, Shin Jae has taken this opportunity to delve into music that “quietly approaches and seeps into you as you listen.”
Despite the popularity of idol groups in today’s music market, Shin Jae chose to take the road less traveled, pursuing a solo career. 
“The reason I chose to be a solo singer rather than part of a K-pop group is that rather than having several people performing a four-minute song, I wanted to be able to patiently sing a ballad by myself.”
With the release of his first full-length album, Shin Jae is undoubtedly under a tremendous amount of pressure and stress. In order to blow off some steam, the singer revealed his rather surprising method: going to noraebang, or karaoke room.
Though it could seem counterintuitive for a singer to use singing as a stress reliever, Shin Jae revealed his secret to keeping it fun.
“When I’m alone, I like to rap and sing idol group music at the noraebang,” said Shin. “My favorite song [to sing] is ‘Sunday Morning.’”
Shin Jae held his first showcase in Korea at the V-Hall in Hongdae on Jan. 30. 
Singer Profile: 
Name: Shin Jae (Lee Shin-jae)
Debut: 2009, “The Edge of Heartbeat” solo album
Birthday: July 1, 1986
Favorite color: Blue
Favorite animal: Puppies
Favorite food: Pizza
Favorite movie: “Love Actually”
Favorite female talent: Moon Chae-won 
(Manager’s favorite female singer: Girls Day)
Favorite TV show: Infinite Challenge
Favorite U.S. TV show: The Big Bang Theory
Favorite smartphone game: Dragon Flight
Favorite foreign singer: Bruno Mars
White, Milk or Dark chocolate? Milk chocolate
