Orange succession
 “I am abdicating because I am convinced that the responsibility for our country should now move to the next generation.” -- Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands
Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands announced that she would abdicate her throne in a prerecorded televised address to the nation on her 75th birthday on Jan. 31. She will abdicate, after 33 years on the throne as queen, on Apr. 30, 2013 -- the 200th anniversary of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. She will be succeeded by her 45-year-old son, the Prince of Orange, Prince Willem-Alexander. 　
Beatrix was born Princess Beatrix Wilhelmina Armgard of the Netherlands, Princess of Orange-Nassau, Princess of Lippe-Biesterfeld, on Jan. 31, 1938, in Baarn, Netherlands. When World War II broke out, the royal family evacuated to London first and then moved to Canada, where Beatrix attended a public school. She received her law degree from Leiden University, the oldest university in the Netherlands, in 1961. She married German diplomat Claus von Amsberg in 1966, and the couple had three children: Prince Willem-Alexander, Prince Friso and Prince Constantijn. 
Beatrix became queen of the Netherlands when her mother Queen Juliana abdicated on Apr. 30, 1980. Under the Dutch Constitution, the queen is head of state but politically neutral, and the role of the monarchy is largely ceremonial. In domestic matters, the queen signs all acts of Parliament and plays a symbolic but limited role in the formation of new governments. Beatrix is known for holding weekly meetings with the prime minister and having frequent contacts with high-ranking officials. The queen plays a more significant role in international relations by hosting foreign dignitaries and heads of state.
Beatrix enjoys widespread popular support among her subjects, but her reign has not been without difficulties and tragedies. At her inauguration, thousands took to the streets to protest housing shortages and economic hardship. The influx of immigrants presented unprecedented challenges and caused social unrest in a country reputed to be one of the world’s most tolerant nations. In 2009, a loner targeted the queen and members of the royal family for assassination during the traditional Queen’s Day parade. He crashed his car into the procession but narrowly missed the queen’s bus. The royals were unharmed but seven people were killed. The death of her husband in 2002 and the 2012 skiing accident that paralyzed her second son Prince Friso and left him in a coma also took a personal toll on the queen. However, throughout the ups and downs of her reign, Beatrix has remained a calming influence on Dutch society.
Prince Willem-Alexander, the heir apparent to the throne, is 45 years old. When he ascends to the throne, he will become the first king of the Netherlands since the death of King Willem III in 1890.  He has a degree in history from Leiden University and he completed his military service in the Dutch Royal Navy.  He is married to Máxima Zorreguieta Cerruti, who was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina.  They have three daughters: Princess Catharina-Amalia, Princess Alexia and Princess Ariane. 
Prince Willem-Alexander is a water management expert with special interests in sustainability and innovation. He regularly attends water conferences to speak on his low-lying nation’s experiences in flood control and management. He also served as a member of the Dutch central bank supervisory board and regularly represented the queen and country at various international events. He has been a member of the International Olympic Committee since 1998 and was often seen cheering on Dutch athletes at the Olympics and other international sporting events. His wife Maxima is extremely popular with Dutch citizens. She has a degree in economics and has worked for large international finance companies in Argentina, New York and Europe. Her royal duties are focused on the integration of immigrants into Dutch culture and the increase of participation of female immigrants in the workforce.
