Two museums, twice the fun: The Rolling Ball Museum and Fun Museum
Looking for a fun, interesting way to spend your weekend? Consider making a visit to the Kyunghyang Art Hill near Seodaemun Station in central Seoul. 
Not only is the area known for its numerous, historically significant tourist spots, but there are some surprising gems for those just looking to be entertained as well. Checking out the Rolling Ball Museum and the Fun Museum located on the second floor of Kyunghyang Art Hill, for example, is a great way to spend a fun, simple day looking at cool things.
Fun Museum
The Fun Museum in Seoul has seen more than 1 million visitors since it opened in 2005. With its ever-growing popularity, the museum has since been revamped and was reopened on May 25. 
Divided into five sections with different themes - sound, light, movement, science and life - the museum showcases a variety of creative re-creations of familiar household items. The items on display vary from the possibly useful, like the “omlette pan,” to completely random, like the “four-style sunglasses.” Regardless of their usefulness, however, seeing the physical manifestations of someone’s creative ideas is both inspirational and, at times, highly entertaining.
Rolling Ball Museum 
The Rolling Ball Museum is fascinating in that it presents a fun way to observe and learn about physics. 
The Rolling Ball Museum features amazing artworks that show how different structures affect the way a ball rolls. Some of the contraptions are simple and basic, while others are surprisingly intricate. Though each piece has its own theme, some are simple contraptions that send a ball around and around on the same track like on a rollercoaster, while others are set up so different balls go in different directions at different times. Some are even set up so that they play music!
The variety of the structures makes it easy to get lost in the moment; spending hours watching the balls move, trying to figure out the physics behind some of the setups. 
