Should grocery stores charge extra for plastic bags?
YES
Charging people extra for plastic bags has brought numerous issues to the surface. Consumers who think that bags should be free often refuse to pay the store clerks extra for each bag they use. However, considering the cost and the effect that the bags carry, it is necessary for storekeepers to charge people extra.
To begin with, the massive environmental effects that plastic bags create make it justifiable to charge people for each bag they consume. A few years ago, shopping bags were not considered a threat to the environment. People thought that a plastic bag would not have any negative effects and failed to control their use, which brought catastrophic environmental problems.
The environmental effects of plastic bags have led people to use paper bags, which are environmentally friendly, but twice as expensive. If people refuse to pay for paper bags and keep using plastic bags, it would add to environmental pollution.
In a nutshell, it is not hard to pay an extra 100 won for the environment. I believe people should be eager to open their wallets and pay the extra.
NO
It is predictable for a majority of people to agree with the idea of charging extra for the use of plastic bags in grocery stores. But contrary to that, I do not believe the extra charge would be beneficial, for the following reasons.
Consumers today are looking for “convenience,” especially for their quality of life. Urban lifestyles emphasize the concept of convenience, and it has become a type of right given to those people over time. In a world where people chase after convenience, paying extra for packaging does not sound right.
Another significant concept to consider is economic equality. Although the price paid for these bags can be small for most people, it could be burdensome for the elderly and poor. 
We cannot be sure whether charging extra for packaging would be beneficial or not. However, the extra charge could be inconvenient for some people. Government authorities should think twice before enforcing such policies.
