National Museum of Korea brings 300 years of American art to Korea
Koreans instantly identify American art with paintings by modern artists, such as Jackson Pollock and Andy Warhol. Many are not familiar with the work of John Singleton Coopley or Thomas Eakins, which reflects the traditional artistic values of America, says Kim Young-na, director of National Museum of Korea.
The exhibition “Art Across America” offers Korean people a chance to enjoy diverse American paintings from 300 years of its history and see how American art evolved with time. 
For the show, 168 paintings and decorative art collections were gathered from four art museums - the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Terra Foundation for American Art , the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Museum of Fine Arts Houston. 
The show is divided into six parts, stretching from colonial settlement to post-World War II America. 
1. American people
The core of this section of the exhibit is portraits of early American people. Internationally acclaimed artist John Singleton Coopley’s “Portrait of a Lady in a Blue Dress” is on display.
2. American landscape: East to West
Beginning in the 19th century, the group of landscape artists known as the Hudson River School emerged. Their paintings showed the unlimited landscape of the American territory. Thomas Moran’s “Grand Canyon of the Colorado,” and Frederic Remington’s painting of a young Native American boy riding a horse, “The Herd Boy ” are on show.
3. Daily life in Art
Paintings from this period reflect diverse communities in America. Thomas Eakins’s “Sailing” introduced how Americans spent their leisure time and Allen Smith Jr.’s “The Young Mechanic” touches on the value of labor in their daily lives. 
4. Cosmopolitan America
After the development of western territories, transatlantic interest grew in America and the country became the international arena of art. Impressionist painting began and Mary Cassatt’s “Mother about to Wash Her Sleepy Child” is included in this section.
5. Modern America
In the early 20th century, rapid urbanization brought about a sense of isolation among American people. Charles Demuth’s “Welcome to Our City," (1921) is presented here. 
6. American Art After 1945 
After World War II, abstract expressionism that reflected materialism and radical revolutionary movement in the late 1950s surfaced. Jackson Pollock’s “No. 22” introduced surrealism in American art and Andy Warhol’s “Jackie” which showed portraits of Jackie Kennedy after President Kennedy’s assassination are from this period.
This is the first major exhibition in Korea to introduce American art from the 18th to 20th centuries.
The exhibition is running at the museum’s special exhibition gallery until May 19. For more information about the exhibition, visit http://www.artacrossamerica2013.com or call 02)1661-2440. 
