BIFF seeks to develop talents in film industry
The Busan International Film Festival (BIFF) is held annually in Haeundae, Busan. It lasts nine days beginning on the first Thursday in October.  It was launched in 1996 to introduce and promote new films and first-time directors, especially those from Asian countries. Over the years, BIFF has gained greater international recognition and prestige and has become the premier film festival in Asia.  It is particularly noted for attracting a large number of young people. The festival consists of many projects and programs aimed at discovering and developing young talent in the film industry. 
 Asian Film Market - Asian Film Market was first launched in 2006 as a comprehensive marketplace for a variety of industry events at the Busan International Film Festival. It established itself as the support center of the Asian film industry by promoting innovative business models to film professionals around the world. Sales offices and market screenings are set up by companies from different countries to promote their films. It is a place where deals can be reached for the sale and distribution of films and programs.
 Asian Project Market - Previously known as the Pusan Promotion Plan, the Asian Project Market is a pre-market where promising filmmakers and directors are given the opportunity to meet with potential producers and financiers to present their ideas and projects in the hope of gaining the necessary funding and support for turning them into films. It is also a forum where investors and producers can find a diverse selection of the quality Asian projects to nurture and support. As a project market focused in Asian cinema, the Asian Project Market has brought together viable programs and projects to attract participating film professionals from all over the world. Various projects in the past have been successfully made into films and achieved a great deal of success in major international film festivals. 
Asian Cinema Fund - The Asian Cinema Fund is a funding program set up to help encourage and enable more independent film productions from talented Asian filmmakers. It supports projects in various stages and categories, from script development and post-production to documentary films and hidden jewels from future talents. The fund is committed to helping activate new projects and creating a stable production environment. It functions as the foundation of a pan-Asian network by providing a meeting place for Asian filmmakers. Since its inception, the 900 million won (approximately $800,000) Asian Cinema Fund has supported the production of 66 independent films and 99 documentaries in Asia, many of which went on to achieve critical and financial success. 
Asian Film Academy - Asian Film Academy (AFA) is an educational program hosted by Dongseo University, the Busan Film Commission (BFC) and Busan International Film Festival to foster future Asian filmmakers and to establish a network among them. Many of Asia’s world-renowned film directors have lent their talents and served as deans at the academy. Since 2005, 147 young talents from 25 Asian countries graduated from AFA and are working in the film industry now.
