 A chance to change the world: Google Science Fair
In partnership with CERN, LEGO Group, National Geographic and Scientific American, Google kicked off its third annual Google Science Fair on Jan. 30.
“At age 16, Louis Braille invented an alphabet for the blind. When she was 13, Ada Lovelace became fascinated with math and went on to write the first computer program. And at age 19, Alexander Graham Bell started experimenting with sound and went on to invent the telephone,” wrote Sam Peter, a member of Google’s Science Fair team, in a blog post commemorating the launch of the third annual Google Science Fair on Jan. 30, 2013.
“Throughout history many great scientists developed their curiosity for science at an early age and went on to make groundbreaking discoveries that changed the way we live.”
Providing students a chance to change the world in a very real way, Google began hosting an online science competition open to students between the ages of 13 and 18 since 2011.
With the ability to enter the Science Fair in 13 different languages (including English, German, Polish, Russian, Arabic, Korean and Chinese), the competition has seen thousands of entries from students in more than 90 countries across the world looking to change the world.
The deadline for applications for the 2013 Google Science Fair is April 30. In June, Google will announce a list of 90 regional finalists (30 from the Americas, 30 from the Asia Pacific region and 30 from the Europe/Middle East/Africa region) from which judges will select the top 15 finalists. The 15 finalists will be flown into Google’s headquarters in California for a live, final event on Sept. 23. 
At the final event, the finalists will present their projects to a panel of distinguished international judges who will then select the top winners in each age category (13-14, 15-16 and 17-18). Of these winners, a Grand Prize winner will chosen. 
For more information on the 2013 Google Science Fair or to find out how to join, visit: www.googlesciencefair.com 
Prizes
Prizes for the winners of the Google Science Fair include scholarships and access to Scientific American’s digital archives.
Grand Prize winner
The Grand Prize package includes a 10-day, all-expenses-paid trip to the Galapagos Archipelago to explore “Darwin’s living laboratory,” a $50,00 scholarship from Google, hands-on experience opportunity at either the LEGO Group, CERN or Google as well as a custom LEGO color mosaic. The winner’s school will also receive digital access to Scientific American archives as well as a $10,000 grant. 
Age category winners
Age category winners will receive a $25,000 scholarship from Google, the second or third choice of one of the remaining experience opportunities at either the LEGO Group, CERN or Google, a custom LEGO mosaic, as well as digital access to Scientific American for the school. 
“Science in Action” prize winner
The “Science in Action” prize is awarded to the project that makes a practical difference in the world by addressing a social, environment or health issue. The recipient of this prize will be awarded $50,000 in funding and a year’s worth of mentoring courtesy of Scientific American. 
Inspired Idea Award
Unlike its predecessors, the 2013 Google Science Fair will include an “Inspired Idea Award,” the recipient of which will be chosen by the public. In August, the public will be able to get to know the 15 finalists through the Hangouts on Air service on Google+, after which the public then votes for the project with the greatest potential to change the world.
Other finalists
The remaining finalists will receive a variety of goodie bags from the Science Fair’s various sponsors.
Last year’s Google Science Fair winners
Grand Prize winner
Brittany Wenger was not only the winner of the 17-18 age category with her project, Global Neural Network Cloud Service for Breast Cancer, she was also chosen as the Grand Prize Winner of the 2012 Google Science Fair. Wenger’s project makes use of the computing power of the cloud service to effectively and accurately diagnose breast cancer. 
To learn more about Wegner’s project, go to: http://bit.ly/OrHE1v
“Science in Action” prize winner
Two 14-year-old boys from Swaziland, Bonkhe Mahlalela and Sakhiwe Shongwe, were the recipients of the “Science in Action” prize at the 2012 Google Science Fair. Their project dealt with the issue of food shortages in Swaziland as a result of poor subsistence farmers. Mahlalela and Shongwe developed the Unique Simplified Hydroponics Method (USHM) as a cheaper alternative to the sometimes expensive simplified hydroponics system to grow crops using “local waste organic matter and … waste cartons as garden containers.” 
To learn more about Bonkhe Mahlalela and Sakhiwe Shongwe’s project, go to: http://bit.ly/KOBH1J 
13-14 age category winner
Jonah Kohn, aged 14, was named the 13-14 age category winner of the 2012 Google Science Fair with his project, titled “Good Vibrations: Improving the Music Experience for People with Hearing Loss Using Multi-Frequency Tactile Sound.” As the title suggests, Kohn’s project tackled the issue of hearing loss and ways to improve the experience of music for those with hearing difficulties through the use of tactile sound.
To learn more about Jonah Kohn’s project, go to: http://bit.ly/LRmYCI 
15-16 age category winner
Trio Iván Hervías Rodríguez (aged 17), Marcos Ochoa (aged 16) and Sergio Pascual (aged 15) were the recipients of the 15-16 age category winning prize for their project entitled, “The hidden life of water.” Their project dealt with identifying, labeling and cataloguing the hundreds of microscopic organisms that live unseen in water, based on the hypothesis that life found in water seems parallel to our own. 
To learn more about Iván Hervías Rodríguez, Marcos Ochoa and Sergio Pascual’s project, go to: http://bit.ly/MCKV23 
To learn more about all the finalists for the 2012 Google Science Fair, visit: https://www.googlesciencefair.com/en/2013/previous-years 
