Snakes’ surprising abilities
In celebration of the official start to the Year of the Snake, many cultures across Asia celebrated the Lunar New Year on Feb. 10. Though often associated with negative stereotypes, snakes are rather fascinating creatures.
While humans have five major senses, for example, snakes have been found to have a whopping nine. So far, researchers have been able to determine that along with the typical five senses, some snakes double up on some of the basic ones. 
Hearing
Though scientists have known since the 1970s that snakes could hear, it wasn’t until much later that scientists figured out how. Without visible, external ears, the question of how snakes could hear so accurately remained a conundrum until 2008, when scientists discovered that snakes could hear using their jaws.
A snake’s jaw is directly connected to its inner ear, which makes it possible for snakes to literally hear the tiniest surface vibrations made by the footsteps of a tiny rodent. Furthermore, snakes’ lower jawbones are separated into two halves, and the difference in timing between vibrations received by the two sides allows the snake to know which direction the prey is running to and from. 
Smell
Like much of the scariest predators in the animal kingdom, snakes predominantly use smell to track their prey. Though pictures of snakes show what looks like a nose at the tip of their heads, did you know that snakes mostly smell using their tongues? Snakes use their tongues to smell by “tasting” the air, and because their tongues are typically forked, snakes are also equipped with incredible directional smelling. Snakes often keep their tongues in constant motion, analyzing particles in the air, water and ground for signs of prey or predators in the area. 
Sight
In general, snakes are thought to have rather poor vision compared to their other senses. For the most part, snakes’ vision is adequate enough to track movement, with their other senses being used to ensure accuracy. 
Some snakes, however, are different. Pit vipers, pythons and some boas, for example, take the role of “predator” to a whole new level. Equipped with heat-sensing pit organs, these snakes can use it to seek out warm-blooded prey, or in some cases, direct multiple attacks on a single target. A pit viper, for instance, may strike its prey once, and after waiting for heat spikes to show where the prey is most vulnerable, continue its attack on the prey’s weak spots. 
