Global football match-fixing network uncovered
 “It is clear to us that this is the biggest investigation ever into suspected match fixing. It is the work of a sophisticated organized crime syndicate based in Asia and working with criminal facilitators around Europe.” -- Rob Wainwright, Director of Europol
Europol -- the European Union’s law enforcement agency -- recently announced that it had uncovered a Singapore-based betting cartel that fixed hundreds of football matches around the world. Europol chief Rob Wainwright stated that a thorough 18-month-long investigation by the agency has identified 380 suspicious matches in Europe, including games in the Champions League, World Cup qualifiers, and the continent’s top-flight club competitions. Another 300 games outside Europe, including in Asia, Africa and South America, are under suspicion.
The Europol investigation covered 15 countries but was primarily focused on five European countries -- Germany, Hungary, Slovenia, Finland and Austria. Most of the allegedly fixed matches were played in the German, Swiss and Turkish championships. So far 425 players, referees, club officials and criminals have been investigated and 50 arrests have been made. An estimated $21.7 million had been bet on the suspected matches, yielding a profit of $10.8 million to the criminals. The total amount of bribes paid was $2.7 million. The highest amount for a single bribe was approximately $190,000 paid in Austria. 
An international crime syndicate based in Singapore has been blamed for rigging football matches in Europe and around the world. In particular, Dan Tan Seet Eng, a Singaporean financier, has been sought by the Interpol in connection with the vast criminal cartel. Nicknamed “Mr. Big,” Tan has long been suspected as the mastermind behind illegal match-rigging activities in over 50 countries.  His is wanted by the Italian police for his involvement in the “calcioscommesse” scandal that rocked Italian football in 2011.  Despite damning evidence against him provided by the police of several European countries, Singaporean authorities have yet to place Tan under arrest, though they pledged to cooperate with the Europol investigation. 
Europol’s announcement came on the heels of several major football match-fixing scandals from around the world. On Jan. 9, the Korea Football Association imposed worldwide football bans on 41 K-League players for taking part in a match-fixing scandal. In 2012, Chinese courts handed out lengthy prison sentences on senior football officials and players for accepting bribes and rigging matches. Last December, The president of the South African Football Association Kirsten Nematandani and four leading officials were suspended by FIFA for their parts in the fixing of four matches in the run-up to the 2010 World Cup.
With football facing unprecedented attacks from increasingly sophisticated criminal elements, protecting the integrity of the “beautiful game” becomes a priority for FIFA and sporting authorities all over the world. Although FIFA and UEFA both adopted a “zero-tolerance” policy on match-fixing, the results of Europol investigation showed that the football governing bodies have a long way to go to root out the problem. UEFA president Michel Platini cited match-fixing and illegal betting as the problem that if left unchecked, “would kill passion for the game and even the sport itself.”
Many experts have pointed out that football governing bodies need help from governments of individual countries in order to effectively eradicate and prevent the problem of match-fixing. They believe that without effective and collective government control on international gambling, game-fixers, gamblers and criminal organizations will continue to have an upper hand in undermining the fairness of football. FIFA president Sepp Blatter recently addressed the issue of match-fixing on the FIFA website this way: “It is time for governments to introduce appropriate sanctions as a deterrent, for while a player may be prepared to risk a ban for throwing a match, he will most likely not wish to risk a prison sentence.” 
