Hollywood and ‘Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters’
Hollywood’s latest remake of a classic children’s story debuted in theaters on Feb. 14, just in time for Valentine’s Day. Despite being based on a well-known children’s story, however, “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” has received a movie rating of R-18.
The 18 rating was surprising to most, as it means children aren’t allowed to watch a film that is clearly based on a children’s story. Those who have noticed a recent trend in Hollywood films, however, might not be quite so surprised.
“Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” embodies these two latest trends in Hollywood on paper, by perfectly capturing what seems to be Hollywood’s current recipe for producing films: adapting a classic fairy tale-type story to include a darker theme and a supernatural element.
Hollywood’s darker trend
As of late, many of the blockbuster movies that Hollywood has been churning out have been remakes of classic children’s stories or comic books. Including the latest “Hansel and Gretel” remake, these recent films tend to include more violence as well as darker themes overall.
This dark trend can be seen in the majority of recent remakes by Hollywood, including Marc Webb’s “The Amazing Spiderman,” Rupert Sanders’ “Snow White and the Huntsman” and, of course, Christopher Nolan’s Batman trilogy. Tommy Wirkola’s “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” also follows this trend by incorporating some dark themes into the classic story. In fact, the violence portrayed in “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” helped contribute to its 18 rating. 
Hollywood’s supernatural trend
Another popular trend in today’s Hollywood films is the supernatural element. Lots of films currently being produced have begun to incorporate a supernatural or paranormal element. Although paranormal or supernatural stories have always been popular, their pervasiveness in today’s film and media industry is rather surprising. 
As its title suggests, for example, “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” includes witches while “Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter” includes vampires. To a lesser extent though still relevant, the soon-to-be released “Warm Bodies” is a typical teenage romantic comedy with a little twist: zombies. 
