Seok Hae-kyun enters Korea National Open University
 “I applied for the course because I want to serve society as an educator in a second life I was given after the near-death crisis.” - Seok Hae-kyun
After a 40-year maritime career, Seok Hae-kyun, the ex-captain of the chemical carrier Samho Jewelry has decided to embark on a new journey. He has been accepted into the Department of Youth Education at the Korea National Open University. The 60-year-old veteran of the high seas, gravely wounded during a rescue operation mounted by the Korean Navy to free his crew and ship from Somali pirates in January 2011, has recovered from his injuries. However, his days as a sailor are over, and he wishes to devote the rest of his life to educating young people.
Captain Seok Hae-kyun and the Samho Jewelry made headlines on Jan. 15, 2011 when the ship was captured off the Somali coast by pirates and the crew of 21 was taken hostage. Seok was credited with decisive actions that bought precious time for the Korean navy to mount a rescue attempt. First, he kept the ship in international waters for as long as he could, and then he got creative. He executed a risky plan to mix water into the ship’s engine oil to disrupt its propulsion and slow it down. 
On Jan. 21, 2011, Korean commandos from the destroyer ROKS Choi Young launched a rescue operation, code named “Dawn of Gulf of Aden.” Once aboard the Samho Jewelry, they fought a compartment-to-compartment battle with the pirates for more than five hours. Eight pirates were killed and five were captured. All 21 crew members were rescued, but Seok Hae-kyun sustained multiple gunshot wounds and was critically injured. He was taken to a hospital in the Omani port of Salalah where he underwent five hours of emergency surgery. A week later, Seok was flown back to Korea where he had additional surgeries at Ajou University Hospital.
Seok remained in critical condition at the hospital but he then stabilized. More than a month after he was shot, Seok was able to breathe on his own, without the use of a respirator, for the first time. As he continued to recuperate in the hospital, well-wishes poured in from all over the country. President Lee Myung-bak called the hospital room to express his appreciation and offer words of encouragement. On Nov. 2, 2011, President Lee awarded the Dongbaek Medal of the Order of Civil Merit to Seok for his bravery. Two days later, Seok was discharged from the hospital and returned to his home in Busan to continue his recovery. He was hailed as a national hero.
Two weeks after he left the hospital, Seok and his wife flew to London to receive the Council of the International Maritime Organization Award for Exceptional Bravery at Sea. The award, which was inaugurated by the U.N. agency in 2007, recognizes those who risk their lives to rescue persons in distress at sea or prevent catastrophic pollution of the environment. Although he is no longer physically fit for duty at sea, Seok has remained active by giving lectures on national security to sailors of the Korean Navy.
As Seok Hae-kyun begins his quest to become an educator, it is worth pointing out that his life story already reads like an inspiring lesson. He is a man who came from humble beginnings, served his nation in the Navy for five years, supported his family by working 40 years at sea, and when facing a moment of dire consequences, he acted bravely and heroically, above and beyond the call of duty. Everyone can learn something from that.
