Have some fun at the Happy Winter Festival!
The chilly temperatures of late have made it difficult to believe that winter is almost over, but it is true. Soon the magic and fun of winter will be nothing but a memory as the temperature begins to rise and spring begins to blossom. Before this happens, why not celebrate the joys of winter one last time at the “Happy Winter Festival”? 
What is the “Happy Winter Festival”?
Currently in its fourth year, the “Happy Winter Festival” is a huge indoor winter sports-themed park that can be enjoyed by the entire family. Divided into four themes, the festival’s playgrounds cater to children of all ages. With rides ranging from a 40-meter-long slide to a bike-riding center, the festival provides fun of all kinds. 
In fact, the “Happy Winter Festival” in Songdo features around 30 inflatable bounce and slide rides to choose from.
Why the “Happy Winter Festival”?
Although the theme is winter-related, because the festival is being held indoors, children and parents alike can enjoy the fun and thrill of winter sports rides in a warm and comfortable environment. Also, since the rides are predominantly made up of inflatable playground equipment, it is safe for children of all ages.
Where can I check out the “Happy Winter Festival”?
The “Happy Winter Festival” is being held at various locations around Korea. Though the two major locations can be found in Songdo and Changwon, other locations include Gwangju, Daejeon, Daegu and Gumi. 
For more information, check out the official website for the “Happy Winter Festival”: www.hfestival.co.kr.
Tips on how to best enjoy the “Happy Winter Festival”:
1. Be sure to wear comfortable clothes (including socks)
2. In order to avoid friction burns, consider wearing long-sleeved shirts and pants. 
3. Make sure you and your family and friends come up with a plan for where to meet in case you lose contact.
4. Reconsider bringing valuables with you. You do not want to have to worry about losing something expensive or precious while having fun.
