“Nation’s MC” Kang Ho-dong apologizes to the nation
The life of “the nation’s MC” Kang Ho-dong took a very sudden turn on Sept. 5, when a tax evasion scandal incriminating Kang broke out. 
Despite agreeing to pay back taxes and penalties as proposed by the National Tax Service (NTS), Kang eventually announced his temporary retirement from the entertainment industry during an unscheduled press conference on Sept. 9. The main cause for Kang’s retirement decision comes from the public outcry following the disappointing news about his speculated tax evasion. 
“I’m quite aware that the public’s hate for me right now is great. I’m a person who has a job as an entertainer. My duty is to give viewers laughter and happiness through the TV. In a situation like this, how can I shamelessly laugh and talk on TV?” Kang Ho Dong continued, “From this moment on, I will be temporarily retiring from the entertainment business.” 
Kang explained that he would use this time for self-reflection. 
Prior to this scandal, Kang was the host of various highly popular shows including the KBS reality show “Happy Sundays: 1 Night, 2 Days,” the talent search program “Star King” and variety talk show “Strong Heart” on SBS, and the talk show “Golden Fishery: Knee Guru” on MBC. 
In terms of what will happen to the shows that he is involved with, Kang says, “I will discuss with the producers of the programs I am part of to negotiate my leave without any losses suffered on their part.” 
Two online petitions were started soon after Kang’s retirement announcement on Sept. 9; one that supports his retirement, and one against it. The goal of the petitions had been to get 10,000 signatures by the end of the month, but by Sept. 14, 10,912 people had already voted against Kang’s retirement while only a measly 149 supported it.
 Since this scandal broke out, people have shared differing opinions on the subject on various blogs and forums. Those supporting Kang’s retirement have left comments such as “tax evasion is robbery” and “retirement is the proper punishment,” while those against it have said, "shouldn’t we properly investigate politicians instead?” and “we all make mistakes.”
