Enjoy Junior Herald with EBS
National educational broadcasting station EBS has decided to expand its “Newspaper Reading Class” as of late February.
The English study program created using articles from The Junior Herald used to air twice a week - Thursday and Friday - from 9:50 to 10:00 p.m. on a cable TV channel, “EBS English.”
Thanks to the ardent support of the EBS viewers, the program now airs Monday to Friday 9:20-9:30 p.m. as of Feb. 25. Reruns of the program are again provided from 11:20-11:30 p.m. each day. The reading class is also shown on “EBS TV” from 5:40-5:50 p.m. every day.
The first episode of this reading class was broadcast on Aug. 30, and the online class was designed to enhance students’ reading skills and increase their knowledge on current issues as well.
The popularity of the class taught by a career lecturer Kim Tae-yeon was immense, and positive comments online have mounted over time.
Many viewers shared their experience of developing an interest in learning English while watching the 10 minute class twice a week, and most of them wanted the class to expand or continue for long.
The new class has long been planned by EBS staff in ways to further activate children’s interest in English learning and to strengthen their practical language use in real life.
Lecturer Kim Tae-yeon told The Junior Herald on Feb. 18 that the newspaper reading class would find its rightful place in Korea’s English education as it aims to develop student’s language capacity for the sake of practical use.
She said she had been surprised to find the class originally aimed for middle- and high-school students has further included elementary school students and adults as its viewers. She expected the number of the viewers would continue to grow.
As to the newspaper’s first impression, she said she liked the different flavor of each page having various themes.
Kim said English newspapers would be of great use for those who want to understand the given text well in the first place and then to apply what they have learned in their real lives and academic tests.　
“Newspaper reading enables people to strengthen their skills in listening, reading, writing and speaking, and also help them figure what the article is about only by skimming through the headline.”
She also emphasized that use of English newspapers would help reduce Korea’s reliance on private education.
A Korean citizen who has never studied abroad, Kim used to be an avid reader and collector of English texts and audio-visual materials.
“I started learning English as a first grader at middle school, and I tried to memorize every sentence that I heard. I also kept a diary in English.”
Kim pointed out that the biggest obstacles lying ahead for Korean students learning English is that they study the language only for tests and do not take a real interest in it.
Rather than focusing on difficult English pronunciation, she suggested students should try to make themselves understood among foreigners in English, emphasizing that many different people worldwide speak English in their own accents.
The lecturer, who has had illustrious career working for EBS, hosting various English radio and TV programs, writing books for students and adults, hoped that the newly expanded EBS newspaper reading class would contribute to helping people find their real interest in English language learning.
