Wrestling dropped from 2020 Olympics
 “In the view of the executive board, this was the best program for the Olympic Games in 2020. It‘s not a case of what’s wrong with wrestling; it is what‘s right with the 25 core sports.” - IOC spokesman Mark Adams
Wrestling, one of the original Olympic sports since the first Games in ancient Greece, has been dropped from the 2020 Olympic Games. The decision by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to eliminate the venerable sport caught the wrestling community by surprise; however, wrestling still has a chance to fight for Olympic inclusion. At the IOC general assembly in September 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, it will compete for a single opening in 2020 against seven other sports - baseball and softball (combined), karate, squash, roller sports, sport climbing, wakeboarding and wushu.
The IOC based its decision to drop wrestling, both the freestyle and Greco-Roman forms, on several factors. According to IOC documents, wrestling ranked unfavorably in some technical criteria including: low popularity with spectators at the 2012 London Games, low global television viewership, low Internet hits and low press coverage. The IOC also noted that the international wrestling federation (FILA) does not have athletes on its decision-making bodies, lacks a women’s commission, has no ethics rules for technical officials, and does not employ medical officials on its executive board. 
The wrestling world was predictably in uproar over the decision by the IOC. Russia, a traditional wrestling powerhouse that produced the legendary three-time Olympic champion Alexander Karelin, was hit hard by the news. The president of the Russian Wrestling Federation placed the blame squarely on FILA for not taking the necessary action to keep the sport in the Olympics.  Japan, which won four of its seven gold medals in wrestling at the London Olympics, was shocked by the decision.  Greece, where the ancient Games began, is angered by the IOC announcement. The country’s wrestling federation president called the dropping of the sport that is synonymous with Olympics a “sacrilege.” 
Prior to the announcement, it was widely speculated that sports such as modern pentathlon, field hockey, taekwondo, canoe kayaking and badminton were possible candidates for elimination from the Olympic program. Modern pentathlon survived thanks in large part to the lobbying efforts of Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr., the son of the former IOC president who is a Union International de Pentathlon Moderne vice president and member of the IOC board. Taekwondo avoided the cut by instituting broad reforms in its rules and regulations to ensure fairness of competition and increase the excitement of matches.
Wrestling, with its proud tradition as an original Olympic sport and its grassroots popularity with 177 FILA member nations, was not on the radar. It appeared that the leaders of the federation were unaware of the danger the sport was facing in the IOC vote; therefore, the lack of a sense of urgency perhaps contributed to the demise of the sport. There were no concerted lobbying efforts or reform measures, such as those taken by modern pentathlon and taekwondo, to defend the sport before the IOC. 
Raphael Martinetti, the head of FILA based in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland, indicated that the federation would convene in Thailand shortly to map out strategies to save wrestling as an Olympic sport. FILA has vowed that it “will take all necessary measures to convince the IOC executive board and IOC members of the aberration of such decision against one of the founding sports of the ancient and modern Olympic Games.” If their efforts prove unsuccessful, the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janiero, Brazil, will be the swan song for one for the signature Olympic sports that survived from ancient times into the modern era. 
