 Pope Benedict XVI leaves Roman Catholic Church
 “After having repeatedly examined my conscience before God, I have come to the certainty that my strengths, due to an advanced age, are no longer suited to an adequate exercise of the Petrine ministry. For this reason … with full freedom I declare that I renounce the ministry of bishop of Rome, successor of Saint Peter.” – Pope Benedict XVI
Pope Benedict XVI announced that he would resign as the leader of the Roman Catholic Church due to his advanced age and frail condition. The resignation, which takes effect at 8 p.m. on Feb. 28, Rome time, took the world by surprise. Pope Benedict, who turns 86 in April, became the first pope to resign since the middle ages. The Pope will move to the papal summer residence Castel Gandolfo after the resignation, and at a later date, he will move into a monastery at the Vatican.
Pope Benedict was born and raised in Germany. He was a noted theologian, professor and local Catholic leader, before steadily moving up the Vatican ranks.  Known for his strict adherence to conservative Catholic doctrines, he served as the dean of the College of Cardinals and a close aide to Pope John Paul II.  When Pope John Paul II passed away in 2005, Benedict, born Joseph Ratzinger, was elected the new pope.  At age 78, he was widely viewed as a caretaker pope, serving as a bridge between the extremely popular John Paul II and the next-generation leader of the world’s 1.2 billion catholic faithful.
Pope Benedict’s tenure began during a difficult time for the Catholic Church. The church came under increasing criticism for its handling of sexual abuse accusations against priests around the world as complaints and lawsuits continued to pile up. The growing crisis prompted the Pope to acknowledge the “profound shame and regret” the church felt over the reports of widespread abuse and called for those priests who perpetrated the evil acts to face justice. During his tenure, Pope Benedict stayed true to his conservative beliefs and the church continued to take a hard-line stand on controversial issues like birth control, abortion and divorce.
The Pope’s resignation is an extremely rare occurrence in the Roman Catholic Church. The reign of a pope has traditionally been from election until death; however, papal resignation is permissible under Canon Law. Canon 332 states that “If it should happen that the Roman Pontiff resigns his office, it is required for validity that he makes the resignation freely and that it be duly manifested, but not that it be accepted by anyone.” The last time a sitting pope resigned was in 1415, when Pope Gregory XII stepped down in order to end the Western Schism, during which there were three rival claims to the papal throne. 
With the resignation of Pope Benedict, the Vatican spokesman indicated that there would be elections sometime in March and that there would likely be a new pope before Easter. To elect a new pope, the College of Cardinals will meet in a gathering known as the “conclave.” All cardinals under the age of 80 are eligible to vote for a new pope. In the election process, each cardinal writes the name of one man on a blank ballot. After all votes are cast, the ballots are counted and the result is read to the cardinals. If a candidate receives more than two-thirds of the votes, he is the new pontiff.
The result of the vote is announced to the public by the smoke from the burning of the ballots. If there is no winner, the ballots are mixed with a chemical which emits black smoke when burned. It there is a winner, the ballots are burned alone, which gives off white smoke from the roof of the Vatican Palace, signaling to those gathered in St. Peter’s Square that there is a new pope.
