Discover the joys of capturing your ‘Life in Pictures’
With the advent and proliferation of digital cameras, smartphone technology and social networking sites, taking pictures has become a major pastime for many in today’s society. 
In an effort to further encourage and develop people’s interest in photography, Nikon has organized a Life in Pictures Marc Riboud photo exhibition (LIPs) at the Kintex Exhibition Center II in Ilsan. Not only does this exhibition provide you with a chance to bask in the presence of renowned French photographer Marc Riboud’s classic photos, but it also allows visitors a chance to check out and take pictures in 15 different studio settings. 
In fact, the exhibition itself is divided into seven different sections for visitors to enjoy: the Internet Zone, Cafeteria, Studio Zone, Event Zone, Photo Zone, Mark Riboud photo exhibition zone and the Art Shop.
Free camera rental services are available at two of the three studio sets for those interested. All you need is to leave either your I.D. or cellphone at the desk until you are done using the camera. For those who want a group shot, there are several helpers available to take the photo for you. The helpers are all photography majors from either ChungAng University or SangMyung University. If this degree of professionalism isn’t enough for some visitors, there is also a professional studio set up next to the cafeteria for those interested in getting a professional headshot, family portrait or even a passport photo taken. 
The chance to discover the fun of photography at the LIPs exhibition is available until March 1. For more information, visit www.lips.kintex.com or call (031) 995-8156.
Who is Marc Riboud? 
Marc Riboud is a celebrated French photographer best known for his extensive reports on Asia. Born in 1923, Riboud did not discover his passion for photography until he took a week-long vacation from his job as a factory engineer in Lyon in 1951. Since then, he has made use of his innate ability to capture life’s fleeting moments through powerfully composed photos to become a world-famous photographer.
Two of Riboud’s most celebrated images are the “Peintre de la Tour Eiffel (Eiffel Tower Painter)” and “Jeune Fille a la Fleur (Girl with a flower)”
“Peintre de la Tour Eiffel”
Showing a man posed like a dancer in between the metal framework of the Eiffel Tower as he paints it, “Peintre de la Tour Eiffel” has become a widely celebrated piece of art for capturing the joy of one man as he endures the hardships of being a laborer in 1950s France. 
“Jeune fille a la fleur”
Considered to be amongst the most celebrated anti-war pictures, “Jeune Fille a la Fleur” was taken outside the Pentagon in 1967 during a protest against America’s involvement in Vietnam. It depicts a young girl holding a flower in her hands, standing in front of several rifle-wielding soldiers stationed to block protestors.
The photos featured in the popular SuperstarK4 calendar were taken at the LIPs exhibition.
