 Are school lunches healthy?
YES - Very few students in Korea like school lunch and that is because the foods are just not delicious. For students who enjoy eating delicious junk food, school lunch is nothing but a dull stomach-filler, but they should know that school foods are at least healthy.
With school lunch, students can have a varied and balanced diet whereas eating at home allows them to follow their choice of foods, which are oftentimes unhealthy. Researches have found that eating preferred foods only will result in retarded growth, weaker level of immunity and egoistic personality. They also suggest that school lunches are good for preventing monophagia.
Also, school lunch provides students with various essential nutrients as it is planned and prepared by professional dieticians. Many schools nationwide these days use organic foods as part of this.
As I pointed out, school lunch has its own strengths. All that counts here is how students make use of them. If you are one of those who tries to mingle with classmates while having a well-balanced diet and to distance yourself from abnormal growth and diseases, school lunch is a good option. 
NO - Concerns are high about students’ health in Korea, and this is due to low quality of school food services. School foods are accused of lacking essential nutrients for children. Though it is true that school food plays a role in developing proper eating habits for children, I believe that school lunches have room for improvement.
First, school foods have been prepared with an emphasis on cost reduction rather than quality. Even worse, they taste bad. A research by a civil organization revealed recently that 40 percent of students were dissatisfied with their school’s food service, which shows how unappealing the foods are to students. 
Also, food safety does not seem to be of a concern to school authorities. To be specific, crops, seafood, meat and processed foods arrive at school all in the same condition. Crops, for example, should be stored in room temperature, but they are kept frozen along with meat. Also, there are many reported cases of food spoiling while it is being taken to school, especially in summer.
Last but not least, there are many students who cannot afford school lunch. Though the “free lunch project” is being carried out in schools nationwide, there are still many children who are denied the benefit. This inequality often leads to the organization of different social classes in a school.
In conclusion, school food service has a lot of challenges to overcome, such as low popularity among students and lack of efficient delivery and sanitation. Furthermore, the government should be aware that there are many students who are suffering from the expensive cost of school foods.
