 President Park promises happier Korea
Park Geun-hye was sworn in as Korea’s 18th president on Feb. 25, promising to better people’s lives through a creative economy and expanded welfare. 
“As President of the Republic of Korea, I will live up to the will of the people by achieving economic rejuvenation, the happiness of the people, and the flourishing of our culture,” Park said before some 70,000 people gathered for the inauguration ceremony at the National Assembly in Yeouido, Seoul. The number of the participants was the largest among presidential inauguration ceremonies to date.
Park also called for the people’s support for the new government in its efforts to revive the economy and tackle security challenges from North Korea, which conducted its third nuclear test on Feb. 12.
Dressed in a green jacket, Park waved to the cheering crowd as she arrived at the ceremony in the morning, where a series of cultural events were held to liven up the mood.
Outgoing President Lee Myung-bak and first lady Kim Yoon-ok greeted Park, joined by invited guests including U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.
Park also emphasized the importance of enhanced diplomacy with the region’s major players including the U.S., China, Japan, Russia and other Asian and Oceanic countries in ways to ease tension and conflicts.
In her inauguration speech, Park assured to uphold her pledges for economic revival.
“A creative economy is defined by the convergence of science and technology with industry, the fusion of culture with industry, and the blossoming of creativity in the very borders that were once permeated by barriers.”
Park promised a safe society for women and the disabled, as well as fair laws for the underprivileged and a transparent administration.
“I will earn the trust of the people by ensuring that our government remains clean, transparent and competent. I will endeavor to shed popular distrust of government and strive to elevate the capital of trust.”
Following the inauguration, Park, dressed in a red and blue hanbok, attended a ceremony at Gwanghwamun joined by selected citizens.
