Identity theft
What is it?
 According to the Unites States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), identity theft “occurs when someone uses your personally identifying information, like you name, Social Security number, or credit card number, without your permission, to commit fraud or other crimes.” In criminal law, fraud is the act of intentional deception made for either personal gain or to cause damage to another individual. 
 The non-profit Identity Theft Resources Center subdivides identity theft into the following categories: Criminal identity theft, financial identity theft, identity cloning, medical identity theft, and child identity theft. 
 Criminal identity theft occurs when a person pretends to be someone else when they are caught committing a crime. Financial identity theft occurs when someone uses another person’s identity to get credit cards and other money-related goods and services. Identity cloning occurs when someone uses someone else’s information and identity in their daily life. Medical identity theft refers to when someone uses another person’s identity to receive medical care or drugs. Child identity theft occurs when someone - it could be a parent, friend, or stranger - uses a minor’s social security number for personal gain. 
 How do I protect myself?
 Identity theft is made possible by serious breaches in our privacy. The U.S. FTC suggests that awareness is the most effective weapon against most forms of identity theft. Most people are susceptible to identity theft because they naively provide their personal information to thieves through voice phishing or spam mail. 
 In Korea, people are more at risk for identity theft if major corporations, such as SK Communications Co., do not adequately protect themselves from hacking. This is because most websites in Korea, both official and unofficial, require users to register using their social security numbers and other personal information. 
 Therefore, it is important for Korean users especially, to be aware of the level of their personal information available online for hackers and thieves to steal. Make sure to check periodically for anything strange in your account and as much as you can, and also try and avoid having to register for anything using your social security number. 
