Connecting with director, Marco Tessiore
Marco Tessiore is an Italian filmmaker who has been living and working in Korea for a few years now. Tessiore first came to Korea when he took part in a collaborative program with a group from Spain. 
 Would you mind giving a small introduction about yourself and how you came to be in Korea?
 I was living in Spain [when I decided to come to Korea]. I’ve always had a huge interest in Asian cinema, especially in Hong Kong and Korea. Even though Korean cinema is not yet super well known in Europe, I was already very into Asia.
 My first connection to Asia has been Korea. Korea is not yet very well known in Europe, [but I believe] the connection is very strong. I’ve lived in Korea for about three years and five or six months now, and. I kind of feel either at home and a little bit displaced in time and space, but it is kind of like a constant adventure and I’m really happy; I’m really into that, especially because from what I can see, Korea keeps changing. Especially now.
 You are currently working with Bada for her new music video, “Together with me”; have you worked with a lot of other Korean artists?
 Not a lot, but I do have several collaborations. I had collaborated with an independent group called One More Chance. That actually has been more difficult than with Bada (laughs) because it is an independent group, so it’s kind of fun. 
 I have some friends related to design and architecture, so I had a really interesting collaboration with a designer named Lee Kwang-ho. He’s an incredible designer; he makes objects with his own hands not using tools. Though in Korea he is not yet very well known, he has gained a lot of awards in Europe. And he’s a young guy, so we had an amazing connection as soon as we met. We clicked. So even in this case, like I said before, it became a mind connection. It isn’t about speaking the same language - his English is a bit weak and so is my Korean. It is more about a mind connection. 
 Personally, I consider friendships to be very important. For example, when interacting with strangers, the barriers in language and culture causes me to put up some filters, whereas experiencing a foreign culture with friends makes it easier and more comfortable.
 So what are your thoughts on working with Korean artists compared to foreign artists?
 Of course [working] in Korea with Korean artists is a really great way to be welcomed by them. Nowadays, more artists are collaborating with and getting to know [and] understand foreign artists, directors, producers, etc., and it is a great way to experience each other. 
 What is fun [and] great about collaborating with Korean artists is that there is always a big attempt of friendship. It is not about just work or an artistic involvement or relationship. We have to be friends, and I love it. And it’s true. When you are with friends you react in a different way - you are free to be more sincere. At the same time you care more about the product. So it is really nice. (Laughs) The problem is I don’t drink so most of them get frustrated but… 
 With foreign artists, the idea of working together on something is weaker because of course it is more often a commercial collaboration and not artistic. But a different point might be that there is sometimes a stronger connection when coming from a similar culture; so to me actually it is very much a person by person [difference]. I cannot really [draw a comparison] between foreigners and Koreans. 
One thing is for sure, however, Koreans are absolutely warmer and more welcoming, and that is something I enjoy very much. 
 So … Why Korea?
 It’s simple. With Korea I believe that I have a particularly strong connection. Of course there are other places I would like to visit - like I said I’m very into Asian culture - but so far, even when I travel around, there’s no place like Korea. I’ve been to Hong Kong, where everybody spoke English. For me that was unnatural; it was too easy. I like Korea, even with the challenge. 
 So you like it because it’s a challenge?
 No, I like it because of what comes out of being faced with a challenge; being in a place of change. I like it because it keeps moving. I used to think that I had plenty of things to give and things to take. In Korea in this moment, I can say personally that I am learning a lot here, which I am grateful for. Also one thing that actually interested me from the beginning is that I believe that Korea and Italy - or south Asia and south Europe - are really connected in the minds, in the emotions of the people. It’s a really interesting panorama to explore.
 Could you be more specific?
 In Spain I had my first connection with Korea, and amongst [Korean] friends who were trying to learn from each other about the characteristics of our own cultures. As we became closer, my friends explained to me about “jeong” (정). And to me, it took a while to figure out what it meant, because we were speaking in a language that was not familiar to the either of us. But then when I got it, I realized it was the same thing as what I have experienced myself in South Italy. 　
 So in Italy, there is also “jeong”. We don’t have a name for it but we have a very clear idea of what that is. As soon as I connected with that, I found it very familiar. It was nice. Especially since in Italy nowadays, people are becoming more individualistic and colder. So sometimes, Korea seems a bit like Italy 20 to 40 years ago in terms of the “mind landscape”; when family, friendship and love are still considered important. So the concept of “woori” (우리) is something that is very familiar to us, especially after the war. The passion, the emotional side of the people here ... I don’t know, it activates something in my mind - I end up visualizing my culture from back in the day and it is so nice. [It is] like a gift; to be able to relive and explore it in a different country. That connection is an amazing way to stay in touch, to be in contact [with my past]. 
 Considering your love of film, if someone gave you a million dollars for you to shoot anything, what topic would you choose to film about?
 Well with $1 million, you could make an [independent] feature film … hmm, ok this is a very difficult question, but also quite fun! Let’s see … 
I have many ideas … but I believe a first feature film is the way to introduce myself and the way I feel related to Korea. One thing I am sure about is that I cannot make a Korean movie because I am not from here, but still I believe I can make a movie in Korea with international skills. Based in Korea and about a Korean story but made by a foreigner. I am not saying a movie with expats; I believe I would make a story about maybe adoption? Or many about the several types of Koreans we have in Korea. Nowadays there is a connection of Korean identities linked with another country, and I’m really into that. I would work on identity and transformation not just traditional and modern. I believe this is way more complex. 　
 Like I said, Korea keeps changing, and this is an example of how it is changing. For me, being able to be here -- working here, [doing] what I want to do - allows me to be; to serve in this change [and] to see the change going on. And what I’m trying to do is actually participate; to take part in it. So it is very stimulating. It is very dynamic, very interesting. (laughs)
