“Dad! Where Are You Going?”: Guide to father-child relationship
Since it began to air on Jan. 6, MBC’s new variety show, “Dad, Where Are You Going?” has obtained nationwide attention and affection, not to mention commercial success.
The show is about five celebrity fathers going on an overnight trip on the countryside with their young children but with their moms out of the picture. 
The cast of the show includes: Actor Sung Dong-il and his 7-year-old son Sung Joon; broadcaster Kim Sung-joo and his 9-year-old son Kim Min-gook; actor Lee Jong-hyuk, and his 6-year-old son Lee Joon-soo; singer Yoon Min-soo and 7-year-old Yoon Hoo; and soccer player Song Chong-gug and his daughter (the only girl in the show) Song Jia, who is 6 years old.
For 48 hours, father and child are left with only each other in the unfamiliar countryside, encountering many obstacles. In the first episode, actor Sung Dong-il looked tired and seemed annoyed by the new environment and acted strict toward his son. Joon, his son, looked uncomfortable around his own dad and together they looked awkward. 
This might have shown the typical father-son relationship in Korea. But at the end of the first trip, Joon confessed that he loves his dad and this brought out the paternal love inside Sung. In a recent episode, they all went to ice fishing and there they shared stories and feelings for each other. It helped the father build a deeper relationship with the child. 
Through these unconventional experiences, they began to share their feelings, build a true relationship and grow into each others’ best friends. Talk about a true healing variety show. 
The show brings up crucial issues: “What makes a good dad? What does it mean to be a dad? Fathers who are busy working and bringing food to the table, but who always say they are too tired and cannot play with their kids?”
Today’s fathers are too engrossed in their professional life they become more and more distant from their kids’ lives. They eventually lose their places at home and become outsiders within the family. Dads often complain kids only like their moms and take them as nothing but breadwinners; but in fact, they have lost their places in kids’ hearts as they refused to spend more time with them as they are too exhausted. This is why the relationship falls apart.
Seeing these five celebrity dads take care of their kids shows the roles they have in their child’s lives and what it means to be a dad. When fathers change, their relationship with kids also evolves. In the end, the show teaches that being a father is about spending time with your kids.
Ratings for the show keep going up; on New Year’s Day when the show’s special episode was aired, it reached over 10 percent viewer share according to the Nielsen research firm. As romantic love has begun to surface among Yoon Hoo and Jia, the show is likely to retain its strong performance.
The children of “Dad! Where are you going?” (제목)
Each of the children in “Dad! Where are you going?” has his or her own personality and characteristics that makes them unique. Watching each of their little layers of personality unfold onscreen is one of the show’s many draws. 
Kim Min-gook
Age: 9
Nine-year-old Kim Min-gook is the first born child of announcer-turned-TV show host, Kim Sung-joo. Being the eldest child on the show, “Dad! Where are you going?” Min-gook has effortlessly taken the role of leader amongst the children in the show. Although he has become known as the crier of the group, Min-gook surprised many -- both viewers and the fathers alike -- with his steadfast loyalty and leadership. 
　A particularly impressive instance was during the hidden-camera test during the fourth episode. Despite being reprimanded by his father over the broken jar of honey, Min-gook refused to name the person responsible, thereby keeping his promise with Sung Dong-il.
Sung Joon
Age: 7
Shy and surprisingly mature for his age Sung Joon is the 7-year-old son of actor Sung Dong-il. Little Joon has become known amongst viewers for his maturity, showing great restraint and being very responsible for someone so young. 
During the mission to find the ingredients needed for making dinner in the second episode, for example, Joon politely stood waiting and tried to keep his distance despite discovering the huge pile of beans in the room, whereas Joon-soo did not hesitate to sit and play on top of it. 
Yoon Hoo
Age: 7
Undoubtedly one of the favorites of the show, cute little 7-year-old Yoon Hoo is the only child of singer Yoon Min-soo. From the first episode, it was hard to miss the similarities between little Hoo and his father. 
Hoo has also shown a surprising degree of compassion and dependability, given his age. Several times during the show, Hoo has been willing to give up his good fortune in the hopes of lifting the older Min-gook’s spirits. Not to mention, after having been taken with little Jia, Hoo consistently looks out for, worries about and talks about his little “ice princess.”
Lee Joon-soo
Age: 6
Lee Joon-soo is the adorable youngest son of popular actor Lee Jong-hyuk. With his winning smile and playful character, Joon-soo captured the hearts of many. In fact, his interactions with his dad show that Joon-soo’s playfulness and curiosity knows no bounds.
In fact, it became clear that disciplining little Joon-soo may be very difficult for his parents during the hidden-camera incident. Not only is his laughter contagious, but his killer smile – as seen when he flashed it while admitting to his father that he lied about whether or not he touched the little honey pot -- could melt even the coldest of hearts.
Song Jia
Age: 6
Song Jia is the precious little daughter of retired soccer player, Song Chong-gug. As the only girl in the cast, Jia has captured the hearts of her costars. In particular, she has become the center of little Hoo’s world. Despite being the only female member of the entire cast, however, Jia has shown that she is more than just a little girl. 
Both Jia’s dad and viewers alike were surprised to learn of Jia’s unwavering dedication to rules and the promises she makes with her parents. Even her dad had been unaware of this mature quality until the hidden-camera episode during the group’s second trip, when she began lecturing the adult, Lee Jong-hyuk, on the differences between right and wrong. 
