The importance of making time for play
No matter your age, having some free time to do as you please is something to cherish. Unfortunately, most children spend a lot of time arguing with their parents about having free time. According to a report published in the official journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics, however, it turns out that playing has an important role in the optimal development of a child’s brain. 
In fact, play is considered so important that it has been recognized by the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights as a right of every child. 
“The overriding premise is that play (or some available free time in the case of older children and adolescents) is essential to the cognitive, physical, social and emotional well-being of children and youth,” the report states. 
The report, written by Dr. Kenneth R. Ginsburg, along with the Committee on Communications and the Committee on Psychological Aspects of Child and Family Health in the U.S., points out that the recent trend in having an overly rigid, academia-focused schedule for children has led to a significant rise in stressed out and depressed college students.
Undirected, free play allows children not only the opportunity to relieve stress and learn social skills that may help shape them into healthy, competent adults, but it allows them a chance to learn about and develop their interests and unique personalities as well. 
Providing free time to children provides benefits to parents as well. Not only would providing children with more free time to play reduce the stress and costs of paying for a variety of extracurricular activities, it could also help strengthen parent-child relationships.
According to the report, some of the best parent-child interactions occur during downtime through such activities as just talking, preparing meals together, working on a hobby or art project or even just playing together. 
Rather than limiting the amount of time spent together to just transporting the children between activities, parents can either spend the extra time relaxing themselves or bonding with their children
Although playtime is indeed important for a child’s development, it is important to point out that it shouldn’t completely replace academic activities. Rather, the report states that having free, unstructured playtime may be equally as important as time spent in academic-related activities, and thus a balance should be created to ensure a child’s optimal development.
