Build creativity and imagination through playing with sand
The interactive art show, “Let’s play with sand” has ended its encore performance on Feb. 24 at Gallery Mac at Mapo Art center, in Eastern Seoul. The show was part of Mapo Art Center’s “2012 kids’ art performances: Mangja’s mom’s choice,” that is implemented to promote art and culture education in Korea. 
Open to anyone over 2 years old, Mapo Art Center’s “Let’s play with sand,” revisited its audiences since its first run in 2012. The center has been focused on creating art performances that the public and family can enjoy.
It is hard to find safe and environmentally friendly spaces for kids to play in these days and the “Let’s play with sand” show provided children with opportunity to play with sand and build sand castles as freely as possible.
While playing with sand, kids can stimulate their brains and naturally develop their senses.
Since they use both the front and back of their hands when touching the sand, they can obtain balanced brain and physical development and build creativity and imagination. 
On top of that, this health-conscious art show uses dust-free white sand that is baked at 700-800 Celsius for hygiene and is thoroughly cleaned every month. This is why parents love the show as much as kids. 
The show consists of four parts
1. First sand show: “Glittering sand canvas”
-Children are encouraged to draw sand pictures by sprinkling sand on a canvas. It’s time to become sand artists!
2. Second sand program: “Sand and fossils tell old stories”
-Kids go treasure hunting on the sand and find fossils inside the sand. 
3. Third sand program: “Finding Oasis” 
-Children go searching on a brightly shining Oasis on a sand desert. They draw pictures with a sand screen inside the Oasis.
4. Fourth sand show: “Exploring sand ocean” 
-Kids go on an exciting journey inside the sand ocean and they use various play tools to make their own creative sand games in the sea. 
Why is the show named “Mangja’s mom’s choice”?
Mangja’s mom is known to have moved three times for her son Mangja’s education. She knew early on the importance of good learning environment and Mapo Art center seeks to follow Mangja’s mom’s footsteps in offering the very best cultural experiences to its visitors. 
For more information about the art show, visit, www.mapoartcenter.or.kr.
