2013 NBA All-Star Weekend
The National Basketball Association (NBA) All-Star Weekend is a weekend of festivities held every February that consists of different basketball events, exhibitions, performances, and culminates in the NBA All-Star Game held on Sunday night. All-Star Weekend events include the Sprint NBA All-Star Celebrity Game, the BBVA Rising Stars Challenge, the D-League All Star Game, the Sears Shooting Stars, the Taco Bell Skills Challenge, the Foot Locker Three-Point Contest, the Sprite Slam Dunk Contest, and the Kia NBA All-Star Game.
The All-Star Celebrity Game features retired NBA players, WNBA players, actors, musicians, and athletes from sports other than basketball. The 2013 roster, divided into East and West squads, included NBA legends Dikembe Mutombo, Clyde Drexler, Olympic gold medalist Usain Bolt, RB singer Ne-Yo, comedian and rapper Nick Cannon, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Actors Kevin Hart and Josh Hutcherson, and news correspondent John Schriffen. The entertaining and fun-filled game was won by the West squad. 
The Rising Stars Challenge features first-year players (Rookies) and second-year players (Sophomores) assigned to teams in a “fantasy draft” by two honorary captains -- NBA legends Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal. The game matches some of NBA’s best young players in a game featuring high-flying dunks and breathtaking displays of athleticism. Kenneth “Manimal” Faried of the Denver Nuggets took home MVP honors by scoring 40 points and grabbing 10 rebounds in leading Team Chuck to a lopsided 163-135 victory over Team Shaq.
The D-League All-Star Game features the best players from the NBA Development League (D-League). Twenty of the D-League’s top prospects, including 14 who have NBA experience, have been selected by the NBA D-League’s 16 head coaches to play in the game. The players are divided into the NBA D-League All-Star Futures Team and the NBA D-League All-Star Prospects Team. Travis Leslie of the Santa Cruz Warriors, the game’s MVP scored 19 points to lead the Prospects to a 139-125 victory over the Futures.
The Shooting Stars Competition features four teams, each with a retired NBA player, a current NBA player and a WNBA player, representing their teams’ cities competing together in a shooting competition. There are six numbered shooting locations of increasing difficulty from free-throw range to a half-court shot, with each team attempting to make all shots in numerical order in the fastest time. Team Bosh, featuring Chris Bosh, Swin Cash and Dominique Wilkins, won with a time of 1:29.
The Skills Challenge pits selected players in a timed obstacle course of dribbling, shooting and passing that showcases their agility, quickness and accuracy. Participants included Jrue Holiday, Jeff Teague, Brandon Knight, Damian Lillard, Jeremy Lin and Tony Parker. Damian Lillard became the first rookie to win the Skills Challenge with a time of 29.8 seconds. 　
The Three-Point Contest requires participants to shoot five basketballs from five different spots around the three point line in one minute. Each shot is worth one point except the last ball of each rack (money ball), which is worth two points. Kyrie Irving of the Cleveland Cavaliers won the contest with a score of 23.
The Slam Dunk Contest showcases the creativity and athletic ability of some of the league’s best dunkers. Terrence Ross of the Toronto Raptors won the contest on his last dunk by soaring over a ball-boy positioned just outside the defensive circle, taking the ball between his legs and flushing it through the hoop. 
The NBA All-Star Game is the highlight of the All-Star Weekend, with the league’s biggest stars from the Eastern Conference playing against their counterparts from the Western Conference. The starting lineup for each squad is selected by a fan ballot, while the reserves are chosen by a vote among the head coaches from each squad’s respective conference. The Western conference won the contest 143-138, and Chris Paul of the L.A. Clippers won MVP honors with 20 points, 15 assists and five steals.
