Beatlemania Revisited
 “I say in speeches that a plausible mission of artists is to make people appreciate being alive at least a little bit. I am then asked if I know of any artists who pulled that off. I reply, ‘The Beatles did.” -- Kurt Vonnegut
February 2013 marks the 50th anniversary of the launch of “Please Please Me,” the debut album of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed act in the history of popular music -- the Beatles.  The album featuring 10 songs recorded during a single marathon studio session was an instant success, and it started an unprecedented run during which eleven of their twelve studio albums released in the United Kingdom through 1970 reached No. 1.  It was the start of a worldwide cultural phenomenon known as “Beatlemania.” 
The Beatles, with members John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr -- also known as the “Fab Four” -- were an English rock band formed in Liverpool in 1960. Prior to settling on the name “The Beatles,” the group was known variously as the “Blackjacks,” the “Quarrymen,” the “Beatals,” and the “Silver Beetles.” Their music was rooted in 1950’s rock and roll and skiffle -- a type of popular music with jazz, blues, folk, and roots influences. They built their reputation playing clubs in Liverpool and Hamburg for three years before they took the world of music by storm.
The Beatles released their second album “With the Beatles” in November 1963. It contained songs such as “All I’ve Got to Do,” “All My Loving,” “Till There Was You,” “Roll Over Beethoven” and “I Wanna be Your Man.” The album displaced their debut album “Please Please Me,” which had been on the top of the charts for 30 straight weeks, and went on to occupy the top spot for 21 weeks. It became the second album in U.K. chart history to sell a million copies. Having established themselves in Britain, the Beatles were ready to conquer the world.
On Feb. 7, 1964, the Beatles arrived at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport to a raucous welcome by thousands screaming, delirious fans. Two days later, they gave their first live television performance in the United States on the popular American TV variety program – The Ed Sullivan Show. They performed “All My Loving,” “Till There Was You,” “I Saw Her Standing There” and “I Want to Hold Your Hand” in front of a live audience of hysterical, screaming teenage girls in tears. The show was watched by approximately 73 million viewers in over 23 million households -- the largest audience that had ever been recorded for an American television program at the time. 
In the first week of April 1964, the Beatles’s songs occupied twelve positions on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 singles chart, including the top five. Their dominance of the U.S. charts generated enormous interest in British music and paved the way for the “British Invasion” which led to other U.K. groups such as the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and The Who to make their American debuts. Following their successful tour of the United States, the Beatles embarked on an international tour with 37 shows over 27 days in Denmark, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand.
The popularity and success of the Beatles continued unabated throughout the 1960’s during which they produced landmark albums such as “Rubber Soul,” “Revolver,” and “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band.” In august 1968, “Hey Jude,” a song written by Paul McCartney to comfort John Lennon’s son, Julian, during his parents’ divorce, was released as a single. The song sold 8 million copies and stayed atop the American charts for a record 9 straight weeks. It is listed at No. 8 on the Rolling Stone magazine’s list of 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The Beatles broke up in 1970, primarily over creative differences, and financial and legal conflicts between band members. In 1988, the Beatles were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
