Youngest Best Actress nominee announced in Oscar history
Quvenzhané Wallis rewrote Oscars history by becoming the youngest person ever to be nominated for Best Actress in a Leading Role, at a modest 9 years of age, according to Huffington post on Jan. 10.
At the 85th annual Academy Awards on Feb. 24, Hollywood, California, Wallis was nominated for Best Actress for her performance in “Beasts of the Southern Wild.”
The film, in which Wallis received across the board critical acclaim for her depiction of the character Hushpuppy, was nominated in four categories at the awards: Best Actress, Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay.
With the groundbreaking nomination, she broke the previous youngest nominee record set by Keisha Castle-Hughes, who was nominated in the Best Actress category for "Whale Rider" at 13. 
On the night of the Oscars, Wallis competed against Jessica Chastain for "Zero Dark Thirty," Jennifer Lawrence for "Siver Linings Playbook," Naomi Watts for "The Impossible" and Emmanuelle Riva for "Amour.” The coveted prize went to Jennifer Lawrence who also starred in "The Hunger Games," last year’s major box office seller.
This kept the youngest person ever to win any acting award at the Oscars as Tatum O‘Neal, who was 10 years old when she clinched Best Supporting Actress honors for “Paper Moon” in 1974. 
Wallis, who was only 5 years old when she auditioned for the part in “Beasts of the Southern Wild,” has been cast in the upcoming movie "Twelve Years a Slave," which will star industry big names such as Brad Pitt, Paul Giamatti, and Michael Fassbender, the report explained.
In other categories, “Argo,” directed by Hollywood actor Ben Affleck, won the Best Picture award. For Best Actor, Daniel Day-Lewis grabbed the trophy for “Lincoln." Christoph Waltz from “Django Unchained” and Anne Hathaway from “Les Miserables” each won for their supporting roles. In the directing category, Ang Lee claimed victory with the spectacular film, “Life of Pi.” Last but not least, “Brave” claimed its prominence in the Best Animated Feature Film category. 
