Audition programs good or evil?
I believe that audition programs are good for society. 
For a start, they provide the chance of a lifetime to people who have dreams but have no resources or idea how to achieve them. During the programs, talented contestants get equal opportunities, irrespective of gender, age and ability to participate in various activities to further their skills. 
Moreover, audition programs send out positive messages to society -- that dreams do come true if you so desperately wish for them and put a lot of energy into them. The shows provide participants with mentoring by professionals and projects to hone their skills to perfection. Such inspirational programs encourage people to follow their dreams and guide them to the right direction to achieve those life-long goals.
 Finally, these programs help relieve social prejudices against entertainers, as people are able to see how hard they have to practice and devote themselves to succeed in the business, unlike many think that they just one day become a star with no professional work whatsoever. 
Overall, I think that audition programs have a positive influence on our society and therefore that they should continue to be promoted. 
 By Park Moon-young (lavender0720@naver.com) 
I believe that audition programs are bad for society.
 While a handful of people have managed to make a name for themselves through these audition programs, most have had to deal with humiliation and failure as their hopes and dreams are routinely crushed on national television. Auditioning programs have made millions of dollars on the often excessive ridicule of people trying their best. 
Audition programs place too much importance on “industry experts." Music and dance are artistic forms of self-expression, and to deem someone’s expression of self as horrible or merely not-good-enough seems very inhumane to me. Artistic value is very subjective -- personal preferences vary from person to person. To let someone else decide what constitutes “good music” doesn’t seem right. 
Audition programs put too much emphasis on winning. Rather than enjoying the talents of many, the competitive nature of audition programs causes us to focus too much on winning. 
Though it is true that audition programs provide a way for people of all backgrounds to show their talents, I think that it has got out of hand. 
