Under the microscope: ‘Law of the Jungle’
‘Law of the Jungle’ and other similar survival-based shows
The popularity of survival-based shows exploded around the turn of the century, following the success of the first season of CBS’ “Survivor.” The world saw a rise in similar programming. Though every survival-based show may seem the same, each has its own, unique flavor. Each has also faced its fair share of criticism.
Law of the Jungle 
“Law of the Jungle” aired its first episode on Oct. 21, 2011. The basic idea behind “Law of the Jungle” is to merge two different types of shows: variety and documentary. 
Comedian Kim Byung-man is accompanied by other Korean celebrities -- ranging from athletes, actors, fellow comedians and even idol members -- to remote parts around the world wherein they must survive the elements for the duration of their stay. The show gained popularity with viewers appreciating the glimpse into the real people behind the celebrity. 
Since the first episode aired, the show has gone on to gain increasing popularity and notoriety. In fact, despite finding itself embroiled in controversy (see below), the fourth season of “Law of the Jungle” began airing on March 8. 
Survivor 
On Feb. 13, CBS’ “Survivor” premiered its 26th consecutive season. The show’s success and longevity has allowed it to be considered America’s leading reality show. Although ratings have tapered off gradually since its first season, “Survivor” remains a popular show, with most people able to quote the show’s mantra: “outwit, outplay, outlast.”
In “Survivor,” a group of 16 or more strangers are split into two or more “tribes” and taken to a remote, isolated location. The different “tribes” must then build a shelter for themselves, find food, water and anything else needed to survive the entire filming period (around 39 days). Throughout the season, players are voted off every few days after competing in a series of team challenges. Once about half the players are left, the two groups merge into a single tribe and begin competing on an individual basis. The challenges allow players or groups to earn rewards -- either food or other luxuries -- or “immunity” from being voted out of the game. The goal of the show is to compete to become the Sole Survivor and win the million-dollar prize. 
The show came under fire when it became apparent that the show’s format encouraged players to win at all costs, oftentimes using deceit and exploiting others’ in order to win. In one such instance, contestant Jon Dalton conspired with his friend on a reward challenge on the seventh season of “Survivor.” Dalton said that his grandmother had died; allowing him to win sympathy from his tribe mates and subsequently win the reward. It was later discovered that Dalton’s grandmother was alive. Dalton’s act was described by Jeff Probst, host and one of the executive producers of the show, as the greatest lie on “Survivor” to date.
Man vs. Wild 
“Man vs. Wild” is another popular show about surviving in the wild. What is unique about “Man vs. Wild” is its format. Rather than having a team of mere civilians attempt to survive in the wild, “Man vs. Wild” chronicles the exploits of Bear Grylls, a British adventurer, writer and chief scout, as he shows viewers how to survive.
Aired on the Discovery Channel, the general format of each “Man vs. Wild” episode is that Grylls is left stranded in a region. The episode then documents his attempts to survive and find a way back to civilization. Each episode usually requires Grylls to arrange an overnight shelter of some kind. Although the show ran for seven seasons on the Discovery Channel, the seventh season became the final season due to contract disputes between the network and Bear Grylls. 
Much like “Law of the Jungle,” “Man vs. Wild” came under fire for misleading viewers on several issues. Viewers, for example, were led to believe that Grylls was stranded alone when he was not. Most recently, Grylls was accused of having stayed in motels rather than the shelters built during filming. In response to the allegations, Grylls told People magazine, “The night stuff [shown on-camera] is all done for real. But when I’m not filming, I stay with the crew in some sort of a base camp.” 
Subsequent episodes began to clarify when Grylls had support from his crew and when certain situations were staged. “We should have done that from the start,” he continued in the interview. “The more you see, the more real it feels.”
‘Law of the Jungle’ cannot be 100% real 
Lately, controversy over the reality show “Law of the Jungle” went viral on local media when CEO of actress Park Bo-young’s entertainment agency doubted the show’s authenticity after she had joined the show’s New Zealand episode. 
He claimed that “civilization exists outside the camera, and some of the scenes were fabricated unlike people’s beliefs.” 
The public went wild over the revelation. They suspected the show’s cast was in fact eating and sleeping well in the wild and they are touring instead of experiencing the wild. 
Such a controversy is nothing new. With the increased popularity of reality shows, debates about the authenticity of these shows have restlessly brought up. 
KBS reality show, “1 Night 2 Days” came under scrutiny when people suspected that the participants were not in fact starving and sleeping in desperate condition unlike the show’s argument. Audiences questioned the scripts and scenes were made up to exaggerate the story and not being real and true to reality.
SBS’s reality show, “Family Outing,” was canceled after the show’s ratings skydived with the show’s authenticity put in doubt. In MBC’s “We just got married,” actress Oh Yeon-seo came under fire as she was pretending to maintain her married life with her virtual husband, Lee Joon while in fact, she was dating a co-star from a soap opera. 
The authenticity of such programs has become a hot potato. 
Some might argue what is most important is to try to be as faithful as to the original story. But problem arises when producers insist the show as 100 percent real when shows like Law of jungle cannot be 100 percent real. This causes people to inadvertently question the show’s reality and when they found out that they have been deceived, they feel betrayed. 
Then why they keep arguing the show is real? This is because that is what people want, according to local news reports. People want these celebrities to go through the hardships and make the biggest drama out of it. The public seeks this kind of stimulation from these programs.
On Feb. 11, the show’s producers came forward and said the show had been true to the meaning of the production; the cast and production crew have been exposing themselves to the wild and tried their hardest to vividly convey the life in the wild where nature is purely preserved, giving people the joy of a vicarious experience and a chance to reflect on their civilized life. 
Other celebrities added weight to that voice. Kim Jae-kyung of girl group Rainbow stated that being part of the show gave her turning point in her life. She insisted that, despite much controversy, the cast took the experience seriously and she began to feel grateful for every little convenience, such as clean drinking water and cool and warm buildings. 
Actor Jung Suk-won also tweeted on Feb. 12 that his time in the wild was “not at all fake.” 
Despite all the tumult of noise, the show is enjoying its highest ratings ever. The New Zealand episode which actress Park Bo-young appears airs on March. 8 via SBS. 
