Van Gogh’s paintings from Paris greet local museum-goers
An exhibition titled “Van Gogh in Paris -- a Dialogue with Modernism” is running at Hangaram Design Museum Seoul Arts Center in Seoul until March 24. 
The first Van Gogh exhibition in Korea was held in 2007; it featured work from throughout the painter’s life, allowing people to see how his style of art evolved over time.
In this second theme-based exhibition, museum-goers can get a closer look at his paintings from his time in Paris from March 1886 to February 1888. 
His time in Paris transformed him -- turning him away from realism and seeing him flourish as a modernist artist with avant-garde tastes. Living in Paris allowed him to experience Impressionism. His painting styles and techniques went through crucial changes and his style of painting was completed there.
About 60 oil paintings from Amsterdam’s Van Gogh Museum are displayed in this second exhibition. Some of the most noticeable paintings are his self-portraits. Throughout his life, Van Gogh painted about 36 self-portraits. He drew 27 self-portraits in Paris and nine of them are on show. 
The theme based exhibit is divided into the following eight topics: Before Paris, The need to sell, More color, Old and new combined, From thick to thin, Not just one answer, Style above all, After Paris
Admission for students aged 13-18 is 10,000 won.
For more information about the show, visit, www.vangogh2.com 
Vincent van Gogh was born in Zundert, Netherlands in 1853. He began to draw at 27, following a traditional painting style. His post-impressionist style began in 1886 while staying in Paris. Through time his use of color changed from dark to bright and the themes changed from social realism to landscapes that illustrated power of nature. He gave birth to 900 artworks, but they were only fully appreciated after his death, and he struggled to make a living. “I can’t change the fact that my paintings don’t sell. But the time will come when people will recognize that they are worth more than the value of the paints used in the picture,” he once said. The remarkable artist ended his own life at 37 in his small room in Auvers-sur-Oise, north of Paris in 1890. 
