Girl power comes to the UFC
“I’m the most dangerous unarmed woman in the world. I’ve prepared my entire life to be that way. Whichever girl I’m going to fight, I’m sure that I’m going to find a way to win.” ? Ronda “Rowdy” Rousey
Ronda Rousey became the first woman to secure a victory in the octagon in the 20-year history of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). At UFC 157 inside the Honda Center in Anaheim, California, she successfully defended her UFC Women’s Bantamweight Championship title by defeating Liz Carmouche via an arm bar submission in the first round. It was the seventh time in seven career bouts in which Rousey won by submission with an arm bar maneuver in the first round. With this groundbreaking victory, Rousey is set to become one of the biggest stars in the history of the UFC.
Rousey went into UFC 157 as an overwhelming favorite on the strength of her unblemished MMA record. She had recorded six straight first-round victories by submission, five of which ended in less than one minute. Her opponent, the sixth-ranked Liz “Girl-Rilla” Carmouche, is a former United States Marine with impressive knockout abilities of her own. Carmouche had the early advantage when she got behind Rousey and applied a neck crank ?- a painful hold that many ringside observers believed should have ended the fight. To Rousey’s credit, she shrugged off the submission attempt and returned the favor by applying her trademark arm bar to force Carmouche into submission seconds before the end of the first round.
The first female bout in the UFC octagon proved to be a ratings bonanza and financial windfall for the Las Vegas-based UFC promotion. The sell-out crowd of 15,525 generated ticket sales in excess of $4.5 million. Television pay-per-view packages reached an estimated 500,000 customers, each of whom paid between $45 and $55 for the viewing privilege. UFC President Dana White, who once vowed that no female fighter would ever enter the UFC octagon, was thrilled with the result. He said after the fight that Rousey would continue as a main-event draw in future UFC events.
The success enjoyed by Rousey did not come by accident. She is a decorated judoka with a long list of accomplishments. She was a gold medal winner at the 2004 World Junior Judo Championships and the 2006 Birmingham Judo World Cup. She won the silver medal at the 2007 World Judo Championships and the bronze medal at the 2007 Pan American Games. At the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, she won the bronze medal to become the first American to win an Olympic medal in women’s judo. She trained at the Hayastan MMA Academy and made her mixed martial arts debut as an amateur on Aug. 6, 2010.
Rousey’s ability to finish off her opponents quickly by applying the same arm bar maneuver even drew the envy of her male counterparts in the UFC. Many accomplished fighters openly marveled at the fact that even though every Rousey opponent knew the arm bar was coming, none could mount an effective defense against it, and all suffered the same fate. Veteran UFC fighter Vitor Belfort tweeted Rousey after the fight: “your arm bar is great; you got to teach me so when I fight #jonjones next time I will take that arm home.” 
Rousey is a darling with promoters and fight fans alike for her tireless efforts in bringing publicity to her fights. She is charismatic in front of cameras - with a big smile on her face and plenty of interesting and controversial comments for the media to feed on. She is also a world-class trash talker. She uses harsh language to denigrate her opponents’ characters and downplay their abilities, much to the delight of the UFC fandom. Ronda Rousey talks a good game, but she fights even better.
