 Celebrity Chef Wolfgang Puck
 “Young people want to be famous before they know how to cook, before they know how to treat people, before they know what hospitality means. I stayed in France for seven years and Austria for three, so before I was a chef anywhere I was already cooking for 10 years.” – Wolfgang Puck
Wolfgang Puck is one of the most recognizable celebrity chefs in the world, but there is much more to him than meets the eye. He is also a one-man culinary empire -- a man who takes multitasking to a whole new level. Puck is, first and foremost, a very talented cook, but he is also an innovative restaurateur, a successful businessman, a TV personality, a bestselling author, a caterer to the stars, an occasional movie actor and a generous philanthropist. 　
Wolfgang Puck was born on Jan. 8, 1949, in St. Veit, Austria. He studied culinary arts in Austria as a teenager before he moved to France. He apprenticed in some of France’s greatest restaurants, including Maxim’s in Paris, the Hotel de Paris in Monaco, and the Michelin 3-starred L’Oustau de Baumanière in Provence. In 1973, the 24-year-old Puck immigrated to the United States where he had his first job at the restaurant La Tour in Indianapolis, Indiana. In 1975, he went to Los Angeles, California to seek his fortune.
Puck became the executive chef of the renowned Ma Maison restaurant in Los Angeles. He created a unique menu that fused Californian ingredients with classic French cuisine. He quickly became a favorite of the Hollywood elite with his inventive dishes and his charismatic personality. His culinary creations at Ma Maison played an important part in bring Californian cuisine to national attention. Puck eventually became the co-owner of the restaurant. In 1981, he published his first cookbook, Modern French Cooking for the American Kitchen, based on his Ma Maison recipes.
In 1982, Puck opened his flagship restaurant, Spago (Italian slang for spaghetti), on Sunset Strip -- the trendiest section of Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood. It would become the cornerstone of his culinary empire. The restaurant was an instant success and became a gathering place for Hollywood stars and film industry executives. Signature dishes at the Spago included haute cuisine pizzas topped with smoked salmon and caviar, and Sonoma baby lamb with braised greens and rosemary. His culinary excellence at Spago was recognized when he won the prestigious James Beard Foundation Awards for Outstanding Chef of the Year (1991, 1998), and Apago won Restaurant of the Year (1994) honors.
Puck capitalized on the success of Spago by opening Spago Beverly Hills, Spago Las Vegas, Spago Maui, and Spago Beaver Creek in the ensuing years. He also opened Chinois, an extravagant Chinese restaurant featuring fusion cuisine with Asian dishes created from California’s local ingredients. Puck expanded his restaurants to include premier steakhouses CUT, casual restaurants Wolfgang Puck Bistro, Wolfgang Puck Pizza/Bar, and Wolfgang Puck Express. Today, Puck’s culinary empire includes 23 fine-dining restaurants and more than 80 casual dining restaurants and catering services. He also branched into gourmet foods, canned goods, kitchenware and appliances.
All of Puck’s impressive endeavors and achievements take a back seat to what he does on Oscar night. For the past 19 years, Wolfgang Puck and his staff have been responsible for catering a feast for Hollywood luminaries at the Governor’s Ball -- the party that immediately follows the end of the Academy awards ceremony.  The mega party is usually attended by all the Oscar nominees and winners.  For the 2013 edition of the Governor’s Ball, Puck created 50 food items comprised mostly of bite-size appetizers such as the signature smoked salmon Oscars, chicken pot pie with shaved black truffles and mini Kobe burgers to feed 1,500 guests. 
