Discover the magic of butterflies at Seoul Forest
With the colder temperatures of winter almost behind us, many are looking forward to the warmth and new beginnings of spring. One of the telltale signs of spring is the sudden abundance of life in the form of insects and bugs. Of all the bugs and insects to mark the start of spring, however, the prettiest is undoubtedly the butterfly.
As beautiful as butterflies are, it is nearly impossible to enjoy their company in the wild during the colder temperatures of winter. That is, until the Seoul Forest opened its doors to the Butterfly Garden a few months ago. Long gone are the days when you had to wait until the warmer temperatures of spring and summer to see butterflies fluttering about. 
Butterfly Garden
The Seoul Forest’s Butterfly Garden opened in Nov. 1, 2012 and until April. 30, 2013, provides visitors the chance to see butterflies in action, even in the cooler temperatures of winter, for free. 
Visitors can watch as various beautiful butterflies flutter around, sipping nectar from the flowers. Some lucky visitors may even catch a glimpse of the fascinating metamorphosis from pupa to butterfly. The Butterfly Garden at Seoul Forest is home to a variety of butterfly species, including the Cabbage White butterfly, Cloudless Sulfur butterfly and the Black-tipped Fritillary butterfly.
For more information about the Butterfly Garden, visit the Seoul Forest’s official website at http://parks.seoul.go.kr./seoulforest 
From egg to butterfly: The life cycle of a butterfly 
A butterfly goes through four stages in life, some parts of which still remain a mystery.
Stage 1: Butterfly Egg
The butterfly’s life cycle begins as an egg. The eggs are usually laid on the underside of a leaf for protection against predators. In general, it takes 7-14 days for the embryo to develop (unless the egg is laid during the overwintering stage, in which case the embryo may take months to develop).
Stage 2: Butterfly Larva (Caterpillar)
Once hatched, the larva stage of a butterfly’s life cycle begins. Also known as a caterpillar, this period of a butterfly’s life cycle is a time for growth. 
Stage 3: Pupa (Chrysalis)
Once the caterpillar has peaked in growth it begins to shed its exoskeleton to form the pupa, also known as chrysalis. This stage of the butterfly’s life cycle is the most fascinating, in that it is a time for complete change. 
Stage 4: Adult Butterfly
Once the butterfly-shaped adult emerges from the chrysalis, it enters the final stage of its life cycle; a time for reproduction. 
Butterflies generally need an air temperature of about 16°C before they are able to fly.
