Should singers be allowed to lip-sync in concerts?
YES - Lip-syncing has been a big issue in the modern music entertainment industry. Ever since the music industry became more of a commercial thing than a form of art, we have seen a lot of untrained singers on the stage. Is this acceptable? Are all singers obligated to sing live all the time? My answer is no.
First, lip-syncing can be used to protect the artist. Many singers often get throat problems from excessive training. Once their throat is damaged, singing live becomes very difficult even for the best singers. Singing live may also damage their throat even more. Since an artist cannot always be in good condition, lip-syncing is inevitable.
Fans go to concerts with high expectations of an artist’s performance. However, if the artist does not give a performance that fulfills those expectations, this may disappoint fans. To minimize the trouble, lip-syncing is essential.
Lip-syncing in some ways improves the performance as well. Singers these days rarely “sing” on stage. The commercialization of the music relies more on dancing than on singing. Singing live usually requires great care and professionalism. The artists who dance and sing may get distracted by live singing, forget their moves and may ruin the whole performance. For a great performance, lip-syncing is not a trait to be criticized.
NO - Many singers forget their duty. They concentrate more on performance, so they choose to lip-sync. Singers should always try to show the best of their talent. But some of them go for lip-syncing, which I strongly object to. 
First of all, allowing lip-syncing will give unnecessary leeway to singers. A singer should be a person who impresses the audience with their passion. By doing so, singer and audience can become one. Lip-syncing blocks the way to it. In the TV program “I’m a singer,” the participants compete against each other by singing live every week. World-famous singer Adele has also inspired many with her live singing. 
In addition, lip-syncing degrades the music business. Singers will just rely on technology instead of pushing themselves for better performances. Some argue K-pop stars lip-sync to improve their dancing, but there are many examples that go against this. The reason why Lady Gaga has so many fans around the world is because she does it live all the time. 　
Also, lip-syncing discourages the audience and makes them feel angry. People pay a lot of money to see concerts. No one would do this if they had to listen to recorded songs instead of live ones. News reports have it that China has recently banned lip-syncing on stage. We should also try to protect the rights of the audience as China does.
Korean singers focus too much on appearance and dancing. Singers are supposed to enchant and touch people with their voice and singing. For further development of Korea’s music industry, lip-syncing at concerts should be banned.
