British college student can speak 11 languages
Alex Rawlings, 26, has been named the most multi-lingual student in the United Kingdom, BBC News reported on Feb. 21. 
Rawlings won the nation-wide competition to find the U.K.’s leading young polyglot. The search began in June 2012 and the contest was run by the book publisher Harper Collins. Participants had to be aged between 16 and 22 and conversant in multiple languages. 
Though Alex Rawlings has not yet graduated from University, this Oxford University undergraduate speaks a whopping 11 languages -- English, Greek, German, Spanish, Russian, Dutch, Afrikaans, French, Hebrew, Catalan and Italian, the report said. 
During an interview with BBC, Rawlings said winning the first prize shocked him because he entered the competition only for the grand prize, an iPad. Then he shared his unquenchable passion for learning various languages and how he came to speak so many.
He said that his mother’s family lived in Greece and while growing up he had many relatives frequently visiting his house from the country. So mastering Greek came easy to him. He soon became familiar with French too. Having grasp of three different languages, including his mother tongue, English, further fueled up his passion for studying languages. 
One day, his father had to move to Japan for work and he was frustrated because he could not speak the language and communicate with the locals. He experienced the same frustration when he visited the Netherlands and he from that moment he decided to learn Dutch. After going to college, he also became interested in learning German and Russian.
Of 11 languages, Rawlings says his favorite language is Greek, because “Greece has a special place in my heart.”
“Learning so many languages allowed me to meet many new friends and this motivation is enough to keep learning more languages. After learning many languages, now it is easier to learn new languages. I plan to learn Arabic next time and travel around the world, meet people, and speak to them in their native tongue,” he said. 
According to this language prodigy, making the minimum effort to learn even the most basic phrases of another language is a sign of respect for the culture that speaks it.
