 N. Korean people’s lives uncovered
Since its nuclear test in February, North Korea led by the new leader Kim Jong-un, is continuing its provocations against the South, including severing inter-Korean hotlines and warning of invalidating the armistice pact between the two countries. 
The North Korean regime is directing its financial resources into fostering its defense system instead of into feeding its own people.
North Korea’s nuclear development has a long history. In the 1990s, it sold medium-sized missiles to Pakistan. In 2005, it admitted to having nuclear weapons but promised to close its nuclear programs. The promise of a reduction in nuclear programs has been reinforced at various inter-Korean summits, but that promise has proven hollow with the latest nuclear test in February this year.
According to Human Rights Watch, the North Korean government continues to require forced labor from workers, including even schoolchildren and university students.
In an interview with the group, North Korean defectors said they faced years of work for no wages and had to face severe punishments if they did not report for work.
Such exploitation has a lot to do with the country‘s government-planned economy. North Korea is one of only two states, along with Cuba, with an almost entirely state-owned economy. International trade is highly restricted; it passed a law in 1984 allowing foreign investment through joint ventures, but failed to attract any significant investment.
In 2009, the North Korean government carried out a currency reform with the aim to curb free market activity across the country, but the move caused inflation to skyrocket.
Looking into the North Korean society, it has its own rules and hierarchical structure. According to refugee testimonies, all North Koreans are sorted into groups according to their “Songbun,” an ascribed status system.
Based on their behavior and the political, social and economic background of their family for three generations, Songbun is allegedly used to determine whether an individual is trusted with responsibility or can receive adequate food.
According to experts, Songbun affects access to educational and employment opportunities and also whether a person is eligible to join North Korea’s ruling class.
The highest status is given to individuals descended from those who participated with Kim Il-sung - Kim Jong-un’s grandfather - in the resistance against Japanese occupation during and before World War II and to those who were factory workers, laborers or peasants in the 1950s. Many North Korean refugees say the Songbun system remains in everyday life.
Obviously, those who will stay at the bottom of the system are those people in political prison camps. Many North Korean defectors have testified to the existence of prisons and concentration camps in the country. Political prisoners are often imprisoned for life and are subjected to torture, starvation, medical experimentation, forced labor and forced abortions.
People suspected of being disloyal to the regime are deported to these camps without trial, often with their whole family and mostly without any chance of release.
