Want to play more video games? Invite your grandparents!
Playing video games is a favorite pastime for most children. Unfortunately, finding time to play video games without worrying about nagging parents is difficult, regardless of age. Thanks to a plethora of recent studies, however, finding excuses to play video games for a little longer has become easier than ever. 
Despite the bad reputation video games have had over the years - especially in relation to violence - recent studies have linked playing video games to several health benefits. 
Much to the chagrin of frustrated parents, active video games like “Dance Central” and “Kinetic Sports Boxing” have been found to increase children’s oxygen intake, heart rate and energy expenditure. The results of the study, published in the September 2012 issue of Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, led researchers to conclude that such games may be useful in combating childhood obesity. 
On the other end of the spectrum, a study recently published in the journal Computers in Human Behavior found that older adults in the U.S. who play video games reported higher levels of emotional and social well-being. In fact, those who played video games regularly or occasionally (less than once a week) reported higher levels of positive mood, social functioning and better self-reported health, whereas those who don’t play games at all were found to have higher levels of depression and were more likely to report a negative disposition. 　
“The research published here suggested a link between gaming and better wellbeing and emotional functioning,” lead study author Jason Allaire said in a statement. 
The results of these two studies alone show how attitudes about video games have begun to change. What was once considered the antithesis of physical and emotional health has now been found to be beneficial rather than harmful. 
For those looking for ways to have more time to play video games, consider playing more active games in consoles like the Nintendo Wii or Xbox Kinect. If you prefer games played on the Xbox 360 or PlayStation, however, consider inviting your grandparents – or even parents – to play with you. Not only could playing video games help lift their spirits and act as a stress reliever, it could also end up being a great way to bond or improve your relationship with them. 
