Korean culture reborn in Seoul performances
Korean Traditional Culture Experience “MiSuDa” at Seoul Namsan Traditional Theater offers visitors a rare a journey into the past where participants wear hanbok, traditional Korean clothes, drink tea and listen to traditional music to experience in-depth the culture of Korea.
“MiSuDa” is translated as pursuing an internal beauty through the appreciating of traditional music, or “Mi”; becoming a stylish beautiful woman by wearing traditional costumes, or “Su”; and accomplishing internal and external beauty through a traditional tea ceremony, or “Da.” The show runs until March 30, Tuesday through Friday at Seoul Namsan Traditional Theater. Admission for the show is 50,000 won for adults and 35,000 won for children.
Seoul Namsan Traditional Theater recently held a children’s traditional music festival.The festival aimed to elicit participants’ artistic qualities through puppet shows, mask performances and other interactive performances based on traditional folk stories. Sponsored by Sejong Center for Performing Arts, the festival featured four programs: “Piglet Ggom Ggom-y,” “Run! Run!,” “Tiger that Returned the Favor” and “Funny Goblin and a Man with a Lump on His Cheek.”
Audience members can enjoy these interactive performances while singing and dancing. For more information about upcoming performances at Seoul Namsan Traditional Theater, visit www.sngad.or.kr or call 02)2261-0513~5 
1. Piglet Ggom Ggom-y (opened from Feb. 20~ 24, 2013) 
There are three piglet brothers in a town. One day mom asks them to each build a house to teach them a valuable lesson. 
2. Run! Run! (opened from Feb.27-March 3)
Grandma tells a riddle and if there is no one who answers it correctly, the world would break out into war. In order to stop the disaster, Park Moon-soo runs endlessly in search of the answer.
3. Tiger that Returned the Favor (opened March 7-10) 
A good natured man who takes after his mother encounters a tiger on his way to take a state examination.
4. Funny Goblin and a Man with a Lump on His Cheek (opened March 14-17)
Seeing a man with a lump on his cheek playing the drum so well, goblins come to believe that his lump is the secret to his excellent drumming and they end up buying the lump from him. 
Seoul Namsan Traditional Theater, in Myeong-dong near Namsan Hanok village, is a place where you can experience Korean culture inside the traditional Korean building, hanok. Every year, about 1.8 million visitors come to get a taste of the Korean culture.
