Korea exits WBC in the first round
Korea made a surprise early exit from the 2013 edition of the World Baseball Classic (WBC). Despite a 3-2 victory over Chinese Taipei in the final Pool B game, Korea, with a record of two wins and one loss, failed to advance to the next round of the tournament based on tiebreaker rules. The result is a major disappointment for a squad of talented and experienced players who had championship aspirations. 
Korea, Chinese Taipei and the Netherlands all finished with identical win/loss records at the conclusion of Round 1. WBC rules stipulate that in the event of a tie among two or more teams, a tiebreaker system known as the Team Quality Balance (TQB) will determine the final ranking within the Pool. TQB is the sum of runs scored divided by the number of innings played on offense, minus the number of runs allowed, divided by the number of innings played on defense. Chinese Taipei finished atop Pool B with a TQB of 0.235, followed by the Netherlands with 0.000, and both teams advanced to Round 2. Korea was eliminated with a TQB of -0.235. 
The Korean team entered the 2013 WBC as one of the gold medal favorites. At the inaugural WBC in 2006, Korea won the bronze medal with a win/loss record of 6-1; two of the victories came against eventual champion Japan. At the 2009 WBC, Korea soundly defeated a Venezuelan team loaded with Major League players in the semifinals to earn a showdown with defending champion Japan in the finals. In a tension-filled game played in front of 54,846 spectators at Dodger Stadium, Korea lost 5-3 in ten innings and finished with the silver medal. Prior to the start of the 2013 WBC, many fans were hoping that the third time would be a charm for Korea to win it all. 
Korea got off to a nightmarish start at the 2013 WBC. Against the Netherlands, a team whose best WBC result was a 7th place finish in 2009, Korea suffered a shocking 5-0 shutout defeat. The once vaunted bats of the powerful Korean lineup were completely stymied as they managed only four base hits and failed to capitalize on several scoring opportunities. Korea’s normally dependable defense committed four fielding errors, while the pitching staff gave up 10 base hits. The loss prompted team manager Ryu Joong-il to call it “one of the worst games we have ever played.” 
The Korean team rediscovered its winning touch in the second Pool B game against Australia. Pitching, hitting and defense all came together in a dominant display reminiscent of the best of Korean baseball at past international competitions. The pitching staff scattered six hits and recorded twelve strikeouts; the offense pounded out eleven hits -- three each by veteran hitters Lee Seoung-yuop and Lee Dae-ho; and fielders played error-free defense throughout the game. The result was a 6-0 shutout win that put Korea back in the hunt for a spot in the next round. 
Korea needed to win its final Pool B game against Chinese Taipei to have any chance to advancing to the next round. The task became even more difficult when the Netherlands defeated Australia 4-1 in an earlier game, which meant that Korea needed to win by at least six runs. The game was played in a championship-like atmosphere in a packed stadium with rival fans cheering for their teams with unbridled passion. Chinese Taipei got on the board first by scoring one run in both the third and fourth innings, while Korean hitters continued to struggle with runners on base. Korea finally broke through with three runs in the bottom of the eighth inning, but it was too little, too late. The 3-2 victory was but a small consolation as Korea’s 2013 WBC journey came to an abrupt end. 
