Explore the power of love with ‘Warm Bodies’
We’ve seen vampires, werewolves, giants and witches and wizards fall in love; now it’s zombies’ turn. 
More than just a zombie love story, “Warm Bodies” reminds its viewers about the importance of and power of love. Full of witty lines and spectacularly scary-looking zombies, “Warm Bodies” is simultaneously a horror flick and a teen romcom. 
Directed by Jonathan Levine, “Warm Bodies” tells the story of a world where the streets are filled with the undead after a zombie epidemic wiped out much of the human population. Faced with the threat of extinction, the remaining humans find themselves driven behind the walls of a guarded city, venturing out only to find supplies necessary for survival. 
The story is told from the perspective of a zombie named R (Nicholas Hoult), who struggles to remember what it felt to be alive. While accompanying his fellow zombie friend M (Rob Corddry) and others on an outing to find food, R finds himself face to face with Julie (Teresa Palmer), a beautiful human he feels compelled to save. As R tries to save Julie from being eaten by other zombies, the two begin to fall in love. As their affection for each other grows, something strange and magical begins to happen to R and his fellow zombies. 
Although the story is undoubtedly based on fantasy, the message about the power of love resonates throughout, just as it did in the “Twilight” and “Harry Potter” series. 
In the “Twilight” series, for example, we learned that love does not discriminate between race, culture or age; it is universal. On the other hand, “Harry Potter” taught the world about the different types of love. The power of familial love, for example, was embodied by Harry Potter and his mother’s sacrifice, while platonic love was exemplified by the relationship between Harry and his best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. In “Warm Bodies,” we learn the healing power of love; that it can heal even the deepest of wounds. 
“Warm Bodies” opened in theaters across the nation on March 14.
