Son Yeon-jae becomes university student
 “My biggest dream right now is just to be able to live like a normal university student -- taking classes and going on blind dates, just like other students.” – Son Yeon-jae 
Rhythmic gymnast Son Yeon-jae recently started a new chapter in her already hectic life -- she is now a university student. After being courted by several top schools, she was accepted as a freshman at the Department of Sport and Leisure Studies at Yonsei University. One week before classes began, Son was competing at the Gazprom Cup Grand Prix in Russia, where she won a bronze medal. She returned to Korea for a week to rest and to attend classes (her first class was taekwondo), and then she went back to Russia to prepare for the upcoming rhythmic gymnastics World Cup event in Portugal. 　
Son Yeon-jae has been one of the most in-demand athletes in Korea since her performance at the 2012 London Olympic Games. She was named sports star of the year for 2012 in a poll conducted by Gallup Korea, edging out famous athletes such as swimmer Park Tae-hwan, footballer Park Ji-sung, figure skater Kim Yu-na and gymnast Yang Hak-seon. Her explosive popularity translated into numerous sponsorship deals and endorsement opportunities. She has become the most sought-after product spokesperson in the country. She also made frequent appearances on television entertainment programs and variety shows. 
Son started her training in rhythmic gymnastics at the age of 6 and won her first domestic competition when she was only 11 years old. She trained in Russia under renowned coach Yelena Nifiodova. She made her international debut in May, 2010 at the Corbeil-Essonnes International Rhythmic Gymnastics Tournament and placed a respectable 11th among all competitors. In September, 2010, Son participated in the 30th FIG Rhythmic Gymnastics World Championships in Moscow. She finished 32nd in the individual all-around and did not advance into the finals. She won a bronze medal at the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, China -- her first medal in international competition. 
Son improved steadily as she gained more experience competing at international events. At the 31st FIG Rhythmic Gymnastics World Championships in Montpellier, France, in September, 2011, she was ranked 11th in the individual all-around, which earned her a berth at the 2012 London Olympic Games. Her breakthrough performance came in April, 2012 at the World Cup Series in Penza, Russia. She advanced to the finals of all four disciplines for the first time and became the first Korean rhythmic gymnast to medal at the World Cup by winning bronze in the Hoop final. Her rapid growth and improvement drew the attention of domestic and international media alike. 
Son arrived at the 2012 London Olympic Games with the weight of the nation’s expectations on her shoulders. Her recent form leading up to the Olympics has led many to suggest that she should be considered a medal contender. Her first appearance in the Olympics drew sky-high TV ratings in Korea, and she did not disappoint. She placed sixth in the qualification round and became the first Korean to make the rhythmic gymnastics all-around finals at the Olympic Games. She won over spectators and TV audience with her graceful athleticism, effervescent presence and winsome smile. 
In the finals, Son more than held her own against some of the best rhythmic gymnasts in the world. She was in third place after two rotations and looked poised to make history as the first Korean to medal in the event at the Olympics. In the third rotation, Son suffered a mishap and dropped a club during her performance, which resulted in a low score that forced her out of medal contention. To her credit, she composed herself and finished with a strong routine in the final rotation. She placed fifth overall and missed the bronze medal by a 0.300 margin. Upon her return to Korea, Son was greeted with the kind of enthusiasm and love normally reserved for extraordinary sporting heroes. 
