Get lost in the magical world of Lotte World’s ‘Mask Festival’
With the warmer temperatures and sunnier days, one of the things most students look forward to the most is spending the day at an amusement park. For many, this means a trip to the ever-popular Lotte World in downtown Seoul. 
Though Lotte World is far from being the only theme park found in Korea, it is undoubtedly a favorite among many. Not only is its convenient location a big draw for many people, but Lotte World has a diverse range of rides and attractions to entertain people of all ages. 
To keep things interesting, the amusement park hosts different themes throughout the year. In fact, this spring season, Lotte World is reviving one of its more popular themes over the years: the Mask Festival.
From March 1 until April 28, visitors will have the pleasure of being transported into a fantasy world through Lotte World’s 2013 Mask Festival. Based on the annual Italian festival, “Venezia Carnival,” Lotte World’s Mask Festival aims to provide the Korean public a taste of the historic and world-famous Italian festival. 
The “Fantasy Mask Parade,” for example, will help transport visitors to Venice in the springtime. Not only are the more than 100 actors participating in the parade wearing beautiful yet comical masks, the parade includes cars shaped like gondolas and animals, as well as carriages that look as though they came straight out of the Middle Ages. 
In addition to the popular mask parade, Lotte World is also offering visitors a chance to dive into a fantasy adventure with the “Fun! Fun! Alice” parade and the “Mystic Mask Fairy Land” family musical.
For more information, visit Lotte World’s official website at www.lotteworld.com
Charity Event
Working together with Reebok, Lotte World is also hosting a charity event involving shoes. For the month of March, Reebok and Lotte World are running a corporate social responsibility program aimed at collecting old shoes to help poor children from Africa and other third world countries. 
In order to encourage donations, Lotte World is offering those who donate old shoes a 40 percent discount for an all-day pass. On the other hand, Reebok is offering donors a chance to win various prizes including gift certificates, shoes and bicycles.
