Savings bank suspension stirred bank deposits to rise
The suspension of ailing savings banks in the past weeks led investors to a stampede to safer deposit destinations for their money, and according to Yonhap’s report on Sept. 21, the situation raised deposit levels of the country’s regular banks to a record high.
With a possibility of bank run arising at savings banks, the country’s five largest banks -- Kookmin, Woori, Shinhan, Hana and Korea Exchange -- saw their deposits rise to 698.3 trillion won as of Sept. 19, up from 1.3 million won on the previous weekday. 
Industry experts predicted that the situation might help the profitability of regular banks.
“The restructuring of the sector made safer assets much more appealing and it provoked an inflow of capital into major banks,” said Seo Young-soo, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. He forecast the trend would continue for the time being.
The Financial Services Commission, the country’s watchdog for financial institutions, suspended seven savings banks -- Jeil Savings Bank, Jeil 2 Savings Bank, Prime Mutual Savings Bank, Daeyeong Savings Bank, Ace Mutual Savings Bank, Parangsae Savings Bank and Tomato Savings Bank -- on Sept. 18. The financial regulator went through a seven-week inspection of 85 local savings banks and found out that they breached industry regulations, such as illegal loan extensions and embezzlement.
On Sept. 19, the FSC revealed that these banks had extended illegal loans to their key shareholders, the amount ranged from tens of billions of won to as much as hundreds of billions of won. One even extended loans worth 640 billion won, or nearly 70 percent of its total assets, to two urban development projects in close connection with the bank.
Rep. Lee Bum-rae of the Grand National Party, citing the local financial industry law which bans savings banks from lending more than 20 percent of their capital to a single borrower, insisted that their irregularities overreached the legal range.
He added that these banks failed to keep their debt under control and to maintain their capital adequacy ratios by the standards of the Bank for International Settlements. 
The suspended players will be allowed to resume operations if they succeed in normalizing their businesses within 45 days by increasing capital.
 Mr. Kim argued that if these banks fail to do this, they would likely be sold or transferred to a state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. (KDIC)’s savings bank in order to restart their operations. 
