Entertainers should not be children’s role models
PRO - When Korean students were asked what kind of people they admire the most, they used to mention scientists, doctors or teachers in the past. But times have changed. According to a recent survey, many Korean children today model themselves after entertainers. But I do not think that is a very good idea. 
Kids from other countries went for other future jobs, such as chef or soccer player in Japan, chief executive officer in China, and lawyer in Singapore. But in Korea, entertainment turned out to be their dream occupation in the survey, for which there should be some reasons.
I suppose that Korean children chase after sparkle and popularity for their jobs. This is troublesome because they do not try to find real meaning in life but consider what looks good will do good to them as well, even when choosing their job.
Korean mass media is also to blame for this problem. They emphasize beauty, wealth and popularity throughout their products.
Dreaming to become an entertainer can be good, but if they choose their job influenced only by passing trend and popularity, they have a very good chance of being blamed for their effortless decisions afterward.
CON - The disappointing downfall of Hollywood’s teenage stars has too often aroused worries from parents. Miley Cyrus, for one, had risen as every little girl’s star with the Disney’s TV show “Hanna Montana” becoming the paradigm of the “proper” American teenage girl for many parents, who in turn readily endorsed her as their daughters’ role model. 
Now, viral videos of her abusing drugs and her own renegade struggles to shed the epithet as the “proper” girl have vitiated Miley’s reputation beyond repair. She has thus earned herself a place in the notorious pantheon of stars such as Lindsay Lohan and Britney Spears, who have gone down the same road.
Those left baffled are the parents. Unable to revoke their approval of these troubled stars as role models, parents seek new stars. Some may ask why they should find potential role models among entertainers in the first place. The answer is simple: Children prefer their TV stars to anybody else in history, politics, or academia. Once this sorry truth is taken in, parents’ endeavors to find the next “proper” star do not seem so preposterous.
But equating celebrities with role models is not a “sorry truth” at all. Many entertainers reach their fame after years of sweaty practice behind the scenes, inching ever closer to their dream with unflagging ambition. They are, after all, the virtuosos of the entertainment field, and as people who can balance private life with public life, they are also expert managers of their lives. 
Granted, some are less skilled and more freewheeling than others. Yet nobody can controvert the effort Miley and Lindsay put into their careers early on and the hardship they now face in wading through life problems in the limelight.
The disappointment from the entertainers’ fall should never become a sure expectation. Miley and her likes should not be condoned for losing control of their image and their well-polished previous lives. However, on top of it all, we should give due credit for what they have done and, perhaps, not be so quick to dismiss them as future role models.
