 Talking footwear saves you from becoming couch potato
Need a personal trainer that yells at you to get off the soda to get yourself out of a lazy lifestyle? Then here’s one perfect product for you: Google’s talking shoe that can sense activity or inactivity and tells wearers when they need to get moving. 
According to a DailyMail report on March 10, it is the perfect invention for anyone who needs a gentle reminder when it comes to working out. Outfitted with a number of gadgets -- a computer, accelerometer, pressure sensor and speaker -- the Adidas trainer measures movement, direction, speed and balance when the wearer is running. Then the gadgets translate the pressure sensor and accelerometer readings to provide simple audio instructions for the wearer. It even dishes out sneers.
For example, if the wearer is stationary for too long, the trainers will say, “This is super boring.” When they finally start to move, the shoes will instantly speak out, “That’s more like it.” And when they run and sprint, the speakers will call out, “I love the feel of the wind in my laces,” or “Call 911, you are on fire,” or the ultimate praise, “You have made me a very proud shoe.”
This means, the shoes are more than just giving feedback on their exercise, but work as a sarcastic, impatient personal trainer who cheers and scolds all at the same time, inventors at Google point our.
The shoes are also connected to the internet via bluetooth and an Android phone and work with Google’s mapping software to track runs. 
“If I’m running, it recognizes how many times my foot hits the ground in a minute through the accelerometer and sends the information to the web to an Android app,” keeping track of their work out routine and giving feed back, Mike Glaser, product marketing manager of Google, said.
But, unfortunately for anyone who likes the sound of owning this super-smart, hi-tech trainers, Google say they are not for sale. 
Google only developed the concept to showcase the possibilities of integrating everyday objects with cutting-edge technology. “The shoe was an exercise in showing what could be done,” an experiment in connecting any kind of object to the Web and using it to collect and analyze information, according to advertising executive of Google Aman Govil. The shoes were unveiled at the SXSW technology festival in Austin, Texas.
