Era of Pope Francis begins
Pope Benedict XVI shocked the world on Feb. 11, with his announcement of resignation over his health issues. It was the first voluntary resignation of a pope in 600 years. Pope Benedict XVI officially stepped down from the papacy and left the Vatican City on Feb. 28.
To elect a new Pope, 115 Cardinals from 48 nations under the age of 80 gathered at the Sistine Chapel for a conclave on March 12. The historic process is shrouded in secrecy as the very meaning of the name conclave is “under lock and key.” 
On the first day of the conclave, one voting session is held. On other days, two voting sessions are each held in the morning and afternoon. The Vatican’s constitution requires a two-thirds majority to elect a new pope and the ballot papers are burnt after each count.
How is the new pope elected?
The first day of voting ended inconclusively, signaled by black fumes rising above the Chapel’s stove pipe. 
On the following day on March 13, at 11:40 a.m. black smoke rose up again. After five voting sessions, finally white smoke appeared.
The bells of St. Peters rang at 7:08 p.m. to signify a successful election. At 8:11 p.m., the senior cardinal deacon appeared on the balcony overlooking St. Peter’s Square and announced the election of a new pope saying “Habemus Papam,” meaning, we have a new pope.
At 8: 20 p.m. Argentine Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio appeared on the balcony of St Peter’s Basilica for the first time as the 266th pontiff and with that, the Era of Pope Francis began.
When greeting thousands of faithful outside St. Peter’s he mentioned about his unusual non-European origin, “As you know, the duty of the conclave was to appoint a bishop of Rome. It seems to me that my brother cardinals have chosen one who is from far away.” 
About the unique tradition of signaling the voting result by the color of smoke, spokesman Father Federico Lombardi explained the chemical technique is used to ensure a clear color signal. “An auxiliary smoke-emitting device is aimed at improving the visibility of the smoke. Chemicals are later added to make the color of the smoke more obvious,” he said.
Who is the Pope Francis?
Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the 76-year-old Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio served as an archbishop of Buenos Aires. The new Pope is reported to have had one of his lungs removed as a teenager, presumably due to treatment for infection.
He ended a legacy of nearly 1,300 years of European popes and became the first non-European pontiff since the eighth century. He is also the first Pope to take the name of Francis. 
Why “Francis”?
The Argentine Jesuit has chosen his papal name Francis. His choice of name signals how he will lead the 1.2 billion Roman Catholic Church.
The name came from St. Francis of Assisi, who renounced wealth and founded the Franciscan Order of Friars in 1209. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, St. Francis of Assisi had embodied simplicity and humility in his life. This seems to suit the new pope as the Argentine cardinal is known for his personal austerity, eschewing the church mansion and using public transportations.
The fact that the new Pope lives such a simple lifestyle himself shows his devotion to simple living and social justice, Chester Gillis, theologian and dean at Georgetown University explained. ”Choosing to be called Francis means the new pope wanted to send a message of simplicity and not grandeur to the world about the papacy.” 
What is the Fisherman’s ring? 
According to Catholic News Service, when Pope Benedict XVI stepped down from office on Feb. 28, the ring he used to seal official papal documents known as briefs was “destroyed,” meaning two deep cuts are made in the ring so that it can no longer be used as a seal.
Fisherman’s ring is one of the main symbols of a bishop‘s authority. Many Catholics pay their respects to the pope by kneeling and kissing his ring.
For the Pope Benedict XVI’s ring, 35g of pure gold was used and eight craftsmen worked 15 hours for two weeks to make it. It had his name etched on it.
Pope’s duties
As the head of the Catholic Church, the Bishop of Rome, and the head of the sovereign city-state, Vatican City, the Pope has a host of duties. 
First, the Pope maintains diplomatic relationships with more than 100 nations. He conducts masses, appoints new bishops, writes epistles and on important holidays, such as Easter, he delivers major liturgies at St. Peter’s Cathedral or elsewhere in Rome. 
What changes will he bring?
About 40 percent of the world’s Catholics live in Latin America but between 2000 and 2010, some 4 million congregants converted to evangelical Protestantism. Although about 480 million of the world’s 1.2 billion Catholics are Latin Americans for centuries the church‘s top job has gone to Europeans. 
As the first Latin American pope, he could boost Catholicism in the region and reverse the decades-long trend of Latin Americans leaving the church, analysts forecast.
Argentine president Christina Fernandez welcomed the selection of Argentine Pope. 
“Today is a historic day ... For the first time in 2,000 years of the church there is going to be a pope that comes from Latin America,” she said.“And from our hearts we wish for Francis that he can accomplish a greater degree of fraternity between peoples and religions.”
In Venezuela, interim leader Nicolas Maduro said the late President Hugo Chavez -- who died a week before -- could have influenced the church’s historic move.
Pope’s views on a range of issues
For baptism of children of unmarried parents: “The child has absolutely no responsibility for the state of his parents’ marriage,” he said in an interview with 30 Giorni Catholic magazine in 2009.
Against gay marriage: He challenged the Argentine government when it backed a gay marriage bill in 2010 saying, “Let’s not be naive. This isn’t a simple political fight, it’s an attempt to destroy God‘s plan.”
Against vanity: “Look at the peacock, how beautiful he is from the front. But if you see him from behind, you see the reality. Whoever falls for this self-referential vanity hides major misery inside him,“ he said in February 2012.
Against wasting money: He is known to travel around Buenos Aires on buses and underground.
Other incidents during the conclave
An organization of Catholic women set off pink smoke on a hill above the Vatican as the conclave to choose the next pope began, protesting against the male-only conclave and demanding gender equality in the church.
The Women’s Ordination Conference staged the colorful protest asking female ordination. However, the Vatican reacted by stating that “women cannot be ordained priests because Jesus Christ willingly chose only men as his apostles.”
