Three good reasons to get more sleep
Sleep is a precious commodity for people of all ages. Regardless of background, age or social standing, getting adequate sleep is one of the biggest goals for most people. 
Like money, sleep is one of those things that almost everyone complains about not having enough of. For children, however, getting enough sleep is more than just about being tired.
Sleep plays a hugely important part in a child’s physical, emotional and mental development. Other than the obvious benefits of getting a good night’s sleep, here are three excellent reasons why students should get more sleep. 
Reason 1: Less sleep = More eating
Childhood obesity has now come to the forefront of discourse on health. Many doctors are advocating a change in diet and increase in exercise to maintain a healthy weight. According to a recent study, however, another way to prevent excess weight gain is to get an adequate amount of sleep every night.
In fact, the study found that not getting enough sleep led to an increase in the amount of food a person eats to make up for the energy required to stay awake. 
“Just getting less sleep, by itself, is not going to lead to weight gain,” study researcher Kenneth Wright said in a statement. “But when people get insufficient sleep, it leads them to eat more than they actually need.”
Reason 2: More sleep = Better grades
Other than weight gain, several studies have also shown a link between sleep and grades. Students getting the recommended nine hours of sleep a night were found to have better grades than those who do not get enough sleep.
One theory for this link between grades and sleep is that it allows for students to be better prepared to learn. 
“The ability to learn, concentrate and pay attention is all diminished when you haven’t had enough sleep,” Lisa Meltzer, Ph.D., a sleep psychologist and lead author of a study on the sleeping habits of homeschooled students, said in a statement. 
Numerous studies have shown that sleep is essential for the optimal development of a child’s brain but many parents still tend to place importance in studying over sleeping. The study conducted by Meltzer, however, shows that sleep plays as important a role in learning as studying.
Reason 3: More sleep = Lower risk of cancer
Although not the direct result of a sleep study, a study on cancer found that sleep deprivation may play a role in the development of cancer. 
Specifically, a study conducted by researchers at the University of Quebec found that night-shift workers had a greater risk for developing cancer. Researchers suggest that a possible factor in the increased risk of cancer is sleep deprivation. In fact, one particular study has found that people who get less than six hours of sleep a night could be more likely to be diagnosed with colon cancer. 
Although the relationship isn’t necessarily causal, using cancer prevention as an excuse to get more sleep seems like a great idea.
