Past child actors that remained good role models
In Issue No. 458 of The Junior Herald, the debate topic was about whether celebrities make good role models for children. In their arguments, several child actors whose personal lives took a downward spiral and ended up being plastered all over tabloid newspapers were mentioned.
Although not all child stars end up being the constant source of tabloid fodder, it is definitely easier to remember the ones who do than those who remain out of the limelight. Once in a while, however, it is important to remind ourselves that there are plenty of actors who have managed to stay out of the tabloids.
Here are three child actors who managed to avoid the pitfalls of being a child celebrity and went on to have great careers.
Neil Patrick Harris
Born: June 15, 1973
Debut: 1988 
Best known for his portrayal of womanizing Barney Stinson on the hit CBS sitcom, “How I Met Your Mother,” Neil Patrick Harris began his career as an actor at the tender young age of 15. At age 16, Harris was cast as the titular lead in what would later become a cultural icon, “Doogie Howser, M.D.” 
Named one of Time magazine’s 100 most influential people in 2010, Harris’ career spans almost 25 years, during which time he has become an icon of sorts. Unlike a lot of child actors, Harris took his early success as teen doctor in Doogie Howser, and turned it into a diverse career that spans a wide range of entertainment mediums. Not only does Harris act, sing, direct and produce, he is also a fan of magic. In fact, much like his character on “How I Met Your Mother,” Harris serves as the president of the board of directors of Hollywood’s Magic Castle.
Mayim Bialik
Born: Dec. 12, 1975
Debut: 1987 
Although she is now best known for her role as Sheldon Cooper’s girlfriend, Amy Farrah Fowler, on the hit CBS show, “The Big Bang Theory,” Mayim Bialik’s stardom predates the highly-rated nerdy sitcom. Bialik began her acting career in the late 1980s, though it wasn’t until she landed the lead role on NBC’s popular sitcom “Blossom” in the early 90s that she became a household name. 
Since 2010, Bialik has taken the role of the geeky neuroscientist girlfriend of Dr. Sheldon Cooper on “The Big Bang Theory.” Unlike her fellow cast mates, Bialik is the only cast member of “The Big Bang Theory” to have a Ph.D. Like Amy Farrah Fowler, Bialik holds a Ph.D. in neuroscience. 
Christian Bale 
Born: Jan. 31, 1974
Debut: 1982 
As the most recent Batman the world has seen fight against evil, Christian Bale first ventured into the world of acting in a commercial for a fabric softener in 1982. At the age of 13, Bale rocketed to international fame thanks to his role in Steven Spielberg’s “Empire of the Sun.” Uncomfortable with how quickly any semblance of a normal childhood disappeared, Bale considered quitting acting for good. 
Thankfully, Bale decided to give acting another try and he is now considered one of the most impressive method actors of his generation with a laundry list of nominations and critically acclaimed films under his belt. 
