President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez dies
 “Peoples of the Americas are rising once again, saying no to imperialism, saying no to fascism, saying no to intervention -- and saying no to death.”
- Hugo Chavez
Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, has died after a two year battle with cancer at the age of 58. His illness was first revealed in June, 2011 in a televised address from Havana, Cuba, when he announced that he had an operation to remove an abscessed tumor with cancerous cells. He recovered in time to win a fourth term as president in October, 2012, but two months later, he returned to Cuba and underwent another operation to remove malignant cells. On March 5, Hugo Chavez succumbed to cancer at a hospital in Caracas. It was later revealed that his body would be embalmed and placed in a crystal casket for public viewing.
Hugo Chavez was a flamboyant, charismatic and polarizing leader known for his political ideology of Bolivarianism and “socialism of the 21st century.”  As president, he introduced a new constitution that altered the structure of government and implemented wide-ranging social reforms that increased rights and improved conditions for the poor and the marginalized of society.  He was also an outspoken critic of western influences, particularly those of the United States. He often used harsh language in lambasting western leaders, oil industry executives and even church officials. He once called President George W. Bush the devil in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly. 
Hugo Chávez attended the Venezuelan military academy and served as a paratrooper as well as an army officer. He participated in a failed coup attempt to overthrow the government in 1992 and was sentenced to two years in prison. He emerged from behind bars determined to achieve power by bring socialism to Venezuela. He traveled extensively throughout South America in search of foreign support for his Bolivarian Revolution and forged strong ties with Fidel Castro of Cuba. In 1997, Chavez and his supporters founded a new political party known as the Fifth Republic Movement to support his candidacy in the 2008 presidential election. 
Chávez‘s campaign promises of widespread social and economic reforms resonated strongly with the poor and the working class, and he won the election with 56.2 percent of the vote. As soon as he was sworn in, Chavez devoted himself to bringing about the kind of constitutional and social changes he had promised during the election. He changed the name of the country to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. His constitutional reforms gained praise for adopting human rights measures that increased protections for indigenous people and women, and established the rights of the public to education, housing, health care, and food. However, he was criticized for undermining freedom of the press, concentrating too much power in the office of the president, and suppressing political opponents. 　
His greatest achievement as president was his devotion to social justice and equality. He introduced land reforms and nationalized key industries. He redirected Venezuela’s vast oil wealth to fund extensive social programs to help the country’s impoverished citizens and the working class. Vast sums of money were spent on programs aimed at eradicating illiteracy, providing affordable food staples and granting access to higher education. Under his leadership, the quality of life improved dramatically in Venezuela. According to the U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America, Venezuela’s poverty rate fell from 48.6 percent in 2002 to 29.5 percent in 2011. 
Although Chavez had a testy relationship with the West, the United States in particular, he cleverly leveraged Venezuela’s vast oil resources to form connections with other nations by placing a great emphasis on providing financial and medical aid to the rest of Latin America. He helped create a socialist free-trade organization called the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas and set up a regional bank and development lender called Bank of the South. 
Chavez left behind a legacy of fighting for the poor and the downtrodden. He was controversial; he was provocative; and he was bold. He was a true revolutionary.
