 Dive into fun at the Marine Park in Jeju Island
Dolphins are one of the most beloved creatures in the water. Many people dream of one day swimming with the dolphins. In fact, swimming with dolphins is often ranked at the top of a lot of people’s “bucket lists,” as evidenced by a survey of more than 20,000 Britons conducted by BBC in 2003. 
For Koreans interested in doing it, the Marine Park in Jeju Island is more than just a place to learn about dolphins. It is one of the only places in Korea that provides visitors with a chance to physically interact with the dolphins. In fact, the Marine Park provides visitors a chance to swim with, kiss, feed and sing with dolphins. Below are some of the programs offered by the Marine Park. 
Dolphin Training Experience
The Marine Park offers those interested a unique chance to closely interact with dolphins through their Dolphin Training Experience program. This program provides an opportunity for families, friends and loved ones to create wonderful memories together as they learn to communicate with dolphins. 
Dolphin Swimming
The Dolphin Swimming program provides those interested with a chance to jump into the pool and swim with the dolphins in a safe environment. 
The Dolphin Swimming program provides more than just an opportunity to closely interact with the dolphins. Those daring enough may even grab onto the dorsal fin of a dolphin and be dragged around the pool, as often seen in movies. Thankfully, knowing how to swim is not a requirement to participate in this program.
Dolphin Snorkeling / Dolphin Diving
As their names suggest, the Dolphin Snorkeling and Dolphin Diving programs allows participants a chance to snorkel with and scuba dive alongside dolphins. Strapping on the required gear, participants can play around in an indoor pool with the dolphins, holding on to their fins as they swim alongside them. This unique opportunity allows participants a chance to closely interact with dolphins in a more natural habitat. Nothing beats watching dolphins glide around gracefully underwater.
Unfortunately, the snorkeling program is only offered during the winter season, from October until March.
For more information or to make a reservation, visit the official website at www.marinepark.co.kr or call (064) 792-7777.
