Pitch in to fight for a clean environment on Earth Day
Earth Day is a modern environmental movement that began in 1970 to demonstrate support for environmental protection. It is observed on April 22 every year by more than a billion people in more than 192 countries.
It is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, an organization that promotes environmental education and runs activities focused on environmental issues.
Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord from Wisconsin. Following his trip to Santa Barbara after a horrific oil spill off the coast in 1969, Gaylord was enraged by the devastation and Washington’s political inertia and called for environmental awareness.
“I am convinced that all we need to do to bring an overwhelming insistence of the new generation that we stem the tide of environmental disaster is to present the facts clearly and dramatically… The crisis is so imminent, in my opinion, that every university should set aside one day in the school year--he same day across the nation--or the teach-in,” Senator Gaylord said, calling for Earth Day.
2013 Earth Day celebrations in the U.S.
Millions of Americans participate in the effort to make a clean environment on Earth Day. Especially in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, there are a variety of Earth Day activities that people can participate in.
At the National Zoo
Celebrate Earth Day at the National Zoo on April 20. The event is free and open to the public. Meet the Smithsonian National Zoo’s Green Team experts, participate in “green”-themed crafts, and learn simple daily actions that help you enjoy a more environmentally friendly lifestyle.
United States Botanic Garden 
On April 19, enjoy cooking demonstrations with seasonal produce and meet with representatives of environmental organizations from throughout the region. 
Ben Brenman Park 
At Ben Brenman Park, on April 20, the event focuses on efficient and eco-friendly transportation options such as walking, bicycling, ridesharing and riding public transit. Activities include recycling and composting demonstrations.
