Brains and beauty: Ivy League Hollywood celebrities
Higher education is an important part of life for many people. In fact, choosing which college or university to attend is one of the hardest decisions a student faces as they transition into adulthood. As a result, the dream of attending an Ivy League school has crossed the minds of most, if not all, students at one point in their academic lives. 
In continuation of the Entertainment article in Issue No. 459 of The Junior Herald that discusses celebrities who would make good role models, there are a surprising number of Hollywood celebrities who have not only made a name for themselves in the world of acting, but have also managed to graduate from some of the most prestigious schools in the world.
For those who succeed in getting accepted to a world-renowned Ivy League school, here is a list of some of your possible future fellow alumni. 
James Franco
Schools: Columbia University and Yale University
Graduated: 2010 from Columbia University; current student at Yale University
Award-winning actor James Franco is more than just a talented thespian. Not only do his professional achievements include being a filmmaker, teacher and author, but Franco has a very strong academic background as well. His thirst for education drove Franco to seek permission to enroll in as many as 62 course credits per quarter at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) compared to the normal limit of 19, while still continuing to act. After graduating from UCLA with a Bachelor’s degree in English and a grade point average (GPA) of 3.5/4.0, Franco moved to New York to further his academic career by enrolling in graduate school. 
In New York, James Franco simultaneously enrolled at Columbia University’s Master of Fine Arts writing program, New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts for film making and Brooklyn College for fiction writing. After receiving his MFA degree from the prestigious Columbia University in 2010, the box-office star chose to further his academic career by pursuing a Ph.D. in English at another Ivy League school, Yale University, while also taking classes at the Rhode Island School of Design.
James Franco’s educational pursuits are impressive for the average Joe, but even more phenomenal when you take into consideration he never stopped acting. In fact, Franco takes his education so seriously that he opted to skip watching the 2011 Academy Awards nominations, where he was a top contender for his role in “127 Hours,” in favor of attending classes.
“I will be at school. I will be at Yale. Fox Searchlight asked me if I would go to New York to be ready in case that I was nominated,” James Franco said in an interview with The Daily Telegraph. “I said, ‘No. I’m not gonna miss class to go and presume that I’m going to be nominated, but if you want to bring out a camera crew to Yale and wait and see if I get nominated, I’d be happy to step out of class and say I’m very grateful.’”
Julia Stiles
School: Columbia University
Graduated: 2005
Award-winning and talented actress Julia Stiles is another Hollywood celebrity who has both brains and beauty. Having debuted into the world of acting at the age of 11, Stiles first got a taste of stardom thanks to her role in the 1999 teen romantic-comedy, “10 Things I Hate About You.” 
Now best known for her role as Nicky Parsons in the Bourne film series, Julia Stiles is not just your average child star. Stiles enrolled in and graduated from the esteemed Columbia University in 2005 with a degree in English Literature. The Emmy and Golden-Globe nominated actress also received the Columbia College Alumni Association’s John Jay Award in 2010.
“I had already started working by the time I was applying to college,” Stiles said in her acceptance speech. “But they [Columbia] also taught me that my career and my studies were not mutually exclusive.”
Natalie Portman 
School: Harvard University
Graduated: 2003
Natalie Portman shot to international fame when she was cast as Padmé Admidala (Queen Amidala) in the epic Star Wars prequel trilogy. Despite having already achieved stardom as an actress, however, Portman decided to enroll into the prestigious, world-renowned Harvard University in 1999 to pursue a degree in psychology. Interestingly, despite her new-found fame, many of her professors did not know Natalie Portman (who used her given name, Natalie Hershlag) was both a student and a famous actress.
“I didn’t know who she was because her name was Natalie Hershlag,” her Law School Professor Alan M. Dershowitz said during an interview with The Harvard Crimson. “It was a few weeks into the semester that I learned she was an actress — but she was a terrific student.”
Rashida Jones 
School: Harvard University
Graduated: 1997
Though Rashida Jones may not be as famous as some of the other actors mentioned in this article, her achievements and presence in Hollywood should not be underestimated. 
As the younger daughter of media mogul, producer and musician Quincy Jones and actress Peggy Lipton, Rashida Jones was born as an elite member of Hollywood royalty. Jones first garnered attention as a teenager in 1994, when she responded publicly to scathing remarks regarding her parents’ interracial marriage by none other than the late rapper, Tupac Shakur. Incidentally, at the time of his death in 1996, Tupac was engaged to Jones’ older sister.
After high school, Jones left California to attend Harvard University, where she studied religion and philosophy. By the time she graduated in 1997, Jones had developed an interest in fine arts and became involved in a number of on-campus theater groups. Jones did not pursue an acting career until after graduation and has since appeared in various hit TV shows (including “Boston Public,” “The Office,” and “Parks and Recreation”) and movies (“I Love You, Man,” “The Social Network” and “The Muppets.”)
Edward Norton
School: Yale University
Graduated: 1991
The undoubtedly talented Edward Norton is more than just the star of such iconic films as “Fight Club” and the less iconic but still popular “The Incredible Hulk.” 
Unlike the physicist Dr. Bruce Banner, Edward Norton may not have a doctorate in physics, but he is far from uneducated. In fact, Norton attended and graduated from the prestigious Yale University in 1991 with a Bachelor of Arts in History. During his time at Yale, Norton was not only a competitive rower, but he also began taking as many acting classes as possible without declaring a theater major. 
The classes must have paid off, because not only does Edward Norton have a long list of award nominations and wins under his belt, but he is consistently considered a first-rate actor among audiences and critics alike. 
Maggie Gyllenhaal
School: Columbia University
Graduated: 1999
Unlike her brother and fellow actor Jake Gyllenhaal, who dropped out of Columbia University after two years, Maggie Gyllenhaal graduated in 1999 and like fellow alumna Julia Stiles, went on to receive the John Jay Award in 2009.
Despite coming from a legendary screen family - her father is a film director and her mother a film producer and screenwriter - Maggie Gyllenhaal chose to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree from the prestigious Columbia University, where she studied literature and Eastern religions. 
After graduating from Columbia University and before she embarked on a career that would earn her numerous accolades, Maggie Gyllenhaal studied at the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London for a year. 
Tommy Lee Jones
School: Harvard University
Graduated: 1969
Tommy Lee Jones may just be that old guy from the “Men in Black” series to the younger generation, but this 66-year-old actor is not to be looked down upon. Not only is he an Academy Award winning actor, but he is also a graduate of Harvard University with some undoubtedly awesome memories from school.
Jones did not merely graduate from Harvard University. He graduated cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English. He attended Harvard alongside former Vice President Al Gore, from whom he lived across the hall as freshmen and later became roommates with as upperclassmen. During his time at Harvard, Jones also played offensive tackle in the school’s undefeated football team, participating in the 1968 Harvard vs. Yale football game, often referred to as the “most famous football game in Ivy League history.”
