Take in art from textbooks at Goyang Aram Nuri Art Museum
Unless you are an avid art buff, the first thing that comes up in your mind when you hear the word “art” could well be that it is difficult and boring. Art exhibits tend to come across as uncomfortable and inaccessible to both adults and students in elementary, middle and high schools.
This is why the Goyang Cultural Foundation has come up with an idea to introduce art in friendlier and easier ways, by using the works shown in art textbooks.
The exhibit, “Modern arts from art textbooks” is opened through May 26 at Goyang Aram Nuri Aram Art Museum, Goyang, Gyeonggi province. It offers local viewers an opportunity to better appreciate arts, by showing pieces from art textbooks. It also shows how Korea’s modern paintings evolved with time and about its rich history.
Sponsored by the Goyang Cultural Foundation, the exhibition presents a total of 80 paintings by 45 Korean modern artists. Pieces by famous Korean modern artists, such as Park Soo-keun, Kim Whanki, and Yoo Young-guk are on display. 
The exhibit is largely made up three sections. In the first session, “Discover art through nature,” paintings reflect figurative expressions in nature. Artistic impressions derived from mountains, rivers, flowers and leaves that change colors with the seasons are turned into creative arts that speak for the profound beauty of nature. 
In this part of the exhibit, landscape paintings, figure paintings, and still-life paintings by Korean artists from the early 1900s, such as Lee In-sung, Park Soo-keun, Jang Wook-jin and Lee Joong-sub are on display. 
In the second part of the exhibit, “Finding art in Figurative Factors,” abstract paintings find artistic qualities in lines, colors and forms in nature. Pieces by local artists who opened up abstract art such as, Kim Whanki, Yoo Young-guk, Lee Sung-ja and Han-mook, and Ha Jong-hyun and Kim Bong-tae are introduced. 
In the final session of the exhibition, “Diversity of Modern Art,” there is an in-depth exploration on the diversity of modern art. One great distinction that separates modern art from the art of the past is that the scope has been greatly expanded with the introduction of various art materials. Pieces using daily goods such as leaves, cotton, straw, jeans, and wire are on show. Artists such as Lee Jae-hyo, Choi So-young, Hong Sang-sik are included in the session. 
The museum opens Tuesday through Sunday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. For more information about the exhibit, visit, www.artgy.or.kr or call (031) 960-0180 
