Cinderella Stories in sports
 A Cinderella story in sports generally refers to a team or an individual whose exceptional performances in a tournament or competition surpass all expectations. In a typical Cinderella scenario, an “underdog” team or athlete would cause one or more major upsets by defeating opponents who are considered overwhelming favorites. Cinderella teams or individuals do not necessarily have to win championships in order for their heroics to be remembered. 
The Birth of “Cinderella Story” ? The term “Cinderella Story” first became widely used in a sports context in 1950 because of the exploits of the City College of New York men’s basketball team. In the 1949-1950 season, the CCNY Beavers became the only school in history to win the prestigious National Invitational Tournament (NIT) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championships in the same year. The underdog team made up of black and Jewish players overcame their opponents’ on-court racist antics with poise and dignity as they used their blend of teamwork and intelligent play to take down the nation’s best college basketball teams one by one. 
Miracle on Ice ? At the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York, the United States ice hockey team made up of amateur and collegiate players caused a sensation by upsetting the heavily favored team from the Soviet Union in the semifinals. The Soviet team had won the previous four Olympic gold medals dating back to the 1964 games, during which they posted an amazing record of 27?1?1 (wins-losses-ties). Three days before the start of the Olympics, the Soviet team crushed the American side 10-3 in a warm-up match. When the two teams met in the semifinals, the youthful but determined Americans played inspired hockey in front of a raucous home crowd and rallied from a 3-2 deficit with two goals in the final period to dethrone the mighty Soviets. The Americans went on to win gold while the Soviets settled for bronze.
Underdog Bites Back ? In February 1990, Mike Tyson was on top of the boxing world. He was the undefeated and undisputed heavyweight champion of the world with the WBC, WBA, and IBF title belts around his waist. On Feb. 11, Tyson faced journeyman Buster Douglas at the Tokyo Dome in a fight that many regarded as nothing more than a warm-up bout before meeting up with undefeated No. 1 heavyweight contender Evander Holyfield. No one, including Tyson, took Douglas seriously; however, the underdog had other ideas. Douglas took the fight to Tyson from the outset and dominated him in the early rounds. He was aggressive and fearless as he traded punches with the champion. He survived a devastating knock down in the eighth round, and in the 10th round, he unleashed a series of powerful punches to knock out Tyson. Although Douglas’ career fizzled after that fight, his victory over Tyson is still regarded as one of the biggest upsets in the history of sports.
The Rise of the Taeguk Warriors ? Prior to 2002, Korea had failed to win a single match in five World Cup campaigns.  That all changed at the 2002 FIFA World Cup co-hosted by Korea and Japan. The Korean National Team, coached by Dutchman Guus Hiddink, was ranked 40th in the world prior to the start of the tournament. In the group stage, the Korean team recorded shutout victories over Poland and Portugal and drew against the United States to advance to the knockout stage for the first time. Urged on by deliriously exuberant Red Devil fans, the Korean side defeated powerhouse Italy 2-1 in extra time and moved on to the quarterfinals against another European stalwart ? Spain. Korea scored a breathtaking victory over Spain on penalties to become the first Asian team to reach the World Cup semifinals. Although Korea lost to Germany in the penultimate stage and settled for fourth place, it was still a magical run for the ages. 
