Lindsey Vonn and Tiger Woods dating
 “I guess it wasn’t a well-kept secret but yes, I am dating Tiger Woods. Our relationship evolved from a friendship into something more over these past few months and it has made me very happy.” Lindsey Vonn
Lindsey Vonn, the most successful skier in U.S. history, recently took to Twitter and Facebook to announce that she and golf superstar Tiger Woods were dating. Soon after her announcement, Tiger Woods also confirmed their romantic involvement on his Facebook page with a brief message and several carefully composed pictures of the happy couple. Vonn and Woods met through the skiing community in Colorado, where her brother has been the ski coach to Tiger Woods’ two children. Rumors of their relationship started after the pair was spotted skiing together in Vail, Colorado, earlier in the year. 
With their dating announcement, Vonn and Woods take their place atop the list of prominent sports couples. Their respective achievements in sports are staggering. Woods has won 76 PGA Tour titles, including 14 major championships. He had been world No. 1 for the most consecutive weeks and for the greatest total number of weeks of any golfer. He has been awarded PGA Player of the Year a record 10 times. He also owns the record of leading the money list in nine different seasons. At the height of his career, he had personal wealth in excess of $500 million.
Lindsey Von is the greatest American skier of all time. She has won four overall World Cup championships, including three consecutive titles in 2008, 2009, and 2010. She won the gold medal in downhill at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, Canada, the first ever in the event for an American woman. She has won 59 World Cup races in her career, including victories in all five disciplines of alpine skiing -- downhill, super G, giant slalom, slalom, and super combined. She received the Laureus World Sports Awards’ Sportswoman of the Year for 2010, as well as the United States Olympic Committee’s Sportswoman of the Year for 2010.
Both Vonn and Woods started their sports career at an early age; both were child prodigies. Vonn took up skiing at age 2 with the help of her father, who once won a national junior championship at age 17. She was sent to the renowned development program run by Erich Sailer at Buck Hill, Minnesota. In 1999, Vonn became the first American girl to win at Italy’s Trofeo Topolino (for skiers of ages 11–14) where she was victorious in slalom. She made her World Cup debut at age 16 in Park City, Utah.
Tiger Woods was introduced to golf before the age of 2 by his father Earl -- a single-figure handicap amateur golfer. At age 3, he shot a 48 over nine holes over the Cypress Navy course, and at age 5, he appeared in Golf Digest magazine. He won the Under Age 10 section of the Drive, Pitch, and Putt competition before he was 7 years old. He first broke 80 at age 8. He went on to win the Junior World Championships six times, including four consecutive wins from 1988 to 1991.
In their announcements, both Vonn and Woods have asked the public to respect their privacies, but that is unlikely to happen given their respective fame and Tiger Woods’ notoriety. They both experienced prior marital failures. In 2011, Lindsey Vonn filed for divorce from her husband and former coach Thomas Vonn after four years of marriage. Tiger Woods’ divorce from wife Elin Nordegren in 2010 made international headlines. The world’s most dominant golfer was branded a serial adulterer after his multiple extra-marital affairs were exposed. He paid more than $110 million in divorce settlements and was publicly humiliated and vilified. His career took a nosedive and his world rankings plummeted to an all-time low.
