Cherry blossom festivals: The essence of springtime in Korea
Springtime in Korea - as in many parts of the world - is often marked with the bloom of beautiful and aromatic spring flowers, especially cherry blossoms. For only a brief period during the year, cherry blossoms can be seen and enjoyed by many all over the world.
Cherry Blossom Festivals have become the breathtakingly beautiful signal to the start of spring. In Korea, the season for cherry blossoms varies by region. Southern parts of Korea will begin to see cherry blossoms around the end of March and beginning of April, whereas the central and northern regions won’t see them until early to mid-April and mid- to late April, respectively. 
In celebration of warming temperatures and the beginning of a new season, here are some popular spring flower festivals scheduled to take place around Korea this year.
8th Hangang Yeouido Spring Flower Festival
Dates: April 13 - April 17
The annual flower festival in Yeouido is a popular destination for Seoulites in the spring. Taking place along the Han River and into Yeouido Park, thousands of people flock to this area to take a stroll alongside the beautiful and fragrant trees that line the walkway.
As is customary with festivals, a host of various events will also take place, including dance, theater and mime performances.
For more information, visit http://tour.ydp.go.kr/SpFestival/main.html
The 51st Jinhae Gunhangje
Dates: April 1- April 10
The Jinhae Gunhangjae festival is one of the largest cherry blossom festivals in the country. The festival, which is held in tandem with a commemoration of Admiral Yi Sun-shin, draws millions of visitors a year. This year, the 10-day 51st Jinhae Gunhangje will kick off under the theme of “an encounter between cherry blossoms and military music.” The festival itself will have a series of diverse events, including performances by the Jinhae World Military Band and various K-pop stars, a fireworks display and the illumination of the Jinhae pagoda at Mount Jehwangsan. 
For more information, visit www.gunhang.changwon.go.kr 
Cheongpungho Cherry Blossom Festival
Dates: April 19 - April 21
The Cheongpungho Cherry Blossom Festival is another popular destination for spring travelers. Taking place along the 13 km road by the beautiful Cheongpung Lake, visitors can enjoy walking amongst the thousands of mature cherry trees that line the path. 
Other than performances, visitors to the Cheongpungho Cherry Blossom Festival can check out the Cheongpung Cultural Property Complex, where they can not only sample herbal medicinal trees and foods, but also check out a TV drama filming set and bungee jump sites. 
For more information, visit http://tour.okjc.net/ 
