Computer games vs. outdoor games, which is better?
Computer games
Almost everybody thinks outdoor games are better than computer games, but I think quite the opposite, for the following reasons.
First, there is a high chance that you will get hurt when playing outside. If you play outdoor games, you could be more active and healthy, but also there are many dangers waiting out there. In some extreme cases, you can get severely hurt. However, computer games do not require you to be very active, so they reduce the risk of injury.
Second, some computer games help you to enhance your judgment, swiftness and concentration skills. While playing them, you should press the button quickly, understand the game, and make quick decisions. Also, such games require high level of concentration. You can utilize such cognitive functions while you are studying, too.
Third, outdoor games have a higher chance of making you ill than computer games. In winter, you will catch a cold when you stay outside too long. In spring and fall, there are many allergens flying outside. But when it comes to computer games, you do not need to worry about such problems.
So, I consider computer games to be better than outdoor games because the former is a lot more fun and gives you much more satisfaction and joy when properly enjoyed.
Outdoor games
We cannot live without interacting with others. But some children are too busy to do so because of their addiction to computer games. I think outdoor games are far better than computer games.
First, playing computer games indoors is not good for your health; your vision will be damaged, electromagnetic waves will harm your body and addiction to games will disturb your sleep. Also, news reports say that you can develop shoulder pain, wrist disorders and attention deficiency from playing computer games for too long.
However, outdoor games are different. You can enjoy the sunny weather in spring and fall, pump up your body in summer and make a snowman outside in winter. You will not only get healthier than before but also make many new friends.
To cite another side-effect of playing computer games, they block communication between you and your family, while outdoor games encourage a sense of association and team work. Also, most computer games are violent and aggressive, which will turn out negative for adolescent’s growth, mentally and physically.
Now, why don’t you step out and get some fresh air playing outdoor games with friends instead of locking yourself up in a dark room with computer monitor lighting part of your desk?
