Seoul takes steps towards ‘education for happiness’
Moon Yong-lin, the superintendent of the Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education, has come to the forefront of children’s health by promoting more career-focused education in schools and easing the burden of school tests.
“Providing better career education is my goal. Career guidance for young people is crucial for nourishing the dreams of the next generation,” Moon Yong-lin, Seoul education chief, said in an interview with The Korea Herald.
“Career education is not just about finding jobs for young people when they leave. It’s more about realizing potential and nourishing their dreams,” he added.
As superintendent of education for one of the world’s largest school districts with a budget of over $6.6 billon, Moon has embarked on a quest to change the way education is understood in Korea, especially in respect to competitiveness.
As part of his education reform, Moon has picked 11 middle schools to stop administering tests to first-year students so they can focus on identifying their skills and talents. 
“Korean students don’t really have time to be happy because of all the pressure to get good grades, get into a good university, get a fine job and then make good money,” he said.
“People think if you study hard it will naturally bring happiness. We know it’s not always the case, but unfortunately in our current education paradigm we push all (our students) to study hard.”
Though Moon has already faced criticism for getting rid of tests for middle school students, he reiterates that it is more important for students to “find their abilities than to study math and English,” especially in the students’ early years.
Moon also brings to light the importance of parents’ involvement in a child’s happiness. 
Though most Korean parents share a firm belief that graduating from top universities will lead to a better quality of life, Moon argues that this belief could be detrimental to the child’s emotional well-being.
“It is because the parents neglect the fact that studying is also a type of talent. Some do excel in study, but some don’t,” he said. “To make our children happy, parents should find what they like best and what they do best.”
