Emergence of the next Mark Zuckerberg?
The latest tech multimillionaire is a 17-year-old high schooler who developed and sold his smartphone app to Yahoo, according to an MSNBC report on March 27.
Nick D‘Aloisio might get his name on to the youngest multimillionaire list after his “news-summarizing” app, Summly, was sold to Web giant Yahoo for a whopping $30 million. During an interview on “The Today Show,” this nouveau-riche British teen said he was extremely excited about working with Yahoo because it is a great company to be joining right now with Marissa Mayer as its CEO. “As a technologist, it is great time to be joining the company because they’re focusing on mobile and applications and that’s exactly what Summly was,” D’Aloisio pointed out. 
D‘Aloisio first came up with the idea for the app at the age of 12 while doing his homework. “I was revising for history exams and using Google and other search engines. I realized there was a gap in the market,” he said. Then he put together a technology that summarized news stories into 400 characters. Soon Summly was featured as a new and noteworthy smartphone app by Apple. 
Sharing his awkward moment related to his young age, D’Aloisio told “Today” that when he was 15, Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing’s investment fund approached him. They did not know his age and asked when they could meet him, so he replied, “Before school or after school.”
When asked what he would do with the money, he said it is in a trust fund with his parents. He asserted that it was never about the money but was about the technology and the product. With the purchase of Yahoo, his app is no longer available as a free app, but will be incorporated into several Yahoo offerings in the coming days.
The young tech genius shared a few role models he would like to emulate: “Mark Zuckerberg’s obviously very inspirational because he’s a young CEO of a big company and he started when he was 19. I think Steve Jobs is also really inspirational for me because he was very persistent in doing what he wanted to do and that’s why Apple became what it is.”
