The two faces of smartphones
Smartphone use has its bright and dark sides
Just like other social phenomena or issues from audition fever in Korea to the death penalty, smartphone use has its good and bad points.
A recent survey by the Seoul Metropolitan Government showed that a large number of elementary-aged kids are addicted to their smartphones.
The addiction rate among sixth graders in elementary school was particularly high, marking 11.8 percent. This was higher than the average of all middle school students at 8.5 percent and that of high school students at 4.7 percent.
The survey of 1,600 students, from elementary school to university, was conducted in late 2012, and the results were announced March 26.
The reason that younger kids‘ addiction is alarming is because it also leads to symptoms of withdrawal and nervousness. The addicts were shown also to have experienced difficulties in daily life.
Another study of parents living in the Seoul metropolitan region showed that over 15 percent of them let their 3- to 5-year-olds play with smartphones every day.
Experts warn that excessive exposure to digital devices can do more harm than good to the development of babies and toddlers.
They add that TVs and smartphones can replace more important and appropriate activities like playing and interacting with parents.
Kim Dae-jin, a psychiatrist at Yeouido St. Mary’s Hospital in Seoul, once told The Korea Herald that excessive smartphone viewing in infancy can lead to underdevelopment in the right brain. He instead advised that parents delay introducing kids to smartphones for as long as possible. 
Another psychiatrist at Hanyang University also told the newspaper that children who played with digital devices at an early age may have a greater risk of developing attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or an addiction to online games.
The Seoul City government survey also showed a link between mental health deterioration and overuse of mobile phones.
Of those with depression, 14.5 percent were found to be addicted to their smartphones.
Those with severe anxiety also experienced difficulties when they were cut off from the devices. 
Meanwhile, foreign surveys showed quite the opposite results – that smartphone users are more dedicated and efficient in their work at school.
Data released by StudyBlue, an American mobile and online study service for high school and university students, demonstrated several benefits for students who heavily use their smartphones for class.
The data showed that students who use the Android and iPhone apps spend additional hours studying, turning normally unproductive time into effective study hours.
StudyBlue‘s research suggested that mobile studiers gained extra preparation time by studying in nontraditional study environments, according to StudyBlue CEO Becky Splitt.
“While waiting for coffee or riding the bus home, students are flipping through flashcard decks on their smartphones to efficiently master classroom material and make the most of their valuable time,” he said.
In addition to studying more, students who use the StudyBlue mobile app study earlier in the day and cram less at night, the data revealed.
Splitt said: “Considering modern students’ propensity for multitasking, studying on mobile phones fits intuitively into their lifestyles.”
Another survey by a Canadian communications company Mobilicity indicated that more than half of Canadians agree that mobile phones are an “invaluable” tool for students.
Mobilicity, an Ontario-based telecommunications provider, found through a survey late last year that “66 percent of Canadians would use a smartphone to conduct on-the-spot research if they were a student.”
Mobilicity quoted Mark Federman, a technology specialist at the University of Toronto, in its findings as saying that students use smartphones to record lectures, photograph instructor notes and collaborate through cloud-based applications, and that instructors were starting to allow students to research items of interest using Twitter.
StudyBlue (www.studyblue.com)
StudyBlue is an online studying platform for high school and college students. The website allows users to upload class study materials, create electronic flashcards to study and share with others, practice quizzes and more. StudyBlue allows students to store their notes in the cloud and connect with other students studying the same subjects.
