Learn all about King Sejong the Great
Everyone here knows that King Sejong the Great, the fourth King of Korea, created Hangeul, the Korean alphabet. But not many would know that his name was actually Yi Do and he was born on April 10, 1397, on the lunar calendar, enjoyed reading and his favorite sport was traditional Korean polo.
You can learn all about King Sejong at Sejong Center for the Performing Arts’ permanent exhibit, “The Story of King Sejong.” The exhibition conveys the vivid story and culture of Korea during his reign and offers a comprehensive, in-depth view of the life and achievements of King Sejong, who is possibly the most prominent king in Korean history.
“The Story of King Sejong“ opened on Oct. 9, 2009, at the center’s Hangeul Gallery and 4D Hall. You can enter the exhibit through the entrance gate behind the statue of King Sejong in Gwanghwamun Square, central Seoul. 
About the exhibition 
Largely the exhibit is made up of six parts. The first part is about King Sejong as a person. In this part of the exhibition, King Sejong’s personality and his childhood stories and his family background are introduced. 
The second part of the exhibit talks about his deep love for people. King Sejong once said, “Because people form a country’s foundation, a country finds peace only when it has a sturdy foundation. … The most important element in ruling a country is showing trust.” 
The third part of the exhibit shows how Hangeul was created. In the fourth part, King Sejong’s scientific and artistic achievements are explained in detail. Here, an astronomical chart and sundial are on show and various traditional Korean musical instruments that were created under his reign, such as the pyeonjong and pyeongyeong, are on show. The exhibit also features a Hangeul gallery that displays works of modern artists inspired by Hangeul and Hangeul Library where visitors can sit back and read books freely. 
Sejong Center for the Performing Arts also provides various interactive programs including customized education programs for children and docent-guided tours. Visitors can also have a great time making art books about King Sejong or writing letters of Korean alphabet using writing brushes. 
For more information about the exhibit, visit www.sejongstory.or.kr.
