Michael Owen retires from football
 “It is with an immense amount of pride that I am announcing my intention to retire. I have been very fortunate in that my career has taken me on a journey I could only have dreamed of.” - Michael Owen
Former England striker Michael Owen announced that he will retire from football at the end of the season. The 33-year-old is widely regarded as one of the greatest finishers in the history of English football. Despite being hampered by injuries throughout his 15-year career, Owen still managed to score 40 goals, many of them in spectacular fashion, in 89 caps for England. He scored 246 goals in 477 games throughout his club career with Liverpool, Real Madrid, Newcastle, Manchester United and Stoke, winning the Premier League, FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Cup in the process. 
Michael Owen drew the attention of professional clubs such as Manchester United, Chelsea and Liverpool when he was a preteen football sensation. At age 12, he signed a schoolboy contract with Liverpool’s youth team, and at age 14, he attended the Football Association‘s School of Excellence. Owen soon found himself on the England National Under-15 and Under-16 Football Teams where he set scoring records with 27 goals in 19 games. In 1996, he led Liverpool’s youth team to victory in the FA Youth Cup. On his 17th birthday, Owen signed a professional contract with Liverpool and was given a place on the senior squad.
Michael Owen made his senior debut for Liverpool on May 6, 1997, and scored against Wimbledon. In the 1997-1998 season, he became the team’s main striker and won the Premier League Golden Boot award as the top goal scorer with 18 goals, as well as the Professional Footballers’ Association Young Player of the Year. He also finished in third place in the PFA Player of the Year voting. He won the Golden Boot award again in the following season. Despite a recurring hamstring injury, Owen was Liverpool’s top goal scorer from 1997?2004. In 2001, he led Liverpool to a cup treble of the UEFA Cup, FA Cup and Football League Cup. Owen was the recipient of the Ballon d’Or - an honor given to the best football player in Europe. 
At the end of the 2003-2004 season, Owen signed a lucrative contract with Spanish League powerhouse Real Madrid. Still trying to fully recover from nagging ankle and hamstring injuries, he had a slow start with Madrid and was often relegated to the bench. He was often criticized by the fans and the press for his lack of form and production. He played only one season for Real Madrid, scoring 19 goals in 43 games. 
In August 2005, Owen returned to the English Premier League by signing a four-year, 16.8 million pound contract with Newcastle United. Owen suffered a series of injuries, had several surgeries, and missed significant playing time with Newcastle. He played in only 74 games and scored a total of 30 goals in four years. In July 2009, Owen signed with Premier League champions Manchester United. He was given the No. 7 shirt previously worn by the club’s most famous players. He went on to score 17 goals in 49 games before he left to sign a one-year deal with his current team -- Stoke City.
The best moments of Michael Owen’s 15-year football career came mostly from his stellar play for the England squad. He made England’s 1998 World Cup team at age 18 and introduced himself to the world with a mesmerizing solo goal against rival Argentina in St Etienne. In a 2001 World Cup qualifier, Owen endeared himself to his countrymen by scoring a stunning hat trick as England crushed Germany 5-1 in Munich. His explosive speed, field vision, situational awareness and surgical-precision strikes earned him the distinction of being one of the greatest and most popular players to wear the Three Lions.
