Free at last!
29-year-olds Josh Fattal and Shane Bauer, two U.S. citizens sentenced to 8 years in jail for espionage and illegally walking into Iran, were finally released on Sept. 21 after two years in a Tehran prison. 
The men were arrested by Iranian guards in July 2009 with fellow hiker Sarah Shourd, when they took a wrong turn while hiking in Iraq’s “relatively peaceful Kurdish region along the Iran-Iraq border,” according to AP. Shourd, who became engaged to Bauer during their imprisonment, was released in 2010 without a trial, while Bauer and Fattal were convicted of spying last month. 
The two men were released on Sept. 21 after a $1 million bail deal was reached between the Iranian government and an unknown source. They arrived in New York City on the morning of Sept. 25 surrounded by Shourd and family members, where a press conference was held with statements from Fattal and Bauer. 
In his statement, Fattal says “Releasing us is a good gesture, and no positive step should go unnoticed. We applaud the Iranian authorities for finally making the right decision regarding our case. But we want to be clear that they do not deserve undue credit for ending what they had no right and no justification to start in the first place.” 
“From the very start, the only reason we have been held hostage is because we are American,” Fattal continues, “[Hostage] is the most accurate term because, despite certain knowledge of our innocence, Iran has always tied our case to its political disputes with the U.S.”
 Bauer also says, “We will always regret the grief and anxiety that our fateful hiking trip led to, above all for our families. But we would like to be very clear. This was never about crossing the unmarked border between Iran and Iraq.” 
“We do not know if we crossed the border. We will probably never know.” 
The irony is that the three Americans - Bauer, Fattal and Shroud – were known to have been openly opposed to U.S. policies towards Iran, which they believe “perpetuate[s] this hostility.”
 Bauer, Fattal and Shroud believe that their detention was partly in retaliation of the U.S. treatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay, though Bauer explains that “We do not believe that such human rights violations on the part of our government justify what has been done to us.” 
Upon return to U.S. soil after more than 2 years, the two men expressed their gratitude to their family, friends and many supporters - both domestic and international - without whom their release would not have been possible. 
