Overseas Koreans in politics
According to statistics, the Korean Diaspora consists of approximately 7 million people, with nearly 80 percent of expatriate Koreans living in three countries: China, the United States and Japan. Known for their work ethic and entrepreneurial spirit, many among the overseas Korean population engaged in fields such as academics, arts, business, science and sports. However, some have ventured into public service, a few even distinguishing themselves in politics. 
Fleur Pellerin -– Fleur Pellerin was appointed by French President François Hollande to his cabinet as the deputy minister for small and medium enterprises, innovation and the digital economy. She recently visited Korea -- the land of her birth -- to promote closer ties in the digital field between the two countries. She was born in Seoul in 1973 but was abandoned on the street when she was only three or four days old. She was placed in an orphanage and adopted six months later by a French family. She received her education at some of France’s top schools and became a high-ranking civil servant at the French Court of Auditors. She worked on François Hollande’s campaign team in 2012 and was in charge of the “Society and Digital Economy” poll.
Sung Kim – In 2011, Sung Kim was nominated by President Barrack Obama, and confirmed by the U.S. Senate, as the Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of Korea. He was born in Seoul but grew up in Los Angeles. He finished his undergraduate studies at the University of Pennsylvania and earned a law degree from Loyola University. He has a Master of Laws degree from the London School of Economics. He previously served in a variety of positions in the East Asia-Pacific region. He later headed the Office of Korean Affairs at the Department of State from 2006 to 2008. Prior to his appointment as the ambassador to Korea, he served as the Special Envoy for the Six-Party Talks. 
Yonah Kim-Martin – Yonah Martin is a Conservative Senator from British Columbia, Canada. She was appointed by Prime Minister Stephen Harper in 2009. She is the first Canadian of Korean descent to hold federal public office.  She was born in Seoul in 1965. Her family immigrated to Canada and settled in Vancouver when she was 7 years old. She graduated from the University of British Columbia in 1987 and earned a Master of Education degree in 1996. She taught English and drama in her 21-year career as an educator in secondary schools.  With her Korean heritage and her husband Doug Martin’s deep roots in the local community, she became a community activist for the new generation of Canadians of Korean descent. She cofounded a nonprofit organization, the C3 Society, to help “bridge communities” in the multicultural society. 
Melissa Lee – Melissa Lee is a member of the New Zealand Parliament for the National Party. She is the first Korean-born woman to be elected to a foreign nation legislature. She currently serves as the Parliamentary Private Secretary for Ethnic Affairs and is Deputy Chair of the Social Services Select Committee. She was born in Korea in 1966, but grew up in Malaysia before moving to Australia and then settling in New Zealand in 1988 with her family. She has more than 20 years of journalism experience, including stints with the Sunday News and writing for various publications, including the New Zealand Herald, The Listener and several other magazines. She spent 15 years as a TV presenter and producer on TVNZ Asia Dynamic and Asia Down Under. 
Jay Chang-jun Kim – Jay Kim is a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives (1993-1999). He was born in Seoul in 1939, and immigrated to the United States in 1961. He earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in civil engineering from the University of Southern California. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1992 as a Republican and became the first Korean-born person to be elected to a national political office outside Korea. He lost his reelection bid in 1998 after pleading guilty to charges of accepting illegal political donations, for which he was sentenced to two months of house arrest.
