 Should teens be allowed to have plastic surgery?
Yes – Lots of people, including the readers of The Junior Herald, might have once or twice thought about having plastic surgery to look better. Also, Korean society focuses too much attention on people’s appearance, encouraging teenagers to follow suit. In that regard, many people object to plastic surgery, but there is something to be missed there: Plastic surgery is not only for those who seek to look beautiful or handsome.
Plastic surgery is the practice of performing medical operations to improve a person’s appearance or repair damaged skin. The point that I would like to raise is related to the latter.
Unlike people’s common perception, there are people who really need the surgery because they had irrevocable damage on their face from accidents such as a car crash or fire. In this case, beauty is not in the interest of the patient. The person just wants to recover his or her self-esteem.
Extending further from “self-esteem,” even those who do not have damage on their face have their given right to choose how they would look, and this right should not be restricted by others. Teens also want to improve their appearance, and people should not find fault with such adolescents.
Furthermore, teens are highly likely to be outcast among peer groups because of their appearance. It is natural for those outcasts to want to have as much self-confidence as others and to choose to mend their faces.
In conclusion, plastic surgery among teens should not be banned because the surgery is not only those who want to improve their appearance. Also, teens have a right to change their appearance, and even more so when considering outcast problems in the classroom originating from looks.
No - When you look in the mirror, do you think you would look better with rounder eyes, a prominent nose or full lips? You would want to erase scars left after acne. You might be one of those who long to have plastic surgery. But there are a couple of reasons why I am opposed to the idea.
First, the surgery may cause side effects on an adolescent’s face. Even with the rapid advance in medical science, not every surgery is successful. A small mistake can ruin one’s face with scars that will be left for good. Also, endless attempts to change one’s look can turn one’s good enough appearance into chaos. A good example is the “fan woman,” who has been shown on TV many times. Once a beautiful actor in her 20s, she now has irrevocable problems on her face after repeated plastic surgery.
Furthermore, when you are going through puberty, your face and bones are still growing and changing. And if you continue to have plastic surgery and manipulate the bones on your face, serious side effects can follow. When you reach adulthood, you might have more plastic surgery to straighten your bones that you could have done without.
To sum up, plastic surgery is not a bright idea for teenagers. It will ruin their faces permanently. They should focus on improving their health by engaging in various fun sports rather than being too concerned with appearance. Parents have a point when they say that positive minds will make you look prettier or more handsome.
