Rare elephant bird egg up for sale
The world‘s largest egg-- fossilized elephant bird egg--is slated to be auctioned off at Christie’s auction house in London on April 24, National Geographic News reported on April 1. 
The size of this humongous elephant bird egg is 30 centimeters long and nearly 23 centimeters in diameter. The egg will be introduced during the Christie’s Travel, Science and Natural History sale and the auction house expects it will fetch more than $45,000, the report said. 
Possibly because of human activities such as hunting and habitat loss, these large bird species went extinct in the 17th century. They have only been found on the island of Madagascar today as fossils. Intact elephant bird eggs are so rare these days that they are considered extremely valuable. This is enough to raise the price of the egg. 
“Any whole eggs found today in Madagascar are legally the property of the Malagasy government,” said archaeologist Mike Parker Pearson, a professor at the Institute of Archaeology, University College London. “So no more complete eggs will ever come on the open market, and that must make these very few eggs already in museum and private collections very valuable.” 
Another elephant bird egg fossil is believed to be at the National Geographic Museum, locked in a case in an underground climate-controlled room.
Luis Marden, a legendary photographer for National Geographic magazine obtained the fossilized Aepyornis egg in 1967 when he was on assignment in Madagascar. The egg had once gone on display at the National Geographic Society’s Washington headquarters. 
What is an elephant bird? 
The elephant bird was a flightless, ostrich-like bird that stood about 3.4 meters tall. It lays particularly huge eggs--up to 100 times larger than those of average chickens. They lived on the island of Madagascar, about 200 miles off the southeast coast of Africa but became extinct in around the 17th century. Étienne de Flacourt, a French governor of Madagascar frequently recorded the sightings of these birds in 1640s and 1650s and explorer Marco Polo mentioned the birds during his journeys to the East during the 12th and 13th centuries.
