Sensational young participants sweep K-pop star 2
Sensational young participants sweep K-pop Star 2
It was Akdong Musician’s night in the final episode of K-pop Star 2 on April 7. The final episode of K-pop Star 2 came down to a battle between two geniuses: Akdong Musician’s acoustic songs competing against Bang Yae-dam’s pitch perfect rap and dance performance. 
On the first stage of the final episode of the show, two siblings from Mongolia, Akdong Musician sang “MMMBop” by Hanson and earned 291 points from the judges. Their 12-year-old rival, Bang Yae-dam obtained 289 points by singing “Officially Missing You” by Tamia. For the final stage, Akdong Musician grabbed 282 points with Toy’s song “Warm Goodbye,” while Bang scored 281 points by singing “Karma Chameleon” by Culture Club. Akdong Musician ended the performance with the combined total of 573 points and Bang finished with 570 points; just three points of difference. In effect, it was viewers’ votes that decided the winner of K-pop Star 2: Akdong Musician.
“We did not expect us to came this far and cannot believe we won. We want to thank our parents,” the winner of K-pop Star 2 said. The runner up, Bang Yae-dam commented that even though he did not win, he has no regrets because he put on his best possible performance. With the victory, Akdong Musician will now get 300 million won of prize money and a chance to automatically debut for one of the three companies. As an icing on the cake, the two top finalists, Akdong Musician and Bang Yae-dam each received a medium-sized sedan from Hyundai.
Akdong Musician’s winning signifies the importance of having one’s unique style, not mere imitation of existing artists. “It is no longer about how well you sing but how well you can move people’s hearts,” the show’s producer explained.
SBS’s K-pop Star began its second series on Nov. 18. The show was put up to find next generation of K-pop stars. Representatives of the country’s three most prominent music entertainment agencies, Yang Hyun-suk of YG Entertainment, Park Jin-young of JYP, Singer BoA of S.M. Entertainment acted as judges on the show. In the first audition, a total of 42 contestants were picked. The number shrank to 35 after the third round and in the fourth round only 25 remained in the competition. Later on, 10 teams and individual participants were given the chance to perform live on stage.
On March 31, Akdong Musician once again shone with their self-written song “Confession of a Foreigner.” The humorous lyrics and cute and catchy melody grabbed both the judges’ and audience’ hearts. It was Akdong Musician’s ninth performance of one of their own songs. 
In K-pop Star 2, the four young participants especially stood out from the crowd: Akdong Musician, Bang Yae-dam, Shin Ji-hoon and Choi Yae-gun. These young wannabe singers shone brightly and fascinated people throughout the show. 
1. Akdong Musician 
Two siblings-- Lee Chan hyuk, born in 1996 and Lee Soo-hyun, born in 1999 -- created a huge interest in the show and here is why. 
First, they made a great team together as a group. The sibling chemistry was undeniably and indisputably powerful that they brought up the level of their performance to a near perfection.
Also, team was by far the most unique and talented team. They were credited with their superb ability to compose original songs. Their songs brought about sentimental feelings which appealed to a large number of people. Lee Chan-hyuk’s blunt and clever lyrics also resonated well with the audience. On top of that he can play the guitar. 
Even YG Entertainment’s CEO Yang Hyun-suk remarked that the team was by far the most artistic contender. Throughout the show, Akdong Musician kept on unveiling their own songs and proved that they were more than just singers but are true artists and musicians. 
The team has so far written 48 songs. The self-penned songs include “Don’t Twist Your Legs,” “You’re Charming,” “Noodles Again?” and “Confession of a Foreigner.” According to the Gaon music chart, the team is loved by both young and old people.
2. Bang Yae-dam 
Born in 2002, he was the youngest contender on the show. He has evolved and improved greatly throughout the competition. “The 12-year-old has not been trained before, but he is the most appealing participant to take to my company for training as he is highly talented,” a CEO of an entertainment agency claimed. “In terms of profit-making, Bang is a much better option over Akdong Musician because he has a huge potential to grow into a big star.” 
3. Shin Ji-hoon 
Born in 1998, Shin Ji-hoon soon became the three judges’ favorite participant. A large audience was deeply touched by her graceful and pure voice. Like Bang Yae-dam, Shin has never taken a singing lesson but showed a great potential as a singer. Though she did not make the top 5, her elegant and clear voice was enough to give audience a healing affect. She once pursued a career in figure skating but it became apparent that she was more talented at singing. 
4. Choi Yae-gun 
Born in 1997, this young middle schooler stole viewers’ hearts with her talent for rearranging songs. Her trademark was playing the keyboard. Her soulful husky voice and deep understanding of music and a variety of genres made her a very unique and impressive contestant. 
The average age of K-pop Star 2 participants was 13 and a half years old. But they threw themselves into the tough and harsh competition in search of their dreams. The emergence of these young, passionate and brave performers not only gave great energy and joy to the audience but it solidified what people expect from today’s entertainers. People are fed up with standardized idol stars and want to see unique and special talents like those on K-pop Star 2. 
