Corporate Social Responsibility
“Dream Realization Project” – Hyundai Card & Hyundai Capital
“Corporate Social Responsibility,” a business term that came into use in the late 1960s and early 1970s, is a process of returning profits companies have made to society by participating in activities to aid the environment, consumers, employees and communities.
Among Korean companies striving to do their utmost in CSR is Hyundai Card & Hyundai Capital, which is well known among Korean fans for having hosted pop concerts of Beyonce and Lady Gaga.
The company has been pushing ahead with its “Dream Realization Project” since 2010.
The project was launched to provide small business founders - beauticians, laundrymen, rice-cake shop owners and butchers - with professional mentoring services so that they can stand on their own feet and make profits from their businesses.
The company official proclaims that the social project’s candidate should have nothing more than “willingness” and “passion” to benefit from the program. Hyundai is also drumming up support of the company’s affiliates to help those small business founders make the most out of the social welfare project.
The latest such project by Hyundai was carried out to help a butcher living in Doksan-dong, Guro-gu, Seoul.
The office worker-turned meat merchant Kim Jae-gon worked for a meat shop up until 2012, and a year later opened his own store.
Profits earned from running the store were enough for Kim to manage his later years, but not sufficient to handle his sons’ school tuition. Then Hyundai Card & Hyndai Capital lent a helping hand to Kim and promised to support him through its CSR project.
Hyundai provided Kim with a lot of support including shop remodeling, repairing old facilities and marketing assistance.
Such assistance is not to help businessmen including Kim for good but is to help them make success out of their business in the longer run, according to Hyundai officials.
“I was lucky enough to become one of Hyundai project beneficiaries. I will try hard to return the benefit to local residents by providing quality meat. Based on trust I will earn from the residents in the future, I want to continue to open more meat shops of my own,” Kim said in an interview.
