Competing to be the best in Korean
On Sept. 23 the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and the National Institute of the Korean Language came together to hold the Second Korean Language Contest for non-Koreans at the National Folk Museum of Korea. 
For anyone walking by the outdoor plaza, the sight that befell them would have been incredible. A group of foreigners huddled in groups, laughing and competing in a game of Jegichagi, a Korean shuttlecock game, while the host explained the rules of the contest in Korean. What would have been more surprising is the fact that these people, who clearly come from very diverse backgrounds, had no problem understanding what he was saying. 　
 It seems quite unbelievable to think that while most Koreans are spending millions on learning English, there are those working to learn Korean. Yet, 40 men and women representing 16 different countries gathered at the National Folk Museum of Korea to compete in the Second Korean Language Contest for non-Koreans. 　
 This all-day event was created to help celebrate the upcoming Hangeul Day, or Korean Alphabet Day, on Oct. 9. The participants had to compete in a variety of challenges, including the traditional debate and speech competitions, as well as an opportunity to show off their knowledge of traditional Korean games. 
Korea through the eyes of an outsider
 The individual presentations, however, were where the contestants were really able to shine. Though the presentation topics had to be chosen from three predetermined options - Korea as a second home (Why I like Korea), my personal experience with ‘jeong’ in Korea and one thing that needs to change about Korea - the stories that each participant told ranged from painful and serious to heartwarming and amusing depictions of Korean life. 
What made each participant’s presentation special was that their stories of life in Korea came from an outsider’s perspective. 
20-year old Vanny Heang from Cambodia for example, spoke of how his impression of Korea when he first came five years ago helped him to better understand, and ultimately adapt to his current life. He explained how he was at first overwhelmed by the “faster, faster culture” of Korea, while at the same time, impressed with how Koreans tend to unite in the face of a crisis. 
25-year old Long Jin from China, on the other hand, gave an impassioned speech, punctuated by laughter, explaining how excessive plastic surgery amongst Korean women is something that needs to change in Korea. “Korean women have no regard for [the dangers of] plastic surgery” he said, “When thinking of Korean women, the first thoughts that come to mind are beauty, togetherness, and plastic surgery.” 
Jin also pointed out during his presentation, how in today’s world, a lot of Korean women have already undergone surgery, and of those who haven’t yet, the majority hope to have some sort of surgery done sometime soon. 
“I believe that in the case of an accident or disability, plastic surgery may be needed” Jin explains, “However, I think that sometimes, people have taken it too far.”
 Jin tells the story about a child in Korea who once wanted to take a DNA test because she looked so different from her mother. The truth was that the mother had undergone so much plastic surgery that she looked very different from her original looks. Of this story, he says, “I’m not sure whether to laugh or cry.”
 What now?
 All the participants for the Second Korean Language Contest for non-Koreans came from a variety of backgrounds, ranging from students studying abroad and women who migrated for marriage, to foreign laborers. What attracts these people from such diverse walks of life to the study of the Korean language? 
For Nomin Ganbat from Mongolia, her interest in studying in Korea was ignited by the proximity of Korea to her home, as well as all the positive things she had heard about life here. 
“[Korea] is pretty close to Mongolia and it is pretty well known,” Ganbat explains, “They say that Korea is great; that living in Korea is safe.“
 “Since I came here to attend university as an international student, learning Korean [as a second language] made sense” Ganbat explains. She still has some difficulty with some aspects of the language, however, especially with the pronunciation and differentiating between the honorific and familiar forms of the Korean language. 
 Competition results
 The competition was fierce between the 40 contestants, as each tried to prove a better grasp of the Korean language than the other. Though the judges were impressed with everyone, a decision had to be made. The decision to pick the winners fell on five Korean language university institution instructors, based on pronunciation and demeanor, grammar and vocabulary, and content of the various activities throughout the day. 
Four awards were up for grabs at the Korean Language Contest for non-Koreans; the Grand Prize, First Prize, Excellence Award and the Participation Award. Other than these four prizes, five contestants of this competition were also chosen to for an opportunity to compete in the KBS program, “Korean Language Contest,” set to air on Oct. 10. 
 CONGRATULATIONS to the following winners of the Second Korean Language Contest for non-Koreans:
 Grand Prize winner, Nomindari Ganbaatar from Mongolia, First Prize winner Md. Imam Hossain from Bangladesh, Excellence Award winner Sakineh Bagheri from Iran, and Participation Award winners Xue Ting Wang and Nomin Ganbat from China and Mongolia, respectively. 
 The five participants to compete in the KBS program, “Korean Language Contest” are: Phi Vu Hoang from Vietnam, Vanny Heang from Cambodia, Hanako Iida from Japan, Urpiiana Turaeva from Kyrgyzstan, Sanjay Kumar from Indonesia, and Grace Chua Su Shyan from Malaysia
