History of professional baseball
 “There are three things in my life which I really love: God, my family, and baseball. The only problem - once baseball season starts, I change the order around a bit.” Al Gallagher
Baseball is one of the most popular sports in the world. It evolved from older bat-and-ball games played in England in the mid-18th century. The game was brought by immigrants to North America, where it developed and blossomed into the modern sport of baseball as it is known today. Professional baseball has become a major form of sports entertainment and business enterprise with thriving leagues around the world.
Major League Baseball - The oldest professional baseball league was the National League of Professional Baseball in the United States. The league of eight teams played its inaugural season in 1876 with a 70-game schedule from April 22 to Oct. 21. The teams were: Boston Red Stockings, Chicago White Stockings, Cincinnati Red Legs, Hartford Dark Blues, Louisville Grays, Philadelphia Athletics, Brooklyn Mutuals and St. Louis Browns. In 1901, the American League - a counterpart to the National League - was established. It also had eight teams: Baltimore Orioles, Boston Americans, Chicago White Stockings, Cleveland Bluebirds, Detroit Tigers, Milwaukee Brewers, Philadelphia Athletics and Washington Senators. In 2000, the two rival leagues merged into a single organization known as Major League Baseball. 
The Cuban League - The Cuban League was one of the earliest and longest-lasting professional baseball leagues outside of the United States. It was established in 1878 and operated continuously until 1961 when professional baseball was abolished by the Fidel Castro regime. The Cuban League was based in Havana and composed of 3 to 5 teams that played during the winter months. The league became racially integrated in 1900, and during the first half of the 20th century, it was a prime venue for black and white players to compete together. 
Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League -? Baseball was introduced in Puerto Rico in the late 19th century, and two clubs, the Almendares Baseball Club and the Borinquen Baseball Club, were founded in 1897. The Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League was established in 1938 with six active teams. The league produced outstanding players that went on to enjoy successful careers in the U.S. Major leagues, including Hall of Famers Roberto Clemente and Orlando Cepeda. 
Nippon Professional Baseball ?- The Nippon Professional Baseball was founded in 1950. The league currently has 12 teams, equally divided into the Central League and the Pacific League. Each season the winning clubs from the two leagues compete in the Japan Series for the championship of NPB. The league allows a limited number of foreign players on each team. The most successful club in league history is the Yomiuri Giants, which has won 22 championships. In recent years, many outstanding Japanese players have gone to the U.S. Major Leagues and became big stars, including Ichiro Suzuki and Hideki Masui. 
Korea Baseball Championship ?  The Hanguk Peuro-Yagu (Korea Professional Baseball) was founded in 1982. There were six teams, each named after the company or business conglomerate that owned it. The original teams were: Haitai Tigers, Lotte Giants, MBC Blue Dragon, OB Bears, Sammi Superstars and Samsung Lions. As of 2013, the KBC has expanded to include nine teams: Doosan Bears, LG Twins, Hanhwa Eagles, Kia Tigers, Lotte Giants, NC Dinos, Nexen Heroes, Samsung Lions and SK Wyverns.  Many of the outstanding players from the KBC went on to play for baseball clubs in Nippon Professional Baseball and the U.S. Major League Baseball.  
Chinese Professional Baseball League (Taiwan) ? Baseball was introduced to Taiwan during the period of Japanese occupation. The sport gained immense popularity in the 1970’s and 1980’s when the National Little League Team won multiple Little League World Series championships. The professional baseball league was established in 1989 and currently consists of only four teams. Many of the league’s good players went on to play in Nippon Professional Baseball, while a few made their way to the U.S. Major Leagues. 
