The latest in a series of musical movies: ‘Pitch Perfect’
Having opened in theaters nationwide on March 28, “Pitch Perfect” is just the latest in a series of films directed at teens that harbor dreams of being musical.
The story itself is rather standard, wherein the main character, Beca Mitchell (played by Anna Kendrick) is forced to attend Barden University at the behest of her father, a professor at the university, despite her dreams of moving to Los Angeles to pursue a career in music making. After striking up a deal with her father that requires her to join a school club, Beca decides to join the all-women’s a cappella group, the Barden Bellas. Eventually, Beca learns to be part of the group and sees the value in attending university.
Though the plotline of “Pitch Perfect” is pretty standard with a rather predictable outcome, the film itself marks a growing trend among today’s youth; specifically, the desire to have a career that is related to music in some way by today’s teenagers. 
The Korea Herald recently published an article discussing this trend in Korea’s younger generation. With the ever-increasing popularity of K-pop idols and audition programs, it is not surprising that a January poll by the Korea Research Institute for Vocational Education and Training found that 1 in 10 elementary students picked show business as their preferred career. In the same survey, middle school students listed “entertainer” as the third-most popular job, after teacher and doctor. 
The desire to be an entertainer is a rather new trend in Korea. In fact, a derogatory word had been widely used until as late as 2000 to describe people in the music and entertainment industries. Nowadays, however, simply typing “students” with the name of any popular K-pop group will yield dozens of videos online showing students imitating the dances of their favorite songs. 
This change in career trends is reflected in the entertainment industry itself. Not only are audition programs’ popularity booming, but a plethora of TV shows and movies (like “Pitch Perfect”) seem to have plotlines that mirror the change. Though the Korean drama series “Dream High” may be a little late to the game – especially compared to America’s “Glee” TV series and the “High School Musical” movie series – its popularity among Korean teenagers seems to support the results of the Korea Research Institute for Vocational Education and Training poll.
