 Silvio Berlusconi
 “I am the Jesus Christ of politics. I sacrifice myself for everyone.” – Silvio Berlusconi 
Silvio Berlusconi is an Italian politician who served three terms as the Prime Minister of Italy from 1994 to 1995, 2001 to 2006 and 2008 to 2011. He is also a wealthy entrepreneur with a personal net worth of $6.2 billion. Forbes magazine listed him as the seventh-richest man in Italy and the 194th richest man in the world. Nicknamed Il Cavaliere (The Knight), he is known for his flamboyant manner, combative style, bombastic comments and numerous political and personal scandals.  
Berlusconi was born in 1936 to a middle class family in Milan. He studied law at the Università Statale in Milan and graduated with honors in 1961. He started his business career by setting up Edilnord -- a construction company that specialized in building residential housing in Milan. He used the profits from his construction business to establish an advertising agency. In 1973, Berlusconi launched a local cable television company called Telemilano, which later grew into Mediaset -- the biggest media empire in Italy. In 1986, Berlusconi acquired the football club A.C. Milan and turned it into one of the wealthiest, most valuable and most recognizable teams in Italian and world football. 
Berlusconi entered politics in 1993 and founded his own political party, Forza Italia. It was named after a popular chant used by A.C. Milan fans. In the 1994 general election, he ran on a platform that promised a continuation of the pro-western free market policies, as well as the creation of 1 million new jobs. He formed alliances with two other political parties and used his three television networks to launch a massive political advertising campaign. The Forza Italia party won 21 percent of the popular vote, enough for Berlusconi to be appointed the new Prime Minister; however, his term in office was short-lived. Berlusconi was indicted by a Milan court for alleged tax fraud, and his coalition collapsed. He stepped down just seven months after taking office. 
In 1996, Berlusconi lost to left-wing politician Romano Prodi in the general election. In 2001, he ran once again, this time as the leader of the right-wing coalition House of Freedoms. The highlight of the campaign was his signing the “Contract with the Italians,” in which he promised to improve the economy of the country and the quality of life of the people. His coalition received 45.4 percent of the vote for the Chamber of Deputies and 42.5 percent for the Senate, and Berlusconi was once again appointed the Prime Minister of Italy. During his second term as the Prime Minister, his critics pointed out that he failed to deliver on most of the promises he made in his “Contract with the Italians.”
In the 2006 general election, Berlusconi’s party lost to Romano Prodi‘s center-left coalition -- the Union -- by a very narrow margin. Ever the fighter, Berlusconi transformed Forza Italia into The People of Freedom party and entered the 2008 general election again. He took aim at the unpopular Prodi government and the stagnant economy during the campaign, won the election, and became Prime Minister for a third time. However, his popularly quickly dwindled amid a deepening economic crisis; and he was forced to resign after losing his parliamentary majority. He made a strong run for Prime Minister in 2012 but lost by a narrow margin. 
Berlusconi’s political career has been marred by numerous scandals. He has been accused of political bribery, tax fraud, embezzlement, and ethical violations. In October, 2012, he was convicted of violating secrecy laws after making public a police wiretap concerning his political rival in 2005. He was sentenced to four years in jail, but the term was later reduced to one year because of an amnesty law. Berlusconi is also notorious for making insensitive public statements that insulted a wide range of people, including U.S. President Barack Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Finnish President Tarja Halonen, Muslims and earthquake victims. 
