A fusion of art and science: The ‘Automata & Funny Art’ special exhibition
From March 22 until June 30, a special exhibition is being held at the National Science Museum to coincide with Science Month in April. The exhibit, called the “Automata Funny Art” special exhibition, is designed to be both educational and fun as well as to generate more interest in science.
The goal of this exhibit is to “maximize the fusion of scientific and artistic thinking and generate interest in science and technology through useful information, not just in children but adults as well,” a spokesperson for the National Science Museum said in a press release.
In order to accomplish this feat, the special exhibition is divided into two sections; as its name suggests, the automata exhibit and the funny art exhibit. 
Automata 
In the Automata Exhibit, visitors can learn about the ins and outs of mechanical toys. Having originated from 18th century Europe, automata are self-operating machines that demonstrate seven basic scientific principles through the use of such mechanisms as cranks and cams. In this special Automata exhibit, visitors can witness the simultaneously simple yet complex nature of mechanical engineering through automaton toys. 
In fact, a variety of pieces from world-renowned automata makers Paul Spooner, Peter Markey and Carlos Zapata are on display for visitors to marvel at. Classes are also available for those interested in a more hands-on approach to learning about and building automata. 
Fun Art 
Using the artistic technique known as “trompe l’oeil,” the Fun Art Exhibit features around 25 pieces of art that create optical illusions. The artwork uses perspective, shading and the reflection and refraction of light to create illusions that are both fun and educational. 
In fact, the fun nature of the exhibit makes it easier for visitors to grasp what are normally difficult and dry scientific concepts, satisfy one’s scientific curiosity and develop one’s creativity and imagination.
For more information, visit the National Science Museum’s official website at www.science.go.kr or call (042) 601-7912.
What does “automata” mean? 
Derived from the Latin word for “acting of one’s own will,” automaton (plural: automata) refers to machines or toys that move without the use of electricity. 
