Would the world be a better place without humans?
YES - Humans have long evolved ever since they came to Earth, and they have utilized the planet to suit their needs and purposes.
They came to the point of using handheld devices which made long distance communication and home shopping possible.
What is troublesome here is that people pursue such development at the cost of environmental degradation.
It has been long since the developmental process drove many animal and plant species to extinction.
Going back to the Industrial Revolution in the 18th century, people started to mine fossil fuels, chop down trees and use up more water than before.
Of course, they did not know what resource depletion was about because they had more than enough natural resources back then.
Now, humans are paying the price, experiencing a series of problems originating from global warming. Things would be different if they had sought to achieve development through environmentally friendly methods.
Humans’ biggest problem is their greed. They always try to live a wealthier life than necessary, which naturally led to modern civilization, much larger desire, extinction of living organisms and wars between people to secure more natural resources.
So, I assume the world would be a more sound and peaceful place if it did not have humans in it.
NO - The world consists of humans, animals, plants and Mother Nature. All these entities coexist and interact with each other regardless of their intentions. Would the world be really better if humans were not in existence? I do not think so.
First, even if humans were not on Earth, animals and plants could not avoid natural disasters. The regular tsunamis, for example, sweep the coast and kill many, but this has nothing to do with human actions. If there were no humans, much more living organisms would have died from the devastating storms.
Also, nature is managed more by the law of the jungle than by human manipulation. The food chain continues to function without regard to human behavior. One would overgeneralize if he said humans are the main culprit behind environmental destruction.
Lastly, people tend to more emphasize their faulty deeds and speak less of their achievements when talking about humans’ relationship with nature. Different from animals, humans have consistently developed their culture and passed down such heritage to their descendants. We are doing the same to our next generation. This is a great example of people’s contribution to the world.
To sum up, I do not believe the world would be better off without humans for the reasons I have stated above. Regardless of our intentions, people are destined to lead their lives harmoniously with other organisms. So, it would be better if we people could find ways to make the best out of the given environment.
