Future king of Japan enters regular elementary school
Prince Hisahito of Akishino, son of Prince Akishino, who is the second son of the current Emperor of Japan, entered regular elementary school, the first royal to do so since World War II. 
The 6-year-old is the first male child born to the Imperial House of Japan since 1965 and he is considered the future king of the Imperial family. He is officially third in line to the throne after his uncle, Crown Prince Naruhito, and his father, Prince Akishino. The first son and the heir-apparent has an only daughter, Princess Aiko. 
In the spring of 2010, Prince Hisahito began kindergarten at a school affiliated with Ochanomizu University in Tokyo. The Imperial Household Agency announced this April he would continue his study at an elementary school affiliated with the same university. 
This created a huge buzz in the local media as Japanese royals have usually gone to Gakushuin Primary School. It has been a century-old tradition for the family to send their members to Gakushuin Primary School.
The extraordinary move by the Imperial family was interpreted in the Japanese society as a move to get closer to the public. Yomiuri Shinbun said that “the boy’s parents want to give him a chance to learn in an environment where there are children from different backgrounds.”
On the first day of school, the school officials called him by his name, Hisahito, without any title that might indicate his royal status. They also pledged to offer no special treatment to the boy in the future in accordance to the school’s policy. 
Meanwhile Gakushuin is reported to be stunned and disappointed by the royals’ choice, as it has boasted itself as the center for royal education. Every member of the family, including Hisahito’s father, attended the school but lately the school has been dismissed by the royals for its outdated curriculum. 
Kashukuin was established in late Edo period in 1847 in Kyoto as an educational institution for the royals. After the Meiji Restoration in 1884 it moved to Tokyo and solidified its status as a school for this prestigious family. 
