The science of napping
Napping has always had a bit of a stigma attached to it. People often assume that naps are only for children, the sick and the elderly, and that a healthy adult taking a nap is either lazy or lacks ambition. Despite the stigma surrounded by napping behavior, however, recent studies have shown that napping has significant benefits to the cognitive and physical performance of both children and adults alike.
In fact, studies have found numerous different ways in which taking naps throughout the day (or at least once a day) provides benefits to your mental and physical health. Some even go so far as to suggest that taking naps should be made mandatory.
For more information on the many benefits of sleep as a whole, read the “Importance of Sleep” article in the science page of Issue No. 459 of The Junior Herald.
Why do we take naps? 
Not only are naps a great way to take a mental and physical break during the day, there are a variety of scientific reasons why naps are necessary for people both young and old. According to some research, however, there are a few possible reasons why our body craves daytime naps. Some reasons for why almost everyone feels sleepy during the day are based on habits while others are based on evolution.
Habits: Sleep deprivation and poor nutrition 
In today’s fast-paced world, sleep deprivation in both children and adults has become the norm. In fact, a study published in the Korean Journal of Pediatrics in 2011 found that Korean adolescents slept an average of 7.6 to 8.6 hours a night, which is 0.4 to 1.4 hours less than recommended. Unfortunately, sleep deprivation has some very real side effects that are not limited to being sleepy all day and ultimately leaving you in dire need of a nap. This lack of adequate sleep at night resulted in students sleeping to an unusual extent during the day, which in turn negatively affects school performance and emotional stability. 
Another habit that causes daytime sleepiness is poor nutrition. Poorly planned lunches consistently cause a drop in blood sugar levels that leaves people feeling tired in the afternoons. Poorly planned lunches can be divided into two categories: not eating enough lunch to supply enough energy until dinnertime and eating the wrong types of foods. Meals full of sugar and carbohydrates while lacking in protein and fiber can have the same effect as not eating enough, in that it can leave you feeling tired and sluggish in the afternoon. Unfortunately, the fast-paced nature of modern society has created a culture in which fast-food and instant foods have become both plentiful and necessary to keep up with the demands of work and school.
Evolutionary necessity 
From the moment we wake up and throughout the day, our ability to focus, be alert and learn degrades as time passes. Though it may not be as necessary today, slowed reaction times and decreased alertness for our ancestors would have meant the difference between life and death. This means that taking short naps throughout the day may have been a necessary evolutionary trait for survival, hence our predisposition towards getting sleepy at certain points during the day.
What science tells us about the importance of napping
Naps are good for everyone, especially kids 
Though naps are certainly good for everyone, research has shown that they are essential for a child’s development. A study conducted by the University of Colorado found that toddlers who missed a single nap showed more anxiety and less joy. They were also found to have a poorer understanding of how to solve problems. While the same problems were found in adults who don’t have a daily nap worked into their schedule, the lack of sleep is more problematic for children because their brains are still undergoing development during this time. 
More people should take naps at work 
More and more companies, like Google and Apple, are providing napping areas for their employees in accordance to studies that show that short naps improve mental efficiency and productivity. In fact, numerous studies have shown that sleep deprivation can negatively affect a person’s cognitive and motor skills, making it harder for people to focus throughout the day. This means people are more likely to make mistakes or misjudge a situation due to insufficient sleep. Therefore, not only does mandated naptime in the workplace improve efficiency and productivity, it would help boost morale as well, since no one would complain about being allowed to take a nap when needed.
Afternoon naps help boost learning capacity, memory and creativity 
Naps have also been found to boost a person’s learning capacity, memory, creativity and other such cognitive processes. Since a nap can help restore brain power, a study by researchers from Berkeley University found that an hour-long nap in the middle of the day dramatically improved students’ ability to learn and retain new information. Additionally, a study conducted by Harvard Medical School found that naps, especially when they included dreams, effectively improved memory retention and processing as well as learning. The same was found for boosting creativity based on a study by neuroscientists at the City University of New York (CUNY).
Naps are better than caffeine 
Some studies have shown that naps are more effective than caffeine in waking yourself up. While caffeinated drinks may be easier to come by and seem like a quicker cure for sleepiness, naps help to truly refresh your body and mind. Also, the effects of napping last much longer than drinking caffeinated drinks, which can often result in a “caffeine crash” that leaves you more tired than you were before.
Naps are good for your health 
In terms of physical health, researchers in Greece and Britain found that napping has some quantifiable benefits like reduced risk of death from heart disease, reduced stress and lower risk of heart attack, stroke, diabetes and excessive weight gain. In fact, a British study has suggested that merely knowing that a nap is coming is enough to lower a person’s blood pressure.
Different types of naps: 
There are several different kinds of napping: planned napping, emergency napping and habitual napping. According to the U.S. National Sleep Foundation, planned napping refers to taking naps before you actually get sleepy. Emergency napping refers to naps taken when you are suddenly very tired and cannot continue doing what you were doing, while habitual napping refers to naps taken regularly at around the same time each day. 
Below is a list of different types of naps divided by duration of sleep.
　- Micro-nap (2~5 mins): shown to be effective at reversing sleepiness
　- Mini-nap (5~20 mins): shown to increase alertness, stamina, motor learning and motor performance.
　- Power nap (20 mins): includes benefits of micro and mini naps but also the added benefits of improving muscle memory and clearing the mind, as a result of which helps boost long-term memory. 
　- Lazy man’s nap (50~90 mins): By allowing for REM (rapid eye movement) sleep, the lazy man’s nap allows for improving perceptual processing; the process in which we see then respond to and understand our environment. Napping for 50 to 90 minutes can also help your body produce human growth hormone (HGH), which is great for repairing bones and muscles. 
