 Babies of blind parents may see better than average kids
A new study published in the journal, "Proceedings of the Royal Society B" on April 9 suggests that babies born to blind mothers may have better visual sense and memory than babies born to seeing parents. 
In the study, researchers divided babies into two groups: five babies with a blind mother and a sighted or partially-sighted father and 51 babies with two seeing parents. Thebabies were then shown a video of people. Researchers compared the gaze of the babies from two separate groups.
It turned out that the babies of blind mothers were able to follow a person’s gaze just as well as those with seeing moms. Furthermore, in the area of visual attention and memory, the babies of blind mothers performed better than the babies of the other group.
Past studies have shown that children who get little eye contact while growing up can suffer from developmental problems. Yet, the result of the study suggests the lack of eye contact from blind parents does not harm babies’ ability to develop senses. 
This is because, researchers noted, those parents may not be able to gaze the little ones but they still interact just as much through touch and talking. In addition, the babies’ need to quickly switch between and adapt to two different worlds -- blind parents and the rest of the sighted environment -- may actually enhance their visual attention. 
“The babies are very flexible, and they can easily adapt to the different modes of communication,” Atsushi Senju, co-author of the study and a developmental cognitive neuroscientist at Birkbeck, University of London, explained. 
“One of the most striking and endearing findings in this paper is that the babies of blind mothers significantly increased their attention-getting vocalizations to the mother over and above that shown by babies of sighted parents,” Metlzoff said. “They crave maternal social attention and switch modalities and produce auditory events that will get the mom’s attention. Brilliant!”
