Lee Soo-man the wealthiest shareholder in entertainment
South Korea’s so-called ‘Jackpot producer’ Lee Soo-man, who put together a spate of “Korean Wave” stars including Girls’ Generation and Super Junior and ignited the Hallyu phenomenon across the globe, is the biggest entertainment shareholder, Yonhap News reported. 
Stocks owned by Lee Soo-man, K-pop industry mogul, skyrocketed to 165.7 billion won by Sept. 20, a research firm Chaebul.com noted. It said that Lee became the richest celebrity stockholder in the country’s history. 
Currently, Lee possesses a 24.4 percent stake in S.M. Entertainment and the closing share price of S.M. on Sept. 20 was 41,000 won, up from 16,900 won on Dec. 30 of last year. 
Another celebrity shareholder who made the list was Yang Hyun-suk, chief of YG Entertainment Co., with 83.9 billion won worth of shares. YG Entertainment is the management agency of popular groups such as Big Bang and 2NE1, who are leading the Hallyu wave. YG is slated to list its shares on the local bourse from next month. Its shares will be traded at around 47,000 won, Yonhap News said.
 Actor Bae Yong-joon, known as “Yonsama” in Japan and also to Korean fans, came third on the list with his stock value at 12.1 billion won. Bae was followed by Park Jin-young, chief of JYP Entertainment. The stock value of Park’s firm is worth 6.6 billion won, the report stated. 
Hallyu, or the Korean Wave, refers to spread of South Korean culture around the world. Countries that have witnessed this fast growing popularity of Korean culture include Japan, China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. It is also seen in North Korea. The dear leader of the North is well known for his affection towards Lee Young-ae, a famous South Korean actress. 
　Every year, Hallyu brings about around $1 billion in revenue to the Korean economy, largely through sales of Hallyu related cultural products, such as Korean dramas or Korean pop music. It continues to be a significant phenomenon all across Asia and is ratcheting up its influence in Oceania, North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.
