Musical teaches children about finances
The economy is an important and popular educational topic for today’s children.
But the subject is quite complicated and hard to grasp. This is why a company called Dreaming Dragon has put on the country’s first children’s economy musical, “Jeck’s Magic Purse,” to teach children about economics in effective and fun ways.
The show teaches children how money flows and a wise way to spend money. Most importantly, it teaches about the value of sharing.
The two main tips Jeck tells the audience are: First, we should spend money only when it is necessary, and that you need to look very carefully when buying things. 
The reason this show is so irresistible is obvious.
First, the show offers economy-related education tailored to young audiences. The expressions used in the show are easy to understand; therefore effective in helping children grasp the basic concept of the economy, such as saving and spending money. The concept of a real economy is delivered through Jack’s point of view in the market during the show.
Second, it is a hilarious and exciting to watch. Six actors play a total of 13 characters and eye catching characters like magician, fairies from fairytales further add to the piece’s joy. 
Last but not least, it is an interactive show. Actors play economic riddles with audience members during the show’s intermission. All in all, the show has what it takes to be a success. This is why the show has been running for seven years, putting on more than 500 performances. 
Plot of Jeck’s magic purse
Jeck takes over a fruit store for his sick mom. One day, a middle aged man named Andlio came to his store and exchanges his magic purse for an apple. The man said the purse would make his dream come true. Jeck realizes he wants to buy drugs for his sick mother. He prays to the magic purse he wants to be rich. Soon, magic Mimi from the purse comes out and Jeck goes on a trip with her to the Money Land to find a magic coin. There he meets magician Kir and plays riddles with him. 
The show ran from April 12-13 at Eunpyeong Culture & Arts Center.
For more information about the upcoming edutainment, visit www.ijeck.co.kr or call 766-9880.
