Ryu Hyun-jin earns 1st Major League victory
 “It absolutely felt great to get the first win at Dodger Stadium in front of the home crowd, but most importantly it felt good to help my team get the win today.” - Ryu Hyun-jin
Korean pitching sensation Ryu Hyun-jin won his first game as a Major League pitcher in his second start of the season for the Los Angeles Dodgers. He pitched solidly for 6 1/3 innings and helped his team defeat the Pittsburgh Pirates 6-2 to complete a three-game sweep. Rhu was inserted into the Dodgers’ starting rotation as the No. 2 starter after a string of impressive performances in spring training.
The Los Angeles Dodgers made a significant investment in Ryu Hyun-jin in the offseason. In November 2012, the team paid $25.7 million to the Hanhwa Eagles of Korea Professional Baseball just for the right to enter negotiations with Ryu and his agent. A month later, the Dodgers signed Rhu to a six-year, $36 million contract. Although Ryu was the most dominating pitcher in Korea for the past few years, he was expected to start the season as a relief pitcher on a team loaded with established starting pitchers. 
Ryu Hyun-jin made his spring training debut in a bullpen session in front of a throng of reporters. The dodgers’ $62 million man did not disappoint.  He threw 40 pitches - mostly fastballs, curves and changeups. His command and control of those pitches deeply impressed the team’s pitching coach Rick Honeycutt. Ryu became more confident and comfortable with each outing and emerged as a serious contender for a spot in the starting rotation.  Ryu ended his first Major League spring training in impressive fashion by retiring 23 straight batters. He posted a very respectable 3.29 ERA with 27 strikeouts against just eight walks in 27⅓ innings.  
Ryu Hyun-jin made his regular season Major League debut at Dodger Stadium on April 2nd, 2013 against the defending World Series champions - the San Francisco Giants. His opposing pitcher was Madison Bumgarner, who is 5-1 with a 1.94 ERA in six starts against the Dodgers since May 2011. Ryu threw 80 pitches in 6 1/3 effective innings, giving up 10 hits and three runs, but only one was earned. He recorded six strikeouts and did not walk a single batter. Ryu and the Dodgers took a 3-0 loss as Bumgarner pitched a gem - two hits, no walks and six strikeouts in eight dominating innings. Ryu’s first pitched ball was taken out of play to mark the occasion of his Major League debut.
Ryu’s second start was against the Pittsburgh Pirates at Dodger Stadium on April 7. He had a shaky first inning, as slugger Andrew McCutchen hit a two-run home run off him. The Dodgers immediately equalized in the bottom of the inning, and Ryu shut down the Pirates from there. He used his dynamic curve ball to get ahead of hitters with great effect during the game. He pitched three-hit ball for 6 1/3 innings and recorded six strikeouts against two walks. He made 101 pitches and retired the final seven batters he faced. Unlike Ryu’s first start, the offense gave him plenty of support in this game with star first baseman Adrian Gonzalez getting three hits and driving in four runs. Three relievers combined to work 2 2/3 scoreless innings to preserve Ryu’s first win.
Ryu’s performance drew praises from his teammates as well as from the opposing team’s manager, who credited him for not getting rattled after giving up an early home run. After the game, Ryu said through translator Martin Kim: “I’m just happy that the team won. I had made a few promises to some people back in Korea that I would get my first win today, and I’m just happy I kept the promise.” 
