Celebrating Pinocchio’s 130th birthday
The beloved wooden puppet of woodcarver Geppetto, Pinocchio celebrates his 130th birthday this year. Best known around the world for the 1940 Disney film, “Pinocchio,” the tale of Pinocchio comes from the original children’s novel by Italian writer Carlo Collodi written in 1883 entitled, “Le Avventure di Pinocchio (The Adventures of Pinocchio).”
As the protagonist of Collodi’s book, Pinocchio has since been featured in numerous adaptations of the story, including a Broadway Musical adaptation in 1938. In fact, Collodi’s “The Adventures of Pinocchio” is considered to be the most translated Italian book into a foreign language.
In celebration of Pinocchio’s 130th anniversary, animators from four different countries worked tirelessly for three years to create “Pinocchio” (known as “Pinocchio: The secret of Donkey Island” in Korean). 
Unlike the 1940 Disney film, “Pinocchio” attempts to provide a uniquely different type of fun by reviving the original story and characters from Collodi’s book. The film also uses a beautiful, drawing-style version of animation rather than the all-too realistic computer-generated images of animator giants Pixar and Disney. 
For its Korean release, idol group member Jo Kwon from 2AM will serve as the voice for the title character, while prolific voice actor Jang Kwang will act as the voice of Geppetto. Another famous voice to feature in the film is none other than Sung Dong-il, a well-known and respected actor and star of the popular MBC show, “Dad! Where are you Going?”
Though numerous other idol group members have ventured into the world of voice acting, Jo Kwon remains confident that he is the best.
“Unfortunately, though I have read about fellow idol group members having tried their hand at voice acting, I haven’t watched their films and I don’t know who does it well,” Jo Kwon confided to reporters gathered after a press screening on April 16.
“In fact, though I haven’t seen any animated films and I don’t really know who did what, I am going to say that I am the best,” he added, causing a ripple of laughter amongst the attendees. 
What makes this film stand out from other animated films or adaptations of “Pinocchio,” however, is the singing. Following the latest trend of musical films, “Pinocchio” also boasts a lot of singing by the voice actors and a great soundtrack. 
As a singer, Jo Kwon admitted that he was excited when he heard that “Pinocchio” was a musical animation film. Veteran voice actor Jang Kwang, however, was none too pleased. 
As a self-proclaimed “bak-chi” - someone who has trouble keeping in tempo - Jang Kwang stated that unlike 2AM singer Jo Kwon, he had some trouble with the singing. 
“Though we were given the opportunity to listen to the guide song beforehand, it wasn’t easy. Thankfully the beat and lyrics were simple and easy to follow,” Jang Kwang said.
Directed by Italian director Enzo D’Alò, “Pinocchio” is set to hit theaters on April 25.
