The ‘Iron Lady’ dies at 87
 “In politics, if you want anything said, ask a man. If you want anything done, ask a woman.” – Margaret Thatcher
Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher died at the age of 87 after suffering a stroke on April 8. Thatcher was the first female prime minister of a European country, and the only woman to become British Prime Minister. Nicknamed the “Iron Lady” for her uncompromising politics and leadership style, she was enormously influential in postwar British and world politics. Her fundamental values, economic and social policies, and political style have become known as Thatcherism.
Margaret Thatcher was born on Oct. 13, 1925, in Grantham, Lincolnshire, as the daughter of a grocer. She studied chemistry at Somerville College, Oxford College, and worked as a research chemist upon her graduation. Thatcher received a great deal of media attention as a Conservative candidate in the 1950-1951 general elections for the safe Labor seat of Dartford. She was the youngest and the only female candidate. After losing both elections, she started training in law, specializing in taxation, and became a lawyer in 1954.
In 1959, Margaret Thatcher won the Conservative seat in Finchley in north London and entered the House of Commons as a Member of Parliament. Over the next 11 years as an MP, she served as a parliamentary secretary in the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance, and the chief opposition spokesman on education. From 1970 to 1974, she served as the Secretary of State for education and science in the Conservative government of Edward Heath. In February 1975, Margaret Thatcher became the leader of the Conservative Party. In the 1979 general election, she led the Conservative Party to victory with a 44-seat majority in the House of Commons and became the U.K.’s first female prime minister.
During her 11-year reign as prime minister, Margaret Thatcher emphasized moral absolutism, nationalism, reduction of the state’s role in the economy, and the rights of the individual versus those of the state. The economic policies pursued by Thatcher were controversial. She reduced or eliminated many government subsidies to business -- a move that led to a sharp rise in unemployment. Her detractors blamed her for instituting unpopular taxes, under-spending on vital public services, weakening trade unions and ushering an era of greed. At one point in 1980, Thatcher’s job approval rating fell to a record low of 23 percent as the economy mired in a deep recession. Her admirers, on the other hand, credited her domestic policies for eventually rescuing U.K. from a floundering economy. 
Margaret Thatcher was an important power broker in international affairs. She had a very close working relationship with U.S. President Ronald Reagan, with whom she shared similar conservative values and a common distrust of communism. She played an important role in ending the “cold war” between the West and the formal Soviet Union. In April 1982, the military junta in Argentina ordered the invasion of the British-controlled Falkland Islands. Thatcher immediately dispatched a naval task force to retake the islands. The Falklands War ended two months later with the surrender of Argentina. In September of the same year, Thatcher became the first British prime minister to visit China when she met with Chinese Premier Deng Xiaoping and negotiated the handing over of Hong Kong’s sovereignty to China in 1997.
Margaret Thatcher’s illustrious political career came to an end in 1990. A poll tax she had introduced a year earlier that levied a charge on community residents rather than property prove extremely unpopular and led to rioting in the streets. Many Conservative Party politicians feared that Thatcher’s unpopularity would bring the party down with her. She was forced to resign in the ensuing internal power struggle.  In 1992, she was named a life peer on the Queen’s honor list and became Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven.  She retired from public life in 2002 after suffering a series of strokes. 
