Rediscovering the beauty of Changdeokgung Palace by moonlight
Located at the center of Seoul, Changdeokgung Palace is a popular destination for both domestic and international tourists almost all year round. Designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1997, the palace hosts a special moonlight tour twice a year, between the months of March and April and then again between August and October.
Organized by the Korea Cultural Heritage Foundation and the Cultural Heritage Administration and sponsored by the Culture Ministry, the Changdeokgung Palace Moonlight Tour provides a unique opportunity for visitors to learn about the palace’s history in the mystical beauty of the moonlight.
There are seven major stops during the two-hour guided moonlight tour of Changdeokgung Palace, each with its own unique story.
First stop: Donhwamun Gate
After being burned down during the Japanese invasion, the Donhwamun Gate was restored during the first year of Prince Gwanghae’s rule in 1609. It is the oldest structure at Changdeokgung Palace.
Second stop: Geumcheongyo Bridge
Considered a national treasure, the Geumcheongyo Bridge is the oldest stone bridge in a Korean royal palace. 
Third stop: Injeongjeon Hall
The Injeongjeon Hall was once used for major state affairs including the coronation of a new king and receiving foreign envoys. The building is distinctive due to its use of plum flower decorations - considered the symbol of the Korean empire at the time - along the ridge of its roof.
Fourth stop: Nakseonjae
As the former residence of the Korean imperial family’s female members, Nakseonjae was built in 1847 by King Heonjong. It had been closed to the public for decades during which time it remained the residence for the last remaining Korean princess, Princess Deokhye. Having opened to the public in 2006, 17 years after the death of Princess Deokhye, the sad but beautiful Nakseonjae represents the last remnants of the Joseon Dynasty. 
Fifth stop: Hamyangmun Gate
The Hamyangmun Gate acts as the entrance to Changdeokgung Palace’s enormous Huwon, or rear garden. The garden, which takes up almost 60 percent of the palace’s total area, had been used by the King as a resting area.
Sixth stop: Buyongji Pond
Located within Huwon, the Buyongji Pond along with the Buyongjeong Pavilion (National Treasure No. 1763) differs from the Gyeonghoeru Pavilion at Gyeongbokgung Palace in that it was built for personal use by the King. 
Seventh stop: Bullomun Gate and Yeongyeongdang Hall
Cut from a single slab of stone, the Bullomun Gate ? whose name means “gate that never ages” ? was built as a prayer to the king’s long and healthy life. Past the gate lies Yeongyeongdang Hall, a house with some 120 rooms built within the royal palace by Crown Prince Hyomyeong to emulate the houses of nobility. 
For more information, call (02) 2270-1234. Tickets are available at www.interpark.com.
