Is homework important for learning?
Yes - There is something that never stops in studying -- homework. Korean students’ lives are filled up with school, hagwon and homework. Teachers do not give homework to make students feel angry or tired. It’s a way of helping them reinforce their knowledge, and I consider homework the most important part of studying.
First, homework lets you recollect what you have learned at school and hagwon. Mostly, homework is problem-solving. You cannot solve problems without organizing your knowledge. So, when you cannot solve the problems, you cannot help but review what you have studied. This is what homework is all about.
Second, homework helps you think more. Teachers never give easy questions or problems for homework. Homework always includes a few tough questions. To solve the hard questions, we have to spend some amount of time to remind ourselves of important points we have covered. Homework helps us develop our brains, which is one of the major functions of studying.
Last, homework comes from teachers’ strategic decisions to reinforce students’ knowledge. Students should try to find teachers’ reasons for giving the homework on a specific subject, rather than complaining about doing it.
You learn at school, and you review it a little more at hagwon. And then you have your own time to do your homework -- which is reserved for your recollection and reorganization of knowledge. If there is no homework, you cannot complete your study on a certain subject. Homework is what fills the gap between “what you think you know” and “real knowledge.”
No – Many people think homework is important for students, so teachers give a lot of homework, with which they evaluate the students’ overall performance. However, I do not think homework is crucial for learning for the following reasons.
First, a good many studies show that homework is not as useful for student’s academic development as people think. The researchers point to the pressure students get from homework, which hinders their effective time management and sometimes harms child-parent relationships as well.
Second, inconsiderate homework giving by teachers does not take into account students’ different characteristics. There are students who benefit from homework, but there are also students who will find homework troublesome for their effective study.
Third, there are no proven effects of doing homework for one’s study. As I mentioned in the second part, there will be students who will perform much better without homework. Homework is not the best policy and there can be students who will become anxious due to the heavy stress of homework.
Many students suffer from having tons of homework, and we need to take time to think whether homework is really effective for all types of students. If I were an education official working for the government, I would rather let students spend more time to think creatively on their own at home.
