(Special) Fun activities to check out for Children’s Day
May is an exciting month for many children. Not only does the month bring us that much closer to the summer break, but it also holds a special holiday for children all over Korea: Children’s Day.
Children’s Day is celebrated in many countries around the world, albeit at different times of the year. In Korea, Children’s Day falls on May 5th every year. For a special and unique way to celebrate “Children’s Day,” consider taking part in some of the more fascinating special events held around the country this year as listed below. 
“Korean Cookie Festival” 
Who doesn’t love cookies? Held over the course of two days (May 4-5), the county of Bonghwa-gun in North Gyeongsang Province -- in cooperation with the World Confucian Culture Foundation -- will host the 2013 Korean Cookie Festival.
Alongside experience programs and education programs are events ranging from magic concerts, marionette shows, a tournament involving eating tossed cookies and a children’s limbo contest. The 2013 Korean Cookie Festival promises to be packed full of entertainment and learning for both parents and children alike.
Children’s Fishing Competition 
For those with a more competitive and outdoorsy streak, consider taking a trip out to the Fishing Park in Gimpo, Gyeonggi Province. This year for Children’s Day, three separate Children’s fishing competitions are set to be held throughout the day. 
Together with family or friends, children may choose to try their hand at competing in the fishing tournament or check out the various other programs the Fishing Park has to offer. Those too young or uncomfortable with fishing for real fish can try their hand at magnet fishing, face-painting, bare-handed mudfish catching and more!
“Korean Children’s Festival” 
For the third year in a row, the Yookyoung Foundation, along with co-host Children’s Grand Park in Seoul, has been sponsored by the Seoul Metropolitan Government to host the 2013 Korean Children’s Festival from May 5 to May 8. 
Based on the concepts of “exploration” and “togetherness,” this year’s festival aims to provide children with an opportunity to develop their ambitions and dreams through such events as cake making, a drawing competition, a concert (featuring the Koreana Marching Band, idol group “Girl’s Day” and a performance by Gag Concert’s “Father and Son” team) and more!
