Participation is key to science education
There are many different ways to learn about science, such as research in laboratories or studying books. However, I believe that “participation” is the most effective way to learn about science. I was able to experience this truth first-hand during my participation in Boeing’s Educators to Space Camp.
 I participated in Boeing’s the camp from July 18-22. Teachers from around the world gathered to study aerospace science. The camp took place in three different locations in Huntsville, Alabama: The U.S. Space and Rocket Center, the Hudson Alpha Biotechnology Institute, and an outdoor training field. The program focuses on developing teaching skills in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and math. 
The program featured a number of diverse activities that allowed participants to carry out different roles while continuing to function as a team. It was inspiring to see teachers eagerly participating in the launch of their very own rockets. If similar activities such as this were to take place in the classrooms in Korea, it would be easier for students to understand the propulsion theory behind rockets, and ultimately increase their interest in aerospace science. 
Teachers and students in Korea are more than often passive when it comes to participation. However, the teachers that I met at the camp were very enthusiastic about sharing their experiences. Whenever the instructor asked questions about the subject at hand, countless numbers of hands went up. It seemed as if the culture of participation and discussion that they grew up in strengthened their spirits and bodies.
 This year’s camp was designed to meet the nature of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics), however, learning through participation made it possible for us to experience many other fields in addition to STEM. Although a program regarding the firing of rockets may seem simple, we were able to interrelate the activity with many different fields, such as the history of the cold war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, the art behind recording the rocket launch onto CDs and DVDs, and even printing them onto t-shirts.
 Boeing’s Educators to Space Camp was an opportunity for me to realize the importance of participation. Korean students are acknowledged around the world for their talent in science, technology and engineering, but Korean education sometimes seems too focused on books. If teachers utilize and develop new programs that encourage student participation, students will not only learn better, but will also discover that science is a fun subject. I plan to share the education I received at space camp, and utilize it in my lesson plans.
 By Kim Kyu-tae
 Kim Kyu-tae is a teacher at Seoul Science High School. He can be reached at mrbiodm@hanmail.net - Ed.
