 (Special) Tips to remember when traveling abroad: Global etiquettes for globalized kids
In celebration of the Junior Herald’s 9th anniversary, a special article on global etiquettes is presented to help readers of the Junior Herald learn important tips about different cultures around the world. 
In this globalized world, people get to travel around the world and experience different cultures. Not knowing significant cultural differences may put you in an incredibly embarrassing situation. To avoid such misfortune, here are some tips people can remember before they hop on a plane to other parts of the globe. 
Singapore
In this world’s tidiest and most orderly country, spitting, throwing garbage and jaywalking are strictly forbidden by the law. Breaking the rules leads to a heavy fine. For instance, if you are caught up spitting or throwing garbage in a public place in Singapore, you must pay a fine of about 800,000 won and twice as much the second time. If you jaywalk, you must pay a penalty of 400,000 won. Also, if you do not flush after using the toilet, you have to pay 400,000 won. 
India
In this exotic Asian nation, left-handedness is considered impious. Only the right hand is used for shaking hands, handing in goods, eating and so forth. The left hand is limited for other duties, in the toilet. So if you eat with your left hand, your fellow diners will be mortified. Another important cultural tip to remember is that Indians regard cows as sacred. This means eating beef dishes or offering gifts made of cow leather is considered offensive in India. 
China
Chinese people love numbers 8 and 9. So, offering gifts that signify these numbers will be greatly welcomed. Their favorite color is red so on important days such as one’s wedding day, national holidays such as New Year’s Day, many red decorations can be seen. On the other hand, you should never forget that giving a pear or a large clock as a gift is a definite “no-no” for Chinese people because they believe these presents will bring bad luck. 
Greece
The “thumbs-up” gesture is commonly interpreted in most English-speaking countries as a good signal. However, Greeks find this gesture as a sexual insult. Also, Greek culture is all about “the louder the better.” So don’t be surprised if Greeks yell at you and make intense gestures. It is their normal way of speaking and showing affection. 
Italy
It is hard to find takeout coffee in Italy. Life is relaxed in this European nation and rushing to grab a cup of cappuccino is quite unusual. What’s more, Italians rarely drink Cappuccino after a meal as it is a breakfast drink for people in Italy.
Japan
In the majority of the world, the “O” sign means “OK,” or “good.” But Japanese would read it as “money.” Also in Japan, talking over dinner is considered impolite and disrespectful as they regard mealtimes strictly for eating, not talking. So try to keep quiet when you are eating in Japan.
Scandinavian countries
Wearing clothes such as bathing suits, shorts or T-shirts into a sauna or a steam room is a rude behavior in Scandinavian countries. Instead, try using a folded towel to wrap yourself if you feel uncomfortable going nude.
Hawaii
For those of you who are planning to visit Hawaii someday, here is an important cultural tip to remember. When you arrive at the islands, locals will offer you Lei’d, a pretty, traditional floral necklace. Refusing or immediately removing it would be taken as highly disrespectful as it is a centuries-old cultural symbol of welcome, friendship, and appreciation on these resort islands.
