(Special) In depth look at the preferences of Junior Herald Student Reporters
The interests of teenagers are constantly changing. With each generation of teenagers comes a different set of popular trends. 
In terms of music, for example, teenagers in the 90s had to go to record stores to buy cassette tapes, and later CDs, of their favorite artists. In the 80s, teenagers had to go to record shops to buy vinyl records, listen to the radio or hang out at local music cafes to listen to their favorite songs. 
Today, teenagers are glued to their smartphones, simultaneously downloading music, chatting with friends and surfing the internet while walking down the street. While teenagers still listen to music, they have different ways of doing it.
With that in mind, here is an in depth look at some of the preferences of today’s teenagers, focusing on the Student Reporters of The Junior Herald. 
What type of people are JH Student Reporters interested in? 
In 2008, a similar survey was conducted on the preferences of The Junior Herald subscribers. Students at the time picked figure skating queen Kim Yu-na as their favorite athlete. 
This year, student reporters were asked to name their favorite athlete, and once again, Kim Yu-na was picked by the majority. 
“My favorite athlete is Kim Yu-na because she always tries hard to achieve her goal, and all she does is practice,” explained Junior Herald student reporter Sung Hye-jung. 
Student reporter Choi Hee-yeon also found the figure skating champ’s “passion and effort” to be impressive. 
As in the 2008 survey, the responses to “Who is your favorite celebrity” varied considerably. Though mentions of idol groups such as BEAST and good-looking actors like Song Joong-ki remained consistent in both surveys, some unexpected names popped up this year. Canadian pop singer Justin Bieber earned himself a mention as did American singer-songwriter Jason Mraz. 
For a slight change of pace, student reporters were asked to list their favorite historical person as part of the survey. The results were unsurprisingly diverse. While some student reporters listed national heroes like King Sejong, Kim Gu and Admiral Lee Sun-shin, others listed some surprising foreign historical figures as well. 
Nobel Peace Prize winner Dr. Albert Schweitzer made a surprising appearance for favorite historical figure, as did the less-obscure Marie Antoinette and Martin Luther King Jr. 
What type of entertainment are JH Student Reporters interested in? 
Watching television is an undoubtedly popular pastime of children all over the world. As such, it is no surprise that this year’s survey included questions regarding the preferences of Junior Herald Student Reporters in TV viewing. 
Unsurprisingly, an overwhelming majority chose entertainment shows as their preferred type of program. As a follow up question, survey participants were asked to name their favorite Korean TV show. For fans of the show, the result is rather expected. SBS’ popular variety entertainment show “Running Man” won the No. 1 spot by a landslide. 　
While not unexpected, the result is interesting, especially considering the results of a recent Gallup Korea poll, which found MBC’s “Infinite Challenge” to be the favorite show amongst Koreans in their 20s (34 percent of men in their 20s and 46 percent of women in their 20s). 
For more insight into our English-proficient student reporters, the survey included the question, “Do you prefer watching Korean or American shows?” The overwhelming majority preferred watching shows in their native language. While some conceded that they preferred American shows, others also listed Japanese shows as their preferred choice for TV programming. 
What are JH Student Reporters worried about? 
Nowadays, many student reporters find their future careers to be their biggest concern. Despite their young age (predominantly elementary- and middle-school students), it seems that many of today’s students are more concerned about their futures than the seemingly more age-appropriate relationship or school work related worries.
When asked about their future careers, student reporters almost unanimously cited “diplomat” as their dream job. The results reflect the 2008 survey wherein “diplomat” had also listed at No. 1, followed by politician, doctor and lawyer. 
There were, of course, some interesting exceptions. 
“My dream job is to become an announcer for Arirang TV, and be a translator at the same time,” said Student Reporter Sung Hye-jung. 
