Jeonju International Film Festival
The Jeonju International Film Festival, one of the biggest events for alternative cinema in Korea, kicked off on April 25 with Cannes Golden Palm-winning filmmaker Laurent Cantet’s latest work, “Foxfire,” as its opener.
Held annually in Jeonju, North Jeolla Province, JIFF celebrated its 14th edition this year. It is presenting 190 movies including 118 world premieres.
Women shone prominently at JIFF this year. “Foxfire” is about young women who have been physically abused, while a coming-of-age tale about a young girl, “Wadjda,” was selected as the festival closer. “Wadjda” is said to be based on Saudi director Haifaa Al-Mansour’s personal experience growing up in a Muslim society. Al-Mansour is Saudi Arabia’s first female filmmaker.
Six of the 10 films in the JIFF international competition lineup are also tales about women, while four are directed by female directors.
Notable works include Mexican director Isabel Munoz Cota’s feature debut “Inertia,” a tale about a woman who decides to nurse her ill, increasingly erratic ex, and Chinese filmmaker Xu Hui-jing’s “Mothers,” a documentary about women in China who give birth to many children despite the country’s one-child policy.
JIFF’s Korean competition section also features a total of 10 films this year. The works were selected from among some 100 submissions. The films deal with a variety of subject matters, including youth, performing arts, migration, and contemporary families. 
Director Yun Su-ik’s “Groggy Summer” tells the story of a teenager who dreams of becoming a poet against her mother’s wishes. Director Park Moon-chil’s drama “My Place,” on the other hand, deals with a young single mother and her family members. While her mother is overly supportive, her father bashes her decision to raise the child alone.
Laurent Cantet will be one of the judges for the Korean competition, along with celebrated Korean author Kim Young-ha and Carlo Chatrian, the director of the Locarno Film Festival. 
For the international competition, acclaimed Kazakhstani film director Darezhan Omirbaev, Cornell University professor Don Fredericksen, Indian director Santosh Sivan, “The Unjust” and “The Berlin File” filmmaker Ryu Seung-wan, and Korean heartthrob Jung Woo-sung are serving as the jury. 
The festival runs from April 25 to May 3 at a number of venues in Jeonju. For tickets and information, visit http://eng.jiff.or.kr.
