Bill Gates visits Korea
Microsoft Corp. founder Bill Gates visited Korea for a three-day trip, with several meetings in Seoul.
Gates who visited the country for a third time, arrived in Seoul on April 20, and then visited Seoul National University on the next day to talk with students. He also met with Korean President Park Geun-hye on April 22 before he returned home.
During his visit to Seoul National University, he spoke to about 300 students at the university’s memorial hall for the centennial of modern law education. The event was presided over by Lee Woo-il, dean of the college of engineering.
In his talk with students, the American business magnate and philanthropist emphasized creativity, innovative thought and a challenging spirit as traits for future global leaders.
As for his thoughts on what the Korean version of creative economy should be, Gates emphasized the importance of fostering elementary knowledge in order to achieve creativeness beyond imitation.
While meeting with President Park, Gates gave his thoughts on Korea’s drive for a creative economy and ways to cooperate in developing a next-generation nuclear reactor.
President Park for her part showed respect to the software mogul’s “creativity and efforts to eradicate poverty.”
It has been several years since the superenterpreneur lunged into the field of nuclear energy by leading a next-generation nuclear technology drive through his company TerraPower, according to The Korea Herald. 
Gates reportedly expanded his idea by agreeing to review joining hands with South Korean experts in developing a fourth-generation nuclear reactor. For one, he met Chang Soon-heung, a Korean professor of nuclear quantum engineering at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and a leading authority in nuclear study who used to advise President Park on relevant fields.
Gates also mentioned Korea’s growth from a recipient of international aid to a donor and to use it as an experience to consider how to contribute to the world, said news reports.
