 Should we do more to help the homeless?
YES -- There are countless homeless people around the world. We can see those people also in Korea’s capital city of Seoul. We are making efforts to make their lives better by establishing shelters and providing meals for free. However, the problem is not easing, and many think it is worthless to continue to help them. But I believe we should not stop such efforts.
A good many people say homeless invited their own circumstances with their laziness. However, many of them are disabled, and the society looks at them from a distorted perspective. Hence, the homeless cannot find proper jobs, and the best choice left for them is to stay out on the cold streets.
Even though the homeless are not very productive, we should do our best to help them. Many of them suffer from a variety of diseases, and if we do not stop the problems, the diseases can also spread to the general population. Medical care for the people is especially necessary.
We should try to understand the situation surrounding the homeless people. There can be many reasons for their not having home: either family conflict or rising housing expenses. Warm help for the people will give them hope and bring optimism to society in general.
When I walk through stations or streets and see homeless people, I feel sorry for them. We have to think that homeless people are human beings just like us. Our small help will be of great assistance to them. I hope the government will continue its efforts to aid them and make our environment more livable.
NO - If you are not well aware of the homeless problems, you are advised to go to Seoul Station and look around. The number of homeless people continues to rise, and many people contend that we should do more to help them. But I strongly disagree. 
First, doing more is too much. People pay more taxes to the government to help the homeless. They even donate extra money to help those poor people. It is frustrating to see the people use the money they are given on smoking and drinking.
Second, all people are equal, meaning home owners should also lead their lives. Many people will think I am greedy if I say so, but not many people have tons of money to give out. Although the homeless emphasize that they are broke, most other people are not very rich, either.
Last, despite the government’s assistance for the homeless, the beneficiaries do not follow the government’s instructions. For example, this year the government prepared new houses and schools for the homeless, but they do not use them and live outside on the street. They say they are more used to living without homes. 
So, I do not think we have to continue to help the homeless. People and the government are doing their best to help them, but home owners have their daily routines to take care of as well. I hope the number of the homeless people will go down so that everybody can live peacefully.
