Eagerly anticipated Google Glass may not function well in Korea
Gadget aficionados in Korea may be disappointed to learn that Google’s eagerly anticipated new gadget, a wearable pair of Internet-linked glasses, may not be fully utilized locally due to the country’s tight regulations on map data.
The Google gadget called “Google Glass,” is reported to function like a computer, including a built-in camera, microphone and speaker technology that can connect to the Internet via Wi-Fi.
One of its key features, however, is the ability to overlay information about one’s surroundings onto a small screen using information gathered from GPS and map data. 
However, this function may not work here because government permission is required for local map data to be taken out of the country. According to Yonhap News, the government has not approved the overseas transfer of local data, citing “security concerns.” 
“The regulations may be in place to protect local companies or for security reasons … but they run counter to the current IT trend,” an official at a foreign IT firm operating in Korea was quoted as saying by Yonhap News.
Similar government regulations were blamed for the nearly three-year delay in the release of the iPhone in Korea.
Though it was rumored to be released later in the year, Google’s executive chairman Eric Schmidt said on April 26 that Google Glass won’t hit the market until much later. 
“You should assume that it will take us a while,” said Schmidt when asked during a seminar in Washington when Google Glass may reach consumers.
“It‘s extremely early,” he said. “Think of this as beta testing, and Google beta-tests for a while and hopefully we get it right.”
Another ambitious and eagerly anticipated Google project is the self-driving vehicle. Google first revealed that it began working on a self-driving car in 2010. To date, the self-driving car has undergone more than 300,000 miles of testing in the U.S. 
“The timeline is years, not decades,” said Schmidt of the driverless car. “Again, it’s in the R&D (research and development) stage.”
