Korean identities sold on Baidu
The recent hacking of SK Communications Company accounts have left many Koreans vulnerable to identity theft. In fact, with a quick search of “Korean social security numbers” on Baidu, a Chinese internet search engine, will yield millions of results. 
Baidu and other similar sites offer stolen identities - including social security numbers, addresses, cell phone numbers, and in some cases, credit card information - for as little as 100 won.
 According to The Korea Herald, the number of Korean identities being offered to the Chinese is likely to increase as Korean corporations and government sites are being hacked at an increasingly regular rate. In fact, the latest attack is believed to have come from China, and left around 35 million users of Cyworld and Nate, both operated by SK Communications Co., open to identity theft. 
However, the majority of the numbers obtained illegally by Chinese users are considered to be for somewhat innocuous uses. 
“I’m trying to use a Korean server to play games, but it says it needs a Korean social security number, but the one I have won’t work and I don’t know why,” says one frustrated Chinese netizen. 
In fact, most of the information is used to register accounts for and access Korean gaming sites, hallyu fan sites, as well as TV and Movie sites by Chinese fans. 
Despite the lack of any formal complaints regarding phishing or other noticeable effects of identity theft from the Cyworld and Nate hacking, the risk is still there.
 According to The Korea Herald, the South Korean Embassy in China has been actively pushing for the Chinese government to help delete the leaked personal information of Korean citizens from the Web. Unfortunately, little or no action has been done. 
“Even though one may not feel the effects of being hacked right away, becoming indifferent to the danger, voice phishing and other fraud can bring about a lot of harm,” warns one police official. 
Experts agree that a website requiring users to load a lot of personal information before registering escalates the risk of identity theft.
 Ahn Jung-eun, a spokesperson for the state-run Korea Internet Security Agency has said, “We’re hoping to address this issue by having more users … opt for I-PIN methods when they create accounts.” The I-PIN is used to identify users without requiring the use of a social security number. 
