Blood: Essence of life and food
The tradition of using animal blood in cooking goes back thousands of years. Almost every culture has its own unique method of incorporating blood into its culinary tradition. Using blood in cooking might have started as a simple matter of not wanting to waste any part of an animal, but over time, it has evolved into a category of food that is diverse, imaginative and flavorful. In modern times, blood appears on the dining tables as part of sausages, soups, sauces and snacks. 
In Korea, one of the most popular foods at street-food stalls is sundae, or blood sausage. It is made by stuffing a mixture of cellophane noodles made of potato-starch (dangmyeon), pork blood, barley, assorted herbs and vegetables into sausage casings. It is usually accompanied by boiled pork innards such as liver, heart, lung and stomach, and served with salt and chili powder. It can also be served in sundaeguk -- in piping hot broth with scallion slices and perilla seed powder. It is a tasty comfort food enjoyed by adults and children alike. 
In Chinese cooking, animal blood is widely used in various regional cuisines. Coagulated blood of animals such as pigs, oxen, sheep, ducks, chickens and geese, known as blood tofu or red tofu, appear in soups, stews, hot-pots, stir-fry and braised dishes. It is a widely-held belief in China that eating pork blood cleanses impurities from the body and strengthens its immune system. In Taiwan, pig’s blood cake -- commonly sold at street-food stalls and night markets, is a very popular snack among students. It is made of pork blood and glutinous rice, coated with peanut powder and herbs, and served on a popsicle stick. 
Blood is a common ingredient in cuisines throughout Europe. In England, the well-known black pudding is a breakfast favorite. It is a blend of onions, pork fat, oatmeal, flavorings and pork blood. It appears in the form of a large sausage and is usually sliced, lightly grilled or fried before serving. In France, boudin-noir is a blood sausage containing pork, spices, cream, pork blood, and is generally served with apples and mashed potatoes. In Germany, blood sausage is known as blutwurst. Depending on the region, the filling can include pork rind, ox tongue, horse meat, barley, and pork blood. In Spain, Morcilla de Burgos is a blood sausage that contains pork blood, fat, rice, onions, and salt, and it looks remarkably similar to Korean sundae.
 Blood is also used as a main ingredient in soups and sauces. In Korea, haejangguk - a hearty soup believed to be effective in combating the effects of a hangover - is made with congealed ox blood and vegetables. Its recipe first appeared in a manual dating from the Goryeo Dynasty. In Northern Vietnamese cuisine, tiet cahn, or raw blood soup, is made from raw duck blood, cooked gizzards, peanuts and herbs. The soup is refrigerated so the blood coagulates and is eaten chilled before the blood loses its jell-like consistency. 
　Although blood is widely used in cooking, it should be pointed out that certain cultures and religions forbid the consumption of blood.
