More men putting on makeup
Increasing numbers of men pay heed to grooming
It has already been a while since Korean men started to be seen putting on makeup using male-targeted cosmetics products in various commercials. The trend seems to be strengthening rather than subsiding with the passage of time.
In a recent survey by global research company Euro Monitor, Korea topped the list in sales of men‘s skin care products.
A relevant domestic survey also revealed that an average male college student uses skin lotion, essence, sunblock and BB cream before heading to school in the morning.
Another research by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety in April said that about 10 percent of men aged over 15 use BB cream or eyeliner to look better. The survey of 1,500 men and women said that the most popular cosmetics among men were BB cream (97.8 percent), powder (35.6 percent), makeup base (33.3 percent) and foundation (31.1 percent). Some of the male respondents even said they apply mascara.
As to the reason for men’s grooming, experts point to the increasing role and influence of women throughout society. They say that men in the past tried to expand their human social network or strengthen their work-related skills when they wanted a higher social position, but that they now consider their appearance as one of those important factors for social success.
Reflecting such a trend, Korea‘s cosmetics market for men is growing at a fast rate. The market was estimated at 500 billion won in 2007, and it grew to 507 billion in 2008 and 650 billion in 2009. The market in 2011 stood at 900 billion in 2011, and is expected to surpass the 1 trillion mark within this year.
Men’s interest in appearance is not confined to Korea. A new study of the grooming habits of 1,800 British men aged over 18 revealed that 1 in 10 of the respondents said they wore makeup.
Andrew Dunne, professor at Chosun University in Gwangju, said in his recent contribution to The Korea Herald that men around the globe were spending billions of dollars on everything from cosmetics to plastic surgery.
He said English men surveyed recently spent 83 minutes a day on personal grooming, including cleansing, toning and moisturizing, shaving, choosing clothes and styling hair. He also explained that at the same time women spent only 79 minutes for such work. 
Dunne further delved into the history of men‘s grooming, exemplifying many different such cases in various countries the world over.
He explained that men are as unhappy with their appearance as women. “Many other eras and cultures focus on and are even obsessed with men’s appearance,” he said.
Dunne pointed to the Wodaabe tribe of Africa. Quoting the renowned anthropology professor David Gilmore, Dunne said that the tribal men were strong warriors and political leaders, but that they regularly groomed and worried about their appearance.
Dunne explains that the Wodaabe tribe used to stage male beauty contests where young men were on display for females, in a reversal of the Western pattern.
According to Dunnes, Roman men were also fond of personal grooming. Dying hair blond, for instance, was a common practice, he said. It was believed that blond hair provided a more youthful appearance than other hues and the Roman men also used to chalk to whiten their complexion and rouge to color their cheeks, Dunnes explained.
It would be groundless to say that men are less concerned with their appearance, but we should rather say that the trend of men’s makeup habits reflects cultural and social structures of different times and places.
