The 2013 London Marathon
 “People were out in force and weren’t scared of what happened on Monday [in Boston]. That shows you the true spirit of the British public.” - David Weir, British Paralympian and 2013 London Marathon participant
The London Marathon is one of the top marathon races in the world. Since its inaugural run on March 29, 1981, it has become not only a premier international marathon event, but also one of the world’s great celebratory sporting festivals. It regularly drew elite athletes from all over the world, as well as large number of participants and spectators to its picturesque, 42.195-kilometer course around the River Thames. In 2012, the London Marathon set a record as the largest marathon in the world with 36,748 participants finishing the race. The event has raised over ￡450 million for charity since its inception.
The 2013 edition of the London Marathon took on added significance as the race was held just six days after twin bombings at the Boston Marathon finish line left three dead and 180 injured. London‘s Metropolitan Police Service announced a 40 percent increase in the number of personnel deployed along the route. All trash bins were removed along the race course, and security around the finish line was tightened. Although there were no specific threats against the event, the British law enforcement authorities wanted to reassure the public that the London Marathon would be safe.
The 2013 London Marathon was run in nearly perfect conditions on a glorious spring day. More than 36,000 race participants and half a million spectators showed up in solidarity with the victims of the Boston Marathon and in defiance of those who espouse acts of terror. Many participants and spectators wore black ribbons and black armbands in honor of the victims of terror. At the start of the elite men’s race and at the start of the mass race, participants observed a poignant and dignified 30 seconds of silence as a tribute.
Once the race was underway, it turned into what the London Marathon has always been known for - a competitive yet festive sports extravaganza. Competitors from all walks of life - able-bodied and handicapped, young and old, men and women, elite and amateur - raced together in celebration of the great event. They started from Greenwich, crossed the Tower Bridge, passed the Canary Wharf, skirted both sides of the Thames, went by Big Ben and finished at The Mall - the ceremonial avenue that runs to Buckingham Palace. Competitors and spectators paid their own tributes to Boston by carrying U.S. flags and various signs and banners bearing messages of sympathy and unity. Many runners and racers sported colorful hairstyles and donned creative costumes.
The elite men’s race was won by Tsegaye Kebede of Ethiopia in a time of 2:06:04. He ran a strategically perfect race as he conserved his energy and stalked the leaders until just 800 meters to the finish. He overtook Emmanuel Mutai of Kenya to claim his second London Marathon title. The women’s race was won by Priscah Jeptoo of Kenya in 2:20:15, comfortably ahead of her fellow countrywoman Edna Kiplagat. Kurt Fearnley of Australia won the men‘s wheelchair race over his British rival David Weir. The women’s wheelchair race was won by 24-year-old Russian-born American Tatyana McFadden, who also won the same event in the Boston Marathon a week earlier. She was one of 20 competitors who took part in both marathons.
At the finish line, 28-year-old Prince Harry, the third-in-line to the British throne, handed out medals to the winners. He happily mingled with the crowd and chatted with event volunteers. He said that he never considered canceling his appearance for security concerns and called London‘s response and the large turnout “fantastic” and typically British.
