Highest paid athletes in the world
“I‘m tired of hearing about money, money, money, money, money. I just want to play the game, drink Pepsi, wear Reebok.” - Shaquille O’Neal
 Professional athletes at the top of their sports lead a charmed life -- they are idolized by millions of adoring fans, immortalized in sports lore and legends, paid enormous sums of money -- all for playing a game. Their athletic achievements often translate into astronomical salaries, prize winnings and lucrative endorsement deals. Let’s take a look at some of the highest paid athletes in their respective sports. (Figures represent annual income from salaries and endorsements for 2011)
 Manny Pacquiao, Boxing ($52.5 million) – The professional boxing dynamo from The Philippines is regarded as the “number one pound-for-pound best boxer in the world.” Still at the prime of his career, Pacquiao has already won ten world titles and is the first eight-division world champion. In 2010, he was elected to his country’s House of Representatives.
 Michael Shumacher, Formula 1 Racing ($34 million) – Michael Shumacher, a seven-time Formula 1 world champion, is considered one of the greatest drivers in F1 history.  He currently drives for the Mercedes GP team but is most famous for his 11-year reign as the face of the great Ferrari team.  Schumacher is an ambassador for UNESCO and has been involved in numerous humanitarian efforts throughout his life and donated tens of millions of dollars to charity. 
 Alex Rodriquez, Major League Baseball ($36 million) -- Alex Rodriquez plays third base for the most illustrious team in the MLB -- the New York Yankees. His is the active career leader in homeruns with 629. A three-time MVP with all-around abilities and exceptional power, he is perhaps the player who has the best chance of breaking MLB’s all-time homerun record of 762 established by Barry Bonds. In 2007, he signed a 10-year, $275 million contract. It was the richest contract in baseball history.
 LeBron James, NBA ($44.5 million) -- LeBron James plays the small forward position for the Miami Heat. He joined the NBA right out of high school and has been one of its biggest stars ever since. He is a two-time MVP, three-time All Defensive Team and seven-time All-star. More than two thirds of his total earnings come from endorsement deals -- he has the number one selling shoes and jersey.
 Tiger Woods, PGA ($62.2 million) -- Despite the scandalous affairs and marital troubles which led to a brief absence from the PGA tour, as well as the subsequent slump in form which saw his world ranking tumble from 1st to 49th, Tiger Woods is still the highest paid athlete in the world. His lucrative endorsement deals with brands such as Nike and Electronic Arts ensure that he holds on as the top earner in all sports. 
　Roger Federer, Tennis ($52.8 million) -- The tennis ace from Switzerland won 67 career championships, including a record 16 Grand Slam titles.  Currently ranked number 3 in the world, Federer once occupied the ATP number one position for a record 237 consecutive weeks.  He has one of the most impressive endorsement portfolios in sports, including deals with Nike, Credit Suisse, Rolex and Wilson. 
