Tony Stark returns in ‘Iron Man 3’
One of the most eagerly awaited sequels this year has finally hit theaters, much to the delight of Marvel fans worldwide.
Millions of people all over the world headed to theaters on the opening day of “Iron Man 3” to watch Robert Downey, Jr. revive his role as eccentric billionaire-turned-superhero Tony Stark.
Drawing more than 420,000 moviegoers nationwide on its opening day alone, “Iron Man 3” tells the tale of Tony Stark in the aftermath of the New York City debacle as depicted in the 2012 film, “The Avengers.” 
Faced with a new threat in the form of a mysterious and powerful terrorist who goes by the name of “the Mandarin,” Tony Stark must attempt to save the world and his loved ones from being destroyed while still struggling to deal with life after the traumatic NYC incident. 
Relying solely on his own ingenuity and instincts after an explosive and almost deadly encounter with the Mandarin, a haunted Tony Stark must decide whether the suit makes the hero or the hero makes the suit. 
Full of humorous lines from the charming yet cynical Tony Stark and explosive action sequences, “Iron Man 3” does not disappoint. The film is enjoyable to any and everyone, from avid Marvel fans looking for an action-filled movie to get their adrenaline pumping to those looking for a fun film that also encourages some philosophical and intellectually stimulating discussions about humanity and politics. 
Poised to challenge the staggering $1.5 billion in revenue by the wildly successful 2012 film “The Avengers,” “Iron Man 3” opened in theaters across the nation on April 25. 
Questions to think about after watching “Iron Man 3”
1. What type of moral dilemmas could be faced if the Extremis program by Advanced Idea Mechanics (AIM) were to actually be developed?
2. Should President Ellis have made the call when the Mandarin threatened to shoot a captive on live TV, or should he have heeded his advisors’ advice about negotiating with terrorists?
3. When Tony Stark is forced to choose between saving his beloved Pepper Potts by helping AIM stabilize its Extremis virus and refusing to do so for the sake of the world, what do you think would have the been the right choice?
4. How does “Iron Man 3” depict the importance of addressing the debilitating effects of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?
