 Go on a safari adventure at Everland’s ‘Lost Valley’
After two long years of planning and approximately 50 billion won in investments, Samsung Everland’s “Lost Valley,” the nation’s biggest ecological safari, finally opened its doors on April 20.
Timed to coincide with Samsung Everland’s 50th anniversary, “Lost Valley” is the second safari adventure to be held at Everland in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province.
Everland’s “Lost Valley” is different from other available safari adventures in that it aims to provide a paradigm shift in the safari experience. Rather than an exhibit of animals in a “human-centered zoo,” this special safari adventures hopes to provide visitors with an experience that is more natural and “ecology-focused.”
There are several unique features of Everland’s new “Lost Valley” safari adventure. 
First and foremost is its use of amphibians (amphibious vehicles). Samsung Everland is the first theme park in the world to introduce amphibious vehicles to its safari program. Most safari programs use ground-based vehicles like buses or trucks to venture into the animals’ habitat. “Lost Valley,” on the other hand, provides visitors with the chance to observe animals from both land and water thanks to its amphibians.
Another distinguishing feature of “Lost Valley” is the opportunity for visitors to see a variety of rare animals, as well as some famous ones cohabiting. Not only are visitors provided with a chance to observe some rare and mysterious animals like the white lion and sable antelope, but they can also meet some famous animals like the talking elephant Koshik and Jangsun, the giraffe that holds the world record for the highest number of successful giraffe births. Visitors will also be pleased yet surprised to observe the successful cohabitation between different animals. The herbivorous rhinoceros, for example, resting alongside the carnivorous cheetah and the peaceful cohabitation between lions and their enemies the hyenas. 
A third distinguishing feature of Everland’s “Lost Valley” safari is its ambition to create an ecological environment that replicates the natural habitat of the animals as best as possible. With the help of a German professional design company, artificially sculptured rocks have been installed to help create a more natural-looking scene for the animals and visitors alike. 
For more information, visit Samsung Everland’s official website: www.everland.com 
The first mission in the "Animal Kingdom" episode of the hit SBS show RunningMan was filmed at the "Lost Valley.”
