Anthony Bourdain
“If you‘re 22, physically fit, hungry to learn and be better, I urge you to travel -- as far and as widely as possible. Sleep on floors if you have to. Find out how other people live and eat and cook. Learn from them -- wherever you go.” - Anthony Bourdain
Anthony Bourdain is an American chef, acclaimed author and renowned television personality. He has written a number of best-selling books that provided fascinating insights into the food service industry based on his experience as an executive chef in a famed New York City restaurant. He hosted popular travel and food television shows that introduced viewers to local culture and native cuisines from all over the world. His outspoken nature, crass style and humorous anecdotes helped turned him into something he previously distained -- a celebrity chef.
Anthony Bourdain was born in New York in 1956. After high school, he went to Vassar College but dropped out after two years to attend the Culinary Institute of America in New York. Following graduation from there, Bourdain worked as a chef at New York City’s Supper Club, One Fifth Avenue and Sullivan‘s before he became the executive chef at Brasserie Les Halles in NYC. In 1999, he came to the public’s attention after he wrote an expose of New York restaurants -- “Don‘t Eat Before Reading This” -- in the New Yorker magazine. The article caused a sensation with its stomach-turning details of some practices prevalent in restaurant kitchens, as well as unique perspectives on what makes the restaurant profession so appealing to those who work in it.
In 2000, Bourdain published “Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly” -- a detailed, behind-the-scenes look at the not-so-glamorous world of restaurant kitchens and the people who work in them. The book is a no-holds-barred account of his personal journey in the culinary world, including his sordid past of excesses and substance abuse. It includes advices to diners on when and what to order, or not to order, at restaurants. The book is funny, scandalous and shocking at the same time. It was an immediate success and made the New York Times best-selling list.
The success of “Kitchen Confidential” led to an offer by the Food Channel for Bourdain to host his own food and travel show -- “A Cook’s Tour” -- in 2002. The show aired for two seasons, featuring Bourdain traveling to exotic locales worldwide, sampling local culture and cuisine along the way. In 2005, Bourdain hosted a similarly themed show on the Travel channel -- “Anthony Bourdain, No Reservations.” The show ran for nine seasons and was immensely popular. It made Bourdain a household name and a much-in-demand celebrity on various cooking programs and talk shows.
“No Reservations” was Bourdain at his very best. He was bold -- he ate everything offered to him, including the still-beating heart of a freshly killed cobra and pungent fermented shark. He was outspoken -- he declared war on vegetarians, vegans and fellow celebrity chefs. He was crass -- his dialogue featured colorful language in liberal portions. He was funny -- he found humor in difficult situations and was not afraid to poke fun at himself. He was reverential -- he showed utmost respect for local culture and cuisine, no matter how strange or unusual they might be. He visited Korea in season 2 and produced a memorable episode featuring some of the nation‘s specialty dishes and its unique culture.
In May 2012, Bourdain announced that he would be leaving the Travel Channel to host a show titled “Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown” for CNN, focusing on cuisines and cultures of rarely-visited countries.  He claimed that only a worldwide news organization like CNN can provide the kind of access necessary for him to film in those places. The new show premiered on April 13, 2013, featuring Myanmar.  Interestingly, the second episode featured Los Angeles, not exactly “parts unknown,” as he visited Koreatown. 
