Should schools have security guards?
YES - When we turn on the TV, we sadly hear another news report about a child kidnapping incident. What is much more shocking is when the kids are kidnapped from inside the school. Furthermore, criminals these days are becoming braver and cleverer.
We should definitely have security guards at school. Students are exposed to various dangers, such as rape, kidnapping and burglary. They are not capable of defending themselves against a fully grown person.
Schools are usually away from the streets where students can ask people for help, so they have no one to turn to in a desperate situation, especially when there are few people left at school. It is needless to say that security guards should be placed in such an environment. Also, the presence of security guards will discourage future criminals so they give up on their plans.
Some argue against the idea of having security guards at school, saying that it is costly and also can disturb students. But should we nag about the price and slight discomfort at the cost of student’s safety? I think not. We should definitely protect the students with proper security for them so that they can make their way home as safely as possible.
NO - Locating CCTVs at schools was once a hot topic dividing people into saying either it will prevent bullying problems or it will infringe on privacy of students and teachers. Placing security guards at schools is drawing similar arguments. However effective such measure will be, I am personally against the idea for the following reasons.
First, security guards will be placed to stop crimes from occurring at school, but at the same time it will make students feel uncomfortable. Elementary and middle school students who are going through puberty are quite sensitive about their lives being monitored.
Second, security guards are not safe at all. In January, a school guard was arrested for committing sexual violence against a teenage girl. He had a record of committing similar crimes in the past, but got the job at the school without much difficulty.
So, I do not believe that think placing security guards at school is the best idea. The Education Ministry and related government offices must come up with an alternative plan to protect the students and make them feel comfortable at the same time.
