Are you a good friend?: How to build a true friendship
Having a true friend is immensely important throughout your life. True friends stick with you in good times and bad. And the better quality relationships you have, the more likely you are to be happy in your own life. After all, life comes down to finding true happiness and having great friends who support you, so building true friendship is priceless. 
So, how can we make true friends, and how can we become one? What are the methods to attract true friends? There are tons of articles -- both in Korean and English -- that talk about the qualities of a good friend. And the following are some of the most common and universal tips stated in those articles. If you are willing to adopt them and make them on your own, you are already half way to becoming somebody’s best friend.
1. Be trustworthy and loyal
The fact that your friends can trust you is crucial in your friendship. So if they tell you a secret, make sure to keep it. Never tell anyone the secret your friend wants you to keep. Also, a loyal friend will not gossip about you or try to damage your reputation. So be sure to watch your mouth. 
Keep your word. If you promised to do something, follow it through as much as you can. Let your best friend know that when you say you‘re going to do something, you will never back away from it. 
2. Have the guts to say “No” when you need to
In spite of a risk of fracturing a friendship, a true friend won’t refrain from telling you something you need to hear even if you won’t like hearing it. They will not hesitate to correct you when you’re wrong but will tell you in a respectful manner. Though it might hurt your feelings at first, in the end it will help. A friend with integrity is of great value. 
3. Spend quality time together
Making an effort to keep in touch with your friends through emails, texts and calls may not be as easy as it sounds. So, a friend who constantly lets you know they are there for you is the real deal. You don’t have to be at each other’s side all the time but putting effort into spending some quality time together will help the friendship grow stronger. Try hanging out on the weekends or every now and then with your best friends.
4. Stop talking and listen 
Too much talking and not enough listening could ruin your friendship. Listening is important in every relationship, including friendship. Yet, being a good listener is not easy. A good friend is attentive and listens carefully to what friends say. They try to understand the situation from your point of view and give you the advice that you need. 
5. Share common interests and values
Friends with shared values and interests will naturally bond closely. Common interests offer friends an opportunity to interact with one another on a regular basis. If their interests diverge and if they cannot find anything to do jointly, time spent together will diminish. Yet this tip is not a must to create a friendship, as friends with different interests may help you see, learn and experience new aspects of the world. 
6. Respect, respect, respect
A true friend will not ask you to put friendship before your principles. They will not expect you to compromise your principles in the name of your friendship. They will accept you the way you are, and for who you are, not for what you have. A true fried respects your dreams and inspires you to live up to your potential. They are a good influence on you. 
In fact, to be a good friend really doesn’t take that much. After all, it all comes from your heart. So, are you ready to be somebody’s best friend? Just keep in mind the tips above and one last piece of advice: to attract a good friend, be the friend you want to have. Then you are all set to find a true friendship that will last for the rest of your life. Good luck everyone!
