Creative economy?
We might not know what exactly the economy is all about, but we have so far acquainted ourselves with the word in this page of the Junior Herald.
Then comes the term “creative economy.” Thinking simply, the collocation does not sound like a match because “economy” is a rather concrete word while “creative” sounds more abstract.
But the association of the two words represent what our new President Park Geun-hye is trying to achieve in her five-year term in the fields of economy.
In her inauguration speech on Feb. 25, the president said: “A creative economy is defined by the convergence of science and technology with industry, the fusion of culture with industry, and the blossoming of creativity in the very borders that were once permeated by barriers.”
As seen in her remark, she emphasized first the role of science and technology in economy and second the convergence of respective industries.
Even so, the term “creative economy” remained vague to most people.
Then quite recently, Park and her Cabinet have clarified the term through official statements.
Park laid out a number of pointers for the development of a creative economy such as convergence of IT and science, and sustainability of small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with goals of achieving an employment rate of 70 percent.
Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Hyun Oh-seok summed up the president‘s creative economy policies as developing an “eco-system” where entrepreneurs and young people can take risks, secure funds to finance the launch of innovative start-ups, and even relaunch businesses after failure.
Establishing the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, which will operate as the control tower for the creative economy initiative, is seen as one of Park’s steps toward shifting the focus of Korea’s economy from family-run conglomerates to small and medium businesses, The Korea Herald said of the president’s policy.
The president is striving particularly to deal with the lack of jobs created for college graduates, the newspaper explained.
“It would be best to make use of FTAs with countries with which Korea has partnered more than Japan to increase the country’s SME export competitiveness,” Park said in an investment and export-related meeting with her ministers and corporate executives.
The major difference from the previous administration’s economic policy for start-ups is that the Park government is trying to encourage the private sector to lead efforts to create venture firms and expand their life cycles, whereas previously this was mainly driven by the government, The Korea Herald quoted experts as saying.
