Too much sitting and not enough activity could kill you
The more people sit, the more likely they are to develop a chronic disease such as diabetes or cardiovascular disease, according to a new study published in the International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity.
The study was carried out by Kansas State University researcher Richard Rosenkranz and his collaborators Emma George and Gregory Kolt from the University of Western Sydney.
The team of researchers studied more than 63,000 men in Australia between the ages of 45 and 65 to look at the effect of sitting on middle-aged males. The men were divided into three groups by the daily sitting time: Less than four hours a day, four to six hours a day, and more than eight hours every day. And they were asked about existing chronic diseases.
The result showed long periods of daily sitting has significantly dire health effects on middle-aged men. Those who replied they spent less than four hours a day sitting did not have high risk of developing a chronic disease. On the contrary, men who said they spent over four hours a day sitting had an increased risk of chronic diseases, such as cancer, heart disease and high blood pressure. The longer they spent time sitting, the more pronounced the risk became.
“We saw a steady stair-step increase in risk of chronic diseases the more participants sat,” Rosenkranz said. “The group sitting more than eight hours clearly had the highest risk.”
Some professions, particularly, office jobs or truck driving, require long hours of sitting. Yet when abundant daily sitting hours are combined with less physical activity outside of work, the risk of developing disease was further increased. 
“Long periods of sitting may be blamed on a lot of office jobs but it is hazardous to your health because of inactivity and the low levels of energy expenditure,” Rosenkranz said.
Though the research focused mainly on men, Rosenkranz suggested the results may be applicable to all irrespective of ages, genders and races. 
“We know that with very high confidence that more physically active people do better with regard to chronic disease compared with less physically active people, but we should also be looking at reducing sitting,” he said.
