Global Kids Musical explores importance of following dreams
 “Global Kids Musical (The Bremen Town Musicians)” will perform for Korean audiences for the eighth straight year this spring.
The show has been upgrading the quality and size of its performances every year and has become the nation’s most successful children’s musical to watch in the month of May. 
It was invited to Germany’s Bremen by the city government in 2009, and in 2011 it went to Shanghai International Children’s Cultural and Art Festival as the opening performance. The domestic children’s musical has been widely acclaimed by international audiences and has solidified its status as a global kids’ musical. 
“This year’s show is the most flawless and complete piece among the previous seven shows. It boasts a huge scale and a high-end screening system which will no doubt stimulate children’s imaginations,” singer and producer of the musical, Yoo Yeol insisted. 
The musical is about four animals -- a donkey, a cat, a dog and a hen -- who go on a trip to Bremen in search of their dream: to become members of the Bremen Town Musicians. 
The musical is based on the classic children’s novel, “The Bremen Town Musicians,” by Germany’s Brothers Grimm. 
Main characters 
Donkey
Shortly after seeing a mind-blowing performance by the Bremen Town Musicians, Donkey becomes obsessed with the band. He hopes to experience a new world with the band.
Doggy 
Careful Doggy refuses to bark because he is afraid that others would notice his bad breath. But he has one uncompromising life goal -- to play an instrument as a proud member of the Bremen Town Musicians.
Catty
Despite being a cat, Catty cares less about catching mice than becoming a hero by rooting out hoodlums and saving the world.
Rusty 
Rusty, the hen, thinks no one likes her voice. Still, she dreams of becoming an amazing singer. She hopes that one day she will sing from the rooftops and everyone will enjoy her morning song.
Will they become members of the town band? Find out on your own!
The show runs until May 26 at Theater Yong in the National Museum of Korea.
For more information about the show, visit, www.theateryong.or.kr or call 1544-5955.
