Michael Jordan weds Yvette Prieto
 “My father used to say that it‘s never too late to do anything you wanted to do. And he said, ‘You never know what you can accomplish until you try.’” ? Michael Jordan
NBA legend Michael Jordan recently married former model Yvette Prieto in a lavish, $10 million wedding in Palm Beach, Florida. The couple exchanged vows at the Episcopal Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with nearly 300 guests in attendance, including Jordan’s close friend Tiger Woods, former teammate Scottie Pippen, film director Spike Lee, and Grammy Award winner Usher. The ceremony was followed by a reception for more than 1,500 people at a luxurious private golf club in Jupiter, Florida that included live performances by renowned singers and a fireworks display.
This is Michael Jordan’s second marriage. He met his former wife Juanita Vanoy at a restaurant in Chicago. They got married in Las Vegas in 1989. The couple has three grown children together - Jeffrey, Marcus and Jasmine. Juanita filed for divorce in January 2002, but the couple announced a month later that they were trying to reconcile, and the petition for divorce was withdrawn. In 2006, the couple filed for divorce again, and their lawyers released a statement stating simply: “Michael and Juanita Jordan mutually and amicably decided to end their 17-year marriage.” Jordan paid Juanita $168 million in divorce settlements. It was the most expensive divorce in the world at the time.
Michael Jordan, widely considered the greatest basketball player of all time, is 50 years old. He is currently the majority owner, with an 80 percent stake, of an NBA franchise - the Charlotte Bobcats. Although he has long since retired from playing basketball, Jordan remains a top earner among sports celebrities. He earned an estimated $80 million last year from various corporate endorsement deals such as Nike, Gatorade, Upper Deck, Hanes, Presbyterian Health Care, 2K Sports and Five Star Fragrances. He also owns restaurants, car dealerships, and a motorsports team. His net worth is estimated by Forbes at about $650 million. 
Yvette Prieto, a Cuban-American model, is 35 years old. She studied business in college and worked in real estate and a hospital in addition to her modeling career. She is described by her friends as a down-to-earth person who serves as a soothing influence on the temperamental and ultra-competitive Jordan. Her former boyfriend Julio Iglesias, Jr. - son of the legendary Spanish crooner - called her “a fantastic girl … aside from her beauty, which is obvious, she is loving, simple and a very good person.” Prieto met Jordan at a Miami night club five years ago, and they have been living together since 2009. They were engaged in December 2011. 
In an interview with ESPN, Jordan talked about the changes Prieto brought to his life as he transitioned from being the most recognized athlete in the world to a team owner and a businessman. Jordan, who normally hates water, started going on sailing trips because Prieto loves them. He went from being bored out of his mind on the first trip to enjoying catching tuna and making sashimi on subsequent trips. A few years back, Prieto convinced Jordan to take her on a seven-hour drive all over North Carolina so she could see where he grew up and meet his extended family. Jordan was initially reluctant, but he gave in to her wishes. “It’s amazing what women can talk you into doing … make you change,” Jordan recalled that experience. 
Jordan and Prieto now live in a 38,000-square-foot home at the Bears Club golf course community in Jupiter, Florida. The 11-bedroom residence contains a giant kitchen where the newlywed couple likes to entertain their family and friends. 
