Chef Roy Choi
 “Our food is everyday food. It is food to fill your soul. We are not trying to make a statement with the food. We just wanted to add another flavor to your night.” – Roy Choi
Roy Choi is a Korean-American chef known for his fleet of Kogi trucks that roam the streets of Los Angeles. His innovative blend of fusion cooking, and the clever use of social media to spread information about his food trucks’ locations, has turned him into a celebrated and well-respected figure in the LA culinary scene. He has expanded his business to four restaurants which, together with his five Kogi trucks, feed about ten thousand people on a daily basis.
Roy Choi looks more like a rapper than a successful restaurateur, author and street food guru. He is heavily tattooed and is often seen clad in baggy jeans, T-shirts and baseball caps. Born in Seoul in 1970 and raised in Los Angeles, Choi grew up around his family’s restaurant in LA. He worked at various restaurant kitchens, in positions ranging from dish washer to cleaner to salad boy, throughout his high school years. He dropped out of law school after one year and was drinking and gambling so heavily that he recalled “hitting rock bottom” and was almost disowned by his family.
Choi’s life changed abruptly at age 25 when one day, while lying on his couch watching a cooking show called Essence of Emeril, he had an “out-of-body experience”. He recalled feeling as if the show’s host, renowned chef Emeril Lagasse, stepped out of the TV, shook him out of his doldrums and told him to get his life in order. Choi decided to make cooking his lifetime profession. He enrolled at the Culinary Institute of America and was the salutatorian of his graduating class. He honed his skills at famous restaurants such as Le Bernardin in NYC, Embassy Suites in Lake Tahoe, and The Beverly Hilton in L.A.
During the economic downturn in 2008, Choi was laid off from his job and he became unemployed. He nearly depleted his savings trying to pay his bills. It was then that he set upon an idea that changed everything. He and his close friend Mark Manguera converted a truck into a mobile kitchen, offering Korean-style barbecued meat served in Mexican taco shells, topped with a mixture of sauce, herbs and vegetables. They called it the Kogi Korean BBQ Truck, after the Korean word for meat. They initially drove the truck around different neighborhoods in L.A. and sold their fares at various street corners. The fusion of Korean and Mexican ingredients was an instant hit in a city heavily influenced by Asian and Latino cultures and taste buds.
As the popularity of their Kogi Truck grew, Choi and his partners expanded to a fleet that would include five trucks by 2011. They used daily Twitter updates to announce the location where their trucks would visit and were usually greeted by long lines of people waiting to experience the new dining sensation. The Kogi Trucks ranged far and wide throughout the city of L.A., in neighborhoods rich and poor, bringing with them an almost carnival-like atmosphere wherever they are parked. The Kogi Korean BBQ Trucks won a Bon Appétit Award in 2009, and Roy Choi was named Best New Chef by Food and Wine Magazine in 2010.
The success of Kogi trucks has spawned a host of imitators and competitors as large food trucks serving similar fares started flooding the streets of L.A. Roy Choi, however, did not rest on his laurels. He opened four fixed site restaurants: including the Kogi restaurant Alibi Room; rice bowl restaurant Chego (meaning “the best” in Korean); restaurant and full-bar A Frame; and Asian-Caribbean fusion restaurant Sunny Spot. Choi has written a book “Spaghetti Junction: Riding Shotgun with an LA Chef.” It would be published by his friend Anthony Bourdain’s new Ecco line.
