Restored Sungnyemun Gate reopens to public
After five long years of restoration, Korea’s 600-year-old Sungnyemun Gate was finally reopened to the public on May 4.
The Sungnyemun Gate underwent painstaking restoration after it was subjected to an arson attack by a disgruntled 69-year-old man.
Some of the nation’s best master carpenters and craftsmen participated in the restoration of the Korea’s National Treasure No. 1, a feat that cost 24.7 billion won ($22 million), according to the Cultural Heritage Administration.
The landmark, also known as Namdaemun or “South Gate” in Korean, is one of four gates that were built to protect Seoul, the capital city of the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1910). 
Experts say that despite the restoration project, the value of Sungnyemun as a national treasure has been preserved. 
“Many people think Sungnyemun was totally burnt down in the  fire, but that’s a misunderstanding,” Park Eon-kon, an architecture professor at Hongik University, told Yonhap News. “Only part of it was destroyed.”
Some of the blackened logs from the original building were reused while unusable materials were preserved for study or exhibition. 
“The gate’s value as a national treasure remains intact because what we did was ‘restoration,’ not ‘reconstruction’ for recreating what had been lost,” he added. 
In fact, extensive research had been conducted in order to repair the national monument to its original form using traditional building materials and techniques. According to officials, hand-made roof tiles were made in a traditional kiln, using traditional paints rather than artificial ones for the “dancheong,” the traditional Korean method of decorative coloring. 
The original walls on both sides of the gate itself, which had been destroyed during the Japanese colonial rule in 1910-1945, were also rebuilt during the restoration process. Officials added that the width of the stairway on the east side was also widened from 2.9 meters to 5 meters, while the surrounding ground was lowered by about 30 to 50 centimeters to resemble the gate’s original state.
The restored gate has now been reopened to the public, and is open every day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., except Mondays. For more information, call (042) 481-4650.
