Should parents be more concerned about student’s addiction to smartphones or computer games?
SMARTPHONES - Most students play games through computers and smartphones, which is causing great problems throughout society. Both gadgets are troublesome, but personally I consider smartphones cause more trouble.
Smartphone gaming has become a big issue in Korea. It is leading to troubles like game addiction and sight problems among users.
Smartphones can be problematic, but thinking twice, they can greatly help students in their education as well. So, I suggest parents should be more concerned with creative use of smartphones instead of worrying that smartphones will cause their children great harm.
But smartphones are easier to carry than computers, so the former can be more problematic in some ways. I have also found myself addicted to smartphone use quite recently. I noticed that I normally spend 3.5 hours a day playing with my smartphone. I was quite shocked. That meant I spend almost 24 hours fiddling with my smartphone per week.
So, for the two reasons that I raised, I believe parents should be more concerned about children’s addiction to smartphones than addiction to computer games. 
COMPUTER GAMES - Smartphones and computer games are the two most favored toys by kids today, so it is quite tough to say to which causes more trouble and which of them parents should be more concerned about. But looking closely, we can see that the latter is more problematic.
First, it is common knowledge that computer games are violent. I have not studied any statistics, but I can say for sure that there are not as many violent games played on smartphones. Another reason that smartphone games cannot be as violent is that people, including kids, play with their smartphones at a more open space surrounded by people.
Second, smartphones involve more interruption than computer games do. Suppose that you are playing a sniper’s game in your room with your parents away. There is simply no disturbance that discourages you from continuing to play. But with smartphone games, there are often interruptions, such as calls from mother, friends or tutors. You cannot play smartphone games for long without some disturbance.
To sum up, computer games will cause more trouble for children because they are more violent and they involve few interruptions, so parents should be more worried about computer games than about smartphones.
