Korea plagued by plagiarism
The past few months have seen the reputation of Korea’s academia plunge into a downward spiral as a series of plagiarism scandals involving top government officials, celebrities and even professors made front-page news.
The seeming lack of ethics amongst Korea’s educated elite and an insensitivity to the problems of plagiarism have brought the integrity of Korea’s academia into question, with some going so far as to suggest that Koreans have gone too far with respect to their obsession with academic degrees.
“I think the underlying problem is that many, even high-profile people, regard academic degrees as some form of a medal to boast [about],” Kim Yer-su, a professor at Kyung Hee University, told The Korea Herald. 
Kim went on to suggest that the culture of plagiarism may stem from Koreans’ widespread obsession with educational backgrounds. 
“Unless we stop the obsession with academic degrees and start to educate students about the seriousness of plagiarism, people will continue to copy-and-paste from others’ work,” said Kim, adding that there seems to be less guilt associated with such behavior because many Koreans consider dissertations as a way to enhance their career rather than expand on their knowledge. 
What is even more worrisome is that an overwhelming majority of professors in Korea seem to condone plagiarism. In an email survey conducted by Kyosu Shinmun, a weekly newspaper for professors, an astounding 86.3 percent of the 600 professors that participated merely criticized their colleagues’ plagiarism privately or simply turned a blind eye. 
Additionally, according to data from the Ministry of Education, though 83 professors were found guilty of plagiarism between 2008 and 2012, only 20 of them had been dismissed or expelled from their respective schools. In fact, the majority were only found to have received verbal warnings and other such light punishments. 
PLAGIARISM IN MUSIC
A popular form of plagiarism seen in Korea involves musical plagiarism. There are two contexts under which musical plagiarism can occur: musical ideas and sampling. Musical ideas are the melody or motif of a song, whereas sampling refers to taking a portion of a song and reusing it in a different song. Of the two, sampling is a more prevalent and popular form of musical plagiarism in today’s music. 
There are a plethora of instances where musicians have sued or accused fellow musicians of copyright infringement by sampling without permission. In some instances, however, singers have been accused of outright stealing a song’s melody.
One of the more well-known scandals that rocked Korea’s music scene involved the singer Lee Hyo-ri, whose fourth album, “H-Logic,” included 7 songs produced by Bahnus which were found to have been plagiarized. The scandal resulted in a 2-year hiatus from the entertainment world for Lee and the ensuing legal battle between Bahnus and his various victims is considered to be the largest in K-pop history.
WHAT IS PLAGIARISM?
Plagiarism is defined by the American Heritage Dictionary as “the unauthorized use or close imitation of the language and thoughts of another author and the representation of them as one‘s own original work.” Simply put, it is stealing. 
Though it is not a crime per se, the act of plagiarism is widely considered to be a serious ethical offense. In academia, plagiarism generally results in an expulsion, though in some cases, it can constitute a more serious charge of copyright infringement. 
AVOIDING PLAGIARISM
The first step to avoiding plagiarism is to understand what it is. While copying word-for-word is an obvious sign of plagiarism, merely replacing one or two words with synonyms is, though subtle, still considered plagiarism. The best way to avoid plagiarism is to really understand the concept and then restate it using your own words. When in doubt, always cite your sources. 
CITING SOURCES:
When citing, it can get confusing as to what needs to be cited and what doesn’t. As a general rule, if the information fits any of the following categories, it does not need to be cited.
l If the information is considered general knowledge. For example, common sense observations, folklore, urban legends and well-known historical events do not require citations. 
l If the information is gathered from your own personal experiences, insights, creations, thought, etc. 
l In research or scientific papers, data you gathered yourself while conducting tests, polls, etc, need not be cited. 
l As a rule, facts cannot be copyrighted and thus aren’t subject to infringement. The method in which the facts are described or expressed, however, are, so when using facts to support a statement, make sure to use your own words. 
There are two basic ways to cite your sources. One way is to put the unique phrase or sentence in quotation marks. If you are paraphrasing but are still worried about accusations of plagiarism, then the other way is to mention the source in the sentence (e.g. “According to …”). 
