Don’t go grocery shop while you are hungry, scientists suggest
When you are hungry, everything looks good, but in particular, a specific type of food is more appealing, according to a new research.
The study published in the May 6 issue of the Journal for the American Medical Association (JAMA) says when people are hungry they are more drawn to high-calorie foods than usual; thus, grocery shopping while hungry leads you to make poor food choices. 
In the first study, 68 people fasted for five hours and were then asked to shop for groceries online. Half of them were given wheat crackers while the other half did not get to eat anything. 
People who had had crackers before shopping bought on average eight low-calorie products, such as fruit, vegetables and chicken breasts and selected 3.9 high-calorie items on average. 
Those who went shopping while hungry also bought on average eight low-calorie products; however, they chose more high-calorie products. They purchased an average of 5.7 high-calorie products, such as candy, salty snacks and red meat. 
In a second experiment led by Brian Wansink, director of the Food and Brand Lab at Cornell University, researchers compared purchases made by 82 people in a real-world grocery shop. People were divided into two groups: Ones who came between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. (an “after lunch” period when people are less likely to be hungry) and those who visited between 4 and 7 p.m. (when people are more likely to be hungry).
Customers from the former group bought 11.2 low-calorie items and 2.69 high-calorie items on average. But those from the latter group bought considerably fewer low-calorie items -- 8.21 on average -- and 3.81 high calorie items. 
“Even short-term food deprivation can lead to a shift in choices such that people choose less low-calorie, and relatively more high-calorie, food options,” the researchers wrote in the study.
“When you are hungry, you think high-calorie food can provide you with more energy,” Aner Tal, a post-doctoral research fellow at Cornell University‘s Food and Brand Lab, also explained.
