A founding father of Korean economy, Lee Byung-chull
(2) Lee’s celebrated business career
 　With the money he obtained from his father, Lee Byung-chull went to Masan to realize his dream. He wanted to start his business as soon as possible. Lee thought that since Masan was a small port city which received brisk flows of money and agricultural products, it would be the perfect place to begin his business. Lee decided to set up a rice mill. 
 　Lee founded his milling company in March, 1936, with two friends. He named it “Hyup-dong,” which means cooperation in Korean. His business was doing well, but he wanted to expand it. So Lee went on to buy a Japanese automobile company. Lee also bought ten additional trucks to run his business. It was quite an investment because back then trucks cost a fortune, but nothing could stop Lee, who was a man of immense aspirations. 
 　Lee proved himself as a successful entrepreneur. His unquenchable thirst for adventure and challenge helped him quickly become a business magnate. He bought huge amounts of land and earned himself the title of “great landlord.” In the process, Lee borrowed a large amount of money from a bank, but unfortunately and unexpectedly, the war between China and Japan broke out. Lee was pressed to return the money he borrowed and eventually he had no choice but to close down his entire business. 
 　It was the very first setback Lee had to go through in his career. He realized that he was too focused on the expansion part. He thought he should have been more cautious and thoughtful.
 　Lee did not want to be trapped in the mistakes of the past, so he went through months of avid market research and came to a conclusion that he would run a trading company. Lee turned the idea into action in 1938 in Daegu by founding the Samsung Trading Company. This was the beginning of the Samsung’s saga. 
 　Samsung Trading was a huge success, but Lee Byung-chull did not settle for it yet again. He planned to acquire Joseon Brewery to expand his business empire. This time, though, Lee made sure that he remains cautious and thoughtful all the way around.
 　There was a life of stability in Daegu, but Lee Byung-chull left there for Seoul in search of more challenges. Looking back, Lee has always been a truly adventurous and growth-centered entrepreneur who did not fear new challenges. In November 1948, Lee founded Samsung Corporation in Jongno, Seoul. He was 38 years old. Samsung Corporation traded a variety of products to meet the needs of Korean people. At that time, Korea was just beginning to see economic growth and people’s demands for goods were rising quickly. 　
 　Overall, Lee’s business was sailing along smoothly. Then tragedy arrived. Two years after Samsung Corporation was established, the Korean War broke out. Lee could not save his company, so he had to move back to Daegu where his Joseon Brewery was still on the go. 
 　In Daegu, he met two employees. They were Lee’s long-time staff. They gave Lee 3 billion won and encouraged him to start the business all over again. He was so touched by their loyalty that he steeled his mind once more. By then, Lee had already experienced a fair share of successes and failures in business so he knew he was ready for a whole new start. 
 　At that time, Lee felt sorry about Korea’s heavy reliance on imports. He firmly believed that goods should be produced on Korea‘s own soil. Lee hoped so dearly that Koreans could use Korean-made products. Lee decided to tap into the manufacturing industry and founded Cheil Sugar co.It started to manufacture sugar domestically. It was a sensation at that time, because no one expected Korean sugar to be so high in quality, on top of being cheaper and fresher than imports. Sugar produced by Cheil Sugar was hands-down a much better option for Korean consumers. 
 　Moreover, Lee dreamt of creating Korean-made woolen cloth. Despite doubts and skepticism, Lee pushed with his vision and realized his dream. He succeeded to found Cheil Textiles. Thanks to the birth of Cheil Textiles and his exemplary entrepreneurship, people were able to wear good quality, inexpensive clothes that were made in Korea. 
 　Lee also sought to localize fertilizers to boost the country’s economy. He completed Korea Fertilizer co. in Ulsan in 1967. However, the company was embroiled in a controversy regarding illegal imports of saccharin and he had to hand over the fertilizer firm to the government. Following the series of unfortunate events, Lee took a break from his work. 　
 　In 1969, he came back to the management field and set up the Samsung Electronics. In 1973, Lee also established Hotel Shilla and he founded Samsung Ship Building in 1977. Under Lee’s command, Samsung kept expanding not only in size but in its influence on Korean society.
 　Samsung chairman Lee Byung-chull announced to the world that Samsung would enter into the semiconductor industry to seek Korea’s sustainable economic growth. Lee believed that the high-tech industry was the way for the country’s future development. With his ambitious plans, Lee Byung-chull purchased Korea Semiconductor in December 1977. The following year, Lee set up Samsung Semiconductor, which is now among the greatest chipmakers in the world. 
 　In the year of 1969, Lee received the Golden Tower Industry medal on 6th National Export Day for his contribution to the country’s economic advancement. Until he died in 1987, Chairman Lee Byung-chull showed great commitment and devotion for the development of the Korean economy. From the moment he started his own business, the focus had never been his personal achievements, but it was rather his noble sense of responsibility as a businessman to serve and support his country.　
 　Late chairman Lee Byung-chull of Samsung lived his life to the fullest by accomplishing his dreams and life-long goals through successfully running his companies.
