LeBron James wins 4th MVP award
 “I tried harder to win Defensive Player of the Year than I did MVP …That’s my goal. Coach (Erik Spoelstra) had me guarding every position. We’ll try again next year.” - LeBron James
LeBron James of Miami Heat has won the National Basketball Association’s Most Valuable Player award for the 2012-2013 season. He is only the second player in NBA history to win the award four times in five seasons. Nicknamed “King James”, the 28-year-old superstar became the youngest player in NBA history to win four MVPs. Only NBA legends Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (six), Michael Jordan (five), Bill Russell (five) and Wilt Chamberlain (four) have as many MVP awards. 
LeBron James won the MVP award with 1,207 points, followed by Kevin Durant of Oklahoma Thunder with 765 points, and Carmelo Anthony of New York Knicks with 475 points. He received 120 of 121 first-place votes by league media members and analysts - one vote shy of becoming the first player to win the MVP by unanimous vote. Gary Washburn of The Boston Globe acknowledged in an article that he cast the other first-place vote for Carmelo Anthony. It was the second time a player fell one vote short of a unanimous MVP selection -- Shaquille O‘Neal of the Los Angeles Lakers also received 120 of 121 first-place votes in 1999-2000. 
LeBron James has been the best player in the league for the past five years, but this past season may have been his best in terms of overall efficiency and excellence. He shot a career-high 56.5 percent from the field and 40.6 percent from 3-point range. He averaged 26.8 points, a career-high 8.0 rebounds and 7.3 assists per game. He played all five positions on offense at all-star level, and more impressively, he also guarded opposing players in all five positions with great effect. He was the only player in the NBA to lead his team in scoring, rebounding and assists per game this season. 
The overall excellence of LeBron James was the main reason behind Miami Heat’s success this season. He had a record six straight games of scoring at least 30 points while shooting at least 60 percent and became the youngest player in league history to break the 20,000-career-point plateau. He won five of the six Eastern Conference “Player of the Month” awards. Miami Heat finished with the league’s best record in the regular season -- 66 wins and 16 losses. He led the team on a 27-game winning streak -- the second longest in league history -- during the season. After the All Star Break, the Heat’s record was an incredible 40-2. It is the greatest stretch over that number of games in NBA history. 
The greatness of LeBron James lies not only in his individual skills and talents, but also in his ability to make his teammates and his team better. At 203cm and 113kg, James has the speed and agility to play point guard, the long-range accuracy to play shooting guard, and the strength to pound with anyone in the low post. After he proved himself an unstoppable force on offense, James worked tirelessly to become a stalwart on defense.  His relentless pursuit to better his game has made him one of the most complete players in league history.  He became only the second player to post at least 2,000 points, 600 rebounds, 500 assists and 100 steals in a season twice, joining legendary Larry Bird of the Boston Celtics, who did it three times. 
LeBron James does not sit on his laurels. With a fourth MVP award in hand, as well as a runner-up honor in the Defensive Player of the Year award, James declared that he is looking to improve on his free throw shooting percentage for next season. It must be scary for his opponents to think that James may be even better next season.
