Relive the glitz and glamour of a bygone era with ‘The Great Gatsby’
In the latest attempt at a film adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “The Great Gatsby,” Baz Luhrmann attempts to capture all the qualities that made the original 1925 novel great. This feat is notoriously difficult as anyone who has read the book can attest to the complexity of the plot and abundance of symbolism.
Though departing somewhat from the original story, Luhrmann‘s film includes some modern adaptations that help to appeal to a wider audience. One such example would be Luhrmann’s choice of Jay-Z and rap music in the film’s soundtrack in place of the ragtime music described in the original novel.
Additionally, starring Leonardo DiCaprio as the mysterious and glamorous Jay Gatsby and Tobey Maguire as the story’s narrator Nick Carraway, the casting leaves nothing to be desired. Neither does the film’s use of visual effects, elaborate camera work, breathtaking sets and gorgeous period costumes to exemplify the character’s skewed perceptions of reality. In fact, the visual aspects of Luhrmann’s “The Great Gatsby” effectively complement Fitzgerald’s clearly cynical view of the garishness of American life during the “roaring twenties.” 
Despite leaving critics divided as to the success of the film, the opening day of Luhrmann’s “The Great Gatsby” in the U.S. grossed an astounding $19.4 million, placing second after “Iron Man 3,” which opened with $19.8 million. 
“The Great Gatsby” opened in theaters in Korea on May 16. 
There have been a total of five film adaptations of Fitzgerald’s “The Great Gatsby.” 
F. Scott Fitzgerald 
Born on Sept. 24, 1896, Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald is widely considered the greatest American writers of the 20th century. Unfortunately, at the time of his death in 1940, Fitzgerald believed himself to be a failure. In fact, “The Great Gatsby,” considered his magnum opus, had only sold 20,000 copies in its first year and was widely forgotten until a surprising revival during World War II. 
