Robert Downey Jr.
 “I think part of my destiny has to be realizing that I‘m not the poster boy for drug abuse. I’m just this guy who has a really strong sense of wanting home and wanting foundation and having not had it, I now choose to create it.” - Robert Downey Jr.
Robert Downey Jr., star of the mega box-office hit “Ironman 3,” is one of the most popular and highest-paid actors in the world. He began his career as a child star, and by the time he was in his twenties, he was widely acknowledged as one of the most talented, versatile and innovative actors in Hollywood. However, fame and success came with a heavy price for Robert Downey Jr. He struggled with alcohol addiction and substance abuse, and spent years in and out of various court-ordered drug treatment programs before he finally achieved sobriety and reached the top of his profession.
Robert Downey Jr. was born on April 4, 1965, in New York City. His father was an avant-garde filmmaker, and his mother was an actress. He began acting at age 5, playing a puppy in his father’s film, “Pound,” in which actors played dogs. He went on to play small roles in several of his father’s films. He dropped out of high school in 1982 to pursue a full-time acting career and started working in theaters and on a television comedy program. He began to make his mark in feature films in several coming-of-age movies, notably “Weird Science,” “Back to School” and “The Pick-up Artist.” 
Robert Downey Jr.’s breakthrough performance came in 1987 with the film “Less Than Zero,” in which he played a drug-addicted rich boy whose life rapidly spirals out of his control. His moving performance was widely praised by film critics and audiences alike. Unfortunately, his personal life mirrored the troubled life of the character he played. He developed a full-blown drug habit and had to enter a drug rehabilitation program soon after filming was completed. He was constantly in the headlines because of his troubles with addiction and his brushes with the law, but his career did not seem to be affected at first, as he continued to appear in major films.
By the early 1990’s, Robert Downey Jr. had established himself as a critically acclaimed A-List actor. The high point for him came in the 1992 film “Chaplin.” His dramatic range and acting ability was on full display as he portrayed the legendary Charlie Chaplin from ages 19 to 83. He performed all the stunts required for the demanding physical comedy. He earned rave reviews for his work and was hailed as one of the most talented actors of his generation. His performance earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. As his career was reaching new heights, he was spiraling to new lows in his personal struggles.
In 1997, Robert Downey Jr. spent four months at the L.A. County jail for failing to comply with drug test requirements. He missed another mandatory drug test in 1999 and was sentenced to a three-year prison term at the California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison.  He was released after serving one year, and within a week of leaving prison, he landed a role on a popular TV series.  He later won a supporting actor Golden Globe Award for his performance.  Despite his personal trials and tribulations, his talent never left him. 
After years of drug abuse, arrests and rehabilitation, Robert Downey Jr. finally conquered his own demons. He stayed sober and drug-free, and his career reached unprecedented new heights. He starred in the blockbuster “Ironman” trilogy, two highly acclaimed “Sherlock Holmes” movies, as well as the super hero ensemble film “The Avengers.” He has become the most bankable star in Hollywood. He is set to earn $50 million for the upcoming “The Avengers” sequel. Robert Downey Jr. has indeed created his own destiny again, and this time, he did it for all the right reasons.
