Discover the history and joys of Korean cartoons at the Korea Manhwa Museum
Cartoons have a special place in all children’s hearts. Sadly, the culture of spending hours at a comic book store is slowly diminishing, as evidenced by the fact that comic book stores have all but disappeared. Fortunately, the Korea Manhwa Museum in Bucheon has stepped up to preserve the cultural and artistic values of Korean comics.
Anyone, from those interested in learning about the history of Korean comics to those who are merely looking for something to do over the weekend, will find a visit to the Korea Manhwa Museum quite a treat. Compromised of 5 floors of exhibitions and experiences, the museum has a lot to offer. 
Basement level: Manhwa Storage Room (Manhwa Preservation Room) 
The state-of-the-art Manhwa Storage Room of the museum houses some very rare relics of Korean manhwa, including original, hand-drawn copies of comics from the 50s and 60s. Those with a passion for Korean manhwa are sure to appreciate what the Manhwa Storage Room has to offer.
First floor: Manhwa Film Screening Theater
The first floor of the Korea Manhwa Museum features three distinct areas for visitors to explore. A 400-seat Manhwa Film Screening Theater that shows a variety of animation films, the Experience Corner where visitors can try their hand at making “Dakpaper Dolls” and cellphone chains, and a relaxing cafeteria that serves some simple snacks and drinks for those looking to recharge. 
Second floor: Manhwa Library Archive
The Manhwa Library Archive on the second floor of the museum is the nation’s biggest archive of comic-related documents. In fact, there are over 250,000 different books housed in the Manhwa Library Archive related to Korean and foreign comics, dissertations and even academic documents.
Third floor: Manhwa History Hall
The third floor is where the main exhibition of the Korea Manhwa Museum can be found: the Manhwa History Hall. Visitors are able to learn about Korean manhwa’s 100-year history and experience the world of comics with all five senses at the 4-D Theater.
Fourth floor: Manhwa Experience Room
The Manhwa Experience Room is a delight for those who looking for a short reprieve from reality. Providing a chance to delve into a virtual world via a projected screen, visitors are given a chance to personalize their own characters in “Making My Own Character,” become a pitcher in a virtual baseball game and more!
For more information, visit the official website at www.komacon.kr/museum 
