Students cheat on test because school emphasizes grades more than learning
PRO - There is unanimous view concerning academic dishonesty and the myriad repercussions it has: The scourge must be stamped out before it gets worse. However, the authorities are hypocrites of even greater magnitude for endorsing the origin of this social anomaly; they condemn students’ trivial methods of cheating while actually emphasizing academic achievement to the point where teen suicide rates in Korea are extremely high and still rising.
Naturally, if students studied merely to learn, there would be no need for assessments of their knowledge. Tests, if considered logically, are a narcissistic, draconian operation devised by the authorities for educational attainment and to satiate the demands of parents who thought that the academic environment lacked competition. Tests are a mere indicator of achievement, yet they put pressure on the students.
Thus, the advent of a “meritocracy” forms an impregnable divide between achievers that conform to their parents’ and educators’ demands and independently minded students, who protest against this injustice. The latter are stigmatized as delinquents, prone to engage in further illicit activity, and are treated atrociously by their parents as punishment. Surveys indicate that 61 percent of cheaters are motivated solely by pressure from their parents and teachers, and that another 32 percent are heavily affected by these factors.
The academic environment has become a futile arms race, with the overwhelmingly powerful faction further abusing their power to persecute the rest, who are forced to use illegitimate methods to survive in a fiercely competitive nation. If this hopeless cycle continues its rapid progress, I believe that other nations will condemn the maltreatment of students and no longer consider us a true democracy.
NO - Do you want to get good scores in your tests? Then what do you do? Memorizing a lot of solutions to problems? We usually do study hard to get a good score. People say the reason why students cheat on tests is that school emphasizes grades more than learning. However, I’m personally against the idea of cheating for the following reasons.
First, they don’t have confidence in their abilities. They want a good score but they don’t know anything because they do not study. So they use a secret paper on which the answers are written, or they look at other students’ examination papers. If they had studied hard and had confidence in themselves, would they still cheat? I don’t think so.
Second, they think they would lag behind when many other students cheat on tests, which is absolutely not true. They know cheating is unconscionable, but they do it for a short-term gain on their report card. This is because they think getting a good score by cheating is easier than studying hard.
Third, cheaters do not want to make repetitive mistakes in tests. They cheat during the test in part because they do not want to make a mistake. But making mistakes is also something they should work on. If you make mistakes a lot, why don’t you admit it and try not to do so?
There are many students who do not do their best and count on their luck. So, after cheating, they do not even feel guilty. We have to be sincere to everything that we face in life, and tests in school are the first such step we should take.
