 Ryu Hyun-jin helps make a young fan’s trip to the stadium unforgettable
Pitcher Ryu Hyun-jin made headlines recently for his actions at Dodger Stadium, though this time it had little to do with his skills as a player and more about his character as a professional athlete.
Various media, particularly in Korea, reported on the athlete’s heartwarming actions as a video clip of Ryu interacting with a young fan in the stands went viral. Ryu is seen in the video, which has racked up 2 million views since being posted, playing catch as hitters were taking batting practice at Dodger Stadium. 
According to Dodgerfilms, the Dodgers fan who posted the video, the two played catch for about five minutes before Ryu had to return to prepare for the game against the Washington Nationals on May 14.
Both fans and non-fans of baseball alike were quick to praise Ryu, calling him a “class act,” for making the young fan’s trip to the ballpark unforgettable. In fact, many speculate that his actions have helped earn him more fans around the world than with his skills as a baseball player. 
Many were also impressed by the boy, William “Deuce” Mancha, whose skills were undeniable. Not only was he able to hold his own against a major league pitcher, Mancha’s throws prompted many to comment on his “good arm.” One user went so far as to say, “When I was that kid’s age, that ball would have hit my face.” 
The day after the video was posted on YouTube, a similar video of Washington Nationals’ ace pitcher Gio Gonzalez playing catch with a tiny fan at the same ballpark surfaced online. The two videos came just a week after fellow Dodgers player Matt Kemp made headlines for giving a wheelchair-using fan battling cancer an autographed baseball as well as the jersey, hat and cleats he wore during the game.
In response, many people have commended the players on their positive interactions with fans, with the Huffington Post suggesting that if this becomes the new trend of the 2013 baseball season it could help boost attendance at ballparks. 
