Presidents‘ addresses to the U.S. Congress
President Park Geun-hye clearly demonstrated confidence when she addressed the U.S. Congress in early May.
English communications consultant Rah Seung-yun, who represented Korea in the bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympic Games, praised Park’s address.
“The delivery was very good and very clear. She sounded authoritative and confident,” Rah said in a recent interview with The Korea Herald.
Park’s English proficiency at the U.S. Congress received positive marks from netizens, who praised her calm, deliberate and well-prepared speech.
Park’s speech at the Capitol took place 18 months after former President Lee Myung-bak.
Through her speech, Park received 41 rounds of applause, the second biggest number among the six Korean presidents who have made a speech at Congress, and six standing ovations. The other four were presidents Syngman Rhee, Roh Tae-woo, Kim Young-sam and Kim Dae-jung.
The first Korean president who addressed to a joint session of the U.S. House and Senate was President Syngman Rhee. The Ph.D. graduate from Princeton University in the U.S. appeared at the U.S. Congress in 1945. In his speech, he expressed appreciation to the United States and its citizens for what they did for Korean independence.
Rhee, who was born in 1875, first learned English from U.S. missionaries in Korea when he was 20 years old. In his 30s, he went to America and studied politics at Princeton University. Rhee’s English was good enough for him to share his thoughts with U.S. President Eisenhower and General Douglas MacArthur.
The second president was Roh Tae-woo. Through his speech made in 1989 at the U.S. Congress, Roh promoted the country’s democratization in English for 40 minutes. He received 14 rounds of applause in the address.
Roh’s rule was notable for hosting the 1988 Seoul Olympics, which represented a major break from previous administrations. The president remained committed to Korea’s democratic reforms.
President Kim Young-sam visited the U.S. Congress in 1995 and is said to have made an eloquent and confident speech, expressing hope that Korea and the United States would work together to foster regional and bilateral cooperation. His speech was made in Korean and received 20 rounds of applause from the U.S. lawmakers.
Kim Dae-jung, the 15th President of the Republic of Korea and also a Nobel Peace Prize recipient, headed out to the U.S. Capitol in 1998, when Korea was hit by the Asian financial crisis.
In the address, then-President Kim expressed his gratitude to the International Monetary Fund for providing assistance for the Korean economy. He promised to advance the national economy through economic reforms and financial restructuring. The English address he made received 10 rounds of applause from the audience. Kim is well-known for teaching himself English while he was imprisoned in the 1980s.
President Park Geun-hye’s predecessor Lee Myung-bak worked for Hyundai Construction from 1960s to 1990s and is excellent in communicating in English. But his speech to the U.S. Congress in 2011 was made in Korean. During the speech, Lee gave his support for the Free Trade Agreement between Korea and the United States. He received 45 rounds of applause.
Park’s latest speech in the United States is considered to work as a boost for bilateral ties between the two countries, but also invited negative comments from some Koreans who said they felt uncomfortable with the president who did not make the address in her mother tongue.
Meanwhile, Park is known to be able to communicate in French in a formal discussion and is good at Chinese and Spanish as well.
