Sir Alex Ferguson retires
“To the fans, thank you. The support you have provided over the years has been truly humbling. It has been an honor and an enormous privilege to have had the opportunity to lead your club and I have treasured my time as manager of Manchester United.” ? Sir Alex Ferguson
Sir Alex Ferguson has stepped down as the manager of the English Premier League powerhouse Manchester United after 26 glorious years at the helm. During his legendary coaching career at Old Trafford, he won 38 major trophies, including 13 league titles, five FA Cups, four League Cups, two UEFA Champions League crowns, the FIFA Club World Cup, the Intercontinental Cup, the UEFA Cup Winners‘ Cup and the UEFA Super Cup. Everton manager David Moyes will take over as Manchester United’s manager, and Ferguson will continue his relationship with the club as a director and a board member.
Ferguson’s decision to retire has drawn strong reaction from all over the world. Within hours of his announcement, share prices for the American-owned Manchester United football club dropped 5 percent on the New York Stock Exchange. British Prime Minister David Cameron and Labor Party leader Ed Miliband both took to Twitter to express their admiration for the coaching legend. A host of former and current Manchester United players, including Sir Bobby Charlton, Peter Schmeichel, Dwight Yorke, Ruud van Nistelrooy, Cristiano Ronaldo and Michael Owen were among the first people to voice their appreciation for what Ferguson has done for the club. 
Ferguson coached his final home match at Old Trafford, his 1,499th game as manager, on Sunday, May 13, 2013.  Before the kickoff, the fabled stadium was already in a festive mood with a sea of red flags and large banners.  Ferguson entered the stadium through the guard of honor formed by players of both teams. Manchester United defeated Swansea 2-1 on Rio Ferdinand’s 87th-minute goal in front of 76,000 delirious fans to clinch the club’s 20th league title.  After the final whistle, Ferguson delivered his farewell address, thanking his family, his players, the fans and the club for the support as the crowd serenaded him by chanting his name. 
Alex Ferguson was born on Dec. 31, 1941, in Govan, Glasgow, Scotland. His playing career began at age 16 as an amateur with Queen’s Park. He became a full-time professional footballer in 1964 when he signed with Dunfermline Athletic. In the following season, he became the top-scorer in the league with 31 goals. He played for six different teams in the Scottish league during his 17-year playing career, scoring 170 goals in 317 games. He was a member of the Scotland national football team in 1967 and scored nine goals in seven caps.
Alex Ferguson began his coaching career at age 32 when he was appointed the manager of East Stirlingshire in the Scottish Third Division in June, 1974. Later that year, he joined St. Mirren as manager. He was credited with transforming a team that was in the lower half of the old Second Division to First Division champions in 1977. In 1978, he joined Aberdeen of the Scottish Premier League as manager. The team won the Scottish League in 1982 and achieved even greater success the following season (1982-1983) by winning the European Cup Winners’ Cup. He also served as the manager of Scotland national football team from 1985 to 1986.
Ferguson was appointed manager at Old Trafford on Nov. 6, 1986. He took over a club that was 21st (second from bottom) on the league table and guided the team to finish the season in 11th place. He led the team to FA Cup victory in 1989-1990 season, and won his first league title in 1992-1993 season. Under Ferguson’s guidance, Manchester United was well on its way to becoming the dominant club in the Premier League. In the 1998?99 season, Man U completed an unprecedented treble sweep of trophies: the league, FA Cup and Champions League. He was knighted in 1999 for his services to the game.
