‘Star Trek: Into Darkness’
An exciting voyage into space, the final frontier
Full of adrenaline-pumping action, spectacular graphics and great acting from the cast, “Star Trek: Into Darkness” is well worth a trip to the movie theater. 
The “Star Trek” series has had a cult-like following since the first season aired in the 1960s. Whilst some die-hard fans may turn up their nose at J.J. Abrams’ revival of the series, as evidenced by some of the negative reviews his first “Star Trek” film in 2009 has received, “Star Trek: Into the Darkness” is sure to be a hit for most. In fact, this sequel may even show younger audiences why the original series gained its fiercely loyal following to begin with. 
Older fans are sure to be delighted with the many references to the original “Star Trek” series, whilst younger fans won’t be able to resist the allure of the film’s breathtaking computer-generation action scenes nor the plethora of emotionally riveting moments interspersed with hilarious one-liners to break the tension. 
The juxtaposition of the logical and emotionless Vulcan Spock (played by Zachary Quinto) alongside the arrogant and brash human James T. Kirk (played by Christopher Pine), for example, provides some great moments of laughter. 
Even those who don’t consider themselves Star Trek fans will find this film well worth the ticket price. Full of science-fiction, action, drama and comedy, the film is a great way to escape into a fantasy world, even if just for a moment. 
“Star Trek: Into Darkness” hits theaters on May 30. 
Brief plot summary: “Star Trek: Into Darkness” 
Starfleet Command is thrown into chaos when someone who is first identified as an officer-gone-rogue by the name of John Harrison (played by Benedict Cumberbatch) begins an unprecedented attack in London. Harrison narrowly escapes being caught, fleeing to a remote section of the Klingon homeworld of Kronos.
Kirk and his crew are left to seek retribution for the death of a close friend and many high ranking members of Starfleet during an attack by Harrison, an identity that is later revealed to have been made up. In fact, he is actually an even more dangerous being by the name of Khan. Along the way, Kirk learns of a dangerous secret that could spell disaster for Starfleet and, by extension, the human race.
“Spock Prime” is played by Leonard Nimoy, who played Spock in the original series.
