Angelina Jolie undergoes preventive double mastectomy
 “My doctors estimated that I had an 87 percent risk of breast cancer and a 50 percent risk of ovarian cancer. … Once I knew that this was my reality, I decided to be proactive and to minimize the risk as much as I could. I made a decision to have a preventive double mastectomy.” -- Angelina Jolie
Movie star Angelina Jolie announced that she had part of her breasts surgically removed after doctors informed her that she carries a mutation of the BRCA1 gene, which dramatically increases her risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Jolie, who is 37 years old, disclosed her double mastectomy in an article titled “My Medical Choice” published in the New York Times Op-Ed page. She said that after the preventive surgery, “My chances of developing breast cancer have dropped from 87 percent to under 5 percent. I can tell my children that they don’t need to fear they will lose me to breast cancer.”
Angelina Jolie’s decision to have preventive double mastectomy was based on the detection of the mutated BRCA1 gene in her body. According to the National Cancer Institute, BRCA1 and BRCA 2 are types of tumor-suppressing genes. In normal cells, those genes help stabilize the cell’s DNA and help prevent uncontrollable cell growth. But harmful mutations in BRCA genes can lead to breast or ovarian cancer. On average, about 12 percent of all women will develop breast cancer sometime in their lives, but for women with a harmful BRCA mutation, the risk of breast cancer goes up to 60 percent. The mutation of BRCA1 gene that Jolie carries pushes the risk of breast cancer above 80 percent.
The entire procedure required for Jolie’s mastectomy took three months to finish, and it was done in complete secrecy at the Pink Lotus Breast Center in California. She had her initial procedure on Feb. 2, and the major surgery, in which the breast tissue is removed, took place two weeks later. Nine weeks after the first procedure, the final surgery is completed with the reconstruction of the breasts with an implant. Jolie said that there have been many advances in this procedure in the last few years, and that she felt empowered that she made a strong choice that in no way diminished her femininity.
Jolie’s decision to have such a drastic surgery, and then share her experience in such a public manner, was lauded by many as an act of courage that is sure to focus public attention on breast cancer again. She is the most high-profile person to speak openly of her mastectomy since American first lady Betty Ford did it in 1974. Many breast cancer survivors, cancer experts and cancer care advocates voiced their support for Jolie’s decision and action. They expressed hope that her actions will influence some women with strong family histories of breast cancer to explore their options and make informed decisions.
 In her NY Times article, Jolie mentioned that her mother battled ovarian cancer for almost a decade before she died in 2007 at age 56. Jolie lamented that five of her six children did not have the chance to know her mother and experience what a loving and gracious person she was.  She thanked her fiancé, Hollywood super star Brad Pitt, for his love and support and said that the experience has brought her entire family closer than ever. 
Angelina Jolie is the daughter of Academy award winning actor John Voight and actress/producer Marcheline Bertrand. She is best known as an actress for her role in the “Lara Croft” series of films. She won the Academy Award, the Golden Globe Award and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Supporting Actress for the 1999 film “Girl Interrupted.” She serves as a special envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and has visited refugee camps around the world. She and her fiancé have three biological children and three adopted children together. 
