Yearee Life in Museum: Shedding a new light on death
Despite adversity and a lengthy 10-year preparatory period, the undoubtedly unique Yearee Life in Museum finally opened its doors on April 24. 
Focusing on the study of funerals and other death rituals, the theme of the Yearee Life in Museum may seem rather surprising if not gloomy. However, its opening comes in light of a growing trend in Korea dubbed, “well-dying.” 
While the more commonly known “well-being” trend refers to the movement of living happier and healthier lives, the “well-dying” trend emerged as a response to the ongoing controversy over euthanasia. In fact, while “well-being” refers to quality of life, “well-dying” refers to the quality of death; specifically, dying with dignity. 
Centered around the solemn state funeral procession of King Jeong-jo, the 22nd ruler of the Joseon Dynasty, the purpose of the Yearee Life in Museum is to educate on the various ways in which the funeral customs differ across Asia, Europe and Africa. Although the theme may seem a bit dark, the museum attempts to show visitors the beauty and dignity of funerals, offering a more positive view of death. 
The museum can be divided into three main sections: World Culture Zone, Korean Culture Zone and Special Exhibition Zone. 
World Culture Zone
The World Culture Zone provides visitors with an opportunity to learn about the distinctive funeral customs of different ethnic groups around the world. 
Korean Culture Zone 
The Korean Culture Zone focuses on the traditional funeral rites of Korea. It is here that visitors may catch a glimpse of the museum’s main exhibit: a reenactment of the state funeral of King Jeong-jo reduced to an eight of the actual size. The replica features more than 6000 pieces, including figurines, palanquins and horses made of clay, that were all handmade over the course of two years. 
Special Exhibition Zone
The Special Exhibition Zone currently houses an exhibition on the various masks, musical instruments, chairs and other such artifacts used during funeral rites by tribes in Africa. 
For more information, visit the museum’s official website at www.yearee.com or call (031) 323-7277.
