Should celebrities have the same right to privacy as regular citizens?
YES - Being a celebrity brings as many troubles as privileges. Such troubles cannot be solved with money. While fans enjoy being informed of every aspect of celebrities’ lives, the celebrities are not always happy about this exposure. 
The worst case of excessive intrusion was in France on Aug. 31, 1997. Diana, Princess of Wales, was killed in a car crash in Paris after having been chased by paparazzi. The accident also killed two other people in the car. There are many other celebrities who have shared stories of about narrow escapes while being chased after paparazzi.
We can find many other incidents where celebrities have had their private lives exposed against their will. Some thoughtless paparazzi or netizens upload fake nude pictures of celebrities, which leads to the collapse of stars or the break-up of celebrity couples - Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez, for example. 
There is no winner in such privacy infringements – neither the thoughtless uploaders nor the stars. Fans of the stars will lose interest or even begin to dislike them for unproven reasons, and the celebrities may fall into despair.
Living as a celebrity is quite different from life as a regular member of the public, but threatening someone’s private life through mudslinging is unacceptable. Celebrities should be given equal rights to enjoy their private life along with family and friends just like ordinary people.
NO - There are many challenging jobs, and being an entertainer is one of the most difficult ones out there. Being an entertainer brings much fun and excitement, but celebrities should at the same time open their private lives to the public, since people want to know about them. I think this is inevitable.
Celebrities gain huge popularity following the success of their movies, dramas or music. But when they date someone or plan to get married, they have no choice but to let the public know about it. Celebrities are public figures, so people will find out about such news with or without the celebrities’ knowledge. If someone violates somebody else’s privacy, it is considered a sin, but this is not the case when the target is a celebrity. 
On the contrary, if celebrities try to hide their lives, it will not be well received by the public. People are enthusiastic about celebrities’ private lives, but some celebrities want popularity without the accompanying costs.　
In Korea in the past, reporters were allowed to cover celebrities’ wedding anniversaries, but these days they tend not to, depending on the celebrities’ requests. Reporters are not allowed to attend weddings as before. Also, some public figures disappoint people by becoming addicted to drugs or gambling. We expect more from celebrities than from general people because celebrities should set an example as public figures. So, I consider that their lives should be open to the public.
If celebrities do not want their privacy to be infringed, they should stop being celebrities. The moment they have become a public figure, they should accept that they do not have the same rights to protection of privacy of ordinary people. 
