Beauty is in the eye of the beholder: Learn to embrace and love real you
Walking into an Abercrombie & Fitch (A&F) store is like stepping into a catalog of models with perfect bodies and tanned skin, one blogger noted – and there is a good reason for it. 
CEO Mike Jeffries of Abercrombie & Fitch was not shy about his admiration for beautiful people during an interview with Salon, online news and entertainment website, in 2006. “We want to market to cool, good-looking people. We don’t market to anyone other than that. 
“In every school there are the cool and popular kids, and then there are the not-so-cool kids. Candidly, we go after the cool kids. We go after the attractive all-American kid with a great attitude and a lot of friends. A lot of people don’t belong [in our clothes], and they can’t belong. Are we exclusionary? Absolutely. Those companies that are in trouble are trying to target everybody: young, old, fat, skinny. But then you become totally vanilla. You don’t alienate anybody, but you don’t excite anybody, either,” CEO Mike Jeffries commented.
His ruthless remarks gained a renewed attention after Business Insider, a NYC business and technology news website highlighted it again early this month. The comments went viral, invoking fumes from mainstream news media and fashion publications. 
“The only thing you’ve done through your comment is to reinforce the unoriginal concept that fat women are social failures, valueless, and undesirable,” a fashion blogger stated.
Robin Lewis, a retail industry analyst and co-author of The New Rules of Retail accused the 68-year-old CEO of “refusing” to make clothes for plus-size women and excluding overweight customers on May 8. “He doesn’t want larger people shopping in his store. He wants thin and beautiful people,” said Lewis.
In response to the reignited controversy, Jeffries said in A&F’s Facebook page on May 15 that the quote had been “taken out of context.” He added: “A&F is an aspirational brand that, like most specialty apparel brands, targets its marketing at a particular segment of customers. However, we care about the broader communities in which we operate and are strongly committed to diversity and inclusion. We are completely opposed to any discrimination, bullying, derogatory characterizations or other anti-social behavior based on race, gender, body type or other individual characteristics.“
Abercrombie & Fitch has been notorious for its specific target marketing. It offers women’s clothing up to a size 10 while leading competitors like American Eagle, Aeropostale, H&M and Target offer sizes up to 18. A recent market research shows about two-thirds of Americans wear a size 10 or larger.
The company’s skewed policy and judgment aren’t just bad publicity but have been bad business for A&F. In 2004, the company had to pay $40m in a class-action discrimination lawsuit in the U.S. for hiring almost exclusively white staff at its stores.
In today’s media, singer Beyonce, supermodel Tyra Banks and actress Kate Winslet are described as full-figured, when in fact in the real world they are average sized. To the standard of media, they sure have curves but calling them “full-figured“ which is an euphemism for being “fat” sends dangerous message to young women. 
Efforts are piling up to change the industry standard and project a healthy but beautiful image. In 2003, British GQ had to apologize to actress Kate Winslet after the magazine excessively retouched a picture of her. 
“I do not look like that and more importantly I don’t desire to look like that,” she told BBC in 2003. “I can tell you they’ve reduced the size of my legs by about a third.”
In 2006, organizers of Spain’s top fashion show turned down a slew of models whose body mass indexes (BMI) -- a measure of their weight in relation to their height -- were under 18. Officials of the Madrid show said body images featured in fashion shows and media at large encourage eating disorders among young people -- girls being the most vulnerable. Now fashion brands have increasingly hired fuller-figured models to their shows, seeking to set positive beauty image for young girls obsessed with staying thin. 
In 2004, Unilever launched The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty in a mission to “create a world where beauty is a source of confidence and not anxiety.” The campaign aimed at celebrating women’s natural beauty and to inspire them to be confident and comfortable with themselves. It showcased a series of advertisements featuring regular women embracing their beauty.
Furthermore, in the U.S., a program called Beautiful Me is offered to schools and communities to help girls develop self-esteem. 
“Girls of all ages benefit from recognizing what makes each of us valuable and unique,” Kate Tuffy, a founder of the program, explained. About 6,000 girls, in the New York City area; Chicago, Illinois; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, have participated in the program and benefited from it. One girl who took part in Beautiful Me said she learned it is important to appreciate the special qualities in people and to feel good about yourself. 
“When you feel good about yourself, it is easy to make others feel good too!”
Jeffries’ distorted and blinded view that being thin and beautiful makes you cool -- and by implication superior to those who aren’t -- is simply nonsense. 
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and society’s standards of beauty are constantly changing. The most important thing is to build your self-esteem and embrace and love the real you. 
Body mass index is calculated by dividing individual’s body mass with the square of their height. A BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 is normal and below 18.5 is considered underweight.
