David Beckham retires
 “I‘m a footballer that has played for some of the biggest clubs in the world, played with some of the best players in the world, played under some of the biggest and best managers and achieved almost everything in football.” -- David Beckham
English football super star David Beckham has announced that he will retire from professional football at the end of the 2012-2013 season. In his storied 20-year career, David Beckham has won league titles with four top-tier teams in four countries -- Manchester United of the English Premier League, Real Madrid of the Spain’s La Liga, Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer in the U.S., and Paris Saint-Germain of the French Ligue 1. He made a record 115 career appearances on the England national team and was the team captain for six years. He is widely admired as a global sports icon and an ambassador for football and England.
Beckham’s professional career began with Manchester United when he made his first-team debut at age 17 in 1992. He went on to win the Premier League title six times, the FA Cup twice and the UEFA Champions League in 1999 with the club. In 2003, he signed with Spanish league powerhouse Real Madrid and won the La Liga championship in 2007, his last season with the club. In July 2007, Beckham signed a record-setting five-year, $32.5 million contract with Major League Soccer club Los Angeles Galaxy. In 2011, he won a league title in his third country when Los Angeles won their third MLS Cup. In 2013, Beckham joined Paris Saint-Germain of the French Ligue 1 and became the first player to win a top-flight league title in four different countries.
Beckham is best known for his prowess in curling free kicks over the wall of defenders and into the net while leaving goal keepers helplessly flat-footed. He is also highly regarded for his ability to break down defenses by delivering long range passes with pin-point accuracy. His magical free-kicks are prominently featured in his career highlights. His first goal for team England was a free kick, a surreal bender that helped defeat Colombia in the 1998 World Cup. In the 2001 qualifier against Greece, Beckham hit a similarly unstoppable free kick that sent England to the 2002 World Cup. In 2006, Beckham drilled a mesmerizing free kick against Ecuador to become the first England player to score at three World Cups. 
Off the pitch, David Beckham is a commercial juggernaut.  He is a much in-demand product spokesman all over the world.  He parlayed his football talent, good looks and high-profile marriage to pop star Victoria Adams of the Spice girls to become a global icon. The couple signed lucrative deals to promote products by clothing designers, health and fitness specialists, fashion magazines, perfume and cosmetics manufacturers, hair stylists, exercise promoters, and spa and recreation companies.  He became one of Britain’s wealthiest sportsmen as brand Beckham earned about $46 million a year. He and his wife, now a fashion designer, are estimated to have a joint wealth of $190 million. 
David Beckham has been active in many charitable causes. He has been involved with UNICEF since his days as a player on Manchester United. In 2005, he became a goodwill ambassador with a special focus on UNICEF's Sports for Development program. He is a founding member of the Malaria No More U.K. Leadership Council and helped launch the charity in 2009 with Andy Murray at Wembley Stadium. He has served admirably as an ambassador for all that is good about England and football. In 2003, Beckham became the first ever sportsman from outside of China to be invited to become the ambassador for the sport of football in the country.
