‘Fast and the Furious 6’
Dominic Torreto (Vin Diesel) and his crew are back for another explosive adventure in “Fast and the Furious 6.” 
Directed by Justin Lin, the latest installment of the popular “Fast and the Furious” series brings its usual fuel-filled, adrenaline-pumping car chase scenes that have continued to make the street-racing saga a huge success. In fact, this latest film is especially enjoyable for fans of the franchise. 
In the sixth installment of the series, Dominic Torreto’s crew of street-racing criminals return to help U.S. Diplomatic Security Service agent Luke Hobbs (Dwayne Johnson) take down a criminal mastermind whose actions could spell disaster for the world. The man Hobbs needs help stopping is Owen Shaw (Luke Evans), a former British Special Forces soldier intent on creating and selling to the highest bidder a device capable of disabling the power in an entire region.
Though Dom first resists the request for help, he eventually agrees to help when Hobbs shows him a recent picture of Letty Ortiz (Michelle Rodriguez), the love of his life whom he thought was dead. A shocked Dom is forced to break his promise with the crew that the Rio heist would be their last. 　
The loyal crew comes together once again for the job because this time, it’s personal. With the goal of reuniting their family and finding out the truth about what happened to Letty, the crew agrees to help Hobbs in exchange for full amnesty for their past crimes. 
Full of explosive action, which, of course, includes some death-defying car chases and stunts, the film is enjoyable for anyone, from fans of the series to those who merely enjoy watching fast cars in action. 
“Fast and the Furious 6” hit theaters on May 22.
The storyline of “Fast & Furious” (2009) and all succeeding installments -- including this latest sequel -- take place before the events of “The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift,” which was released in 2006. 
Don’t forget!
Be sure to check out the post-credits scene in “Fast and the Furious 6.”
