Artist David Choe
David Choe is a renowned American painter and mural artist of Korean descent. He is one of the wealthiest artists in the world. His works, consisting of vibrant, frenetic and provocative murals and paintings, are highly sought-after and critically acclaimed. 
Choe’s creations can be seen in such varied settings as the White House, the offices of Facebook headquarters, the walls of an ice cream shop, the private residence of a notorious Hollywood madam, the cover of best-selling albums and on streets and building facades. 
David Choe was born in Los Angeles in 1976 to Korean immigrant parents. As a child, he was fascinated with comics, super heroes and graffiti art. As a teenager, he was rebellious, undisciplined and angry. During the 1992 Los Angeles Riots, 16-year-old Choe took part in the violence, only to find out a few days later that his family’s real estate business in Korea Town was burned to the ground. His family fell on hard times for the next several years.
After graduating from high school, Choe spent the next two years freight-hopping and hitchhiking his way across the United States, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. He resorted to sleeping on the streets to get by. He returned to Los Angeles at the age of 21 and enrolled at the California College of Arts & Crafts. He studied under Professor Barron Storey and was strongly influenced by his unique style of painting. He dropped out after two years, returned to his home in Los Angeles, and started to draw illustrations and write for magazines.
Choe started to exhibit some of his works in an ice cream shop called Double Rainbow, and he also created a graphic novel called Slow Jams. His efforts began to catch the attention of the public and the entertainment and advertising industry, and he found himself in great demand for commercial illustration and graphic design.
In 2005, Choe accepted a commission from Internet entrepreneur Sean Parker, the co-founder of Napster and the first president of Facebook, to paint graphic murals in the interiors of Facebook’s first Silicon Valley office.  Choe was given the choice of accepting a payment of several thousand dollars, or equivalent value in stocks -- about 3.77 million shares -- in the startup company. Although Choe initially thought the Facebook business model was “ridiculous and pointless,” he opted for the stocks. That decision, which Choe said he made because he was a gambler, turned out to bring him a financial windfall of legendary proportions.  When Facebook’s long-awaited initial public offering (IPO) materialized in 2012, at a whopping $53 a share, Choe found himself a $200 million man. 
Although David Choe’s paintings and commercial murals command large sums of money these days, he still professes a special love for street graffiti. He considers street graffiti as “destructive, political, spiritual, and mostly just fun.” In an interview with Juxtapoz magazine, Choe said this of his love for graffiti: “I’m going out late at night to have an affair with the streets. I’m not worried about mistakes. … Maybe somewhere in between the process I can achieve enlightenment, fulfillment, and redemption.”
