Singing alone is more fun than at a noraebang
Yes - Many students go to noraebang with friends to relieve their stress. And many people think singing together is much better than singing alone. But I think singing alone is better than doing so in a group for the following reasons.
First, noraebangs can be dangerous. They are usually closed up and crimes can take place there. Girls without adults can be an open target for criminals. Singing alone at home is much safer than singing in a noraebang.
Second, singing alone does not require money. To go to noraebang, you have to pay money. Going there quite often, twice a week for example, would be burdensome for a teenager.
Third, some noraebangs are dirty. The microphones are used by many other people, so there can be many pathogenic bacteria. Using the microphone can leave you infected.
In conclusion, singing at noraebang with friends is not as good as singing alone. First, noraebangs can be dangerous, especially for girls. Second, singing alone does not cost money whereas singing in noraebang does -- sometimes quite a lot. Also singing in noraebang can be unsanitary. So, I would prefer singing alone.
No - Most people like to go to noraebang when they play with friends. There are some kids who don’t like to go there either because they are too shy or because it is expensive. But I am one of those who enjoys time with friends than spending time alone.
First, when we go to noraebang with friends, we can share our feelings and music that we like. We usually select songs we like best, so we can share our interests, and also we get to have a chance to listen to new hits.
Second, we can really enjoy ourselves at a noraebang -- making each other happy, getting excited in turn by singing our choices, and responding to one another. It is a different form of communication.
Third, we can develop our friendship while singing at noraebang. Singing in a group is just like playing with friends out in the playground. Through sharing tastes and thoughts in singing, friends have a great chance to share their interests with one another.
Although I admit that there are many merits in singing alone, I prefer singing with friends at noraebang for the reasons I have stated above.
