Homeless girl becomes high school valedictorian
Seventeen-year-old Chelesa Fearce gave an inspirational speech to her graduating class at Charles Drew High School in Clayton County, Georgia.
What makes her so special was that the teenager achieved an outstanding academic performance -- receiving a 4.466 GPA and scoring 1,900 on her SATs -- while living in shelters, according to a Daily Mail report on May 24.
Crediting her exemplary accomplishments, the school made her valedictorian at the graduation ceremony. Despite personal obstacles, “she has still done an outstanding job academically, socially,” Razelda Killen, counselor of Charles Drew High School, said. Killen spoke highly of Chelesa’s positive attitude.
“I’m so happy that I got through all of this and that I finally have gotten to this point. I’m very proud to come this far,” said Chelesa, who mentioned that she hopes to inspire her fellow classmates when giving her valedictorian speech.
“I just told myself to keep working, because the future will not be like this anymore,” Chelesa Fearce told WSBTV. Even when she was in homeless shelters, her determination never faltered. “I just had to open my book in the dark and just use my cellphone.” She is due to attend Spelman College in Atlanta in the fall. 
The schoolgirl’s mom, Reenita Shephard, said that the family had to move apartments, live in shelters, hotels or the family car regularly because she “got laid off from jobs maybe about four or five times.” But she refused to let the gloomy situation hamper her children’s chances; Shephard tried to read as often as possible to her children and that paid off. Chelesa Fearce’s sister Chelsea Shelton will also be graduating as salutatorian from Atlanta’s George Washington Carver High School.
Chelesa says she wants to become an oncologist and that she knows that hard work and determination can change your life. 
“Don’t give up,” she said. “Do what you have to do right now so that you can have the future that you want.”
