 Benefits of having siblings
MBC’s “Dad! Where are you going?” made headlines recently for its phenomenal ratings, achieving its highest ever nationwide viewer share of 15.1 percent on May 26. Though the show had been popular since the first episode aired in January, this marked the first time the show was able to beat out SBS’ highly popular “Running Man” for the No. 1 spot in ratings for the highly competitive Sunday night timeslot. 
According to news reports, the reason behind the show’s sudden spike in ratings is due to its “Sibling Special.” 
In celebration of May as “Family Month,” the show filmed a “Sibling Special” that was broadcast in three separate episodes. Though the show had enjoyed decent ratings from its first episode in January, the “Sibling Special” episodes helped the increasingly popular show achieve its highest ratings yet. 
For the “Sibling Special,” Kim Min-gook’s younger brother Min-yool, Lee Joon-soo’s older brother Tak-soo, and Song Ji-ah’s younger brother Ji-wook joined the cast as they returned to Pumgul-ri Village where they had filmed the first episode. 
The “Sibling Special” gained particular attention as viewers were interested in how having their siblings changed the way the children interacted with each other and the parents. 
As a result of the popularity of the show’s special sibling series, a lot of interest has been generated in the concept of siblings as well, which is especially interesting considering Korea’s low birthrate. In fact, many are choosing to abstain from having children while those who do have kids tend to opt to have just one. 
While there are definitely some negative aspects to having several children, as evidenced by the sheer volume of research on the effects and implications of sibling rivalry as well as the costs of childrearing, it is important to remember that there are also a plethora of benefits to be had from children having siblings. 
Sibling relationships: Best of both worlds
Siblings play a surprisingly important role in a child’s development. In fact, since older siblings often play a care-giving role in their younger siblings’ lives, they tend to have a big influence on emotional, social and psychological development. This is no surprise since children usually spend more time with their siblings than with their parents, especially if both parents work.
Some surprising developmental benefits of having a sibling were found in a 2010 study by researchers at Brigham Young University (BYU). The BYU study found, for example, that having a sibling helped defend against depression, lowered the risk of delinquency and promoted positive social behavior in children like kindness and empathy. 
“Sibling affection, regardless of gender, was really a positive thing,” study researcher Laura Padilla-Walker told Deseret News. “We know that siblings are important in early childhood, but this finding is interesting because it shows that they still matter in adolescence.” 
It turns out that having siblings plays a rather big role in the development of a person’s social skills, skills that are crucial both in childhood and later in adulthood as well. 
In fact, numerous studies have found that children with siblings are better at making and maintaining friendships, a crucial skill at any age. People with siblings not only get along better with people who are different from themselves than people without siblings, they have also been found to be more sensitive to and aware of other people’s feelings. As such, they also tend to be better at expressing their feelings than only children. 
Another positive aspect of having brothers and sisters is that people with siblings are more likely to be good at sharing than those without. Whether this is merely a natural response to having siblings or being forced to share as children, the end result is the same: People with siblings are better at sharing and compromising than those who grow up in a single-child household. 
Interestingly, some studies have shown that children who shared with their siblings were also more likely to be generous and less likely to act out or show symptoms of depression. Other contributing factors included doing things with siblings and showing physical affection. In fact, the BYU study found that siblings had a bigger influence on whether a child was kind or generous than parents. 
The reason for this is because while the relationship between parent and child is usually based on obedience and authority, the relationship between siblings is generally out of love or friendship. In general, siblings are like a mix of parents and friends. There is the familial love that is present between parent and child, but also the friendship that exists between peers. 
As anyone with friends knows, having that peer-to-peer relationship is equally as important as having parents. In fact, sibling relationships are the longest relationships that most people will have in their lives. Friends come and go and most people, hopefully, outlive their parents. 
Unlike friends, however, siblings are related and they usually grow up in the same household, which means they can understand you better than any friend ever could. Additionally, parents and children share a relationship that is, unfortunately, limited in scope due to the inevitable authority-based, hierarchical nature of parent-child relationships. 
Siblings, on the other hand, are a mixture of both. They can be both your friends and respected (and annoying) family members in one. As such, sibling relationships are the best of both worlds. 
Ask anyone with a sibling, however, and you will find that most find it difficult to name any benefits to being someone’s brother or sister. Having siblings includes lots of fighting and rivalry for attention. Regardless of the fact that having a sibling isn’t always sunshine and roses, there is one thing that all people with siblings will agree on: It’s hard to complain of boredom when you have a brother or sister that you can pester to your heart’s content. 
