 Protecting against asthma with sunlight
The temperature is getting warmer by the day as summer approaches. While some people welcome the hot summer weather by basking in the sunlight, others fear the harmful effects of sun on their skin. They use every possible method, including putting on sun screen and wearing a humongous hat, to avoid sun.
But according to researchers at King‘s College London, a certain amount of sunlight may help treat asthma. The study, published in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, shows vitamin D, which is created by the body when the skin is exposed to sunlight, can lower levels of interleukin-17. Though interleukin-17 is a vital part of the immune system that helps fight infections, high levels of this chemical in the body can cause asthma.
Professor Catherine Hawrylowicz and her team of researchers investigated the impact of the vitamin on interleukin-17. They added Vitamin D to blood samples of 28 asthma patients. The study showed lower level of vitamin D was linked to a worsening asthma symptom, meaning vitamin calms an over-active part of the immune system in asthma.
“We know people with high levels of vitamin D are better able to control their asthma - that connection is quite striking,” Hawrylowicz told BBC. 
Asthma patients use steroids or other drugs when they experience breathing problems. But sometimes the drugs do not work. So for those who do not respond well with steroids, sunshine can be used instead.
“We think that treating people with vitamin D could make them control their asthma with fewer steroids,” Hawrylowicz said. She says the treatment will improve the quality of their lives by reducing side effects. 
The professor points out a culture of covering up in the sun and using sun screen may have increased asthma rates, but added “it is a careful message because too much sun is bad for you.”
The health benefits of sunlight are unfathomable. Sunshine helps treat depression. Sunlight deprivation can cause a condition called seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a form of depression. This is why there are more depressed people in winter as hours of day are shorter during the time. Enough exposure to sunshine is also known to help children’s growth.
Helicopter parenting not a good idea
A slew of studies have shown that a style of over-parenting known as “helicopter parenting” may have more adverse effects than merits, according to an NBC News report.
A father calling a university professor disputing over his son’s grade is a clear sign of over-parenting, Chris Segrin, a behavioral scientist who studies interpersonal relationships and mental health explained in his study. 
Despite the father’s good intentions, his phone call undermined his son, leaving him feeling insecure and incapable, not empowered and supported, noted the researcher. To his interpretation, the son was a casualty of what scientists describe as an “epidemic of over-parenting.” 
Researchers say this type of overly attentive child-rearing, dubbed “helicopter parenting,” began in mid-1990s when children of the Baby Boom generation reached high-school and college age. 
Parents, especially educated working professionals, competed with one another to prove how engaged they were and how much they can provide for their kids. 
“Parents have become constantly more involved in their children’s lives than they were a decade or two ago,” says Nelson, a professor of sociology at Middlebury College. 
The paradox of this form of parenting is however, is despite its seemingly good intentions, it is not best for the kids, Segrin points out. Youngsters who have parents who intervene inappropriately -- offering advice, removing obstacles and solving problems -- wind up as anxious, narcissistic young adults devoid of skills to tackle challenges on their own. 　
In his recent study, Segrin interviewed more than 1,000 U.S. college-age students and their parents. He found that many of the young adults keep in touch with their parents several times a day. “I don’t think it’s just calling to socialize. A lot of it is, ‘How do I?’ ‘Will you?’ ‘Can you?’ They are still quite reliant on their parents,” he noted.
Another study also found that too much help from parents could backfire. A paper by Virginia psychologist Holly H. Schiffrin discovered that the more parents were involved in a child’s schoolwork and selection of college majors, the less satisfied they become in college. 
“Overparenting is motivated with the idea of doing good things. But it does the exact opposite in the long run. In the long run, parents are impairing their child’s coping skills,” Segrin concluded.
He added; it would be better to let young adults learn to handle problems and setbacks on their own.
