Bayern Munich wins Champions League title
 “I don’t know how many times I dreamed about it. Everybody I spoke to before the game I said, ‘Today is going to be the night and we’re going to do it.’ To do it in the end is an unbelievable feeling.” - Arjen Robben 
Bundesliga powerhouse Bayern Munich defeated German rival Borussia Dortmund 2-1 in the UEFA Champions League final at Wembley Stadium in England to win Europe’s biggest football tournament on May 25. The first all-German final in the tournament’s history was a thrilling game from start to finish. Dutch star Arjen Robben scored the winner in the 89th minute to send Bayern to its first Champions League victory since 2001. The victory ended four years of bitter disappointment and helped atone for heartbreaking losses in the final in 2010 (to Inter Milan) and 2012 (to Chelsea).
On the road to the 2013 Champions League final, Bayern Munich emerged from Group F with aggregate victories over Valencia CF of Spain’s La Liga, Lille OSC of French Ligue 1 and FC Bate Borisov of the Belarusian Premier League. In the round of 16 knockout phase, Bayern tied Arsenal of the English Premier League 3-3 on aggregate but advanced on away goals rule. In the quarterfinals, Bayern defeated Juventus of Italy’s Serie A 4-0 on aggregate. In the much-anticipated semifinal showdown with FC Barcelona of La Liga, Bayern was in devastating form as it destroyed the Lionel Messi-led club 7-0 on aggregate to reach the Champions League final for the 10th time.
Borussia Dortmund reached the 2013 Champions League final by emerging from the very strong Group D. It was arguably the group of death which included 2013 La Liga champion Real Madrid, 2013 Dutch Eredivisie champion AFC Ajax and 2013 English Premier League runner-up Manchester City. In the round of 16, Dortmund defeated FC Shakhtar Donetsk of the Ukrainian Premier League 5-2 on aggregate. In the quarterfinals, it accounted for Malaga of La Liga 3-2 on aggregate. In the semifinals, Dortmund defeated Real Madrid 4-3 on aggregate, the same margin as in the group stage, to reach the finals for the second time.
More than 100,000 German fans descended on London to witness the first all-German Champions League final, and the two sides put on a thrilling show at Wembley Stadium. In a game that featured numerous scoring chances, it was Mario Mandzukic who put Bayern ahead in the 60th minute by tapping in a pass from Arjen Robben. Dortmund was unfazed by the deficit and continued to surge forward in frenzied attack. Their efforts paid off in the 68th minute when they were awarded a penalty kick after Marco Reus was kicked in the stomach by Bayern centerback Dante Bonfim Costa Santos. ?lkay Gundo?an converted the penalty to equalize the score at 1-1.
In the 89th minute, Arjen Robben latched on to a Franck Ribery back-heeled pass in the penalty area and put the ball past Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller for the game-winning goal and set off a wild celebration by Bayern fans. It was not a pretty goal, but it was sweet redemption for Robben, who missed two excellent scoring opportunities in the first half. In last year’s Champions League final against Chelsea, it was Robben’s failure to convert an overtime penalty kick that cost Bayern the title and caused some fans to turn against him. This time, the Dutchman stood tall as the hero at the end of the game with his arms raised toward the section of ecstatic Bayern fans.
The title game victory marked the Bayern Munich finale for Coach Jupp Heynckes, who won his second Champions League trophy after leading Real Madrid to the title in 1998. He will be replaced by former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola. 
