 Father-son collaboration ‘After Earth’ hits theaters
fter all the hype generated by Will Smith when he touched down in Korea with his son to promote their latest film collaboration, “After Earth” has finally hit theaters in Korea on May 30.
Set in the future, the film tells the story of Kitai Raige (Jaden Smith) and his father Cypher (Will Smith) who find themselves stranded on Earth about 1,000 years after humans have evacuated the planet. 
Kitai and Cypher shared a tumultuous relationship with Cypher viewing his son as a disappointment and Kitai blaming himself for the early death of his sister at the hands of an Ursa, a type of alien monster that can “sense” fear. At the behest of his wife, Faia (Sophie Okonedo), Cypher takes Kitai on his last voyage as a general of The Ranger Corps, a peacekeeping organization much like the United Nations. Unfortunately, the two encounter a surprise asteroid shower and end up crash landing on Earth, now a quarantined planet. 
Not only are father and son stranded on an unrecognizable Earth, Cypher is critically injured, leaving Kitai as the one responsible for finding a way to get them back home. As Kitai embarks on the perilous journey to find the emergency beacon they need to signal for help, Cypher and Kitai are forced to learn to trust and depend on each other. 
Directed by M. Night Shyamalan, “After Earth” had been widely anticipated around the world, but even more so in Korea. Audiences waited eagerly for the film’s release after Will Smith hinted at the possibility of collaborating with Psy if enough people in Korea went to watch it in theaters. 
Sadly, it looks as though the promise may not be fulfilled as critics in the U.S. seemed less than enthusiastic about the film, calling it a flop. On the other hand, the film has received rather positive reviews from viewers in Korea, averaging 7.53 out of 10 stars on the portal site Naver since its release. 
To watch the trailer for “After Earth,” visit the film’s official website at http://after-earth.co.kr. 
