 Comedian and actor Ken Jeong
 “There’s really no substitute for working hard. I think that’s my biggest talent. There are always people who are funnier and more talented than I am, but I don’t take anything for granted, and I commit myself 100 percent to each of my roles.” – Ken Jeong
Ken Jeong is a Korean-American actor and comedian notable for his hilarious and over-the-top performances in hit movies such as “Knocked Up,” “The Hangover (parts I, II & III)” and “Pain and Gain.” He is one of the busiest and most in-demand actors in show business with multiple movie projects and numerous guest appearances on popular television shows and variety programs. In addition to his thriving acting career, his is also Dr. Jeong -- a practicing physician in the state of California.
Ken Jeong was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1969 to immigrant parents from Korea. He was an outstanding student and graduated at age 16 from Walter Hines Page High School. He completed his undergraduate studies at Duke University in 1990 and his medical degree at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1995. While completing his residency in internal medicine at Ochsner Medical Center in New Orleans, Jeong pursued his interest in stand-up comedy by working the comedy club circuit. He won the “Big Easy Laff-off,” a stand-up comedy competition judged by late NBC president Brandon Tartikoff and “Improv” founder Budd Friedman. They both advised him to move to Los Angeles. 
Jeong moved to Los Angeles to pursue a career in comedy and acting. He worked at famous comedy clubs such as “the Improv” and “Laugh Factory.” At the same time, he practiced medicine at a hospital run by the integrated managed care consortium -- Kaiser Permanente -- in the affluent Woodland Hills district of Los Angeles. His comedic talent was soon recognized and he landed guest starring roles in popular TV series such as “Two and a Half Men,” “The Office” and “Entourage.” He made his feature film debut playing the wisecracking Dr. Kuni in Judd Apatow’s 2007 comedy hit “Knocked Up.” Jeong’s breakout performance in the movie helped him land more roles in films such as “Role Models,” “Step Brother’s,” “Pineapple Express” and “All about Steve.”
Jeong experienced a major career breakthrough in 2009 when he was cast as Asian mobster Mr. Chow in the blockbuster comedy film “The Hangover.” A scene in which Mr. Chow burst out of the trunk of a car naked, screaming and wielding a tire iron became an iconic comic moment in the movie. The film went on to become one of the highest-grossing R-rated films of all time, as well as a lucrative money-making franchise with two successful sequels. Jeong’s star continued to rise after “The Hangover.” He landed a recurring role as Señor Ben Chang in the TV series “Community.” He was cast as Jerry Wang in the 2011 box office hit “Transformers: Dark of the Moon.” He called the experience of working on that film the greatest moment of his career. 
Ken Jeong is having another productive year in 2013. “The Hangover III,” in which his character Mr. Chow is a significant part of the plotline, is in worldwide release. He traveled to many countries, including Korea, to promote the film. He also appeared as Jerry Wu, a wacky motivational speaker, in the new comedy movie “Pain and Gain” opposite Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and Mark Wahlberg. He did voice work on animated films as “Floyd” on “Despicable Me 2” and as “Kim-Ly” on “Turbo.” Jeong has also become a widely recognized face of advertising campaigns, including for Pepto-Bismol, Coke Zero and the American Heart Association.
Ken Jeong is married to Tran Ho, a Vietnamese-American doctor who practices family medicine. He credits her for encouraging and supporting his acting career. The couple has twin daughters, Alexa and Zooey. 
