Gochang: Now a UNESCO biosphere reserve
Located 296 kilometers southwest of Seoul, the county of Gochang was designated a biosphere reserve by the International Coordinating Council of Man and the Biosphere Program under the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) during a meeting in Paris on May 28. It is the fifth time an area in Korea has been designated as a UNESCO biosphere reserve. 
When announcing the designation, Gochang Gov. Lee Kang-soo promised that while promoting the area as a tourist destination, he hopes to bring further honor to Gochang from around the world. A particular source of pride for residents of the area is Gochang’s famous mud flats, the UNESCO World Heritage-designated Dolmen Site and the beautifully preserved Seonunsan Provincial Park.
Seonunsan Provincial Park 
The Seonunsan Provincial Park is a popular destination for tourists throughout the year. With the majestic, 1,500-year-old Seonunsa Temple to check out, multiple hiking courses to choose from and the scenic nature having been beautifully preserved, a trip to the Seonunsan Provincial Park is truly wonderful. 
Gochang Dolmen Site 
Designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2000, the Gochang Dolmen Site boasts one of the largest concentrations of dolmens in the world. Dolmens, stone monuments that were built during the prehistoric era, serve as proof that the area was populated since the Bronze Age. Much like the world-famous Stonehenge in England, a lot of mystery still surrounds the dolmen structures in Korea. For example, though the stones and surrounding artifacts could be scientifically dated, it has been impossible so far to prove when the stones themselves were set in place.
Gochang Mudflats
The Gochang Mudflat area is the largest registered “Ramsar wetland” in Korea, having made the tentative list of UNESCO’s Natural World Heritage Sites in 2000. As a major stopover for various migratory birds, the Gochang Mudflats are one of the main reasons why Gochang was named a UNESCO biosphere reserve. 
