Does sudden wealth ruin one’s life?
YES - Let’s say that you won a fortune in the lottery. It will bring you enormous amount of money. Nobody will just save that money in the bank. Many will lose their control and start purchasing goods they had in mind. Sudden wealth will make them spend not only the money they have earned with luck, but also the money they had before the luck. This will ruin one’s life.
The first reason is that it is natural for people follow their interests and desires when they have the ability to do it. Also, many things can be achieved with money. They will go further and use up the wealth they have accumulated before they become lucky.　
Second, the more people have the more they want. Sudden wealth will make people wealthier and then make them hungrier for more wealth. They will do whatever they can to become richer, and this will ruin their life in the end. 　
Wealth is important, but sudden wealth is not only useless but also harmful to your life. Anything that you earn without effort usually goes away without you realizing it. 
NO - All of us have a strong desire to become wealthy. And none of us would refuse the opportunity to be rich. People in the material world often want to be wealthy to satisfy their needs and interests. In this situation, I do not consider that sudden wealth will ruin one’s life.
First of all, people would rather be positively motivated than wasteful. Sudden wealth will bring people happiness and self-confidence to start over again. Existence of sudden wealth will help remind people that they could stand up again after they are hit hard by financial difficulties.
Although some people contend that sudden wealth devastates one’s life in the long run, I consider such failure or success dependent on one’s spending habits. People who go by self-made spending principles will never ruin their life even after earning sudden wealth.
In a nutshell, sudden wealth will not ruin one’s life if people can control their spending. Such wealth also helps them retain self-confidence in difficult situations. I hope people can lead a meaningful life with a well-regulated financial plan.
