Successful Korean baseball players abroad
Once a baseball player develops a certain amount of athletic prowess, he might achieve success on the international stage. But that’s not always true.　
There were a host of Korean baseball players who made their way to Major League Baseball (MLB), but not all of them were as successful as those who shine today -- Ryu Hyun-jin, Choo Shin-soo and Lee Dae-ho.
Experts say that there are certain qualities that the athletes should develop or innately have, such as sociability, adaptability, positive attitude and mental strength to fight cultural differences and homesickness. They say that athletic skills come after these factors, not because such skills are unimportant but because the players must already be outstanding to make it to the international stage.
Ryu Hyun-jin, who started playing baseball in 1996 as aㅜ elementary school kid, is recalled by many of his acquaintances as strong-willed, patient and consistent in what he was doing -- showing mental toughness. They recollect that Ryu never missed training, even when he seriously injured his left elbow during his high school year.　
Ryu also has a lot of guts to fight against what people consider right. The U.S. media faulted Ryu’s smoking habit when he started training at the LA Dodgers, but he is said to have let it slide by and emphasized that only skill in delivering the ball is crucial for a pitcher. Whether or not his argument is plausible, he has the guts to stick to his opinion, his acquaintances say.
More than anything, Ryu has positive attitude toward life, according to Sun Dong-yeol, the current Kia Tigers manager and pitching sensation in the 1980s and 1990s. Sun said in an interview that an athlete who pursues his career out of Korea should be flexible enough to mingle with people who speak different languages and have different lifestyles. Sun pointed to Ryu‘s positivity and adaptability as one of Ryu’s success factors.
Another Korean star player, Choo Shin-soo, an outfielder and a slugger for the Cincinnati Reds, told Monsterzym, a Korean sports TV channel, in February that his “success” depended mainly on his friendliness and perfectionism. Choo said he had seen many great players leave MLB teams due to conflicts with colleagues. Choo is known to have nearly no problems with teammates, reporters or league officials.
Choo’s perfectionism stands out as well. He confessed in the interview that he was not satisfied with what other players called good enough. Even when his performance was fairly good, he pushed himself to the limit in the training following the game, Choo said. Choo is also said to be as strict as possible toward himself but generous enough to people around him.
One more baseball player famed for his tenacity is Lee Dae-ho, who turns out for the Orix Buffaloes in Nippon Professional Baseball. Baek In-chun, former manager of the Lotte Giants of Korea, once said to a baseball magazine that Lee’s addiction to self-training is incomparable. Baek also praised Lee’s bravery in the batter’s box, which makes the ball hittable, which otherwise would have been untouchable. Slugger Lee has the world record of hitting home runs in nine straight games for the first time, and was once chosen as the most popular player in the KBO.
