U.N. foretells future jobs for 2025
The United Nations annually publishes its “State of the Future” series, informative publications that give insights into the future of politics, the economy, society, culture and international relations.
The latest publication “State of the Future 2025” explores atypical but rewarding careers young people can pursue.
Some of the attention-getting job titles out of the whole 54 include “chief experience officer,” which involves guiding aspirant job seekers through work-related experiences, “office producer,” for helping create an outstanding working environment and gadgets, “space travel guide,” the title of which is self explanatory, “amnesia surgeon,” someone who treats people’s memory loss, and “genetic counselor,” a person who diagnoses genetic disorders before they turn into diseases.
There are some other professionals who will serve people living longer with advanced medical technologies; they are “end-of-life planner,” “personal brand manager,” “Alzheimer’s disease therapist” and “personal care coordinator.”
Still other jobs reflecting newer lifestyles and trends include those who develop next generation energy resources (hydrogen fuel cell expert), help protect individual privacy (information security expert) and help fight newer diseases (environment pollution disease consultant).
Many experts stress that traditional jobs will be replaced by newer ones in line with economic and scientific development. In related announcements, the U.S. government said 80 percent of current jobs will disappear and evolve within 10 years, and the Australian government said one individual will have over 30 occupations within 15 years in their life.
Stressing the importance of such change in the employment market and its ripple effect, Korea’s Ministry of Strategy and Finance hailed the 2025 publication as a prestigious guidebook for the public.
The Korean translation for The State of the Future 2025 is available for 15,000 won at online and offline bookstores.
