Forgot your password? Take a pill or get a tattoo!
Technology company Motorola is experimenting with unusual ways to help people remember their password, according to BBC News report on June 4.
The first idea the company is promoting is an electronic “tattoo” that sticks on people’s skin. Another idea is a password pill that when people take it, it saves people from hassle of remembering passwords. 
Here is how the idea works: simply position a computer or phone close to your body then a tattoo on your skin or pill you swallowed will identify you and you will never have to enter your password again, says Dennis Woodside, Motorola’s chief executive said at California’s D11 conference.
A silicon based stamp enables the tattoo to be attached to a wearer’s skin and it uses electronic circuit to identify the user. According to the report, the technology was initially devised for medical purposes by Massachusetts-based engineering firm MC10. Motorola’s senior vice president of advanced research, Regina Dugan, hopes the technology can facilitate user authentication processes. 
Proteus Digital Health pill has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and was given European regulatory approval in 2010. The computer chip inside the pill is powered by acid in a user’s stomach, meaning it does not need batteries to run.
The pill gives off a signal that can be picked up by devices outside the body to verify user’s identity. The pill has to be taken every day for about a month to operate.
“Authentication is irritating. In fact it’s so irritating only about half the people do it, despite the fact there is a lot of information about you on your smartphone, which makes you far more prone to identity theft,” Dugan said. She added that authentication takes 2.3 seconds each time for existing users, some of whom log in to their phones a 100 times a day, so the company would not be put off by those who felt that the new technologies were “creepy.”
Yet, Motorola officials noted the ideas are at the development stage and are not sure whether they will be available anytime soon. 
