Is it a bird? A plane? No, it’s the new Superman film, ‘Man of Steel!’
Buckle up superhero fans; it’s time for another foray into the world of superheroes, this time with the big screen return of the quintessential superhero, DC Comics’ Superman, in “Man of Steel.”
Directed by Zack Snyder and produced by Christopher Nolan, “Man of Steel” is the long-awaited reboot of the classic Superman film series, the last of which hit theaters in 2006.
Focusing on the already well-known origin story of Superman, “Man of Steel” tells the tale of how a baby from the alien planet of Krypton came to be the protector of Earth and its people. 
After being transported to Earth by his birth parents when their home planet Krypton falls in danger of being destroyed, baby Kal-El (Henry Cavill) is found and adopted by Jonathan and Martha Kent (played by Kevin Costner and Diane Lane, respectively) who give him his Earth name and alter ego, Clark Kent.
Growing up in rural Kansas with the values of his adoptive parents, Clark begins to feel alienated as he grapples with the difficulties of having multiple identities as well as dealing with his emerging superpowers. When Earth comes under attack, Clark is forced to confront his secret extraterrestrial heritage and make some very difficult decisions. 
To find out what happens, watch “Man of Steel,” which hits theaters on June 13. 
Little-known facts about Superman: 
l Superman and Clark Kent have different birthdays
Different versions of Superman’s story have given different dates for the character’s birthday. The version that most fans have accepted was revealed in 1958. Clark Kent/Superman celebrates two birthdays: As Superman, he celebrates the day he landed on Earth (June 10) and as Clark, he celebrates the day he was adopted as a Kent (June 18). 
l Superman wasn‘t always able to fly
When Superman first appeared in 1938, he was described as being incredibly strong, able to withstand anything less than a shell from a tank and was able to leap an eighth of a mile (200 meters). It wasn’t until 1941 that Superman was given the ability to fly. 
l Superman started as a bald villain
Despite having become the archetypal superhero, the Superman character actually began as a bald villain bent on world domination. In 1933, comic creators Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster first drew him as a villain in a story called, “The Reign of the Super-Man.” Thankfully, the story failed to attract any attention and so they reimagined him as the superhero he is known and loved as today. 
