Storm chaser Tim Samaras Killed in Oklahoma tornadoes
“Tim was a courageous and brilliant scientist who fearlessly pursued tornadoes and lightning in the field in an effort to better understand these phenomena. Tim’s death is a stark reminder of the risks encountered regularly by the men and women who work for us.” -- National Geographic Society
Renowned storm chaser Tim Samaras, his son Paul Samaras, and his partner Carl Young were killed in a series of powerful tornadoes that hit Oklahoma on May 31. They were chasing and documenting an F5 tornado that ripped through El Reno, Oklahoma. Their research vehicle was overtaken and trapped when the multiple-vortex tornado made a sharp change in direction. Their death was the first known instance of storm chasers killed while pursuing tornadoes.
Tim Samaras and his crew’s death came as a shock to the weather science community. He was widely considered as one of the most cautious and safest storm chasers in the country. They were reported to be on a two-lane road, chasing after a mesocyclone, or parent storm, that measured about four miles in diameter. The massive storm was behaving erratically and unpredictably, dropping multi-vortex tornadoes, much like an octopus with many tentacles, as it roared through the area. Tim Samaras’ body was found inside his car with his seat belt still on. Paul Samaras and Carl Young were pulled from the car they were in by the tornado. One of them was found dead a half mile away.
Tim Samaras was a meteorologist and an engineer with a passion for doing field research on tornadoes. In his 25-year-career as a storm chaser, Samaras conducted numerous scientific experiments under extremely dangerous circumstances in order to gather information on and educate the public about the destructive force of tornadoes. Unlike some thrill-seeking storm chasers, his research work was well regarded in the scientific and meteorological communities. Most of his work was funded by the National Geographic Society, an American non-profit scientific and educational institution.
Samaras founded and headed a tornado field research team called Tactical Weather Instrumented Sampling in Tornadoes EXperiment (TWISTEX). The objectives of this research project are to better understand how tornadoes are generated; how they maintain wind speed and power; and how they dissipate. TWISTEX helps researchers gain insight and knowledge of the seldom sampled near-surface internal tornado environment. The project at full strength consists of four vehicles equipped with roof-mounted mobile mesonet weather stations. TWISTEX was one of the featured teams in seasons 3, 4 and 5 of “Storm Chasers” on the Discovery Channel. The group was also featured on National Geographic Channel’s “Disaster Labs.”
What set Samaras apart from other storm chasers was that he built his own weather instruments, called probes, to study tornado dynamics and how they form. During the peak months of tornado season in May and June, he would drive his equipment-laden research vehicle across the United States’ notorious Tornado Alley in anticipation of storms. His objective was to try to predict the exact coordinates of an unborn tornado and place a weather-measurement probe directly in the twister’s projected path. On June 24th, 2003 at Manchester, South Dakota, he placed one of his probes in the direct path of an F4 tornado that destroyed the town, and it recorded the lowest pressure drop at Earth’s surface in history.
Samaras also built a special probe equipped with cameras designed to look inside a tornado safely. He successfully deployed such a device in the path of a twister on June 11, 2004 near Storm Lake, Iowa. The probe made it possible to document the tornado from different angles and speeds. The result was hailed as an important piece of puzzle that can help meteorologists make more precise forecasts and issue timely tornado warnings to the public.
