The Philippines: Pearl of the Orient Seas
Part1: Introducing the land of 7,000 islands
Located in Southeast Asia between the Philippine Sea and the South China Sea, the Republic of the Philippines is an archipelago comprised of more than seven thousand islands.
As a third world country that is also one of the five largest English-speaking nations in the world, the Philippines is a particularly popular destination for Koreans.
Unfortunately, this results in most Koreans pigeonholing the country as a destination purely for learning English and doing charity work. However, it is important to keep in mind that the Pearl of the Orient Seas has a lot more to offer when going as a tourist eager to learn and experience new things.
Comprised of 7,107 islands, the Philippines is divided into three main geographical divisions: Luzon (northern group of islands), Visayas (central group of islands) and Mindanao (southern group of islands). The economic and political center of the Philippines is Luzon, as it is the home of the country’s capital city, Manila.
Each group of islands has its own unique culture, and in some cases, its own unique dialect. As a whole, Filipino culture is a mix of both Eastern and Western influences, which is reflected in the fact that multiple ethnicities can be found throughout the islands.
As with many other Asian countries, the Filipino culture exhibits many aspects of Malay heritage, in addition to significant Spanish and American influences. As such, even the distinctively Filipino cuisine has evolved as a series of adaptations from Hispanic, Chinese, American and other Asian influences.
With its emerald rice fields, bustling megacities, fiery volcanoes and beautiful beaches, the Philippines is a great place for people of all interests to visit and explore.
For more information, visit the official website of the Philippines’ Department of Tourism at www.experiencephilippines.org.
Pearl of the Orient Seas
“Pearl of the Orient Seas” is the sobriquet of the Philippines, and originated from the idea of a Spanish Jesuit missionary by the name of Father Juan J. Delgado in 1751.
