 Should Korea’s president give English speeches overseas?
PRO - There has been controversy concerning President Park Geun-hye’s English address to the joint session of the U.S. congress. Some Koreans claim that she should have used her native language for the address while others found fault with her pronunciation. I counter both with the following arguments.
First, Park’s speech was well-received overall. Those at the congress who listened to the address complimented on her English proficiency as evidenced by the 41 rounds of applause and six standing ovations she received. She was even asked to autograph programs as she was leaving the chamber. Those who criticize her speech give unconvincing evidence as to the language she used and her pronunciation. Her English was clear and understandable, which is the only thing that is important.
Second, speaking English for an audience who uses that language is a sign of respect. Her speaking English during an international summit also portrays South Korea as an internationally communicative country. If you thought about it in reverse, it would be like U.S. President Barack Obama making a Korean speech during a visit to Korea. It would raise familiarity and friendship between the two countries, thus making relations stronger.
In a nutshell, it would be unacceptable if people criticized our president for making an English speech in an English-speaking country. If she can speak English, why not use it?
CON - Recently, South Korean president Park Geun-hye made a speech at the U.S. Congress. Many people praised President Park for her excellent speech skills and English proficiency. Even though I felt proud that she had been favored by many with her speech, I do not like the fact that she used English to deliver a speech.
First, she could have used her mother language in front of the U.S. lawmakers. Why do we have to use English if we have our own language that does not have a problem? It is a proven fact that Korean has one of the most scientific and easiest-to-learn alphabets in the world. There is no reason we should not use our mother tongue on the international stage.
Also, using Korean on the international stage will help promote our country. The audience will surely understand the speech with interpretation ready in place, and they will eventually get interested in Korean language and try to learn it, which in turn will help promote the country.
To sum up, I believe using Korean is better than using English for the global audience because we have our own language and using Korean will provide people with the chance to learn our language.
