The rise and fall of Labour Conference star Rory Weal
16-year old Rory Weal from Liverpool made headlines after he gave an impassioned speech decrying the British government and its policies during the 2011 Labour Conference on Sept. 26. 
Weal’s speech began with an attack on the “vicious and Right-wing” government, claiming that their policies are “giving young people a pretty raw deal.” Weal claimed that welfare cuts, the scrapping of the education maintenance allowance (EMA) program, rise in tuition rates, and other such changes will serve to “seriously [damage] social mobility in the UK.”
 “Two and a half years ago, the home I had lived in since birth was repossessed,” Weal says, “I owe my entire wellbeing and that of my family to the welfare state. That is why I joined the Labour party. That very same welfare state is being ruthlessly ripped apart by a vicious, right-wing Tory-led government.”
 Weal’s very eloquent speech made him a star overnight. Weal got a standing ovation by delegates attending the conference, while Ed Balls, currently the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, described his speech as “brilliant”.
 Just when his 15 minutes of fame began, however, it all came tumbling down. Various news outlets began to question Weal’s “life of poverty.” 
British newspapers the Daily Mail and the Telegraph were quick to question Weal’s sincerity. Claiming his story was too good to be true; it was reported that Weal may have been exaggerating about the extent to which the “welfare state” had played a role in his wellbeing. 
Beginning Sept. 27, reports emerged showing that Weal came from a rather privileged background, and that despite the fact that his parents divorced when the family encountered financial troubles two years ago, he was by no means as impoverished as he portrayed himself to be. 
During his speech, Weal implied that by scrapping the EMA program, he was no longer able to afford to go to school. He asks, “What does he [David Cameron] advise when I can’t afford to go to school in the morning? What does he advise when I can’t buy the materials and textbooks I need for school? What does he think I should do when I can’t afford to go on a school trip?”
 In fact, Weal is currently living in a four-bedroom house worth at least 300,000 pounds (approx. $470,000) and attending the Oakwood Park Grammar School. Though it is a step down from two years ago, when he was living in homes worth 2.25 million pounds and attending a 13,000 pounds-plus a year private school, tweeting on his iPad while attending a selective grammar school is still a far cry from being unable to afford school supplies or participate in school trips. 
