Overcoming jealousy
Many people have been shocked by the news that an anonymous person created an anti-cafe for Yoon Hoo, a little boy from MBC variety program, “Dad, Where are we Going?” 
What did this innocent boy do wrong to deserve this treatment? Aren’t anti-cafes for those who committed serious crimes? The cute, whimsical eight-year-old did nothing but put smiles on people’s faces every weekend. 
The man who allegedly created the cafe said in an interview with eNEWS, a local entertainment channel, that he had no hard feelings for Yoon Hoo. He said, “I am just a viewer of the show and created the cafe with no specific reason. I was stunned by how furiously people react to the cafe, somehow reaching the top of a portal site’s search list.” He went on, “If I were Yoon Hoo’s father, it would break my heart to know there is a cafe where people talk bad about my child. And for that reason, I want to sincerely apologize to Yoon Hoo, his family and fans. I hope the little boy never knows about this.” 
As the controversy and the public’s furor grows, the man decided to close the cafe for good on June 17. In defiance of it, an angel cafe in support of Yoon Hoo has been set up.
Another kid who also became a target of vicious witch-hunt is seven-year-old Park Min-ha, daughter of TV anchor Park Chan-min, who appeared on SBS variety show Bung-eo-bbang. She too has her own anti-cafe. Upon hearing the news, her father stated, “I am sad to hear there is anti cafe for my daughter. She does not know about it and I certainly do not plan to let her know about it ever.” 
Why do adults act so cruel and cowardly, harassing and hurting children rather than protecting them? Experts say these are good examples of feeling of envy gone wrong. 
When and why do people feel jealous?
Jealousy can show up in your life every now and then about other’s success, beauty, wealth, athletic talents, relationship, family or education. And when people think someone or a situation they value highly, especially a relationship, is threatened, they become oversensitive, overprotective, and possessive in order not to lose something that one cherishes. For instance, when you see your best friend getting close to others, you might fear losing their attachment, attention, and affection and become jealous. 
Psychologists say women tend to be more jealous than men as they are more honest about and responsive to their emotions. Women also have higher standards of loyalty, kindness, empathy and commitment than men, so they become more jealous when these standards are not met. 
Envy vs. Jealousy
Though the boundary between envy and jealousy is blurry, jealousy is different from envy. Psychologists explain that jealousy involves the wish to keep what one has while envy to get what one does not posses. Thus, people get jealous when they fear losing something valuable, such as a friend, a lover, or a promotion, to someone else. A child is jealous of her parents’ attention to a new born baby. However, they get envious about others’ beautiful house or car. “Jealousy is an anticipatory emotion. It seeks to prevent loss,” said Ralph Hupka, Professor of Psychology, Emeritus at California State University at Long Beach. 
When does jealousy become a problem? 
Jealousy becomes a problem when it interferes with normal life, over-shadows everything in someone’s relationship, hurts someone they love, and reaches the point where they cannot control it on their own. Jealous people are blindsided with the situation and can’t think and act rationally, ending up hurting others and themselves.
A recent study in the journal Developmental Psychology found that adolescents with low self-esteem and extreme loneliness tend to be more jealous. In the study, 500 grade 5-9 students were evaluated to assess their vulnerabilities. The study determined that youngsters with lower levels of self-worth were more likely to experience jealousy and act out physical aggression.
How to overcome jealousy
1. Stop comparing yourself to others. Instead, start focusing on what’s positive in your life. You are a unique and special individual and don’t have to feel bad about not having all the qualities that someone else has. 
2. Stop worrying. When you move away from your focus and the things that make you blinded with negative emotion, they won’t bother you so much anymore. 
3. Recognize your problem and get control of your insecurity and low self-esteem. 
Maybe, after all, the one who set up the cafe felt threatened by the adoration of Hoo by his significant others, possibly his daughter or wife, and feared losing their affection. Perhaps he was jealous of the friendly relationship Hoo maintains with his singer dad, Yoon Min-soo, something he misses from his childhood. Or maybe he simply did not like the fact that many people adored this kid, and not him. No matter what caused his act of immaturity, he had better make adjustments to his life for the sake of a healthy and happy relationship. 
A grain of knowledge 
Why are feelings of jealousy and envy associated with the color green? The idea originated from William Shakespeare’s classic novel, “Othello,” where the author described a character engrossed in jealousy as being “green with envy.” In ancient Greece, people also believed jealousy resulted in the overproduction of bile, turning their skin a light shade of green.
