How our body changes in space
Traveling to space is filled with wonders. And one grand part of it is a condition called zero gravity. The human body is naturally programmed to function in the Earth’s gravity and getting accustomed to a new environment devoid of gravity is tricky. 
Here are some of the typical changes astronaut faces in space.
Taller in space
On Earth, the disks between the vertebrae of people’s spinal column are slightly compressed due to gravity. But in space, that compression is no longer there, allowing the disks to expand. Thus the spine lengthens and astronauts become a bit taller in space.
Thinner legs and puffy face
Earth’s gravity allows the heart to efficiently pump blood to the lower part of our bodies. But in space there is no gravity to help this process and the lower part of an astronaut’s body is deprived of blood, making their legs thinner. The remaining excess blood is concentrated in the upper body part, such as the face, torso and arms and they look pumped up. This imbalanced distribution of blood creates “space sickness,” which usually includes headaches and nausea. 
Atrophied bones and muscles
Astronauts move in space by floating not walking. The use of bones and body muscles is drastically limited, leading to a release of calcium. To fight it, astronauts exercise rigorously and take dietary supplements to maintain muscle mass and prevent bone fractures. Postmenopausal women suffering bone loss lose 1 to 1.5 percent of hip bone mass a year. Astronauts can lose the same amount in a single month. Radiation exposure can also cause bone loss in space.
Lost sense of balance
Our inner ear vestibular organs help us maintain balance. The inner ear is sensitive to gravity and cannot function properly in space. It makes astronauts lose their sense of direction, location and balance. The brain misinterprets what the eyes see and loss of balance may create psychological disorientation. Many astronauts experience trouble standing up, stabilizing their gaze, walking and turning when they first return to Earth. 
Poor heart condition
Over time, astronauts’ cardiovascular systems may be adversely affected due to lack of use. Problems range widely from deconditioning to a decrease in the size of the heart.
