Son Yeon-jae brings home 3 golds
When the Korean national anthem resounded all over the gymnastic stadium in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, on June 8, Son Yeon-jae, the 19-year-old gymnast and popular sports star, was brighter than ever.
At the Asian Gymnastics Championships, Son won the individual all-around competition and snatched the gold medals in hoops and clubs with an outstanding performance. This is the first time in history a South Korean has won gold at an international rhythmic gymnastics event.
On June 8, a day after scoring the highest mark in the individual all-around final with 72.066, Son added another gold medal in the women’s hoop final with 18.433 points. She clinched her third gold medal on the same day in the women’s club section with 18.400 points, finishing with an elegant and high-level technique. Meanwhile, she won a silver medal in the women’s ribbon final with 18.167, after Deng Senyue of China who scored 18.533. In the women’s ball final, Son finished fourth with 16.933 points.
Son said that she became more confident than ever after excelling at the Asian Gymnastics Championships. The athlete is already looking forward to doing her best at the upcoming Rhythmic Gymnastics World Championships in August. Via twitter after the event, she expressed the gratitude and joy over her victory.　
“The long Asian championships have finally finished. I was very happy when the Korean national anthem was played at the gym. Thank you for supporting me.”
Son first wrote her own chapter in Korean sports history as a bronze medalist at the Guangzhou Asian Games in 2012. At the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) World Cup held in Pescaro, Italy in April, she took home the silver medal for the ribbon event. In May, she also finished fourth at the all-around final and won a bronze medal in the hoop event at the FIG World Cup hosted by Sofia, Bulgaria.
Son is one of the most famous sports stars in Korea, ranking No.1 in a survey of the most popular athletes after the London Olympics in 2012. Recently, Son received a thunderous round of applause at the “LG Whisen Rhythmic All Stars 2013,” which took place at the Goyang gymnasium in Gyeonggi-do from June 15 to June 16.
