‘White House Down’ - Merging family, action, and the president
The pathos of familial love and gripping action have become one in Roland Emmerich’s new movie, “White House Down.” Starring Channing Tatum as John Cale, a single dad and Capitol Policeman whose dream of landing a Secret Service job has been dashed, the movie promises blockbuster action sequences.
When a paramilitary group breaches the president’s complex, Cale is thrust into the scene to safeguard President James Sawyer (Jamie Foxx) in the middle of the White House tour with his daughter, who he took along to cheer up after the news of his failure to get the Secret Service job. Ironically, Cale is thus given the opportunity to take a shot at his dream job. The problem is saving his daughter at the same time.
The movie has a star-studded cast with Maggie Gyllenhaal as Finnerty. Channing Tatum himself was chosen by the People magazine last year as the sexiest man alive during the filming period for this movie. Now, he is once again poised to showcase his kinetic abilities as solidly qualified by his past roles in two “G. I. Joe” films (2009, 2013) and “Step Up 2: The Streets” (2008).
Pre-release hype is on a steady ascent. Naver users have ranked the movie as 8.82 and the Internet Movie Database (IMDb)’s MOVIEmeter, which shows weekly movie rankings arranged by the website’s users, placed it within the Top 500.　
Meanwhile, some observers have already drawn parallels between “White House Down” and “Olympus Has Fallen,” another White House action film, which was released in Korea on June 5. Three trailers have been disclosed to the public as of June 17, drawing the attention of some would-be watchers to the gun-slinging action moves of Jamie Foxx, graduate of the Julliard School and winner of an Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award. Guided by Roland Emmerich, who has directed such movies as “The Day After Tomorrow” and “2012,” Foxx stars in a role redolent of President Obama.
“White House Down” hits theatres on June 27.
Maggie Gyllenhaal, who plays Finnerty, is the older sister of Jake Gyllenhaal, the protagonist in director Roland Emmerich’s “The Day After Tomorrow.” It seems Emmerich is on good terms with the Gyllenhaals! Director Stephen Gyllenhaal is the father of both.
