Virtuoso violist Richard Yongjae O’Neill
Richard Yongjae O’Neill, a professional violist, performed a guerrilla concert to kick off the 2013 DITTO Festival’s “City of Bach” campaign with performance of the Goldberg Variation at the Yeouido IFC Mall on June 8, in front of a mesmerized public.
O’Neill is currently the Artistic Director of the DITTO chamber orchestra, which performs under the epithet “Street Bach.”
Lasting from June 9 to 30, this festival is this year’s version of the DITTO performance program, which began in 2008. Despite its popularity, it is not O’Neill’s only remarkable feat. He retains his globally acclaimed position as the first violist in the history of the Julliard School to earn the Artist Diploma. Graduating magna cum laude from the University of Southern California, he has also earned a Master’s degree from Julliard. Currently, O’Neill is the youngest faculty member at the Herb Alpert School of Music at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Canonized by the Los Angeles Times as “technically immaculate” and lauded by the New York Times as having an “elegant, velvety tone,” O’Neill is a rare sort among violists, solidly qualified with the Grammy Award Nomination as the Best Soloist with Orchestra and the Avery Fisher Career Grant. Manifesting not only individual genius but also collective genius, he has a record of having worked with the world’s best musicians, including Kyung-Wha (violinist) and Myung-Wha Chung (cellist).
Such ardor for viola began when O’Neill was 15. Entranced by the profundity and dark serenity of the sound of viola, he grew as a violist thanks to his grandmother, who happily gave him a ride to lessons and back, although the round-trip took 10 hours at times. It was this generosity that led O‘Neill to dedicate himself to helping others, working with UNICEF among other things.
Born in Bellevue, Washington, to an unmarried mother - herself orphaned by the Korean War and adopted by Irish-American parents - O’Neill lived a life of giving. Not stopping at representing UNICEF, he visited Korea once every three weeks last year to teach viola to children from multicultural families.
As a virtuoso violist who enjoys running at marathons as a hobby, O’Neill continues his life of music, giving, and passion.
Richard Yongjae O‘Neill appeared on MBC’s “The Guru Show” on March 28 as a part of the show’s series focusing on the global musicians of Korea. He spoke out about his family background, his love of viola, and how he came to get the name “Yongjae.” The name was given to him by the first ever Asian professor at the Julliard School, current professor at Yale University, and Sejong Soloists’ artistic director Hyo Kang in 2002. It is the combination of the first words of the Korean words for bravery (“Yong-gi”) and talent (“Jae-neung”).
