The Philippines: Pearl of the Orient Seas
Part 2: Must-see hotspots
Comprised of over 7,000 islands, the Philippines has no shortage of places to explore, things to see and new experiences to try. From pristine beaches to one of the largest shopping malls in the world, the Philippines truly has something for everyone. 
With that in mind, here are a few places worth visiting on your next trip to the Philippines. 
Corregidor Island
Corregidor Island is a place of important historic significance. Located at the entrance of Manila Bay, Corregidor Island played an important role in the invasion and liberation of the Philippines from Japanese forces during World War II. Though the island’s significance dates back centuries before World War II, the infamous Bataan Death March has helped propel Corregidor Island as one of the most important historic and tourist sites in the country. 
Palawan
The island province of Palawan has a history that can be traced back 22,000 years. However, the reason it is mentioned here is not because of its history but because of its beauty. Home to two UNESCO World Heritage Sites (Puerto-Princesa Subterranean River National Park and the Tubbataha Reef Marine Park) and some immaculate white sand beaches, Palawan has plenty to offer those who appreciate the beauty of nature. 
SM Mall of Asia
SM Mall of Asia (MOA) is one of many shopping malls to be found in Manila. SM Mall of Asia, however, is special in that it is the second largest mall in the Philippines and the fourth largest shopping mall in the world. Overlooking Manila Bay, the mall is comprised of four buildings with both indoor and outdoor spaces. The attractions available at the mall include, but are not limited to, the Philippines’ first Olympic-sized ice skating rink, a theater with one of the biggest IMAX screens in the world, an esplanade where more than 5,300 couples kissed for more than 10 seconds in 2007 to beat the Guinness World Record for “Most Couples Kissing Simultaneously,” a Ferris wheel and the Nido Fortified Science Discovery Center featuring a digital planetarium and a wide range of technology and science-related exhibitions.
