“Dogani” sheds new light on sexual abuse of disabled students
Korean box office hit titled “Dogani,” has shocked the nation’s movie-goers with its revealing description of real-life sexual abuses of hearing-impaired students in Gwangju. 
 The movie is based on Gwangju’s Inhwa School, a special school for deaf students. The principal and faculty members of the school were accused of raping several disabled students from 2000 to 2005. One of Korea’s most celebrated novelists, Gong Ji-young recomposed the story in her book titled, “Dogani” which in turn was made into a movie.
 Yonhap News stated on Sept. 29 that six school officials and teachers related to the case have not been punished. The report said the school is still running and one teacher embroiled in the controversy was even reinstated in January 2008. Other teachers were sentenced to one or two years in jail. 
 The investigation started in June 2005 when one disgusted school official took the initiative and contacted a counseling center in Gwangju. The school’s administration chief was arrested in November 2005 for raping or sexually harassing six deaf students aged between 7 and 20. He was later sentenced to one year in jail. 
 In June 2008, the National Human Rights Commission of Korea accused the School’s principal, Kim, but he was released on probation. Citing that Kim had no previous criminal record and that he reached agreements with the victims’ parents, prosecutors defended their sentence. The report also noted that some parents accepted settlement money from the principal as they had dire financial situations.
 Park Chan-dong, chief of the Special Committee of Gwangju Inhwa School Sexual Violence, a local civic group said that some parents were also disabled and “they dropped the charges when the offenders placated them.” Park urged for further compensation or counseling to the victims and their families. 
 Since the movie’s release on Sept. 22, the public’s anger over the pending case has escalated. More than 1 million people have watched the movie as of Sept. 29 and an online petition for its reinvestigation has started. So far, a total of 44,000 signatures have been gathered, the news report said. 
 The National Police Agency promised to launch a new investigation on the case by arranging a special investigation team of 15 investigators, including 10 sex crime investigators. 
