 Is advertising harmful to children?
YES - Since the primary purpose of advertising is to sell products or plant certain ideas in a reader’s mind, advertising often uses exaggeration and biased information. Advertisements are harmful to children who are vulnerable to persuasive commercials for three main reasons.
First, advertisements can easily deceive children. Children lack the ability to think logically and filter out unimportant ideas because their brains are not fully developed. Because of this, advertisements may easily insert wrong or biased ideas into children’s minds.
Second, advertisements lower children’s self-esteem. In order to sell products or persuade the intended audience to buy a product, advertisers make the advertisement fascinating and great using exaggeration. For example, weight-loss program adverts usually show pictures of slim, good-looking girls, and this makes children feel under pressure to look good and causes them to lack confidence.
Third, advertisements make children to buy things they don’t really need. Because advertisements only show the advantages of a product, children get easily lured by fancy commercials. Thus, children tend to ask their parents to buy things for them without really asking themselves if they really need it.
Allen Kanner, a psychologist in Berkeley, California once stated that “Advertising to kids is like shooting fish in a barrel,” which means children can easily become victims of commercials. In order to make our society safe for children, I believe it is necessary for advertisers to consider and understand children and try their best to protect them, not use them for profit.
NO - Let’s say you are the parents of teenagers. You can choose between exposing them to the flood of advertising or not. It may be a tough question, but If I were in that position, I would rather open them up to commercials. 　
First of all, commercials often give us surprises. And some of them even have the power to move us. I think advertisements can help children enhance their imagination and creativity. In an information society, people need creativity to get an edge.
Secondly, public advertisements in particular encourage people to act morally. I believe children can learn to behave morally and ethically, and grow up to be honest and considerate while watching them.
If parents help their children recognize useless ads and teach them to make sound judgments about them, kids can make great use of commercials. I strongly believe that watching advertisements can be a great method to learn about various aspects of society in general.
