 World leaders discuss Syria and world economy at G8 summit
Leaders from some of the world’s most powerful countries met at a lakeside golf resort in the town of Enniskillen in Northern Ireland for this year’s G8 summit on June 17.
The G8 heads of government -- Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Russia‘s president Vladimir Putin, British Prime Minister David Cameron, U.S. President Barack Obama, French President Francois Hollande, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta—were joined by European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy for the 2013 summit.
The two main topics at the summit were Syria and the global economy.
Even though the leaders shared the desire to stop the violence in Syria and provide greater humanitarian help, they opined different views. Russian President Vladimir Putin rejected calls from the U.S., Britain and France to halt his support for Syrian leader Bashar Assad. President Barack Obama sought support from other nations in arming the Syrian rebels but Britain and France appeared reluctant. 
On the discussion about economy, British Prime Minister David Cameron, a host at the summit, insisted the members cooperate to combat global tax evasion. He said working together to restrict companies from exploiting taxes and increase transparency would boost economic growth. “These issues corrode public trust and undermine a competitive low tax economy which can only be sustained if people actually pay the taxes they owe,” he argued.
Cameron also mentioned the significance of promoting free trade between Europe and North America. A trade pact would reduce regulations and tariffs, helping Europe’s economy grow, which has long been struggling to revive, he noted.
G8 stands for Group of Eight and is made up of eight of the most powerful countries in the world. The eight members are: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. In the annual summit, leaders discuss the most urgent global issues to seek solutions.
