Boosting your memory: Surprising tricks that can help you study
As the summer holiday draws near, so do the dreaded final exams. The stress of studying throughout the school year culminates in the final few weeks of the semester when students are forced to regurgitate a semester’s worth of knowledge onto one final exam.
The pressures of studying for final exams are hard for any student. Regardless of whether you are in elementary school or college, the final exam period is the most dreaded aspect of school.
While many parents, teachers and friends may have their own theories and methods for the best ways to study, consider some of these surprisingly simple yet unusual factors that science has found to help boost memory and learning. 
Tips to consider when studying:
1. Taking a walk
Though it may seem counterintuitive to waste time exercising just prior to taking an exam, studies conducted by researchers at the University of Illinois say otherwise. In fact, several studies found that students who take a 20-minute walk prior to taking a test got higher scores on those tests than those who did not. 
The reason behind why students who took the 20-minute walk showed higher test scores is that exercise has been found to improve the “executive function” of the brain. This link is important in that a brain’s “executive function” refers to the set of processes that controls your attention span, memory, connecting past experiences with present actions and other such important cognitive processes. 
Regardless of whether or not you believe in its benefits, consider taking a short walk just prior to your next exam. Even though taking a walk won’t guarantee a perfect score, it won’t hurt either. In fact, taking a walk could at the very least help clear your mind from stress and help you relax just before sitting down to take the test. 
2. Sitting in sunshine
Another simple trick that could help boost your exam scores is to study under natural light. 
Almost everyone knows that the sun provides many benefits to both humans and nature. But did you know that not only does the sun also play an important role in our emotional wellbeing but also our ability to learn? 
In fact, studies conducted by the Heschong Mahone Group, a California-based architecture consulting firm, found that students whose classrooms let in lots of natural light through big windows scored up to 25 percent higher on standardized tests than those whose classrooms relied mostly on artificial lighting. 
So the next time you find yourself studying for an upcoming exam, consider doing so in the daylight, under the sun. Not only would it help keep you feeling more positive, it could also help improve your learning. 
3. Using hand gestures
Have you ever noticed that some of the best public speakers use lots of hand gestures? One would think it is distracting, but it turns out that there are a lot of benefits to using hand gestures. 
Numerous studies have shown that people who spontaneously use hand gestures as they are learning tend to remember and understand new concepts better than those who do not. The mere act of using your hands when trying to understand different aspects of a problem can help your mind separate and organize ideas, helping you simplify and comprehend either new or complex concepts.
In fact, a study of third- and fourth-grade students by psychologists at the University of Rochester in the United States found evidence that gesticulating helps improve information retention and understanding. The students who were taught to gesture and speak through math problems remembered 92 percent of what they had learned a month later, whereas those who did not learn through gesticulation only remembered 33 percent of what they learned. 
Scientists believe the reason for this relationship between gesturing and learning is that when you force the parts of the brain that are responsible for memory and learning to work together with the part responsible for movement, it helps the brain create stronger memories. 
With that in mind, try using hand gestures while talking out loud the next time you are studying for an exam in order to maximize your ability to remember and understand the various concepts.
4. Sleeping on it
Though many students are inclined to study until the last possible minute before their exams start, numerous studies have shown sleep is essential in helping the brain retain and process a lot of information. 
Specifically, researchers at Harvard University found that studying 24 hours prior to an exam and getting some sleep actually helped people remember information better than those who did not. According to scientists, the reason for this is that your brain needs you to sleep so it can make sense of all the new information you gathered while you were awake. 
Sleep is a necessary part of the learning process because, when you are awake, the brain has to focus on other, more relevant processes like walking, sitting, seeing, speaking, etc. While asleep, the brain can focus most of its energy on just processing information, something that it couldn’t do while you were awake. 
Although you may prefer to study until right before the exam starts in the hope that this last-minute flood of information could help you during the exam, perhaps you should consider listening to what the scientists have to say. Study at least 24 hours before the exam and make sure you get enough sleep. It will help you understand and remember more information than if you were to stay up all night cramming. 
