 War diary of Adm. Yi made UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register List
UNESCO accepted documents of both historic and contemporary Korea to its Memory of the World List, Korea‘s Cultural Heritage Administration (CHA) said.
The war diary of naval hero Admiral Yi Sun-sin from Joseon Dynasty and the archives of the New Community Movement or Saemaul Movement have been accepted to UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register list on June 18. 
UNESCO announced the decision during the 11th meeting of the International Advisory Committee to the UNESCO Memory of the World held in Gwangju, southwest of Seoul.
Revealing its latest addition, the committee pointed out Admiral Yi’s war diary or “Nanjung Ilgi,” written during the Japanese invasions in the late 1590s, contained the admiral’s personal details on the daily combat missions and his observations on the lives of people; thus, it is “without equal in world history as a commander’s battlefield accounts.”
The committee also called the archives of Saemaul Movement a comprehensive record of the rural modernization movement during the 1970s. It said the archives will be a valuable source for developing nations that are seeking the same development processes today. 
Korea previously had “Hunminjeongeum,” the manuscript of Hangeul, the Korean alphabet, from the Joseon Dynasty on its list. Yet, lately there has been a growing trend of accepting more modern and contemporary cultural assets to the list. 
“The trend of the Memory of the World List has been that the items have become younger,” a CHA official said. “The collection of archives from the Saemaul Movement has received much attention from developing countries, such as Nepal, Sri Lanka and Laos. One of the reasons for the UNESCO listing was that the movement was a unique example of a public-private partnership for national development.”
The new additions brought Korea‘s total of registered heritages on the Memory of the World Register to 11, the largest in Asia -- China has nine and Japan has three.
The Memory of the World program was established in 1992 with the aim of protecting and raising awareness of world’s valuable cultural heritages.
