Miami Heat wins 2nd straight NBA title
The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs in one of the greatest NBA Finals in recent memory to secure a second consecutive championship. The Heat, which finished the regular season with the best record in the league, withstood a spirited challenge from the supremely talented and well-coached Spurs to win the tense seven-game series. Behind the heroics of LeBron James, the Heat simply refused to relinquish their title to the vastly experienced Spurs led by the ageless Tim Duncan. With a second straight title, LeBron James cemented his legacy as one of basketball’s all time greats.
Entering the season, the Miami Heat was regarded as a prohibitive favorite to win the Eastern Conference. They were the reigning NBA champions with their “Big Three” of LeBron James, Dwayne Wade and Chris Bosh all in their athletic prime. The addition of sharp-shooting Ray Allen further strengthened the team’s bench. They compiled an incredible record of 66-16 during the regular season, which included a 27-game winning streak. In the playoffs, the Heat survived a brutal Eastern Conference Finals 4-3 against the youthful and talented Indiana Pacers to reach the NBA Finals.
The San Antonio Spurs have been the most successful NBA franchise of the past decade with four championships under their belts (1999, 2003, 2005 and 2007). Their “Big Three” of Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili are among the most efficient and best all-around players in the league. The team is coached by the incomparable basketball guru -- Gregg Popovich. The Spurs finished the regular season with the second-best record in the Western Conference behind the Oklahoma City Thunder. In the playoffs, they swept the Lakers in the first round, defeated the Warriors 4-2 in the semifinals, and swept the Grizzlies in the Western Conference Finals to earn a shot at a fifth NBA title.
The Spurs stamped their authority on the NBA Finals by winning 92-88 in game one, thus taking away the Heat’s home court advantage. Duncan had 20 points and 14 rebounds, and Tony Parker banked in a desperation jumper on a broken play with 5.2 seconds left to overcome LeBron’s triple-double. In game two, the Heat played excellent defense and used a balanced attack to rout the spurs 103-84 and evened the series at 1-1. Point guard Mario Chalmers was instrumental as he contributed 19 points to lead the team in scoring.　
Game three was played in San Antonio, and the Spurs humiliated the Heat with one of the biggest blowouts in NBA Finals history to seize a 2-1 series lead. They hit an NBA Finals record of 16 3-pointers in a 113-77 victory as Danny Green and Gary Neal combined for 52 points. The Heat evened the series in game four with a resounding 109-93 victory. Their “Big Three” combined for 85 points, 30 rebounds, nine assists and 10 steals. In game five, the Spurs once again seized control of the series 3-2 with a 114-104 win. Manu Ginobili broke out of a slump with 24 points and 10 assists, and the Spurs were one victory away from their fifth NBA championship.
The series returned to Miami for game six, and LeBron and his Heat teammates were facing the fight of their lives. The Spurs controlled most of game six and led by five points with only 28 seconds left in regulation time. LeBron, again with a triple-double, led a furious charge to force overtime, and a few key defensive plays helped the Heat secure a miraculous comeback victory. It was on to game seven for the title.
In game seven, it was LeBron, the biggest star, who shone the brightest. He scored 37 points and grabbed 12 rebounds to lead the heat to a 90-85 victory and secured the team’s second consecutive NBA title. LeBron James was named the Finals MVP for the second year in a row.
