The unbelievable tragicomic tale of an assistant funeral director: ‘Bernie’
In a summer full of action-packed adventure films and heartwarming family films comes “Bernie,” a film that will challenge your sense of morality.
The unbelievable tragicomic tale of “Bernie” tells the story of how one charismatic man has an entire town rooting for him despite being guilty of murdering one of their own.
Set in the small town of Carthage, Texas, Bernie Tiede (played by Jack Black) is the assistant funeral director of a local funeral home. Impressing the locals with the compassion he shows for the deceased and their surviving family members, Bernie, in his late 30s, quickly becomes a beloved member of the community. 
Being the nice guy that he is, Bernie becomes the only friend of the wealthy and recently widowed Marjorie Nugent (played by Shirley MacLaine). Marjorie, an elderly woman who is widely considered as cold and unpleasant by the townsfolk, soon becomes very dependent on Bernie and his friendship. The two quickly become inseparable as their friendship grows. 
Unfortunately, Marjorie’s constant and sometimes abusive need for his attention begins to take its toll on Bernie. What started out as an amicable and loving friendship soon turns sour as Bernie begins to feel trapped. Eventually, Marjorie’s possessiveness, criticisms and persistent nagging drive Bernie to kill Marjorie in a moment of frustration. 
For months, Bernie is able to get away with the murder by taking advantage of Marjorie’s poor reputation to excuse her absence from society. In the meantime, kind-hearted Bernie uses Marjorie’s wealth to help support local businesses and neighbors. When he is eventually found out, Bernie confesses to the crime, telling police that her emotional abuse is what drove him to commit murder. 
Despite his confession, the town of Carthage is quick to defend Bernie, with some even going so far as to say that Marjorie deserved to die. Though Bernie is eventually found guilty and sentenced to life in prison, the prosecution was forced to request a change of venue in order to secure a fair trial, a request prosecutors rarely make. 
Based on the true story of the 1996 murder of 81-year-old millionaire Marjorie Nugent from Carthage, Texas, “Bernie” hit theaters nationwide on June 20. 　
