Rupert Murdoch
“When you’re a catalyst for change, you make enemies - and I’m proud of the ones I’ve got.” - Rupert Murdoch
Rupert Murdoch is a controversial Australian American media mogul. He is the founder of News Corporation, Ltd. - the world’s second largest media conglomerate - which has holdings in cable, film, television, Internet, direct broadcast satellite television, sports, publishing and other fields. He has been listed three times by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. In 2012, Forbes listed Murdoch as the 38th richest person in the U.S. and the 106th-richest person in the world, with a personal net worth of $8.3 billion.
Rupert Murdoch was born on March 11, 1931 in Melbourne, Australia. His father was a famous war correspondent and a newspaper publisher. He studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Worcester College, the University of Oxford in England, and managed Oxford Student Publications Limited. When his father passed away in 1952, Murdoch returned home to take charge of the family business, News Limited. He inherited his father’s papers, the Sunday Mail and The News. He proceeded to purchase other Australian media outlets over the years, including Perth’s Sunday Times, the Daily Mirror and Sunday Mirror. 
Rupert Murdoch entered the British newspaper market by acquiring the News of the World in 1968 and The Sun in 1969. He transformed both papers into successful and profitable tabloids with emphasis on sensational crime stories, celebrity gossip and astrology. He gained significant political influence by using his papers to endorse or renounce political figures. He formed a particularly close relationship with former Prime Minister Tony Blair, with whom he reportedly had secret meetings to discuss national policies. In 1986, he implemented electronic production processes to his newspapers worldwide that led to significant reductions in the number of employees involved in the printing process. It resulted in long and violent labor disputes. 
In 1973, Murdoch expanded his media empire to the United States by purchasing the San Antonio Express and the San Antonio News. He moved to the United States in 1974 and started the National Star weekly tabloid to compete with the notorious American supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. In 1976, he purchased the New York Post, a daily newspaper primarily distributed in New York City and its surrounding area; it too, was a tabloid format publication known for its sensationalist headlines and yellow journalism. Murdoch became a naturalized citizen in 1985 to satisfy the legal requirement that only U.S. citizens were permitted to own U.S. television stations.
Murdoch gained an important foothold in U.S. mass media in 1985 when he purchased 20th Century Fox, a major American film studio with popular film franchises such as Star Wars, Ice Age, X-Men, Fantastic Four, Die Hard and Alien. A year later, he founded the Fox Broadcasting Company, which eventually turned into a major U.S. television network with hugely successful programs like The Simpsons and The X-Files. In 1996, Murdoch launched the Fox News Channel with 17 million cable subscribers; it now reaches 102 million households in the United States and elsewhere. The news channel’s views tend to lean noticeably to the political right. In 2007, Murdoch acquired Dow Jones, which gave him such reputable publications as The Wall Street Journal, Barron’s Magazine, the Far Eastern Economic Review, and SmartMoney.
Murdoch’s media empire also extends to most of Asia. In 1993, he acquired Star TV, a Hong Kong company founded by Richard Li. The deal enables Murdoch’s News International to broadcast from Hong Kong to India, China, Japan and over 30 other countries in Asia, becoming one of the biggest satellite TV networks in the east. 
Although Murdoch’s career has been marred by numerous controversies, none was bigger than the News International phone-hacking scandal. Employees of Murdoch’s newspaper were accused of engaging in phone hacking, police bribery, and exercising improper influence in the pursuit of publishing stories. On April 8, 2013, News International admitted liability and offered an unreserved apology and compensation to eight claimants.
