Introducing Ivy League schools
“Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself.” ~ John Dewey
 The Ivy League is a term that commonly refers to a group of eight private institutions of higher education in the Northeastern United States. The eight schools are Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Harvard University, Princeton University, the University of Pennsylvania, and Yale University. Ivy League schools are renowned for academic excellence, selectivity of admission and connotations of social elitism. All Ivy League schools place within the top 15 of the U.S. News & World Report’s college and university rankings; with five positions in the top six. For many elite students around the world, an education at an Ivy League school is a dream-come-true. Let’s take a closer look at some of these great institutions of higher learning.
 Harvard (founded in 1636) – Harvard University is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It is the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States and one of the most prestigious universities in the world. The university comprises eleven separate academic units - ten faculties and the Radcliffe Institute for Advance Study. The Harvard University Library is the largest academic library in the United States. Among the school’s illustrious alumni are eight U.S. presidents, numerous foreign heads of state, titans of business and industry, and prominent figures in literature, arts, and entertainment. Seventy-five Nobel Prize winners have been affiliated with the university as students, faculty or staff. Harvard is the alma mater of sixty-two living billionaires, and its financial endowment - in excess of $27 billion – is the largest of any academic institution in the world.
 Yale University (founded in 1701) – Yale University is located in New Haven, Connecticut. It is the third oldest institution of higher education in the United States. It was founded as the Collegiate School by 17th-century clergymen who wanted to establish a school to train clergy and political leaders for the colony. The school was renamed in 1718 as Yale College in honor of a gift from Elihu Yale, a governor of the British East India Company. One of the greatest universities in the world, Yale produced five U.S. presidents, nineteen U.S. Supreme Court Justices, prominent business executives, award-winning actors and actresses, and popular TV personalities. Admission to Yale is highly selective -- For the Class of 2015, Yale accepted 2,006 students out of a record 27,283 total applications, a record-low acceptance of 7.35 percent.
 University of Pennsylvania (founded in 1740) -- The University of Pennsylvania is a private research university located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is the fourth-oldest university in the United States, and the first with both undergraduate and graduate studies. The university was founded by Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of the United States. Among the school’s alumni are eight signers of the American Declaration of Independence, and nine signers of the Constitution. The university was one of the first academic institutions to follow a multidisciplinary model pioneered by European universities. Penn’s educational innovations include: the nation’s first medical school in 1765; the first university teaching hospital in 1874; the Wharton School, the world’s first collegiate school of business, in 1881; and the first American student union building, Houston Hall, in 1896. 
 Princeton University (founded in 1746) – Princeton University is located in Princeton, New Jersey. It was founded in 1746 in Elizabeth, New Jersey, as the College of New Jersey. It moved to Princeton in 1756 and was renamed Princeton University in 1896. For the past ten years, Princeton was ranked either first or second among national universities by U.S. News and World Report. Princeton has no medical school, law school, or business school like other research universities. Its most famous professional school, the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs is the most selective school of public policy and international affairs in the United States. Princeton is a very wealthy institution. Its endowment of $14.4 billion is the third largest in the United States, and it has the greatest per-student endowment in the world, at over $2 million for undergraduates. 
 Columbia University (founded in 1754) – Columbia University is located in Manhattan, New York. It was founded in 1754 as King’s College and renamed Columbia University in 1896. The university encompasses twenty schools and is affiliated with many institutions, such as the Julliard School, Barnard College, and Teacher’s College. It operates four global centers overseas in China, India, France, and Jordan. Columbia is ranked among the top research universities in America. The school’s alumni include three U.S. presidents, nine justices of the U.S. Supreme Court, 26 foreign heads of state, 40 Nobel Prize winners, and four Poet Laureates. Columbia’s Graduate School of Journalism administers the Pulitzer Prize -- the award for achievements in journalism, literature and musical composition.
 Brown University (founded in 1764) -- Brown University is located in Providence, Rhode Island. It was the first school in America to accept students regardless of religious affiliation. The school consists of The College (undergraduate section), Graduate School, Alpert Medical School, and the School of Engineering. Brown’s international programs are organized through the Watson Institute for International Studies. Brown differs from other Ivy League schools due to its adoption of reform measures known as the New Curriculum in 1969. Key elements of reform included the dropping of distribution requirements -- meaning students can take whatever courses they want; and grades are simplified to ABC/No Credit, eliminating pluses, minuses and D’s. Furthermore, “No Credit” would not appear on external transcripts. The Princeton Review ranked Brown first in the United States for “Happiest Students.” 
