Define your future through self-analysis
Your future will look either rosy or gray depending on how hard you try to achieve your goals.
 You might have wondered when is the best time to start thinking about what you will do for a living, but not many students know how efficiently they can search through their career paths.
 It is as simple as this. When deciding what you want to do for life, the first thing you have to consider is your aptitude. Aptitude is, by definition, readiness or quickness in learning when carrying out a particular kind of work or activity.
 To look for your aptitude, you have to weigh your “interests,” “personality” and “ability.”
 Interests　
 First of all, try to realize what kind of work or activities gives you the greatest pleasure or makes you feel the most satisfied.
 If you find a certain field much more fun and enjoyable then your classmates find it, that is likely an area you will be interested in.
 Your interest area is often influenced by your personality, but is more likely to be affected by which route you take in life.
 It is important to note that adolescents, having few experiences and little knowledge about occupations, may find it difficult which field suit their interests best.
 Interests can be less accurate than personality or ability in judging one‘s potential, but it is a core factor in finding one’s aptitude. Once you find a certain subject interesting or fun, you will devote more time and efforts to develop yourself in the field.
 Personality 　
 Unlike your interests, you tend to be born with a certain personality. Personality will affect your aptitude more than interests do. Interest and ability can be modified or enhanced, but personality is not likely to change easily.　
 Suppose there are two contrastingly different classmates - one is very social and extroverted while the other is reserved and solitary.　
 The latter may change his or her character to become more sociable with people after graduation, but it does not necessarily mean that he or she totally has changed their personalities. It rather means they have changed their own behavior to meet the needs of the workplace or the society as a whole.
 It would be much better to be frank with yourself and reflect your personality in judging aptitude; chances are that you can adapt to a working environment which does not suit you, but it will require considerable amount of time for you to get used to it.
 Ability 
Ability refers to someone’s power to carry out a certain activity or project better than others.
 It is an element that can be judged more clearly than the other two - interest and character - in finding aptitude.
 Students receive academic score cards either after regular tests or at the end of every semester. The cards indicate your academic ability, but what counts here is that your ability is much more likely to be enhanced than your interest or personality.
 You can find many athletes who surmounted their inborn physical inferiority and joined the level of top-notch players.
 Combination 
There are many students who try to decide their future or jobs only depending on their ability or academic scores.
 It is true that not everyone can excel in the field in which they are interested and that there are limitations that you cannot overcome with hard work.
 But, ability is easier to control than interest and personality. If you are a middle school student, you still have much time to seriously think about your job for another two to three years. So, try not to judge your aptitude by academic scores only.
 It would be better for you to think about what you would love to do based upon your interest and personality.
 To judge your interest, personality and ability, you should try different tasks as often as you can. If you are not good at judging yourself, it is just because you have not spent much time doing it.
 In order to look at who you really are or what fields interest you best, try to get engaged in “creative experience activities” as recommended by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology.　
 Those of you who have become first graders in middle school this year will go through the “Revised National Curriculum for 2009,” and the new curriculum puts importance on “creative experience activities.”　
 The activities do not have much to do with in-class academic achievement evaluation, but will be seriously considered in the process of high school and university application screening.　
 If you are preparing for the “admissions officer program” or “self-driven study program,” you should pay special attention to creative experience activities and join them.
 The time allotted for middle school students for the special activities is 306 hours for three years, which is three hours per week. For more information about the program, visit the Education Ministry’s special website at www.crezone.net
