Is Sam Hammington Korean?
Yes - Foreign comedian Sam Hammington is indisputably Australian, both biologically and legally. Yet, as he continues to evolve as an integral component of Korea’s comedy and entertainment industry, we need to contemplate on his cultural affinity to Korea and whether we should accept him legitimately as one of us, at least culturally.
Hammington is a special foreign entertainer who, in spite of having no Korean lineage, manages to speak Korean fluently. Seamlessly, he interacts with co-entertainers in Korean TV shows. Having a Korean wife does not explain all of this remarkable bonding with Korean culture. His success should rather be imputed to the effort he puts in to acculturate himself to the mainstream Korean ethos.
One proving case for Hammington’s “Koreanness” is his take on the Dokdo ownership issue. On June 10, Hammington elaborated on his support for Korean ownership of Dokdo on his Facebook page. He broached a potential boycott of the Japanese companies that support Japanese ownership of the disputed island and further denounced Japanese politicians arguing against Korean ownership.
Such an attention and passion toward an issue seen as unimportant by other foreigners prove Hammington’s willingness to be admitted into Korean culture at large. So why shouldn’t we take him in as a de facto Korean? He certainly deserves such a title, it seems.
No - For many years, there hasn’t been a foreigner in Korea that has stimulated such controversy and debate. The man goes by the name of Sam Hammington, and he is renowned for being South Korea’s first foreign comedian. Recently, he has appeared on many TV shows and has earned lots of affection from Korean viewers. Unlike many poor foreign speakers, Sam speaks such fluent Korean that confusion is roused and several articles are being published questioning his identity.
But Sam Hammington is an Australian, and his language ability doesn’t make him one of our own. Unlike us, no eastern Asian blood flows in his body, and his appearance also separates him as one of our kind. Strong comments and sayings from biased and unreliable netizens don’t alter what he is.
Yes, he is a well-known foreigner and a loved, humorous comedian that spreads contagious laughter across all of Korea, but that doesn’t mean that he’s not a proud Australian.
Maybe the subject of the endless debate should change to: What is Hammington doing for Australia’s good by entertaining Koreans and how can both countries use his contribution? 
Many people’s minds would be eased if the dispute surrounding Sam is no longer complicated to its utmost sense. Why not just enjoy his wit and talent for unending comedy?
