 The DMZ - A Dream Making Zone
Year 2013 marks the 60th anniversary of the armistice agreement which ended the 1950-53 Korean War, and the bordered area between the two Koreas are receiving renewed attention with a different appellation.
The area has traditionally been called “demilitarized zone,” an area represented by barbed wire fences on both sides and no weapons. As the name suggests, no military actions or personnel are allowed within the area.
So, the area is generally free of human activity and full of natural habitats and frequently found to have a rich variety of wildlife, such as migratory birds, deer and wild cats. It also boasts wildflowers, wetlands, willow trees and acacia trees. It is often said that the region is one of the most well-preserved natural habitats in the world.
The inter-Korean region is home to many endangered species, such as red-crowned cranes, leopard cats and musk deer. Experts say that around 3,000 plant species, 70 kinds of mammals and over 300 kinds of birds live in the area.
The buffer zone has recently earned renewed attention since the new Korean President Park Geun-hye briefed the U.S. Congress in May on her idea for enhancing inter-Korean ties using the demilitarized zone.
In the address, she said she planned to build trust with North Korea while at the same time driving a plan to build a peace park in the demilitarized zone. She hoped the zone would become a place where inter-Korean trust is born. The establishment of a “DMZ Peace Park” was also one of her election pledges while running for president in 2012.
Meanwhile, local biologists have emphasized that the planned “Dream Making Zone” should be listed as a biosphere reserve or world heritage site for it to function to promote world peace and maximize its appeal for tourists.
Since Park’s announcement of the peace park plan, provinces bordering the inter-Korean zone -- Gyeonggi and Gangwon -- have been channeling their efforts to prepare for the construction of the “dream making” park. Gyeonggi Province, for example, is planning to push around 40 projects, including the construction of natural habitat preservation centers.
Specifically, Cheorwon, Paju and Yeoncheon in Gyeonggi Province have been campaigning to host the proposed park in their counties.
According to The Korea Herald on July 1, Cheorwon of Gyeonggi Province and Goseong of Gangwon Province had held inaugural meetings of respective host committees the previous week, touting their geographical and historical vestiges of the Korean War.
But experts caution that they should not get their hopes too high, given that similar efforts have failed several times since the 1970s, said the newspaper.
“The regional governments are like tiger moths following after the sparkling light, which is the government money,” Kim Jae-han, professor at Hallym University’s Politics and Administration department, told The Korea Herald.
The government and experts also voiced concerns about excessive competition among local governments.
“The central government should decide early on where to place the park, in terms of balanced national development, regional stability and world peace,” the official told The Korea Herald.
