Hong Myung-bo named men’s national football team head coach
 “The slogan for the year 2014 is ‘One Team, One Spirit and One Goal’ … I will not choose the best players of a team, but will make the best team of players.” ? Hong Myung-bo
The Korea Football Association (KFA), the national governing body of the sport, has named Hong Myung-bo as the new head coach of the national team. He replaced incumbent Choi Kang-hee, who resigned immediately after leading Korea through the Asian qualifiers for the World Cup finals. Hong was signed to a two-year contract and tasked with guiding Korea at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and the 2015 Asian Cup in Australia. 
The KFA said in a statement that Hong was considered the strongest candidate among the four coaches in the running for the position, and was chosen as the head coach following a meeting of its senior officials. Hong will take over a national team loaded with talented young players but has struggled recently during the last stages of World Cup qualifications. The national team barely scraped through to automatic qualification for its eighth straight World Cup on goal difference amid strong criticism from fans.
Speaking at a news conference at the Paju National Football Center, the 44-year-old Hong vowed to transform the national team into a cohesive and formidable unit for the 2014 World Cup campaign. He promised to blend new soccer techniques into the national team’s traditional areas of strength and make the team competitive against any opponent. He expressed optimism that Korean players’ diligence, dedication and willingness to sacrifice for the good of the team could be harnessed to create an effective and yet uniquely Korean style of play.
Hong Myung-bo’s first test as national team coach will likely be from July 20-28 when Korea hosts the East Asian Cup. Participants at the final stage of the tournament include Australia, China and traditional rival Japan. Hong’s squad for the tournament may be missing key players who play in overseas leagues, such as Koo Ja-cheol, Ji Dong-won, Ki Sung-yueng and Kim Bo-kyung, due to conflicts with the start of the European football season. He will likely field a team composed of mostly domestic league players for the all-important showdown against Japan on the final day of the tournament.
Hong Myung-bo achieved legendary status as a player, and ultimately the captain, of the Korean national team in his brilliant career. He had 136 caps and scored 10 goals for the national team. He represented Korea in four consecutive World Cup campaigns starting in 1990, and captained the Cinderella squad that finished fourth at the 2002 Korea/Japan World Cup. During his illustrious career, he was the top sweeper in Asia and played for the Pohang Steelers, Bellmare Hiratsuka, Kashiwa Reysol and Los Angeles Galaxy. He was known for his ability to play deep in midfield and was proficient with long distance strikes. 
In addition to being a well-respected player, Hong Myung-bo also has an impressive track record in coaching. He served as an assistant manager of the national team from 2005 to 2007, as well as the assistant manager of the Korean U-23 team from 2007 to 2008. He managed the Korean national under-20 football team in 2009, and led the team to the quarterfinals in the 2009 U-20 World Cup. He managed the Korean U-23 team from 2009 to 2012 and guided the team to a bronze medal at the London Olympics ? the first ever Olympic medal in football for Korea. Recently, Hong spent five months working and training under his mentor Guus Hiddink at Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala.
