Korea, China seek economic collaboration
Korea and China held their finance ministers‘ meeting in Seoul on Sept. 28 to exchange opinions on recent developments in the global economy.　
 Korea’s Minister of Strategy and Finance Bahk Jae-wan and his Chinese counterpart Zhang Ping agreed to strengthen cooperation in macroeconomic policies amid growing uncertainties in the global economy.
 They also had in-depth discussions on real estate market stability, regional development, price stability, energy and environmental protection.
 Minister Bahk mentioned at the meeting that the finance ministers he met in Washington last week at the G20 finance ministers‘ meeting and the IMF-World Bank Annual Meetings expressed concern about the future of the global economy and emphasized the need for global policy cooperation.
 Minister Bahk added that cooperation between Korea and China was more important than ever as global uncertainties increase.
 During the talks, the two sides agreed that the global economic recovery would take considerable time as the decline in consumption is bigger than expected due to the debt crisis in advanced countries.
 However, they said Korea and China had made model recoveries since the financial crisis hit about two years ago as they carried out the macroeconomic policies suitable for their countries.
 Also, both sides agreed that it is necessary to increase domestic demand in order to manage macroeconomic policy in a stable manner, and that the economic situation of the two countries is positive overall but there are external risks such as the spread of the debt crisis, continuing inflationary pressure and unease regarding the price of raw materials. Bahk stressed that the two countries must expand and develop their cooperation in order to achieve continued growth.
 China’s Zhang accepted Bahk’s proposal to expand cooperation, saying that it was very useful for the two countries, which have adopted similar economic development strategies, to share policy experiences, and that the two sides would increase their dialogue and exchanges in the fields of macroeconomic policy and analysis of global economic trends.
