The Flying Wallendas
The Flying Wallendas is the name of a circus act and stunt performers renowned for their amazing acrobatics and stunts. Karl Wallenda, the founder and patriarch of the troupe, and his extended family of performers have been thrilling spectators all over the world with their breathtaking, daredevil acts for seven generations. They are famous for performing high wire acts without tethers or a safety net, and especially for their extremely dangerous signature act -- the seven-person human pyramid. 
As far back as 1780, in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the ancestral Wallenda family was a traveling circus troupe consisting of acrobats, jugglers, clowns, aerialists and animal trainers. Carl Wallenda was born into this tradition in Magdeburg, Germany in 1905. He started performing with his family at age 6 and was walking the high wire in the early 1920’s. In 1922, Karl formed his own troupe, known as the Great Wallendas, as they toured throughout Europe showcasing their four-man pyramid and high-wire cycling. 
In 1928, while the Great Wallendas were performing in Cuba, John Ringling saw their show and immediately hired them to join the famous American circus company – the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus. The Great Wallendas made their US debut later that year at the Madison Square Garden in New York City. Their high wire act without a safety net brought the astounded audience to their feet for a standing ovation that lasted 15 minutes. Carl Wallenda and his daredevil performers became an instant sensation.
In the 1940’s, the Great Wallendas developed their signature act – the seven-person human pyramid. The intricate and dangerous performance was a three-tier high wire act. Two pairs of performers walk the wire, each supporting another aerialist on a pole. Those two aerialists, in turn, carry a pole upon which the seventh member of the troupe balances in a chair. At a performance in Akron, Ohio, the group fell off the wire but no one was hurt. A reporter who witnessed the accident wrote in the newspaper that “The Wallendas fell so gracefully that it seemed as if they were flying.” From then on, the Great Wallendas became known as the Flying Wallendas.
The Flying Wallendas have endured their share of tragedies over the years. In 1962, while performing their signature act at the Shrine Circus at Detroit‘s State Fair Coliseum, the pyramid collapsed and three performers fell to the ground. Carl’s son-in-law and nephew died, and his adopted son was paralyzed. Carl’s sister-in-law and another son-in-law also died from performance accidents in later years. On March 22, 1978, during a promotional walk in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Karl Wallenda fell from the wire and died. He was 73 years old. On June 4, 2011, Nikolas Wallenda, Carl’s great-grandson, completed the same walk with his mother in honor of Carl.
These days, it is Nikolas Wallenda who carries the family banner for the Flying Wallendas. His wife Erendira comes from the Flying Vasquez family of trapeze artists. Nikolas holds many Guinness records for amazing feats. On Oct. 15, 2008, he broke the world record for the highest and longest bike ride on a high wire live on NBC’s Today program. On June 15, 2012, he became the first person in history to walk over the Niagara Falls on a high wire, crossing from the United States to Canada. He was unhappy that he was forced to wear a safety tether by the event’s sponsor, American Broadcasting Company (ABC).
Nikolas Wallenda performed his greatest feat to date on June 23, 2013. The 34-year-old walked on a 5-centimeter-wide steel cable stretching 426.7 meters across the Grand Canyon, 457.2 meters above the Colorado River. This time, he did it his way – without a tether or safety net. After accomplishing the unbelievable walk, Nikolas expressed the wish to walk on a wire between the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building in New York City in the near future.
