Animal testing should be illegal
Yes-  Before releasing new products in the market, they must be tested to find out whether they are safe. So many scientists carry out animal testing on them. 
That process seems to be needed, but is it right? Is killing them really necessary? I don’t think so. They are all like us. I think animal testing should be illegal.
First, animal testing is a not correct all the time. Animals and humans are similar, but we are not the same. This means, even though animal testing is successful the new products can bring side effects when we use them. 
For example, in 1957, thalidomide was made by a German firm to prevent morning sickness in pregnant women. At first, it was sold only in England and Germany. Later, thalidomide was sold in 46 countries. Of course, it had been tested on animals and there were no serious side effects. But the drug caused the birth of malformed children in various nations that used it. So they decided to prohibit the use of thalidomide once and for all.
Animal testing wastes tons of money. Many experiments have been conducted on animals to find cures for cancer. However these experiments were not successful. They wasted too much money and time. The resources could have been used for other experiments. Furthermore, these tests are done thanks to tax money we pay to the governments. 
Therefore, some countries like England, the U.S. and Germany forbid a lot of animal testing by law. People cherish their own lives, but why do they neglect those of animals? We should ban animal testing. 
No-  The topic of animal testing is highly controversial. People question the ethics of testing on animals for the benefit of humans. That’s why a slew of regulations have been implemented to control animal testing in lab environments across the world. 
Yet, while animal testing on cosmetic products is undesirable, it is inevitable for the medical purposes. Drugs for heart disease or AIDS pills all require testing on animals. As long as there are proper regulations that keep the testing as humane and as ethical as possible, this practice has more benefits than disadvantages for society as a whole.
Moreover, a survey conducted in the American Medical Association supports the claim that 99 percent of all active physicians in the U.S. believe that animal research has given rise to medical advancements. The reason behind this is that physical conditions of animals and humans are almost identical. Research Defense Society, a British organization, also argued that complaints made against animal testing are false.
Therefore, the benefits of new drugs and cures that derive from animal testing far offset the disadvantages it has. The creation of new drugs can save sick people’s lives. This is why animal testing is important. 
All in all, animal testing is an integral part of medical research. It helps cure life-threatening diseases like polio, rabies, malaria, and mumps for human beings thus it should be legalized. 
