Declining loyalty among iPhone users?
A recent survey found that at least one-third of iPhone users in Korea are interested in switching to Samsung’s line of Galaxy smartphones, showing a surprising decline in loyalty to the Apple brand. 
According to the survey, conducted by KT Economics and Management Research Institute on 3,763 smartphone users aged 13 to 69, a little under half (46.9 percent) of iPhone users stated they would stay loyal to the brand compared to the 65.4 percent of Galaxy smartphone users.
In fact, 34.6 percent of iPhone users stated that next time, they would switch to a Galaxy smartphone rather than continuing with Apple’s smartphone line whereas 16.3 percent of Galaxy smartphone users responded that they would like to switch to the iPhone. 
When asked about their reasons for choosing the products they are currently using, iPhone users’ top three reasons were based on design (25.8 percent), brand (20 percent) and operating system (19.5 percent). Samsung Galaxy users, on the other hand, picked product specifications (19.4 percent), brand (18.9 percent) and price (15.1 percent) as the factors that most heavily influenced their choice of smartphone. 
The survey results may be especially surprising given that they counter the widely accepted belief that Apple consumers tend to show more loyalty to the brand than other smartphone uses. 
The KT Economics and Management Research Institute, however, warns against concluding that the iPhone’s market share in Korea will shrink and that of Samsung’s Galaxy smartphone line will increase based on this latest survey. The institute explains that since the number of Galaxy smartphone users in Korea far outnumbers iPhone users, the Silicon Valley-based company still has a lot of room to increase the iPhone’s market share.
For example, that despite what the percentages may reflect, the actual number of Galaxy smartphone users interested in switching to the iPhone (351 people) is more than twice the number of iPhone users interested in switching to the Galaxy smartphone line (144 people). 
