Egypt’s democratically elected president steps down
Egypt President Mohammed Morsi was forced out by the country’s armed forces just a year after his inauguration, AP reported on July 4.
On a televised setting, the army chief Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi declared that Egypt’s head of the constitutional court would serve as the interim head of state before new elections take place. 
Egypt’s military leaders, who had forced the country’s first democratically elected president out through what appears to be a coup d’etat, pledged to set up a civilian government without delay and bring about national reconciliation.
“The president had failed to meet the demands of the Egyptian people,” Sisi remarked. 
The tinder-box situation sent millions to the streets. Many Morsi supporters were arrested while his opponents celebrated in Cairo’s Tahrir Square. So far 30 people have been killed in clashes between Morsi supporters and the armed forces with 250 people injured.
President Morsi called it, “a full coup” and stated in his social networking page: “There are still people in Egypt who believe in their right to make a democratic choice. Hundreds of thousands of them have gathered in support of democracy and the presidency. And they will not leave in the face of this attack.” 
The U.S. President Barack Obama said he was “deeply concerned” by the military’s move to topple and oust Morsi’s government and suspend Egypt’s constitution. Obama urged Egypt’s military to hand back control to a democratic, civilian government and all sides to “refrain from violence.”
Morsi became Egypt’s first freely elected president on June 30, 2012 after winning an election that followed the 2011 revolution that toppled Hosni Mubarak.
According to an AP report, Egypt’s Morsi regime has been marred with political and economic setbacks such as fuel shortages and rising food prices. Last November, Morsi issued a controversial constitutional declaration which would grant him and the Muslim Brotherhood extensive powers. His moves alienated his regime from ordinary Egyptians. 
