Tragic flight: Asiana Airlines Flight 214
An Asiana Airlines flight departing from Seoul crash-landed at San Francisco International Airport on July 6, killing two and injuring hundreds as the plane erupted in flames. 
Asiana officials confirmed that a total of 291 passengers and 16 cabin crew were onboard Flight 214 when it departed Incheon International Airport. Officials believe that the fiery crash was caused by the Boeing 777 aircraft flying at a slower speed than required for safe landing. 
Officials believe that the plane hit the seawall barrier at the end of the runway while on its descent. The impact caused both engines and the tail section of the plane to get separated from the aircraft. Several eyewitnesses described a large fireball upon the aircraft landing, and a secondary large explosion minutes after impact. 
Despite the damage, however, a reported 123 of the 291 passengers were able to walk away from the wreckage uninjured. Though only two fatalities were reported, sadly, both have been identified as young Chinese girls. Sixteen-year-old Wang Linjia and 17-year-old Ye Mengyuan were students at Jiangshan Middle School in eastern China who were traveling on a summer camp program to visit universities in California.
The sudden crash reportedly took even the jet’s trained crew by surprise, as evidenced by the lack of discussion between the pilots and air traffic controllers that there were any problems with the aircraft.
Some witnesses reported hearing the plane’s engine rev up just before the crash, indicating the pilot realized at the last minute that something was wrong. The cockpit voice recorder recovered from the wreckage showed that the pilot had received a warning that it could stall due to its low speed. Although the pilot tried to adjust for the flight’s low speed and altitude, the crew was told to abort the landing about 1.5 seconds before impact.
“When you heard that explosion, that loud boom and you saw the black smoke ... you just thought, my god, everybody in there is gone,” Ki Siadatan, who watched the plane’s “wobbly” and “a little bit out of control” approach from his balcony a few miles away from the airport, told AP. 
“My initial reaction was I don’t see how anyone could have made it,” he added.
As of July 9, the exact cause of the crash is not immediately known. 
Initial reports pointed the finger at the pilot, Lee Kang-kook, who is said to have been making his first landing with a Boeing 777 at San Francisco International Airport. He is said to have clocked just 43 hours of flying experience in a Boeing 777 and 9,793 hours overall, compared to the other pilot on board, Lee Jeong-min, who had clocked 3,200 hours with the 777 and 12,387 hours of flying experience overall. 
“It was Lee Kang-kook’s maiden flight to the airport with the jet. ... He was in training. Even a veteran gets training [for a new jet],” a spokeswoman for Asiana Airlines said on July 8.
“He has a lot of experience and previously flown to San Francisco on different planes including the B747... and he was assisted by another pilot who has more experience with the 777,” the spokeswoman added.
Asiana Airlines president Yoon Young-doo swiftly dismissed the possibility that pilot error is to blame for the accident. 
“I cannot tolerate such speculation and it is not true,” Yoon said in a news conference in Seoul, warning against jumping to conclusions about the cause of the accident. 
For its part, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has not commented on speculations that the crash was caused by pilot error.
“We have not determined what the focus of this investigation is yet,” NTSB Board Chairman Deborah Hersman told reporters before departing Washington D.C. for the crash scene. “We will be looking at everything. Everything is on the table at this point.” 
NTSB investigators will be working with the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Boeing and Korea’s Air and Accident Investigation Board. 
“Having visited the site,” said San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee, “it is incredible we have so many survivors.”
In Seoul, President Park Geun-hye expressed her deepest condolences to the victims and their families, promising to spare no efforts in helping handle the aftermath.
Although interviews with all four pilots of Asiana Flight 214 were wrapped up by July 8, Korea’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport officials say it could take months, if not years, before the exact cause of the accident is identified. 
“It’s miraculous we survived,” passenger Vedpal Singh, who had a fractured collarbone and whose arm was in a sling, told CBS News. 
With the investigation ongoing and officials still trying to piece together all the details of what led to the crash, a special inspection of 48 Boeing 777 planes in Korea, operated by Korean Air and Asiana Airlines, has been ordered by the transportation ministry. 
The crash of Flight 214 was the third fatal crash in Asiana’s 25-year history. The last accident occurred in 1993 when a B737-500 crashed while trying to land at Mokpo airport, 410 kilometers south of Seoul. Two crew members and 66 passengers of the 110 on board were killed.
