'Silent Assassin’ on field: golfer Park In-bee
Korean golfer Park In-bee’s latest victory in the U.S. Women’s Open on the LPGA Tour at Sebonack Golf Club in Southampton, New York, landed her in the LPGA history books. She became the only golfer to win three majors in one season besides Babe Zaharias in 1950. Park shot a 2-over 74 and finished with an 8-under 280 to defeat her fellow Korean golfer, Kim In-kyung by four shots. 
“What I’ve achieved today is something that will go down in history. I am looking forward to how far I can go in my career,” Park said after winning the U.S. Women’s Open. 
The latest victory not only presented her with $585,000 in prize money but put her in the lead for the race for the top of the Player of the Year. Already, she scored her sixth LPGA Tour victory this season including two majors: The Kraft Nabisco Championship in April and the LPGA Championship in June.
If Park manages to add one more major win this season, she will set a “calendar grand slam” record, which has never been done by any golfer -- male or female. The remaining majors in the season are the Ricoh Women’s British Open in August and Evian Championship in September.
Park said she is excited to get a chance to set the calendar grand slam record, but is well-aware how difficult it would be to make it happen. “It takes so much hard work. I’m just glad that I can give it a try at St. Andrews. That’s going to be a great experience. Whether I do it or not, I’m just a very lucky person.”
Born on July 12, 1988 in Seoul, Park In-bee began playing golf at the age of 10. Two years later, at age 12, she moved to the U.S. to pursue a golf career. She won nine events on the American Junior Golf Association (AJGA) circuit and was a five-time Rolex Junior All-American. In 2006, after graduating from Bishop Gorman High School in Las Vegas, Park enrolled at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, but soon dropped out and turned professional. On June 29, 2008, Park won the U.S. Women’s Open at Interlachen Country Club in Edina, Minnesota; her first LPGA win. 
Her future looked promising. But winning the major at such a young age pressured her immensely and she sank deeply. At one point, she told her dad she would quit golfing altogether. But she stuck to it, and refocused on Japan. At the time, she could build confidence and faith by spending more time with her family and friends. She ended up winning two titles in Japan and finally on April 7, 2013, Park won her second major title at the Kraft Nabisco Championship. Since April 15 this year, she has been ranked No. 1 in the Women’s World Golf Rankings. 
Foreign media have also been taking a keen interest in Park. The U.S. Sports channel ESPN compared her victory rate –six wins out of 13 games--with Tiger Woods’ nine victories out of 20 competitions, referring her as a “Silent Assassin.” She starts off the game unnoticed, suddenly bounces up near the end of the tournament, scaring and surprising competitors and finally wins the title, they said. 
Flaunting her sense of style with a blue shirt and pink pants, Park appeared on the morning news program, “Today Show” on MSNBC. She is the second Korean to appear on the show, after Psy. Park said that she got nervous like anybody else, but the golf course made her calm.
Park In-bee is one of the “Park Se-ri kids” -- a young generation of Korean golfers who started golfing looking after the success of Park Se-ri. Park In-bee, Choi Na-yeon and Shin Ji-yae are all included in the group. Park said in interviews that she began golfing after watching Park Se-ri’s U.S. Women’s Open victory in 1998 with her father. Park and Choi Na-yeon often spend time together, sharing Korean food and playing sports at Choi’s home in Orlando. 
“I think she’s really comfortable with her life right now,” Choi said of Park. 
This is probably because she has a strong support from her fiance, who is her personal caddie and former professional golfer, Nam Ki-hyup. Park says she becomes calm and relaxed when he travels with her on the tour. “He is a source of comfort who helped me a lot when I was lonely and went through a hard time in the past; he gives me mental strength,” Park said. 
They met in a local golf tournament in 2007. Park asked Nam to become her caddie and there, their relationship took off. The couple began touring in 2011 and got engaged in August the same year. 
Park said her next goal is to win a player of the year award and the gold medal at the 2016 Brazil Olympics. “To inspire some young girls and give them something to look up to is such a great position to be in,” Park said. 
It won’t be long that the 25-year-old becomes the second Korean World Golf Hall of Famer after Park Se-ri and a golf legend who can be compared in line with Tiger Woods.　
