Brazil wins Confederations Cup
 “Brazil has shown to the world that this is the Brazilian national team and that we must be respected. I think that today we had a great victory against the best team of the world, with some of the best players in the world.” ? Neymar
Brazil claimed the 2013 confederations Cup title on June 30 with a comprehensive 3-0 victory over World and European champion Spain at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro. It was Brazil’s fourth Confederations Cup title and the third in a row, after previous wins in 1997, 2005 and 2009. The victory over top-ranked Spain is an important confidence-booster for Brazil, currently 22nd in FIFA rankings, as the nation prepares to host the 2014 World Cup. 
The Confederations Cup is an international association football tournament for national teams currently held every four years by FIFA. It is contested by the holders of each of the six FIFA confederation championships (UEFA, CONMEBOL, CONCACAF, CAF, AFC, OFC), along with the FIFA World Cup holder and the host nation, to bring the number of teams up to eight. The 2013 edition of the Confederations Cup, the ninth in the history of the tournament, featured Brazil, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Nigeria, Spain, Tahiti and Uruguay. 
The 2013 Confederations Cup was held against the backdrop of intense anti-government protests sweeping across Brazil. Millions of people took to the streets in cities across the vast nation to voice their grievances over high taxes, inflation, corruption and poor public services. The protesters also took aim at a government that spent billions of dollars in public money to prepare for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic games. There were concerns that the tournament might be in jeopardy due to the widespread unrest.
Spain was considered the overwhelming favorite to claim the 2013 Confederations Cup title prior to the start of the tournament. The reigning World Cup and European champion was on an incredible 29-game, three-year winning streak in competitive matches. The Spanish side featured a roster of all-star players, including Xavi, Andres Iniesta, Fernando Torres, Gerard Pique and Iker Casillas. “La Furia Roja” did not disappoint in the group stage, defeating Uruguay 2-1, crushing Tahiti 10-0, and shutting out Nigeria 3-0. In the knockout stages, Spain overcame Italy 7-6 in a penalty shootout to earn a spot in the final against host Brazil.
Brazil was not a team in fine form entering the tournament. A string of sub-par performances in recent international matches caused the perennial football powerhouse to drop out of the top 20 in the FIFA rankings. The tournament host desperately needed a solid performance ahead of the 2014 World Cup. The Brazilian side dispelled any doubts about their form in the group stage by defeating Japan 3-0, Mexico 2-0 and Italy 4-2 with major contributions from Neymar, Fred, Paulinho and Julio Cesar. In the knockout stage, Fred and Paulinho each scored a goal to put Brazil past Uruguay and to set up a showdown with Spain.
The championship match of the 2013 Confederations Cup was played in front of 73,531 spectators at the Maracana Stadium -- the site of the 2014 World Cup final next July 14. Brazil got off to a quick 1-0 lead as Fred scored two minutes into the game. Neymar doubled the advantage in the 44th minute; Fred added another goal in the 47th minute for a 3-0 lead, and the rout was on. 
The Brazilians dominated the world champion in every phase of the game. Their defense was air-tight, and goalkeeper Julio Cesar, winner of the Golden Glove, was flawless. Neymar was brilliant in facilitating the free-flowing offense that “Selecao” fans came to expect from great Brazilian teams of the past. He was awarded the Golden Ball as the best player in the tournament, and teammate Fred won the Silver Shoe for scoring five goals.
