Martial arts legend Bruce Lee
Bruce Lee was a legendary martial artist, a popular movie star, and an influential pop culture icon of the 20th century. He mesmerized movie goers with his lightning-fast strikes, animalistic combat growls, ethereal mastery of the nunchaku and stylistic fight scene choreography. His portrayal of title roles with pride, strength and dignity was a direct challenge to Hollywood’s traditionally biased and stereotypical representation of Asians as meek, sneaky and unsavory characters in the movies. Although it has been 40 years since his untimely death in July, 1973, Bruce Lee is still fondly remembered by his fans as the greatest martial arts hero of all time.
Bruce Lee (Lee Jun-fan) was born in San Francisco on Nov. 27, 1940. His family moved back to Hong Kong the following year where he lived until his late teens. He worked as a child actor and appeared in 20 movies. During his formative years, Bruce Lee was involved with youth gangs and often got into fights. He began his martial arts training at age 13 by studying under the legendary Wing Chun master Yip Man. His frequent street fights caught the attention of the police, so when he turned 18, his parents sent him to live with his sister in the United States.
In 1961, Bruce Lee enrolled at the University of Washington, where he studied drama, philosophy and psychology. He met a fellow student named Linda Emery, and they married in 1964. He dropped out of school after three years to devote himself to his martial arts school -- the Lee Jun Fan Gung Fu Institute. While attending a martial arts exhibition on Long Beach in 1964, Bruce lee was introduced to a TV producer who invited him to take a screen test for a new series based on the cartoon character “The Green Hornet.” He won the part of Kato -- the Green Hornet’s crime-fighting sidekick.
Although “The Green Hornet” was canceled after only one season, Bruce Lee’s martial art skills won many fans. He made appearances on various TV shows and started teaching martial arts to established Hollywood stars such as Steve McQueen and James Colburn. After he finished filming “The Green Hornet,” he developed his own system of martial art called “Jeet Kune Do,” or the “Way of the Intercepting Fist.” He called his creation “the style of no style,” which emphasized practicality, flexibility, speed, and efficiency. 
Unhappy with playing supporting roles on American TV shows and films, Bruce Lee returned to Hong Kong in 1971 to look for feature film opportunities. He quickly signed with “Golden Harvest Productions” and his first film was “Big Boss.” He turned a low-budget film with a forgettable script into a personal showcase of his marvelous martial art skills. The film was a box office success, and he became an instant super star. His next film, “Fist of Fury,” in which he fought Japanese villains, featured sophisticated and memorable fight-scene choreography that reflected his personal martial arts philosophy and style. The film established new box office records.
After two consecutive hits, Bruce Lee set up his own production company, Concord Productions, and took control of his career by writing, directing and acting in his next film, “Way of the Dragon.” He brought in close friends to help: seven-time U.S. karate champion Chuck Norris, karate expert Robert Wall, and hapkido master Ing-Sik Whang. With four accomplished martial artists acting together, the film became an instant classic. Every fight scene was meticulously choreographed and expertly executed. It culminated in one of the greatest on screen duels in cinematic history -- Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris went toe-to-toe in the Roman coliseum. The two masters staged the most iconic fight scene ever recorded on film.
Bruce Lee was working on his next film, “Game of Death,” when Hollywood came calling again. Warner Brothers wanted to finance a film, called “Enter the Dragon,” with Bruce Lee as the main star. Filming concluded in early 1973, but before it was released, tragedy struck. On July 20, 1973, Bruce Lee collapsed and died from an allergic reaction to pain medication. He was 32 years old. After a massive funeral attended by tens of thousands grieving fans in Hong Kong, Bruce Lee was laid to rest at Lake View Cemetery in Seattle, Washington. “Enter the Dragon” was released a week after Bruce Lee’s death. The $850,000-budgeted film has earned more than $200 million in worldwide box office. 
