Schools need to improve Korean history education: ministry
Education on the history of the Korean War is in dire need of improvement as evidenced by the surprising number of students who failed to answer what year the Korean War broke out, according to the Ministry of Education.
In a recent survey conducted by the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, a whopping 53 percent of 1,000 Korean students were unable to answer correctly what year the Korean War broke out. In another survey by Seoul Shinmun, 7 out of 10 respondents incorrectly stated that the war was caused by South Korea’s invasion of North Korea.
The surprising lack of basic knowledge of Korean history by today’s students is worrying. 
“The territory of a country is equivalent to the body of the people occupying that land, and history is equivalent to the soul of the people,” said Korean President Park Geun-hye during a meeting with chief editorial writers from major press firms at the Blue House on July 10. 
“But if a person grows into a citizen without properly learning history, that person could be left without a soul, and if distorted (historical) perceptions are added to that, I believe this is an extremely serious problem,” she added, showing her support for the call to improve history education in schools nationwide by the Ministry of Education. 
Municipal and provincial education offices announced on July 10 that the Ministry of Education had instructed schools nationwide to improve and strengthen students’ education on the 1950-53 Korean War.
Many have argued that the reason why so many students are confused by the cause of the Korean War is due to confusion over the definition of “bukchim,” a word derived from Chinese characters. 
In the official document sent to schools across the country, the ministry included excerpts from textbooks about the war as reference materials as well as instructions for teachers to educate students on when the war began, who initiated it and who was responsible for the tragedy. The ministry specifically stressed the need to prevent distorted interpretations of history due to a misunderstanding of Chinese characters. 
