 Tit for tat: War of nerves between two Koreas
Amid South Korean President Park Geun-hye’s consistent efforts to bring peace and stability to the Korean Peninsula, the two Koreas’ talks on reopening their Gaeseong industrial park failed again on July 15 -- the third such failure in July.
The two sides met on July 6 for the first official inter-Korean talks in years at the border village of Panmunjeom. They again talked head to head four days later. However, these talks saw no tangible results.
Seoul repeated its demand for a guarantee from Pyongyang against a future suspension of the industrial park before its normalization. Meanwhile, Pyongyang called for the park’s reopening without any preconditions.
The industrial park, which was firstly formed in 2002, had been working as a bridgehead for the two Korea’s joint economic development. However, when tension arose between the two sides, the park has often fallen victim to the hostile mood. In April 2013, Pyongyang government blocked S. Korean access to the park, and soon after the park itself shut down all its manufacturing activities.
Another inter-Korean issue at the center of attention is the family reunion talks. Over the past decade, the two countries held meetings for the families displaced by the Korean War around major holidays such as Aug. 15 Liberation Day and Chuseok, the Korean Thanksgiving.
The last family reunion was held in October 2010 in spite of the North’s sinking of a South Korean corvette earlier that year. Seoul demanded an apology from North Korea for the attack but the North denied responsibility.
In August 2012, South Korea’s Red Cross offered to meet its North Korean counterpart to arrange a fresh round of reunions. But Pyongyang rejected the offer by calling for an end to economic sanctions and resumption of the Mt. Geumgang tour as preconditions, which Seoul deemed unreasonable. 
According to the Unification Ministry, only 72,864 of the 128,824 South Koreans registered since 1988 remain alive. Of the survivors, 9.3 percent are aged over 90, 40.5 percent are in their 80s, 30.6 percent in their 70s and 11.4 percent in their 60s.
Earlier this year, North Korea proposed talks on Mt. Geumgang tour resumption along with discussions on family reunions, the former of which has been suspended for five years.
However, the South Korean government did not wholly agree to the suggestion, saying it would agree only to holding talks on family reunions, emphasizing that reopening of the Gaeseong industrial park was much more urgent than restarting the tourism business.
Concluding that the South’s decision was not comprehendible, the North stressed that the Mt. Geumgang tours were as important as the industrial park to South Korean companies and people.
“The desperation of the South Korean company waiting for the resumption of Mt. Geumgang tours that have been suspended for five years is as serious as that of companies at the industrial complex,” North Korea said on July 13 in a letter sent to the South’s Unification Ministry.
“Considering the South‘s view, we are saying we should postpone talks on resumption of Mt. Geumgang tours and reunions between separated families to focus our efforts on resolving the industrial complex issue,” the letter added.
Meanwhile, the South Korean government emphasized the inter-Korean factory zone as a “touchstone” for cross-border exchanges and cooperation, so giving more weight to the reopening of the industrial complex than to the resumption of the tours.
Mt. Geumgang tourism, a signature inter-Korean project, had been operated by Seoul-based Hyundai Asan Corp. until July 2008, The Korea Herald explained. 
In an effort to resume the tours, Hyundai Group chairwoman Hyun Jeong-eun traveled to Pyongyang and met with then-leader Kim Jong-il the following year and secured a guarantee of tourist safety and “all accommodations necessary for the tour.”
But the Lee Myung-bak government dismissed the agreement, demanding the regime promise again to the “responsible government authorities.”
Currently, the South Korean government has urged the North to show more sincerity and readiness to build inter-Korean trust. South Korea’s Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung-sik said on July 10: “We hope North Korea will change into a trusted dialogue partner and responsible member of the international community.”
South Korean President Park Geun-hye has also been emphasizing “trust-building” between the two Koreas through her various remarks at home and abroad ever since her inauguration in February.
