Do fish feel pain like humans?
Anglers are often stigmatized as cruel and vicious because their actions cause a lot of pain to animals. 
But a recent study published in the journal Fish and Fisheries says otherwise. It argues that fish lack the necessary pain receptors in their brains to experience pain, according to The Daily Catch on July 11.
Whether fish feel pain the way humans do has been an ongoing debate by scientists all over the world. According to the study, while fish have nociceptors-- sensory receptors that respond to physical harm by sending warning signals to the brain -- these receptors don’t function the way they do in humans and other animals, thus in effect, fish cannot feel pain. 
“Even if fishes were conscious, it is unwarranted to assume that they possess a humanlike capacity for pain,” said the researchers. 
They claim that a group of nociceptors, known as C-fiber nociceptors, is responsible for pain in humans but is rare in finned fishes and absent in sharks, ray and skates. And another form of nociceptors, the A-delta nociceptor, which creates a simple and reflexive avoidance response, is fundamentally different from that of humans.
This argument contradicts previous findings on fish’s capacity to feel pain. 
In a 2003 study, after fish were injected in the lips with bee venom or an acid solution, they reacted immediately, rubbing their lips on the side or bottom of the tank, moving from side to side and breathing heavily -- all clear signs of feeling pain.
A 2009 study also showed that fish could remember painful experiences and demonstrated defensive or avoidance behaviors, such as wariness, fear and anxiety afterward.
Still the latest research suggests that fish’s reaction to pain is a purely unconscious reaction since they lack the necessary brain power to experience pain. Other research also supports this argument. Fish which had been caught and released showed normal activity and stable long-term survival, an indication they did not experience pain. 
Regarding the criticism of animal rights activists, Mark Lloyd, head of Anglers’ Trust defended the sport. “Anglers care passionately about the protection of fish stocks and do more than any other group to protect and improve freshwater and marine environments,” he said. According to Lloyd, angling is the most sustainable way to catch fish in the modern world.
