Andy Murray wins Wimbledon
 “When you walk down to Centre Court you see pictures of all the winners back to something like 1920, and to be reminded of that every single match has been quite a pressure. To think I’ve joined them now is pretty amazing.” ? Andy Murray
Andy Murray defeated world No. 1 Novak Djokovic of Serbia 6-4, 7-5, 6-4 for his first Wimbledon title and ended Britain’s 77-year wait for a men‘s champion at the All England Club. The historic victory put an exclamation point on a career defining 12-month stretch during which he won Olympic gold, the 2012 U.S. Open and now Wimbledon. The last British player to win the men’s singles title at Wimbledon was Fred Perry, who claimed his last of three consecutive titles in 1936. 
Ever since he achieved a top-10 ranking by the ATP for the first time on April 16, 2007, Andy Murray was put under tremendous pressure to become the first British player to win a Grand Slam singles tournament in the modern era. He reached Grand Slam finals at the 2008 U.S. Open, the 2010 Australian Open, the 2011 Australian Open and Wimbledon 2012; however, he finished as runner-up on each occasion. His quest for a Grand Slam title was denied by the likes of Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic.
Andy Murray’s career breakthrough victory came in 2012 at the London Olympic Games. Three weeks after the 2012 Wimbledon final loss to Roger Federer that reduced him to tears, Andy Murray met the Swiss great in the Olympic final for the gold medal. Urged on by a raucous, partisan crowd, Murray defeated Federer in straight sets to become the first British man to win the Olympic singles gold medal in tennis since Josiah Ritchie in 1908. He rode the momentum of his Olympic triumph to the 2012 U.S. Open and defeated Novak Djokovic to claim his first Grand Slam singles title. He became the first British player since 1977, and the first British man since 1936, to win a Grand Slam singles tournament.
Andy Murray entered Wimbledon 2013 as the second seed, and he was on a winning streak of 11 matches on grass. He sailed through the first four rounds without dropping a set, while his main rivals Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal were unexpectedly eliminated early in the tournament. In the quarterfinals, Murray faced a stern test from the unseeded Fernando Verdasco. He fought back from a two-set deficit to win 4-6, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 and 7-5. In the semifinals, Murray defeated the 24-seeded Jerzy Janowicz 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, and 6-3 to reach the Wimbledon final for the second consecutive year.
Waiting for Murray at the championship match was top seed Novak Djokovic. They had met earlier in the year at the Australian Open final in which Djokovic won the title in four sets. Fifteen-thousand spectators jammed the seats of center court, with thousands more watching on a giant screen outside and millions watching on TV, in anticipation of a Murray victory. In a match that lasted 3 hours and 9 minutes and featured booming serves and long rallies, it was Murray who played with more confidence and consistency. He hit more winners (36-31) and made fewer unforced errors (21-40) than his opponent to win the hard-fought match 6-4, 7-5 and 6-4. After he converted the match point, Murray embraced Djokovic, fell to the grass, and walked around the court high-fiving delirious spectators. 
Andy Murray’s historic triumph at the All England Club has galvanized a nation that has waited 77 years to see a Briton win the Wimbledon. Prime Minister David Cameron, who watched the match from the royal box, said afterward that Murray’s victory had “lifted the spirits of the whole country” and suggested that the tennis star deserved a knighthood. He later hosted a special reception for Murray at the prime minister’s official residence at Downing Street.
