Countdown to the London Olympics
The 2012 Summer Olympic Games are scheduled to take place in London, England from July 27 to Aug. 12, 2012. Having hosted the Olympics in 1908 and 1948, London is set to become the first city to officially host the modern Olympic Games three times.  London won the right to host the Olympic Games by defeating Paris in the final round of voting by the margin of 54 – 50 votes.  Since winning the bid in 2005, The London Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games was created, with a total budget of $17.6 billion, to oversee the planning and staging of the Games. 
 Competition Venues - The 2012 Olympic Games will use a mixture of new venues and existing facilities. The Olympic park is situated around Stratford in the East End of London over a 200-hectare area. At the south end of the park, the construction of the Olympic stadium with a sitting capacity of 80,000 spectators is under way. Most of the structures being constructed for the competition will be used for various purposes after the Olympics, and many of them are designed in such a way that they can be resized or moved from one place to another.
 Transportation - London’s public transport was a matter of concern during the bidding process. In anticipation of the influx of large numbers of visitors during the Olympic Games, London is renovating and improving its transportation system -- including the introduction of a high-speed rail service, construction of a cable car across the River Thames, and expansion of the city‘s suburban rail network. The improvements in transportation will help 80 percent of athletes to reach their competition venues in less than 20 minutes and make it easier for spectators to attend events without wasting too much time. 
Sports - The 2012 London Olympics will feature 26 sports, two less than the Beijing Olympics, after the IOC voted to drop baseball and softball from the competition. Golf, Karate, squash, rugby sevens, and roller sports were considered as replacement events for baseball and softball but none received enough votes to reach the required two-thirds majority. However, golf and rugby sevens will be included in the 2016 Olympic Games.
 Test Events - From May 2011 to May 2012, numerous sporting events are scheduled under the London Prepares Series to test the field of play, results, scoring and timing systems, as well as key operational procedures and functions. They include specially created international invitational events in basketball, volleyball, handball, swimming, judo, taekwondo, and existing events such as tennis’ Wimbledon Championships, World Badminton championships, and triathlon world series.
 Mascots and Logo - The official mascots for the 2012 London Olympic are Wenlock and Mandeville -- two animated figures depicting two drops of steel from a steelworks in Bolton.  They are respectively named after a town that held a forerunner of the current Olympic Games, and a village that held a forerunner of the Paralympic games.  The London Olympic logo is a representation of the number 2012, with the Olympic Rings embedded within the zero.  This design was aimed at reaching young people, but the public’s reaction has largely been negative. 
