Korean classic ‘Old Boy’ gets Hollywood makeover
Park Chan-wook’s classic film “Old Boy” will soon face a revival as the Hollywood remake is set to hit theaters in October. 
Although Korean dramas and pop music have taken the world by storm, Korean cinema has yet to make the same impact. Recently, however, Korean films have begun to gain recognition in various film festivals around the world, but no movie has been able to achieve as widespread recognition and popularity as Park Chan-wook’s 2003 mystery thriller film, “Old Boy.” 
After numerous attempts with various Hollywood directors and production companies, an official Hollywood adaptation of “Old Boy” was finally secured in 2011. 
Directed by the award-winning director Spike Lee, the Hollywood remake is set to star Josh Brolin, Elizabeth Olsen, Sharlto Copley and Samuel L. Jackson. The plot will follow the same basic storyline as the original Korean film, which is itself loosely based on the Japanese manga of the same name. 
To date, there have been a few Hollywood remakes of Korean films, though none of the original films had the recognition or the popularity that “Old Boy” champions overseas. 
Set to hit theaters sometime in October, early press screenings of Lee’s “Old Boy” have yielded positive reviews from critics. 
In 2008, CNN viewers picked Park Chan-wook’s “Old Boy” as one of the 10 best Asian films ever made.
The Spike Lee remake will have the main character eating instant noodles rather than the dumplings in the original film. 
Korean films remade by Hollywood 
l “Il Mare” (2000) – Directed by Lee Hyun-seung, “Il Mare” was remade into the 2006 Alejandro Agresti-directed film, “The Lake House.”
l “My Sassy Girl” (2001) – Directed by Kwak Jae-young, “My Sassy Girl” was remade into the 2008 Yann Samuell-directed film of the same name.
l “Addicted” (2002) - Directed by Park Young-hoon, “Addicted” was remade into the 2009 Joel Bergvall and Simon Sandquist-directed film, “Possession.”
l “Into the Mirror” (2003) - Directed by Kim Sung-ho, “Into the Mirror” was remade into the 2008 Alexandre Aja-directed film, “Mirrors.”
l “A Tale of Two Sisters” (2003) - Directed by Kim Jee-woon, “A Tale of Two Sisters” was remade into the 2009 Charles and Thomas Guard-directed film, “The Uninvited.”
