Jim Carrey speaks out against guns and violence
“I did Kickass a month before Sandy Hook and now in all good conscience I cannot support that level of violence. My apologies to others involved with the film. I am not ashamed of it but recent events have caused a change in my heart.” Jim Carrey
Jim Carrey created a firestorm of controversy when he took to social media to condemn the level of violence in his own movie, Kick-Ass 2. The film, a satirical spoof of the superhero genre and a sequel to 2010’s ultra-violent comic book movie Kick-Ass, is scheduled for worldwide cinematic release in August. In the movie, 51-year-old Carrey plays a baseball-bat-wielding masked crime fighter -- Col. Stars and Stripes. Carrey has been an outspoken proponent of stricter gun control measures in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook elementary school massacre in which 20-year-old gunman Adam Lanza fatally shot 20 children and six adult staff members. 
In a tweeter entry dated June 24, 2013, Jim Carrey stated that he could not support Kick-Ass 2 in good conscience due to the film’s depiction of extreme violence. Mark Millar, the creator of the comic book series Kick-Ass is based on, immediately responded by saying that he was baffled by Carrey’s announcement and the timing of his objections. He pointed out that everything seen in the movie was as written in the screenplay 18 months ago. Jim Carrey contended that Kick-Ass 2 wrapped production near the end of November 2012, and that it was the Sandy Hook massacre, which occurred on Dec. 14, 2012, that caused his change of heart. 
Jim Carrey had spoken in favor of gun control before Sandy Hook. In the wake of the July 20, 2012 mass shooting inside a Century movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, where 20 people were killed and 70 people were injured, Carrey went on an online tirade against gun rights advocates. He engaged in a heated war of words with, and used foul language against, assault rifle owners and those who opposed any form of gun control. Carrey later issued an open apology to those he had offended by his incendiary words but maintained that his position on gun control did not change.
Jim Carrey drew the wrath of the right-to-bear-arms crowd and the right-wing media when he released a comedy skit called “Cold Dead Hand” on the comedy video website Funny or Die in March, 2013. In a hilarious song and dance routine, Carrey mercilessly skewered the late actor and National Rifle Association president Charlton Heston, who was a beloved and iconic figure in the hearts and minds of gun rights advocates. The video quickly went viral; and the intensity of hatred and verbal attacks against Jim Carrey reached new heights. 
The conservative, right-wing Fox News led the charge in criticizing Jim Carrey and his video. Fox television personality Greg Gutfeld blasted Carrey as “a dirty, stinking coward … a pathetic, sad, little freak … probably the most pathetic tool on the face of the earth and I hope his career is dead and I hope he ends up sleeping in a car.” 
Funny man Carrey fired back by calling Fox News “a last resort for kinda-sorta-almost-journalists whose options have been severely limited by their extreme and intolerant views; a media colostomy bag that has begun to burst at the seams and should be emptied before it becomes a public health issue.”
Following his spat with Fox News, Jim Carrey wrote an op-ed on the Huffington Post in favor of gun control. In the article, Carrey, the Canadian-born naturalized U.S. citizen, stressed that he was not asking any Americans to surrender their right to bear arms, but was concerned about the “type of arms” and the “easy access” to the weapons. 
