George Zimmerman acquittal divides U.S.
Bringing race and discrimination to the forefront of national discussion, the controversial acquittal of George Zimmerman has divided the citizens of the United States, many of whom are not ready to accept the not guilty verdict. 
“I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher,” President Barack Obama said on July 14. “But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken. I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son.”
 George Zimmerman is a 29-year-old self-appointed neighborhood watch captain, who was charged with second-degree murder in the fatal shooting of unarmed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in a gated community on Feb. 26, 2012. 
Zimmerman alleges that he shot Martin after the two got into a confrontation that turned violent. After 16 hours of deliberation, the six-person jury rendered a not guilty verdict on all counts on July 13. 
Protests erupted across the nation once the verdict was announced. Most have been peaceful save for an incident in Los Angeles (L.A.) when a planned peaceful protest turned violent after an estimated 150 people began climbing on top of cars, kicking in windows and knocking over trash cans. 
“We are calling on people to practice peace, to not let the dialogue sparked by Martin’s death be silenced by any violence” L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti said in a news conference following the incident. 
Meanwhile, the Department of Justice has begun gathering information as it considers a possible federal civil rights case against him for racial profiling. 
Some legal experts, however, have expressed doubt that hate crime charges will be successfully brought against Zimmerman, saying the investigation has yet to find any evidence or claims that Zimmerman exhibited racial bias. 
Not everyone is outraged by Zimmerman’s acquittal, including former president Jimmy Carter, who said “I think the jury made the right decision based on the evidence presented because the prosecution inadvertently set the standard so high (with a charge of second degree murder) that the jury had to be convinced it was a deliberate act by Zimmerman and that he was not at all defending himself.”
