A glimpse into the president’s hectic schedule
It is time for summer vacation for the president as well. The presidential office of Cheong Wa Dae announced on July 21 that President Park Geun-hye would go on vacation from late July to early August.
 During the five-day holiday, the head of state is said to bring with her several books on humanities, the economy and national strategies. The actual list of books was not publicly announced.
 A president’s daily schedule is pretty hectic, as you might expect. It is well-known that Park did not sleep much while preparing to visit the U.S. in May for summit with the U.S. president, even though she was not feeling well.
 Former presidents were often caught on camera running with their aides every morning around their residences. Those morning exercises might have been planned to promote health of the general public or show a head of state’s exemplary life, but presidents really need those workouts to stay fit enough to play their physically-demanding roles.
 On July 22 alone, Park made remarks about enhancing inter-Korean relations, visited the U.N. Memorial Cemetery in Busan, ordered the government to prepare measures to enhance safety of student campers, and urged her ministers to enhance state lenders’ efficiency through her spokesperson.
 A president’s daily routine also includes a series of high-level talks with important people either at her office in Seoul or at her counterpart’s offices abroad.
 On July 2, President Park met with Australian ministers of foreign affairs and defense at Cheong Wa Dae to seek ways to enhance bilateral ties between Korea and Australia. She also expressed her appreciation to the ministers for their country having lent hands in the 1950-53 Korea War.
 On July 1, the president met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing to draw a mutual “blueprint for future-centered cooperation.” The two leaders in the capital city adopted a joint communique, through which they agreed to enhance their bilateral partnership to a higher level. They also concurred to extend their ties in politics, security, economy and culture.
 Park’s meeting that drew particularly heavy attention from local people was the one with Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, on July 18. Through the unusual meeting, the CEO said he hoped small Korean companies can enter the global market through Facebook’s platform, and President Park introduced her government‘s plan to create a venture-business friendly environment. She also showed her willingness to foster such environment where young people can start their own businesses.
 President Park is also driving efforts to enhance support for developing countries through related daily meetings with VIPs. On May 30, she met with Ugandan President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni at office. The meeting was Park’s first summit in Korea since her inauguration. In the meeting, the presidents agreed on closer economic cooperation in a move to step up Korea’s advances into Africa.
 Museveni arrived in Seoul for a three-day visit aimed to bolster bilateral cooperation and with particular interest in adopting Korea’s Saemaul Undong, a movement in the 1970s for rural revival initiated by former President Park Chung-hee, Park’s late father. The two presidents congratulated each other on the 50th anniversary of the two countries’ diplomatic ties and shared views on ways to work together on widening exchanges of commerce, investment, energy and resources development, as well as in joining hands on the global stage such as the U.N.
 Looking back, half a year has already passed since Park came to office, and her journey into the next 4 1/2 years seems to be filled with unending, daunting tasks. Like everybody else, the president also needs some good rest during the summer holidays to push her endeavors for the betterment of her country.
