 Appreciate the depth of Gauguin’s art world
It is fairly hard to appreciate the work of French Impressionist Paul Gauguin in person, as there are not many of his paintings left. Seoul Museum of Art is offering a rare opportunity to enjoy his pieces at the exhibition “Gauguin and After: Voyage into the Myth.”
 Some 69 authentic pieces on display were rented from 30 museums around the world, including famous Orsay Museum in Paris. Paul Gauguin’s three main pieces are included in the special exhibit: “The Vision of the Sermon” (1988, from Scottish National Gallery), “The Yellow Christ” (1889, from Albright-Knox Art Gallery), and “Where do we Come From, What are we, Where are we Going” (1897-1898, from Museum of Fine Arts, Boston). The three works have never been exhibited together before.
 The first two works represent the end of impressionism and beginning of symbolism and synthetism in art. They were painted during the Brittany period. The last piece, “Where do we Come From, What are we, Where are we Going,” belongs to the Polynesian period. It shows a person’s life from birth to death. This mural style work is one of his biggest pieces -- about 4 meters across. 
 About Paul Gauguin (1848-1903)
 Born in Paris, France, Gauguin was originally a stockbroker before pursuing art.
 After participating in the 5th Impressionist Exhibition in 1880, he began to draw professionally. 　
 Along with another art genius, Vincent Van Gogh, Gauguin’s works strongly influenced 20th century art. His sense of color, passion, and free and brave spirit were his main sources of creation; he combined his experiences and imagination in his works.
 Gauguin was at one point in his life infatuated by the uncharted beauty of Tahiti. Living there, he produced some beautiful and exotic works, some of which are included in this exhibition.
 Gauguin regarded artists as being as potent as God in terms of their ability to create. Even when his drawings were not understood by the public he did not mind. 
 The exhibit runs until Sept. 29. Admission is 10,000 for students. 
For more information about the exhibition, call 02) 724-2900 or go to www.gauguin.kr.
