Top sprinters test positive for banned substances
“I will take whatever punishment I get like a man. I do realize and respect what I put in my body and it is my responsibility. I‘m going to be honest with USADA, about everything, everybody I’ve been with, every supplement I’ve ever taken, every company I’ve ever dealt with, everything.” ? Tyson Gay
 In one of the darkest days for athletics, six track and field athletes, including American 100-meter record holder Tyson Gay and former 100-meter world-record holder Asafa Powell of Jamaica, tested positive for banned substances. Tyson Gay, the fastest sprinter in the world this year, immediately announced that he would take full responsibility for the positive test and would pull out of the world championships next month in Moscow. Asafa Powell confirmed that he had tested positive for banned amphetamine oxilofrine but denied that he had knowingly taken the illegal stimulant.
 Tyson Gay is the second fastest man of all time, having set the American record of 9.69 seconds in 100 meters in 2009. His time is only eclipsed by Jamaican sensation Usain Bolt’s world record of 9.58 seconds. Gay’s positive test is particularly shocking because he has always promoted himself as a clean athlete. He was once a high-profile participant of USADA‘s program called My Victory, in which athletes pledged to stay clean. He famously said: “I compete clean because I really believe in fairness, and besides that, my mom would kill me.” Although Gay said he was ultimately responsible for testing positive, he hinted that he put his trust in someone and was let down by that person. 
 Asafa Powell set the 100-meter world record of 9.74 seconds in September 2007 - a time that still stands as the sixth-fastest in history today. He and four other Jamaican teammates tested positive for oxilifrine, a stimulant that is thought to increase adrenaline production, boosting endurance, focus, alertness, heart rate and increasing oxygenation of the blood. It is considered a performance enhancing drug, and is on the World Anti-Doping Agency’s list of banned substances. Powell said in a statement that he had “never knowingly or willfully taken any supplements or substances that break any rules,” and that he is not now, nor has he ever been, a cheat. He also said that he will not participate in the world championships next month in Moscow.
 Sherone Simpson was also one of the Jamaican athletes who tested positive for oxilofrine. She won Olympic gold in the women’s 400 relay in 2004, silver in the women’s 400 relay in 2012, and individual silver in 100 meters in 2008. She released a statement in which she declared: “This is a very difficult time for me. My team and I will try to do everything we can to get this issue dealt with as best as we can.” Allison Randall, the holder of Jamaican national record in discus, is another prominent athlete who failed the test.
 The sport of track and field has a long history of battling doping scandals involving some of its biggest and most popular stars. High-profile athletes who failed drug tests include former 100-meter world record holder Ben Johnson of Canada, five-time Olympic medalist Marion Jones of the United States, five-time Olympic medalist Justin Gatlin of the United States, and seven-time Olympic medalist and the reigning world champion over 200 meters, Veronica Campbell-Brown of Jamaica.
 As the newest round of doping scandal made headlines all over the world, the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), the international governing body for the sport of athletics, insisted that the credibility of the sport‘s anti-doping program was “enhanced, not diminished” with the news of the latest positive tests. IAAF spokesman Nick Davies said in a statement that “the fight against doping is improved “each time we are able to uncover a new case.” 
