Introducing yasik - Korean night snacks
Yasik, or late-night dining, is a thriving food culture in Korea. It can be classified as a “fourth meal” - consumed by people during the period after dinner and before they go to sleep. In modern societies, people tend to stay up well into the night and even early morning for a variety of reasons – salary men work longer hours at the office, students attend private institutes until late at night, people stay up late to watch TV and use the computer. The changing of sleeping habits makes it difficult for many people to go to sleep on an “empty” stomach. Enter yasik - a dining culture that offers a plethora of choices for night owls. 
The yasik trend is greatly aided by the large number of restaurants that can deliver ready-to-eat, mouth-watering food right to the customers’ doorsteps in only a matter of minutes. Popular late night fare includes fried chicken, “jokbal” (pig’s feet boiled in fragrant dark sauce), “bossam” (steamed pork belly with bean paste), and “jajangmyeon” (wheat noodles topped with a thick black soy bean sauce). The Korean version of fried chicken has become a cultural phenomenon unto itself. It is widely believed that fried chicken was first introduced to Korea with the opening of the first Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise in 1984. Since then, Korean style fried chicken restaurants mushroomed rapidly, bring new innovations, distinct flavors and always excellent delivery service to customers.
 For those who prefer to enjoy yasik outside, beer houses, locally known as hofs, are opened until wee hours in the morning and offer standard western fare such as fried food and meat platters, as well as Korean treats such as spicy braised dishes and hearty stews. One of the most colorful and unique yasik experiences is the “pojangmacha.” Literally meaning a “covered wagon,” it is a small tented restaurant on wheels, or a street stall which sells a variety of popular street foods. One can have a quick snack of standard items such as “tteokbokki” (rice cake sticks cooked in hot sauce), sundae (Korean blood sausage), “odeng” (fish cake sticks in broth), or “gimbap” (seaweed rice roll). Some pojangmacha restaurants offer a wide range of fresh seafood and meats to accommodate any tastes. 
During winter months, the aroma of roasted chestnuts and baked sweet potatoes emanating from makeshift metal drum ovens, or the sight of hot steam pouring out of containers holding red bean paste-filled buns, can be irresistible to anyone wandering the streets late at night. Even 24-hour convenience stores contribute to the yasik culture. In stores like 7-11 and Buy-The-Way, people can walk in, buy a pack of instant noodles, pour in boiling water on offer, and have a quick meal right on the premises. 
Although the attraction of yasik is undeniable, health professionals have warned that eating food late at night can have undesirable consequences. Consuming high-calorie, high-fat foods such as fried chicken and jokbal before going to bed can lead to indigestion, weight gain, and in serious cases, urinary concrement (formation of “stones” in the urinary tract) and osteoporosis. 
