‘Turbo’: A story about never giving up on your dreams
Reminiscent of the 1998 Pixar animated film, “A Bug’s Life,” the DreamWorks Animation film “Turbo” tells the story of an ambitious garden snail with a big dream.
 Challenging the very essence of Mother Nature, Theo (voiced by Ryan Reynolds), is a garden snail that dreams of becoming the world’s greatest racer, just like his hero, five-time Indianapolis 500 champion Guy Gagne (voiced by Bill Hader). Theo’s obsession with racing goes so far that he prefers to be referred to as “Turbo” rather than his real name. The irony of his dream does not escape his brother, Chet (voiced by Paul Giamatti), who tries his hardest to protect Turbo and set him straight. 
Sick of being made fun of and put down by his fellow snails, Turbo wanders onto a freeway to admire the traffic when he gets into a fluke accident that gives him the scientifically-improbable power of super speed. On his first attempt to show off his newfound powers, however, the two brothers end up getting fired from their job at a garden in Venice, California. 
After a chance meeting with taco truck driver Tito (voiced by Michael Peña), the first to support Turbo’s dreams of racing, Turbo, Tito and friends begin to embark on a journey to enter Turbo as a competitor for the upcoming Indianapolis 500 race. Against all odds, Turbo is finally given the chance to live out his dream of racing alongside his hero, Guy Gagne. 
“Turbo” hit theaters on July 25.
 Important lessons taught by “Turbo” 
Although this uplifting and funny film may be animated and targeted towards children, it also holds some important lessons that adults need to pay heed to as well. One such lesson is the role that social media plays in today’s world. The film accurately portrays the way in which social media has changed the world. Specifically, the effectiveness and impact of videos posted on such video-sharing sites as YouTube that go viral. 
Some other important lessons taught by “Turbo” include the importance of facing your fears, never giving up on your dreams and realizing that not everyone is perfect. 
