Whistle-blower Edward Snowden
“The media has distorted my actions and intentions to distract from the substance of Constitutional violations and instead focus on personalities. It seems they believe every modern narrative requires a bad guy. Perhaps it does. Perhaps, in such times, loving one‘s country means being hated by its government.” – Edward Snowden
 Edward Snowden, a former CIA employee and technical contractor for the United States National Security Agency (NSA) is wanted by the U.S. government for leaking details of several top-secret U.S. and British government mass surveillance programs to the press. Called a hero and whistle-blower by some and painted a traitor by others, Snowden has been on the run since Britain’s Guardian newspaper started publishing the content of the files he leaked. Snowden is currently holed up somewhere in Moscow’s Sheremetevo International Airport, where he is seeking asylum in a number of nations. 
 Edward Snowden worked as a computer security specialist for several of America’s top intelligence agencies and had access to highly sensitive classified information. In his most recent employment, he was stationed in Hawaii as a systems administrator for the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton, an NSA contractor, where his job entailed looking for new ways to break into Internet and telephone traffic around the world. On May 20, 2013, Snowden traveled to Hong Kong, where he leaked classified documents about PRISM – a clandestine mass electronic surveillance data mining program operated by the United States National Security Agency -- to journalists of the Washington Post and the Guardian. 
 The secret documents leaked by Snowden showed that PRISM and other electronic surveillance programs allowed the NSA to access email, Web searches, and other Internet data from millions of users all over the world. They showed that the NSA operated massive eavesdropping operations on many of its European and Asian allies. Also revealed was a top secret order of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) that ordered a business division of Verizon Communications to provide “on a daily basis” metadata for all telephone calls “within the U.S., including local telephone calls” and all calls made “between the U.S. and abroad.” 
 Snowden’s revelations caused a firestorm of controversy and uproar around the world. Many citizens fear the loss of their civil liberties and person privacy, while nations demand explanations and justifications for the intrusive acts from the U.S. government. The U.S. government responded by going into damage-control mode. Government officials and elected representatives took to the air to defend NSA’s massive data gathering as a vital part of anti-terror initiatives. On the diplomatic front, U.S. officials tried to calm angry allies by pointing out that all countries were involved in similar activities to ensure their own national security.
 Amidst the furor caused by his revelations, Edward Snowden defended his actions by saying: “My intention is to inform the public as to that which is done in their name and that which is done against them. I remain committed to that. … I have not provided any information that would harm our people, and I have no intention to do so.” The U.S. government went on the offensive against Snowden by portraying him as a traitor and charging him with “Theft of government property, unauthorized communication of national defense information, and willful communication of classified intelligence to an unauthorized person.”　
 While the U.S. government tried unsuccessfully to extradite Snowden from Hong Kong, he quietly slipped away and boarded a flight for Moscow on June 23. Hordes of journalists descended on the Sheremetevo International Airport in hopes of catching a glimpse of, or interviewing Snowden. A game of cat-and-mouse and a political tug-of-war ensued as the U.S. and Russia haggled over the fate of the world’s most famous whistle-blower. Snowden was rumored to be staying somewhere at the transit area of Sheremetyevo, where he is waiting to hear from the government of several nations to which he had requested asylum. 
