The Taebaek Sunflower Festival
Celebrating the beauty of the flower that symbolizes the summer 
Sponsored and managed by the Sunflower Culture Foundation and the Guwau Agricultural Association Corporation, the annual Sunflower Festival will once again return to the Guwau Village of Taebaek in Gangwon Province.
 Scheduled to be held from July 27 to Aug 17, the festival will celebrate the flower that best symbolizes the summer: the sunflower.
 Home to the largest sunflower field in Korea, the festival offers visitors the chance to take in and enjoy the beauty of over 300 different species of wildflowers spread out over an area that includes a 5 kilometer-stretch of vibrant sunflowers. The field itself is located at an altitude of approximately 900 meters.
 Nothing is more beautiful than nature itself, say festival organizers, so by using sunflowers to paint the field yellow, the festival provides visitors a chance to be amazed by the beauty of nature. 
Additionally, the festival will offer a number of exhibitions showcasing the works of Korean and international artists associated with the cultural group, HALATEC (Hal Art and Technology), as well as a variety of musical performances. 
Out of everything that the festival has to offer, however, the events that seem the most interesting are the exhibit on coal mining culture and the various experience zones including sunflower extract harvesting, animal feeding (rabbits, chicks, ducks, geese, etc.) and hanging around a campfire. These programs serve the dual purpose of being fun and providing visitors with a less-passive approach to appreciating the beauty of Mother Nature. 
Of particular interest to younger visitors to the Taebaek Sunflower Festival may be the event that provides visitors with a chance to try out and purchase tree houses. 
Entry to the festival will cost 5,000 won for adults and 3,000 won for students (ranging from elementary to college-level). For more information, call (033) 553-9707 or visit the festival’s official website at www.sunflowerfestival.co.kr. 
