Schools should make physical education compulsory
PRO - Physical education classes are often omitted due to exams or other events. Even if many schools run sports clubs, it is true that physical education is still overlooked. However, physical education is very important in many ways, and I think it should be compulsory at school.
 First of all, good health is more precious than any other thing in life. Without good health, no one can be happy. Though we are the students, taking care of our bodies is more important than studying. Also, being unhealthy, we cannot concentrate on studying, either.
 Second, Many students do not have enough time to exercise. After school, most students have to go to several academies. They come back home late at night. So, physical education at school is a golden chance for students to exercise.
 Third, students can learn how to cooperate through many sports. These days, many of us live in apartment complexes and we hardly gather to play sports. School is the only place where many students can gather.
 In conclusion, I think schools should make physical education compulsory. In addition, the number of physical education classes should be increased. To improve our health and social skills, the best policy is that physical education should be mandatory.
 By JH Student Reporter Jeong Hae-rin
 (6th Grade, Heungjin Elementary School)
 CON - People express concerns that students are losing opportunities to be active, with fewer physical education classes, but I personally disagree with that idea.
 First, I think the amount of time given for physical education at school is too much for students. I believe they need to spend more time studying other subjects than on physical training.
 Second, physical education is only in the time table to fill up the allotted time, so many students do not feel the need for the class and consider it a waste of time.
 Third, I think students participate in physical education to earn good scores on their report cards. I do not think they really feel the importance of physical education.
 All in all, there are many students who do not recognize the importance of physical education, so I think it would be better if school authorities made physical education an optional class.
