Interview with Choi Yong-seung and Choi Yong-june brothers
At this year’s 10th Junior Herald Student Reporters’ camp held at Hallym University in Chuncheon, Gangwon province from July 25-28, every student sparkled in their own unique and special way. They each had different characteristics and personality traits and it made watching and getting to know them an extremely fun experience. Yet, there were two boys who stood out from the crowd. They were the brothers Choi Yong-seung and Choi Yong-june.
 This is Choi Yong-june’s third year as a Junior Herald student reporter, so it was nice to see him again this year. But this time he was with his big brother, Yong-seung. Before going to the camp, I came to hear a little more about the two brothers’ touching personal stories. So, I sat down with them during the camp to ask a few questions.　
 Here are some of the excerpts from my interview with the Choi brothers. 
Q. Yong-june, this is your third year as a Junior Herald student reporter. Why did you apply three years in a row?
 Yong-june: My English has improved over the years. Compared to three years ago when I was not a JH student reporter, my English score at school has increased. I stayed in Canada when I was an elementary school student so I thought my English speaking skill was all right, but my English writing was not that great. I feel that my writing has developed during my years as a Junior Herald student reporter.
 Q. Yong-june, I heard that you have some good news for us, what is it? 
Yong-june: I will be participating at an English Writing and Speaking contest as a representative of Pohang. I won the third spot at my school’s English competition and earned the seat. 
Q. Yong-seung, did Yong-june’s accomplishments help motivate you? 
Yong-seung: It certainly did. Seeing Yong-june doing so well at school and watching his English skills improving so much over the years participating as the Junior Herald reporter, I was very motivated and encouraged. That is why I came to this year’s camp.
 I saw Yong-june’s writing skill improved quite a lot and encouraged to be a Junior Herald reporter myself. In fact, at school, I am also a reporter. I am a member of the school English newspaper club and I write two articles a month for it. These articles – usually a sheet of A4 paper long - are later put in the school paper. 
Q. Good for you, Yong-seung. You are already a reporter yourself. You must be interested in English?
 Yong-seung: Yes, I like English very much. I enjoy watching CNN news and U.S. dramas. I really like watching crime dramas like CSI. Also, I am currently taking a telephone English lesson every night at 11 p.m. It takes about 10-15 minutes and it helped me a lot with my English speaking. Sometimes I cannot answer the call because I am a high school student now and very busy. In that case, Yong-june takes the call on behalf of me.
 Q. I heard that you went to Canada when you were in the 5th grade of elementary school. Can you share some stories from your time in Canada?
 Yong-seung: My uncle is living in Canada and I went there to study English. Yong-Joon went with me but he was too young to study, so he was there to just have fun. But my time in Canada was not so great. While staying there I found out that I was very sick. First, my mom made pancakes and I felt disgusted with the smell. And one day, I was watching movies late at night and felt very sick. So I went to a hospital there, but they just told me that I had a cold. Yet, my parents were not so sure with the diagnosis and I came back home for a check-up. I was told by the Samsung hospital in Seoul that I had a tumor in my brain. So I had a surgery to remove that in Kyeongbuk National University Hospital. Because of the treatment, I could not go to school until the second semester of 6th grade. But today I am healthy and I have check-ups on my brain every six months.
 Q. What do you want to do in the future?
 Yong-seung: I want to be a middle school English teacher. I hope that someday I could visit patients at hospitals and teach them English. 
Yong- june: I have not decided yet. I used to dream of becoming a doctor like my dad. He is an urologist. But my dad suggested that I become a professor. So I am thinking about that option too. 
Q. Are you enjoying the camp? What was your favorite program at the camp? And can you give one last message to the JH readers?
 Yong-seung: For me making newspaper was the most fun. I had a good time here at the camp. If I have the chance to come here again, I would like to come back. I recommend you to come.
 Yong-june: I liked making soap the best during the camp. It was real fun. And I want to tell that I just read the Junior Herald newspaper to improve my English. I hope you too can improve your English by reading the Junior Herald.
 It was a brief interview during the hectic camp schedule with Yong-seung and Yong-june but it was a very touching and interesting interview not only because of their amazing stories, but because they were brothers with two very unique characters.
