New era of Junior Herald student reporters begins …
Students from all over Korea boarded a bus in front of the Sports Complex station in Jamsil on the morning of July 25 and headed to Hallym University in Chuncheon to begin their year-long journey as Junior Herald Student Reporters. Though some have had the luxury of knowing what to expect after having served as student reporters in the past, most students were new to the experience, unable to hide their excitement and nervousness at being at an English camp with strangers for four days. 
Treated to a variety of lectures, competitions, charity work and other fun activities, the 70 students-turned-reporters were faced with a jam-packed schedule over four days. 　
 During the camp, the newly appointed Junior Herald student reporters said they enjoyed the third day the most. 
“My favorite day so far has been the third day,” said Sung Hye-jung of Group 4 (“Swag”). She explained that the reason why she picked the third day as her favorite was “because I was able to make a lot of friends, there weren’t that many lectures and there were a lot of fun activities planned for the day, including soap making.” 
In fact, a common sentiment among students as to why the third day was their favorite day of camp was eloquently said by Group 1 (“One-Piece”) member, An Je-i. 
When asked what she enjoyed the most during camp, she responded with: “Everything except writing class.”
 Interestingly, despite the third day being the most enjoyable, the most popular single activity was newspaper making, which took place on the second day. 
High school student and fellow Group 4 member Lee Hyun-ji was one of many that picked newspaper making as her favorite activity during camp.
 “Even though we had some arguments, thanks to that time (newspaper making), my team members were able to get closer and get to know each other better,” she explained. 
Other popular activities included photo news making, newspaper presentations, and the talent show and farewell party hosted by the entertaining host, Kim Seung-ho.
 The talent show was especially memorable for some, as it gave students the chance to show off their hidden talents to their friends and fellow student reporters. 
As well as the usual talents like singing and playing the piano, participants in the 10th Junior Herald Student Reporter Camp were also able to bear witness to the more unusual yet highly entertaining skills, like speed stacking and a Pokemon fight recreation. 
Despite the hard work of some of the planned activities and some unexpected obstacles, students remained positive throughout, never losing sight of their goals. Thanks to their optimism and hard work, the camp’s environment was filled with excitement as students never lost their eagerness to learn and continued to look forward to their bright futures as the 10th class of Junior Herald Student Reporters.
 Healing! Filling! Volunteering! 
The natural soap making workshop was headed by the leader of the Service For Peace (SFP) sector of the Dandelion Volunteer Corps. 
The 200 natural soaps made during the workshop were part of the “Million Types of Presents” project hosted by the Dandelion Volunteer Corps SFP. They have been donated to the Seoul Senior Center and Gangrim Elementary School. 
