Girl groups battle for supremacy
After spending years cultivating their K-pop image abroad, Girls Generation (SNSD), WonderGirls, T-ara, Kara, and other female artists, are finally returning home. 
Since the announcement of the girl groups’ return to battle it out in Korea, a video parodying the intensity of the competition between these artists has gone viral. 
According to a Sept. 28 StarNNews article, “The video compares the past local activities of Kara, Brown Eyed Girls, SNSD, Secret, IU, and WonderGirls in a fun way, evoking laughter.” It even draws comparisons to the current race for Seoul Mayor, flashing the text “even more fierce than the Seoul Mayor candidacy”. 
These artists have succeeded in marketing themselves abroad, often referred to as “overseas” artists. However, beginning September through November, these “overseas” artists have begun to put out new records, signaling an increase in domestic performances. 
Industry experts were quoted as saying, “All year round, new information regarding idol groups has been pouring out, but during the second half of the year, it seems that the girl groups who have tended to seek out international stages for performances, have put out new albums” with the intention of returning to the nation’s domestic stages.
 Kara
 10 months after putting out the mini-album, “Jumping” last November, Kara finally put out a new album on Sept. 6, entitled “Step”. 
After battling rumors of their breakup after a disagreement between the five girls and their management company over their individual contracts, the girls are now back and stronger than ever. 
 T-ara
 T-ara, who put on a showcase in Japan last July, will be putting out a new mini-album, “Black Eyes”, on Oct. 27.
 Core Contents Media, T-ara’s management agency, introduced their new album as follows: “Shedding the 40’s style concept of their recent hit-song ‘Roly-Poly,’ the new album contains songs … [that mix] electronic sounds with melodies that appeal to a broader age group.”
 Girls’ Generation (SNSD)
 After having set numerous records in Japan’s Oricon chart since their debut in Japan last September, SNSD is planning on putting out a new album sometime in October. This new album is coming out a year after their hit song “Hoot” became a national sensation. 
 WonderGirls　
 The WonderGirls will be putting out a new album in November, and will spend a month or so promoting in Korea. Since the WonderGirls’ hit song “2 Different Tears” last year, they have been based in the U.S., focusing on promoting in music events in China, Singapore, and other Asian countries.
 IU
 Since her surprisingly rapid success, IU is planning on releasing her second full-length album sometime in October.
 IU’s management agency, Loen Entertainment, said her second album would be released sometime in late October or early November. 
The agency has introduced the new album by saying that several “Talented composers have been involved” and that IU, who has been taking classes to improve her guitar playing and harmonizing skills, will have some of her own, original songs on the album. Specifically, the agency had announced to the delight of her fans, that “the proportion of IU’s lyrical contribution will be high” on this year’s album.
