Markets flooded with products made of natural sweeteners
Striving to cope with the unflinching consumer trend of health consciousness, multinational corporations are increasingly making their products less calorific, and one company in the front line of this is the world’s largest soft drink company, Coca-Cola.
 Coca-Cola announced on July 16 that it will start selling “Coca-Cola Life” in Argentina, according to Fox News Latino. “Coca-Cola Life is the first soda from the Coca-Cola family that is naturally sweetened with sugar and stevia,” the company’s Argentinean website stated.
 Stevia, known as “sweet herb,” is native to Paraguay. Coca-Cola has used this natural sweeter, which is also used for medicinal purposes, in 45 products, including its Vitaminwater drinks. Other companies have also churned out zero- and low-calorie soft drinks. The list goes on and on, including Pepsi Max, Diet Dr. Pepper, Arizona Sugar Free Green Tea, Diet Mountain Dew, and Diet Ginger Ale, as global soft drink market continues to lose ground due to the growing health-conscious trend.
 Soft drinks made with sweeteners are not panacea for obese people and diabetics, Dr. Sharon R. Akabas, a director at Columbia University’s Institute of Human Nutrition, cautions. Still, they certainly offer more options, many health experts note.
 Here are some of the sugar substitutes recommended by the Oprah Winfrey magazine.
 1. Stevia
 The powdered extract of the South American stevia plant is a 100 percent natural zero-calorie sugar substitute. It is 200 to 300 times sweeter than sugar but surprisingly, it doesn‘t cause a spike in blood glucose levels.
 2. Agave Nectar
 Made from the agave plant, this syrup has slightly more calories than sugar but is about 25 percent sweeter, so people can use less of it. Also, agave nectar is good for the stomach. It contains a type of dietary fiber, which nourishes intestinal bacteria.
 3. Honey
 Honey is packed with antioxidants. One study showed that people who had honey every day for a month had lowered their cholesterol by up to 3.3 percent while maintaining their weight.
 4. Blackstrap Molasses
 A tablespoon of viscous molasses is filled with 15 percent of the daily iron requirement for premenopausal women. It also contains vitamin B6, magnesium, calcium, and more antioxidants than any other natural sweetener.
