World celebrates birth of new royal baby
Finally, it’s a boy! 
Princess Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to a baby boy weighing 8 lbs. 6 oz. at 4.24 p.m on July 23 at St. Mary’s Hospital in London.
 “The queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry and members of both families have been informed and are delighted with the news,” a Kensington Palace statement said.
 “We could not be happier,” Prince William said in the statement.
 The newest addition to Britain’s 1,000-year-old monarchy made his first short public appearance while the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were leaving the hospital. Kate was once again flaunting her sense of style with a baby blue polka dot dress.
 The royal couple announced their pregnancy on Dec. 3, 2012.
 The newborn baby boy, officially named George Alexander Louis, automatically became third in line to the throne.
 According to the Kensington palace statement, his name, George, came after the name of Queen Elizabeth II’s father, King George VI, who reigned during World War I. Lately, he was depicted in the film “The King’s Speech.” The Queen loved him very much and it is an emotional reference to her father.
 His middle name, Alexander, is not a royal name, but another middle name, Louis, is also a reference to the baby’s paternal grandfather, Prince Charles’ favorite great-uncle, Lord Louis Mountbatten, who was a British naval officer.
 One interesting thing about British royalty is that they do not use last names but have three or even more first names. Their names are typically chosen as a way of honoring previous kings and other significant family members.
 This baby will be one day called King George VII but it is expected that the new parents will strive for normalcy in his life, like Princess Diana did for her two sons.
 “I think that will be the priority for the parents, to give the child the most normal possible upbringing not only for its own good, but for the good of the job it’s got to do in the future. It’s got to have the common touch,” a royal expert said.
 People around the world were exhilarated with the news of the baby. Church bells will rang for more than three hours to celebrate the birth.
 According to the royal tradition, the boy will soon be christened, wearing a replica of a Honiton lace and white satin gown that Queen Victoria used for her eldest daughter’s christening in 1841.
 More than 30 members of the British royal family, including Prince William, Prince Charles, Queen Elizabeth II, and the Queen’s father, King George VI were christened with the original gown, which is now stored as a family heirloom.
