Chris Froome wins 2013 Tour de France
“I’d like to dedicate this win to my late mother who without her encouragement to follow my dream I’d probably be watching this event on the television. To win the 100th edition is an honor beyond any dream. This is one yellow jersey that will stand the test of time.” ? Chris Froome
 Chris Froome won the 100th Tour de France to become the second successive Briton to claim the title in the world’s most prestigious cycling race. The 28-year-old, who learned to ride on dirt tracks while growing up in Kenya, won three stages and finished 4 minutes, 20 seconds ahead of the field. He wore the yellow jersey for the first time after the eighth stage of the grueling 21-leg, 3,403-kilometer course and was never really challenged the rest of the way. He crossed the line arm-in-arm with his Team Sky teammates as a huge crowd lining the Champs-Elysees cheered him on under a beautiful evening sky.
 Froome’s victory came one year after he helped his Team Sky teammate Bradley Wiggins become the first British cyclist to win the Tour de France. At the 2012 race, he was dubbed the “super-domestique” for his selfless service and heroic efforts in ensuring that team leader Wiggins would end up with the historic victory. Although he finished second to Wiggins, it was evident that Froome possessed the necessary athletic ability, mental discipline and leadership qualities to win the Tour de France in the near future.
 Froome entered the 2013 Tour de France as the Sky Team leader and the race favorite after Wiggins was ruled out due to a knee injury. He got off to a rocky start as he crashed in the neutralized section of the first stage on the isle of Corsica. He was unharmed and managed to stay out of further trouble in the first week of the race. Froome won stage eight, a mountain stage, with a 51-second margin and took the overall lead in the Tour for the first time. He proved his superiority in the mountains when he won stage 15 at Mont Ventoux ? the longest leg at 230 kilometers with an exhaustive 20-kilometer steep climb. 
 Froome’s dominating victories at mountain stages prompted some speculations as to whether his performance was aided by illegal means. In an attempt to end the finger-pointing surrounding Froome, Team Sky took the unusual step of providing French newspaper L’Equipe with data of 18 of his climbs since he made his major breakthrough in 2011. The French newspaper’s sports science expert, Fred Grappe, was satisfied the results were consistent with doping-free riding. Froome commented that he understood the doubts in light of the doping scandals involving Lance Armstrong and others, but insisted that he and the new generation of peloton would not stand for cheating.
 Froome’s victory in the stage 17 time trial gave him a comfortable margin over the field and he successfully defended his lead in the alpine stages. With the outcome of the race all but decided, Froome and the rest of the peloton started stage 21, the final stage, by riding past world-famous Parisian landmarks such as the royal palace of Versailles, the Louvre museum and the Champs-Elysees. He finished the day-night stage in 114th place, but he won the general classification with a final time of 83 hours, 56 minutes, 40 seconds, 4 minutes, 20 seconds ahead of second-placed Quintana. His winning margin was the largest since 1997, when Jan Ullrich beat Richard Virenque by 9 minutes, 9 seconds. Both of those riders have since admitted to using performance enhancing drugs.
 All three podium finishers of the 100th Tour de France ? Chris Froome, Nairo Quintana and Joaquim Rodriguez -- have ever failed a drug test or been directly implicated in any of cycling’s notorious doping scandals. They were joined at the podium by three cycling legends -- five-time winners Eddy Merckx, Bernard Hinault and Miguel Indurain. Conspicuously absent was Lance Armstrong, the disgraced former seven-time winner who was stripped of all his titles for cheating.
