Mysteriousness of nature brought to animated life in ‘Epic’
Based on the children’s book, “The Leaf Men and the Brave Good Bugs,” by American author William Joyce, “Epic” tells the fictional tale of a group of tiny human soldiers called Leafmen, sworn to protect the forest against the evil Boggans.
 Though the Leafmen have managed to remain invisible to most of the human world, their anonymity is challenged by a 17-year-old girl named Mary Katherine, or “M.K.” as she prefers to be called. M.K. stumbles upon the Leafmen by accident whilst chasing her dog through the forest during a visit to her estranged father, eccentric scientist Professor Bomba. Coincidentally, Professor Bomba became estranged from his daughter because of his lifelong, obsessive search for the “tiny little soldiers” living in the forest.
 Unbeknownst to her father, however, M.K. finds herself squarely in the middle of an epic battle between good and evil, where the future of the forest hangs in the balance. After being mortally wounded by the Boggans, the queen of the forest, Queen Tara, shrinks M.K. down to the size of the Leafmen and bestows upon her the responsibility of ensuring the safety of the heir to her throne.
 With the help of a ragtag group of tiny creatures, M.K. must help the Leafmen save the forest against the evil Boggans and their villainous leader, Mandrake. 
Directed by Chris Wedge, “Epic” hits theaters nationwide on Aug. 7.
 Korean dubbing
 Two very familiar voices can be heard in the Korean-dubbed version of “Epic.” Han Seung-yeon, main vocalist of Kara, and Jung Jin-woon, youngest member of boy group 2AM, will voice the parts for M.K. and her love interest, Nod, respectively.
 Things to consider while watching “Epic”:
 1. At one point in the film, Professor Bomba tells M.K., “Just because you haven’t seen something, doesn’t mean it’s not there.” Name a few things that you know, without a doubt, exists but aren’t necessarily visible?
 2. Why do you think Queen Tara chose the smallest pod as the heir to her throne? What kind of message is she trying to send?
 3. How does professor Bomba’s character reflect the pros and cons of blindly pursuing your dreams?
