Trail blazing Journalist Helen Thomas dies
“We in the press have a special role since there is no other institution in our society that can hold the President accountable. I do believe that our democracy can endure and prevail only if the American people are informed.” Helen Thomas 
Helen Thomas, the pioneering journalist and White House correspondent famous for her relentless questioning of U.S. presidents on administration policies, has died at age 92. During her illustrious career, she covered the administrations of 11 U.S. presidents -- from the final years of the Eisenhower administration to the second year of the Obama administration. From her front row seat in the White House press room, the strong-willed and persistent Thomas grilled some of the most powerful men in the world on every issue that she deemed the public had a right to know.
 Helen Amelia Thomas was born to Lebanese immigrants in Winchester, Kentucky on Aug. 4, 1920. She worked on a student newspaper in high school and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in English from Wayne State University in Detroit in 1942. After college, she got her first job in journalism as a copygirl for the Washington Daily News. A year later, she joined United Press (which later became UPI) – a news agency that supplied its staffs’ writings to a wide range of media outlets. She started out with assignments focusing on women’s news and celebrity profiles. A decade later, she was assigned to cover the United States Department of Justice, United States Department of Health and Capitol Hill.
 Helen Thomas’ big break came in 1960 when she was sent to cover John F. Kennedy’s bid for the White House. Kennedy’s narrow victory over Richard Nixon brought Thomas exclusive access to the inner circle of the first family. Her reporting on the Kennedys became must-read material for a nation fascinated by the first Catholic president in U.S. history and his beautiful, sophisticated, and wildly popular wife. After her triumphant coverage of the presidential election, Thomas became the White House correspondent for United Press International where she came to be known as the “first lady of the press.”
 Helen Thomas became a fixture at White House Press Corps and was given the honor of ending presidential press conferences with her signature “Thank you, Mr. President.” She continued to blaze a trail when she was named as UPI’s chief White House correspondent in 1970; she was the first woman to achieve that position. In 1972, she was the only female print journalist to accompany President Nixon on his historic visit to the People’s Republic of China. In 1974, she became the first woman to head UPI’s White House Bureau, and in 1975, she became the first female president of the White House Correspondents Association.
 Thomas continued her hard-hitting style of questioning to get at the truth at presidential press conferences. She was feared by presidents, press secretaries and White House Spokespersons alike. She famously challenged President George W. Bush to his face on the rationale for Iraq War and declared him the worst president in American history. In 2000, Thomas ended her 57-year tenure at UPI when the company was purchased by News World Communications, which was founded by the Rev. Moon Sun-Myung, the leader of the Unification Church. She was soon hired as a Washington-based columnist for newspaper publisher Hearst Corp., and at 80 years of age, she continued to grill presidents at press conferences. 
 Her strong opinions and personal viewpoints also caused a great deal of controversy. On May 27, 2010, Thomas was asked by a rabbi whether she had any comments on Israel. A staunch supporter of Palestinian causes, Thomas replied: “Tell them to get the hell out of Palestine. … They should go home, to Poland, Germany and America and everywhere else.” Her comments greatly offended many Jews and were widely condemned. Within days, she resigned from her post at the age of 90. In January, 2011, Helen Thomas started writing for the Falls Church News-Press on topics ranging from Social Security to the State of the Union address to taxes. Helen Thomas passed away on July 20, 2013.
