Germany: ‘Land of Poets and Thinkers’ … and delicious sausages
Germany was once again recognized by the international community for its abundance of cultural assets, when Bergpark Wilhelmshohe was officially designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site on June 23.
 Including this most recent designation, Germany is home to 38 different World Heritage Sites as well as hundreds of other historically, culturally and socially significant treasures that make it a popular destination for tourists from around the world.
 Anyone familiar with the basics of 20th century world history will hardly be surprised as to why Germany is a popular destination among certain tourists. What may be surprising to some, however, is how scenic and fairytale-like Germany is, especially given that most people associate Germany with decidedly un-fairytale-like things, such as Oktoberfest, football, sausages and war.
 In fact, Germany is home to what is known as Castle Road. Much as what one would expect given its name, Castle Road refers to a scenic route over 1,000 kilometers long, lined with more than 70 castles and palaces. Not only will a drive down this road yield breathtaking views of beautiful castles and romantic ruins, those interested in living out their own fairytales can do so by spending a night in one of the many castle hotels that line the road. Another such “theme route” is Romantic Road, a 350-kilometer-long highway between Wurzburg and Fussen in southern Germany that links a number of picturesque towns and castles with a history that traces back to medieval times.
 For the more educational-minded and curious travelers, tours of some of Germany’s most famous exports like cars, chocolate and gummy bears are available for anyone interested. Many factories offer tours to visitors that show how their products are made from start to finish. The Chocolate Museum in Cologne, for example, offers visitors of all ages a chance to learn all the steps involved in turning cocoa beans into chocolate bars.
 Regardless of your interests, Germany has an abundance of treasures worth discovering, especially for those considering a trip to Disneyland for a little magic and enchantment. While Disneyland definitely has its merits as an amusement park, why visit somewhere that has plastic castles built for thematic purposes when you can visit a real land full of castles?
 For more information on traveling to Germany, visit the website operated by the German National Tourist Board at http://www.germany.travel/en/index.html.
 The Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany was used as the model for Disney’s Sleeping Beauty Castle. Located in the Bavarian Alps, visitors can either walk up the hill to the castle or take a more fairytale-esque horse-drawn carriage.
