Struggling to cope with the heat? Learn from animals!
Hot summer days continue to wreak havoc on people’s daily lives these days. And it seems all people are up to nowadays looking for effective ways to overcome the heat. 
 Methods range from air-conditioning and fans to swimming and drinking ice cold drinks. Still they are not quite enough to keep this unbearable summer heat at bay. But desert animals survive heat in the world’s hottest environment. These animal friends’ tips may help their human counterparts overcome the summer heat.
 The scarcity of life-sustaining water combined with scorching heat makes survival in the desert that much more bothersome for desert animals. And in the desert, day and night temperatures change drastically. This is why most desert animals have developed their own ways to adapt to the intense and excess heat -- both behaviorally and physiologically. Behavioral techniques for avoiding excess heat varies among animals. So, let’s find out how they manage to survive the sun’s intense power.
 Many birds are active mostly at dawn and rest at a cool, shady spot for the day. The phainopepla, a slim, glossy, black bird, breeds during the relatively cool spring season and leaves the desert for cooler areas at higher elevations to avoid the summer heat. Hummingbirds begin breeding in late winter and also leave the desert in late spring when temperatures rise. 
 Also many desert animals are nocturnal, meaning they restrict their activities to night time when temperatures are cooler and active only at dusk and dawn. Bats, snakes, rodents, foxes and skunks are nocturnal, sleeping in a cool den, cave or burrow during the day. Round-tailed ground squirrels enter a state of estivation – the summer equivalent of hibernation -- and sleep through the hottest part of the summer. Toads, too, stay dormant deep in the ground until the rains fill ponds. 
Lizards tend to be active during the hottest seasons but they move rapidly over hot surfaces to absorb less surface heat. Owls gape open-mouthed so water can evaporate from their mouth cavities, cooling their body temperatures. Striped squirrels also use their furry tails to create shade to cool off. Meerkats dig holes in the ground and go into an underground den to avoid heat. The North African jerboa sleeps in holes during the day and the small North African native fennec fox has 15cm long ears that help cool down the body and unusually spends time under the shade of stone. 
Elephants cannot sweat like humans so they have special cooling mechanism to release the body heat. They have large ears and rough hairs which help them cool down. Jackrabbits also release heat via their enormous ears.
 Usually many desert animals are paler than animals living elsewhere as lighter colors ensure that they take in less heat from the environment. Chameleons in the Namibian desert turn their bodies into a lighter color to reflect as much sunlight as possible. 
Ostriches use their wings as umbrellas to escape sunlight. When the temperature climbs above 30 degrees, springboks also make the white fur on their tummy area stand up to reflect around 70 percent of the sunlight. Turkey and black vultures are dark in color so they absorb considerable heat in the desert, yet they excrete urine on their legs, cooling them down by evaporation and escape the hot midday temperatures of the desert by soaring high in the sky.
 In terms of retaining water, desert animals are geniuses. Toads retain water by burrowing into moist soil during the day and turkey vultures obtain moisture entirely from the food they eat. Kangaroo rats live in underground dens that they seal off to block out the midday heat and to recycle the moisture from their own breathing. 
Adaks, a large antelope of North Africa, get water from the plant they grazed in the morning or late afternoon; they can live for weeks without drinking. Reptiles and birds excrete metabolic wastes in the form of uric acid so they waste very little water in the process. 
 Some rodents have specialized kidneys with extra microscopic tubules to extract most of the water from their urine and return it to the blood stream. Most mammals, on the other hand, excrete urea, a soluble compound that accounts for considerable water loss, so they need a good supply of fresh water from eating succulent plants, such as cactuses and from the stems, leaves and fruit of other plants.
 Camels use their long legs to avoid heat from the ground which can reach over 60-70 degrees Celsius during daylight. They can control their body temperatures. Camels have short and dense hair which makes is easy for them to release sweat and heat. Fat stored in the humps on their backs help them survive heat and thirst in the desert. 
Lastly, hippopotamuses and rhinos deal with the heat in their own ways. They like to enjoy mud bathing and they stay in water as long as possible when it’s hot. Hippos even give birth in water. 
