A founding father of Korean economy, Lee Byung-chull (3) Lee’s other contributions
Aside from his distinguished contributions to the development of the national economy, Ho-Am Lee Byung-chull made a slew of contributions to various parts of our society, such as, in the fields of art, journalism, sports and environment.
 Lee Byung-chull established TBC TV and Radio Seoul in 1964. Although these two broadcasting enterprises were later incorporated into KBS, Korea’s national broadcasting system, Lee’s contribution to journalism and broadcasting was far from average. Lee also founded the Joong-Ang Ilbo in 1965 to help bring justice to the Korean society.
 It was no secret that the late founding Chairman of Samsung had unfathomable love for art. On his 55th birthday, Lee called in his family members and announced that he would like to build an organization that could promote the beauty and uniqueness of the Korean culture. He added that he wanted to build a foundation that could reflect his personal philosophy in life. Upon hearing Ho-Am’s long-standing dream, his sons and daughters showed enthusiastic support. In fact, his family assisted him in every step of the way to the foundation’s creation both physically and mentally.
 First, to set up a foundation, which was later named the Samsung Foundation of Culture, he donated his private land and personal wealth. Lee made sure that the foundation’s purpose was to carry out cultural and social welfare activities to turn the nation into a better place. The construction of the Samsung Foundation of Culture was completed in 1966.
 In an effort to promote good deeds and spirit of “hyo,” which can be translated as filial piety, Lee established the Samsung Filial Piety Awards in 1975. Through the awards, he sought to revive and maintain the tradition of “hyo”, which he believed was the most fundamental and timeless moral value that could spread human goodness in Korean society.　
 For thirty-five years since its inception, Samsung Filial Piety Awards have honored more than 370 people, who have shown filial love to their parents and elders. 
 Ho-Am Lee Byung-chull succeeded in founding Cheil Communication in 1973 in an effort to boost Korea’s advertisement industry. Three years later, he opened the Yong-in Farm Land. Lee poured great energy into it. He was a genuine nature-lover; he loved trees, flowers and plants. He hoped to protect and preserve the country’s natural beauty. Lee thought that saving the environment was the most effective and meaningful way to save a country’s future. Lee Byung-chull had always held a firm belief in the responsibility of his generation to provide a clean and nature-friendly environment to their descendants. 
 Inside the Yong-in Farm Land, Lee also built a zoo and an amusement park. The construction of the Yong-in Farm Land was a clear reflection of his caring, generous and benevolent character. He wanted Korean people to have a place to relax and have fun with their loved ones. Lee wished that it would be an excellent get-away spot which provides refreshment and energy to people exhausted from all the hustle and bustle of their hectic lives. Today, it has been renamed “Everland,” and has become the nation’s No. 1 amusement park.
 Lee Byung-chull also set up a professional baseball team, Samsung Lions and opened Ho-Am Art Museum inside Yong-in Farm Land in April, 1982. Lee cherished the country’s traditional arts and felt an immense sense of duty to preserve Korean people’s national culture. Ho-Am Art Museum was a true solidification of his will and dedication to that sense of responsibility. Ho-Am donated his art collection which he had collected for more than three decades of his life to the museum. The collection was made up of around 1,200 ancient Korean artifacts that ranged from ceramics and drawings to sculptures and calligraphy. Today, the museum owns more than 15,000 pieces of art from both home and abroad. 
 Lee had always shown a special interest in hand-crafted arts. He thought those pieces held the originality and uniqueness of the artist. Also, Lee enjoyed listening to Korean classical music, writing calligraphy and collecting pottery. 
 Ho-Am Lee Byung-chull repeatedly emphasized the beauty of sharing and the fact that his life’s philosophy is deeply rooted in the teachings of the Confucian Analects. He laid those teachings at deep in his heart and pursued a life of serving and helping others through his commitment to work in various walks of life. 
