Ballet show ‘Swan Lake’ to liven up this summer
Animal-costume ballet performance “Swan Lake” has returned this summer with upgraded features from last year’s debut show in Sejong Arts Center’s M Theater. The show is the first locally made family ballet performance to offer a rendition of the classic ballet in this way. 
 Watching the quality children’s ballet performance where professional ballet performers in animal costumes dance to Tschaikovsky’s music brings viewers into a fairytale world. Though the show is technically a ballet performance, it has dialogue, thus, it is in effect a ballet musical. It cost more than 100 million won ($85,000) to create delicate and fancy costumes in the show.
 The show offers various discount options -- a 30 percent discount for the matinee performance (on Wednesday at 11 a.m.), and if both mom and dad come to the Friday show at 7:30 p.m., a 2,000 won discount is offered. If you bring pictures of animals, you get a 20 percent discount on your ticket and if you are resident of Songpa, Gangdong, Gangnam or Gwangjin districts and, and bring documents to prove it, a 30 percent discount is provided. Since it is students’ summer vacation, shows are offered at night on weekdays. 
 Plot
 Yae-seul, who dreams of being a ballerina, has a teddy bear named Doodoo. Suddenly it comes alive and brings her to a magic world. Unfortunately, Yae-seul is turned into a swan, Odette, by an evil wizard. Doodoo, knowing that only true love can break the spell, introduces Odette to a prince. The two fall in love but the jealous duck Odil disguises herself as Odette and goes to a palace dance party where the prince will choose his future wife. The prince mistakes Odil as Odette and gives her a vow of love. He later finds out but now the wizard puts Odette and her friends in danger. Now the prince has to protect them.
 The show lasts 70 minutes with no intermission. Admission is 50,000 won for R seats and 40,000 won for S seats. The show lasts until Aug. 18 at Naroo Arts Center. For more information, call 1577-3363.
