East Asian Cup 2013
The 2013 East Asian Cup football championship concluded on July 28, with Japan and the Democratic People‘s Republic of Korea claiming the men’s and women’s titles, respectively. The tournament pitting regional sporting powers against each other was held in the Republic of Korea for the second time since its inception.
 The East Asian Cup for men was founded in 2002, but its predecessor, the now defunct Dynasty Cup, dates back to 1990. China, Korea and Japan are each guaranteed an automatic berth in the tournament, while other nations and territories in the region must take part in a qualification round. The winner of the qualification round becomes one of the four teams in the final round. Korea and China had each won two of the previous four East Asian Cup titles.
 Host Korea was a team in transition with Hong Myung-bo as the new head coach of the national team. The East Asian Cup represented an opportunity for Hong to put his tactics, strategies and managing philosophy to the test. He opted for a team made up of domestically based young players, and the results were mixed. The youthful team demonstrated plenty of defensive discipline and offensive pressure, but their inability to find the net was alarming as they wasted numerous golden opportunities to score. Korea managed only one goal in three matches - two draws and a loss - to finish in third.
 China was also in transition as the team recently dismissed head coach Jose Antonio Camacho after a particularly embarrassing 5-1 defeat at the hands of Thailand in a friendly match. Caretaker head coach Fu Bo led a full-strength team into the tournament eager to find redemption. The Chinese team performed above expectations. They fought back from a 3-1 deficit to tie Japan in the first game, staved off wave after wave of attacks to forge a scoreless draw against Korea in the second game and defeated Australia 4-3 in a wild shootout to finish in second place.
 Japan fielded a team with mostly J-League based players, including budding star Yoichiro Kakitani. They had plenty of firepower but were also saddled by a porous defense that conceded six goals in three games. They squandered a 3-1 advantage and settled for a draw against China in the first game, and defeated Australia 3-2 in the second game. In their last game, Japan barely got by Korea when Kakitani scored the winning goal in the waning moments of the match for the title-clinching 2-1 victory. 
 The four teams that made up the 2013 East Asian Cup for women were: host Republic of Korea, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, China, and Japan. The two Koreas and Japan received automatic berths while China had to get through the preliminary rounds to reach the final round. Japan, the defending East Asian Cup champion and the reigning Women’s World Cup champion, was the pre-tournament favorite.
 Korea, No. 16 in FIFA rankings, is under the guidance of new head coach Yoon Deok-yeo. In a much-anticipated showdown with the powerful North Korean team, Kim Soo-yun’s goal gave the Taegeuk Ladies an early advantage; however, Ho Un-byol answered with two goals in two minutes to secure a 2-1 victory for the Chollima. Korea lost to China 2-1 in the second game, and with the powerful Japanese squad looming in the last game, things looked bleak.
 North Korea was leading the table with 7 points and a plus 2 in goal difference. Japan needed a win against Korea in order to claim a third consecutive title, but the Taegeuk Ladies would have none of that. With North Korean players watching and cheering from the stands, the Korean side put up an inspired, physical defense and prevented the powerful Japanese side from even registering a shot on goal in the first half. Ji So-yun scored a goal in each half as Korea upset the heavily favored Japan 2-1 to propel the North Korean team to their first East Asian Cup title. After the match, North Korean players came off the stands to join Korean players on the field for a jubilant victory celebration.
