Meet the blue creatures
The whimsical blue creatures are back! “The Smurfs 2,” a sequel to the 2011 film “The Smurfs,” was released in local movie theaters on Aug. 1 to greet fans of the blue creatures. Actor Neil Patrick Harris once again starred in the film with his role as Patrick Winslow, the Smurfs’ most dear human friend, alongside wife Grace and their new born son, Blue. 
 Plot 
Smurfette was originally created by Gargamel but Papa Smurfs’ magic turned her into a good Smurf. Sadly, Smurfette is constantly having nightmares about betraying her fellow Smurfs and turning them over to Gargamel. 
 Meanwhile, the Smurfs are preparing a surprise birthday party for Smurfette. Smurfette tries to find out what her fellow Smurfs are up to but no one spills a word; it makes her feel that she is not welcomed in the village.
 In Paris, Gargamel has become a household name for his amazing magic shows. But he finds out that he is running out of the Smurf essence which is essential for his magical power. 
 Gargamel forces his Smurf-like creations called “Naughties” -- Vexy and Hackus -- to invade in the Smurf village and bring Smurfette to Paris in order that he can steal the secret formula for the Smurf essence. 
 Smurfette’s abduction led Papa Smurf and several troublesome Smurfs -- Clumsy, Grouchy and Vanity -- to head to Paris. But first, they visit New York to ask for Patrick’s help. 
 This 3-D family comedy film is based on comic-book series “The Smurfs,” created by the Belgian comic artist Peyo. It is the second installment of a projected trilogy; the third film is scheduled to be released on July 24, 2015. 
 Fun tips about the film
 Gagamel was dubbed by comedian Park Myung-soo. Smurfette was voiced by singer Katy Perry. One of the songs on the film’s soundtrack, “Ooh La La” was sung by Pop queen Britney Spears. She sang it because her two sons -- Shawn and Brendon -- are in love with the movie. The boys even appeared on the song’s music video.
 Global Smurf Day
 On June 22, 2013, the Global Smurf Day was held in Belgium, the country of Smurf’s creator Peyo. Smurf promoters who flew in from 28 different countries celebrated Peyo’s birth and had a fantastic time playing various activities such as playing Smurf video games and dancing to the Smuf’s original sound track, “I’m Too Sexy.” 
