J.K. Rowling’s new book, ‘The Cuckoo’s Calling’
“I was yearning to go back to the beginning of a writing career in this new genre, to work without hype or expectation and to receive totally unvarnished feedback.” J.K. Rowling
 Harry Potter creator J.K. Rowling has been identified as the real author of “The Cuckoo‘s Calling” -- a crime novel about a war veteran turned private investigator named Cormoran Strike -- written under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith. The book attributed to Galbraith received good reviews and 1,500 first print copies were sold; however, when Rowling acknowledged being the author, the demand for the book skyrocketed. Within hours, “The Cuckoo’s Calling” rose more than 5,000 places to top Amazon’s sales list. Signed first editions of the book sold for thousands of dollars in frenzied biddings by eager collectors.
 “The Cuckoo’s Calling” was published in top secret fashion by Mulholland Books, an imprint of Little, Brown and Company publishing house. Mulholland Books’ website described the author as “a former member of the Special Investigative Branch of the Royal Military Police who left the military in 2003 and has been working since then in the civilian security industry.” It indicated that the name Robert Galbraith is a pseudonym. The Sunday Times, acting on a tip from a British law firm, shed light on the mysterious literary “newcomer” by noting that Galbraith used an agent, editor and publisher who had worked with J.K. Rowling.
 Various reviewers and authors of crime genre novels heaped praise on “The Cuckoo Calling,” while some noted that the book was likely written by a very mature writer rather than a first-timer. One reviewer even complimented the “male” author’s ability to describe women’s clothes with such intimate knowledge. The revelation of Rowling as the author of the book was a huge windfall for Mulholland Books and book stores, but one publishing house is left to rue missed opportunities. Kate Mills, fiction editor at Orion Books, admitted she had turned down the crime novel because she thought it was “well-written but quiet.”
 In explaining her decision to write under a pseudonym, J.K. Rowling said in a statement: “It has been wonderful to publish without hype or expectation and pure pleasure to get feedback from publishers and readers under a different name.” In the FAQ section of her Robert Galbraith website, she explained why she picked this particular pseudonym: “I chose Robert because it is one of my favorite men’s names, because Robert F Kennedy is my hero … When I was a child, I really wanted to be called ‘Ella Galbraith,’ and I’ve no idea why … Be that as it may, the name had a fascination for me.”
 J.K. Rowling caught many people by surprise in writing “The Cuckoo’s Calling” under a different name. As it turned out, she was just being true to her word. In a previous interview where she was asked about her plans after Harry Potter, she indicated that she would like to write under a pseudonym. Before she became an international publishing sensation, when she first tried to sell the rights to her most famous work Harry Potter, Rowling was advised to use the gender neutral initials J.K. instead of her first name Joanne because books written by men sold better. It’s ironic that today, “The Cuckoo’s Calling” is selling much better because people found out that it was written by a woman.
 British book retailer Waterstones called “The Cuckoo‘s Calling” the “best act of literary deception since Stephen King was outed as Richard Bachman back in the 1980s,” and it looks like the act will continue. J.K. Rowling promised that another Cormoran Strike book by Robert Galbraith was in the pipeline, to be published next year.
