Should military service be mandatory or voluntary?
Mandatory - Whether military service should be mandatory or not has been controversial for a long time. Some people try to avoid going to the military, thinking it’s just a waste of time. But for overly self-confident youths, I think military service teaches them a good lesson, and therefore should be mandatory. 
First, military service offers a valuable experience that cannot be encountered in normal life. The young men go through a significant change, learning how to control themselves, cooperate with others and show respect for authority. By the time they are discharged from military service, they are transformed into adults. 　
 Second, military service teaches the value of basic rights. These days, young men take their rights for granted. They keep forgetting that their ancestors fought hard to give them those basic rights. In the military, freedom is strictly limited, cooperation is essential and orders from headquarters must be followed no matter what. 
Not being able to enjoy liberty like they used to, the young soldiers can feel the significance of their basic rights. They might then understand why so many ancestors sacrificed their lives to have those rights. 
So, in my opinion military service should be mandatory for today’s youth. 
 Voluntary – South Korea is one of the countries where military service is compulsory for citizens. 
People say that being a divided country is one of the main reasons why military service is mandatory in South Korea. We never know when we are going to be invaded by North Korea and so we must always be prepared for war. 
We also wish for the unity of Korea at the same time, however, being prepared like this just show nothing about unity. So, in my opinion, the military service should be voluntary.
 Firstly, as I said above, participating in military service and being trained for duty are not efforts toward a united country. If we’re trying to be a united country, why are we spending so much time and money on preparing for war? I don’t think that helps us in achieving the goal of unification.
 Secondly, men usually must serve in the military when they are in the prime of youth. Spending their best years in the military could be waste of time, and that youth never comes back again. For that reason, problems of exemption from military service are also increasing steadily. It is the most beautiful period of their life and they have the right to spend that period in a meaningful way. 　
 If military service becomes voluntary, men won’t have to worry about the military duty and they would be able to focus on their dreams for their future and that would obviously help the country for the growth of economy. In conclusion, military service should be voluntary for the reasons I mentioned. 
