N. Koreans attend youth event in Gwangju
group of North Koreans have been given permission to take part in a United Nations’ event for international youths held at Gwangju by the South Korean government, the Ministry of Unification announced on Aug. 19.
 The United Nations Office on Sport for Development and Peace (UNOSDP) was notified that the group of four North Koreans – three students and one adult chaperone – was interested in participating at the Youth Leadership Program (YLP) earlier in August. The request was forwarded to the 2015 Gwangju Universiade Organizing Committee, which was then submitted to the Ministry of Unification.
 “The government today approved the North Korean adolescents’ visit to South Korea for their participation in the YLP,” the ministry said in a statement on Aug. 19.
 The YLP is an event that aims to educate and provide support for youths from war-torn countries or developing regions on such topics as health, education, disability, gender equality and peace. Started in January 2012, the UNOSDP hosts several Youth Leadership Programs in various countries throughout the year. 
 This year, the seventh UNOSDP Youth Leadership Program was held in Gwangju from Aug. 23 to Sept. 3. Some 34 youths from 19 Asian countries, including a group from North Korea, took part in the event. 
 “It is an international event, and the inter-Korean exchanges and cooperation in the non-political field can help build trust between the two Koreas,” unification ministry spokesman Kim Hyung-suk said of the decision to approve the North Korean group’s participation.
 “The North Korean adolescents’ visit to participate in the YLP program would serve as a key momentum for the inter-Korean relations and for creating world peace through sports,” Gwangju Mayor Kang Un-tae said during a press conference on Aug. 19.
 The group arrived at the Incheon International Airport on Aug. 21 after taking a connecting flight from Beijing. According to the ministry, they are scheduled to return home on Sept. 4.
 The decision to allow the group of North Koreans to partake in the YLP comes amid easing tensions between the two Koreas. In the same month, the two sides reached a breakthrough deal to reopen the Gaesong Industrial Complex as well as hold talks to set up family reunions in time for Chuseok. 
