Germany vs. Japan - different treatment of the past
The issue of taking responsibility over wartime aggression is not just a grave matter in Japan but it is a crucial political and social issue in Germany. Yet two countries have taken two very separate roads.
 Japan has until now refused to provide official apology on its war crimes, circumventing serious “responsibility discourse” as fiendishly as possible. It seems that Japanese conservatives view denial is a method to reserve their last dignity. This irresponsible stance has antagonized East Asian neighbors who had suffered from the country’s wartime aggression. 
Thomas U. Berger, author of “War, Guilt, and World Politics After World War II,” provides a stark comparison between two wartime assailants -- Germany and Japan -- and how their ways of dealing with their dark histories and gestures of apologies have evolved over time. 
According to Berger, Tokyo’s minimal contrition has been “often undermined by the steady revisionist drumbeat emanating from the right.” For Japan, fruitful reconciliation is untenable because “its apologies have been limited in scope, challenged domestically, and singularly unsuccessful in improving Japan’s relations with its Asian neighbors.”
 On the contrary, the German government is educating its children on the country’s historic wrongdoings as candidly as possible. Students are mandated to visit Auschwitz and concentration camps to experience brutal crimes of the Nazis. It has also given 70 billion dollars in compensation to Holocaust victims and the German constitution stipulates that war time prisoners are not subjected to any statute of limitations on their charges. Just last month, a 90-year-old man who was a security guard during the Holocaust was put to trial for his human rights abuses. And unlike Japan’s approach to its Imperial “Rising Sun” flag, the Nazi swastika is officially banned from use in Germany. 
On Aug. 21 German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited Nazi concentration camp Dachau where more than 43,000 people were murdered and over 200,000 imprisoned during the Nazis’ reign of terror from 1933-1945. She was the first-ever incumbent chancellor to take this bold step. Merkel said she “feels shame about an ugly chapter in her country’s history.”
 Her action was in a stark contrast from that of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who is for the idea of visiting a war shrine that honors war criminals during and before World War II. On April 30, 2013, uniform-clad Abe shouted “I will resurrect Japan’s power. ‘Japanese Emperor Banzai!’” The last statement bears the leader’s dangerous ambition to return to the country’s imperialistic and militaristic past. One major problem with the Japanese government is that they have repeatedly distorted history textbooks in order to bolster the national pride and whitewash its shameful history.
 Amid growing geographic tensions on Aug. 12, a Korean professor put up an online ad on the Wall Street Journal. Sungshin Women’s University professor Seo Kyoung-duk posted an ad on the online edition of the Wall Street Journal, chastising Japanese politicians’ negligent stance on its history. Titled “Making Peace With History,” the ad provides a vivid contrast between Japanese and German politicians. 
One side of the ad shows two German politicians, former German Chancellor Willy Brandt and current German Chancellor Angela Merkel. In the picture the former is kneeling before a monument to the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw on Dec. 7, 1970. Its caption reads German leaders since Brandt, including Merkel, have continued to apologize on behalf of their country. On the other side of the paper is a picture of three Japanese politicians: Prime Minister Abe Shinzo, Deputy Prime Minister Aso Taro and Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto. This time, the caption reads, “Abe has declined to atone for or even fully recognize Japan’s past acts of aggression. Mayor Toru Hashimoto has claimed that the women forced into sexual slavery for Japanese troops during WWII were ‘a military necessity.’”
 Professor Seo says that he wanted to let the world know about Japanese lawmakers’ stance on history. “Abe’s senseless remarks, Hashimoto’s denial of the existence of comfort women, and Aso Taro’s reference to the Nazis are shocking,” said Seo. 
He posted a similar ad along with patriotic singer Kim Jang-hoon in the New York Times back in 2011 calling on Japan to repent over the comfort women. The ad, titled “Do You Remember?” demanded Japan apologize to Korean women forced into sexual slavery during World War II. 　
 Comfort women and all the other war victims deserve a sincere apology and suitable compensation from the perpetrators. As the German chancellor pointed out the country that does not learn from the past cannot seek a robust future. The Japanese government should not continue the mistake of leaving the wartime atrocity issue unaddressed. 
