Namsan, Korea’s traditional village
The sky was high and blue. I heard from a distance the cheerful sound of Korean traditional song, followed by the cheers of the crowd. During the Chuseok holiday, the Korean play festival was held at the folk village on Namsan. A variety of activities were held at the festival, such as making traditional shoes, songpyeon, flutes, kites, masks, and drawing on fans. I painted black grass on a pink fan and made a flute from bamboo, so now I have two lovely souvenirs to remember the event. 
 My family enjoyed watching women jumping up and down on a seesaw. It was great to walk around to the beat of the "janggu" (drum) and "kkwaenggwari" (gong). We loved to see traditional dancers spinning the white ribbons on their heads. I asked a question to a kind older lady who was a foreigner, “What do you think about this traditional Korean festival?” She replied: “I think it’s very nice to understand Korean culture with this play. It is nicer than I expected.”
 One of the traditional plays was "Gimmaegi." It made us remember about our ancestors who worked hard with hoes and sickles. "Saekkiteul" is a tool used to make straw rope. Another tool called "jeseunggi" was the same as "saekkiteul" but its particular rope was hard so that it could be made into sandals.
 What’s more, some people were doing a circus act on the rope. It was very nice and surprising to watch. The traditional house of Okindong yun was huge and impressive. Like the past, there were both outdoor rooms and indoor rooms. I enjoyed watching and doing these traditional activities that we can’t easily come across these days. 
 I don’t know how other people enjoyed their Chuseok holiday. I saw some people who helped foreigners and children to know more about Korea’s tradition through this festival. So, I bet everyone there enjoyed a happy Chuseok with great knowledge of Korea’s traditions. 
Hiking: Great Autumn hobby
Autumn paints leaves in various colors and has a charming high sky with beautiful clouds. After summer days in which the heat seems to melt everything away, people have a natural instinct to go out for a walk or to watch trees turning into different colors in the cooler season. Autumn is the most marvelous and beautiful season, and has the perfect weather that everybody likes. 
 Have you ever participated in an autumn field day or exercise outside? Almost everyone has these experiences. You would have noticed that it is the perfect time for such outdoor activities. People have their own sports or hobbies to enjoy in autumn such as golf and tennis, but I think that the best hobby for fall is hiking for several reasons.
 People often get lazy in autumn because it comes after the hot and exhausting days of summer. I think the best way to get rid of this tiredness is to go out for a hike. Mountains have a lot of needle-leaf trees, which are full of phytoncide. Phytoncide is a natural microbial substance that refreshes people. Phytoncide not only refreshes people’s moods, but gives other advantages, too.
 The second reason I think that hiking is the best fall hobby is because people can enjoy amazing colors of the leaves while doing it. The light orange, dark red, yellow, dark and light green colors of leaves mix together to create a masterpiece of a landscape. People can enjoy nature’s work of art especially in mountains, where it has many different kinds of trees that make unique colors. 
 Last, autumn has the best weather for hiking. In winter, the weather is too cold and is dangerous to climb when the snow on the sidewalk freezes into ice. In summer, the weather is too hot and humid and has lots of bugs, which make people feel unpleasant. However, in fall, the weather is cool, and it has warm sunlight which comes down between leaves, and has fewer bugs. 
 Also, stuffiness from summer and feeling of loneliness is a good reason for people to go for a walk or a hike. Hiking has many other benefits for your health, especially to people’s immune system. So why not hike a famous mountain this fall?
Should we build a naval base on Jeju Island?
Pro- 
I am for building a naval base on Jeju Island.
 First of all, Korea’s exports and imports are frequently made by sea and if there were a naval base in Jeju Island, there would be more protection for this vital trading route and the operations of oil and natural gas merchant ships in the area would become safer. A vast amount of natural resources comes from the area near Jeju Island and a naval base will help facilitate these resources to the fullest.
 Second, if there were a naval base in Jeju Island, Korea’s naval power will be strengthened in comparison with its neighbors. The base will help the government keep the naval powers of Japan and China in check and help secure a favorable position in international competition. 　
 Third, there is an underwater rock called Ieodo near Jeju Island and new naval base will make it easier for the administration to demand Korea’s just territorial rights over Ieodo and avoid any possible controversies in regard to the territory similar to those that were raised over Dokdo.
 In this sense, I think that Korea should construct a naval base in Jeju Island.
 Con-
 I am against building a naval base in Jeju Island
 Jeju Island was only just recently declared a UNESCO World Heritage site for its natural beauty. Building a naval base in Jeju will risk damaging the very same nature that the island boasts of. 
 The building of the naval base may also cause a "Yongsan-effect." What I mean by this is that a high military presence may change the demographics of the area, possibly causing social problems and tension between the native inhabitants and the visitors. 
 A heavy military presence in the area will also risk damaging the environment of Jeju Island. For example, in order to build the base, the surrounding land will have to be flattened and nature destroyed. Then the area will be covered in concrete and buildings. This means countless plants will be destroyed, which in turn could mean that many species of animals will lose their homes and source of food.
 The damage to the environment and the ecology that this naval base will cause cannot be calculated. In my opinion, it is better to be safe than sorry. Also, there is already a naval base in Busan, only about 315 km away. It seems a little excessive to build another naval base so close to one that is already active. Therefore, I am fully against building a new naval base in Seogwipo, Jeju Island. 
