Turkish fans of Korean cinema get festival treatment
The first-ever Korea-Turkey film festival will be held in Istanbul next month as part of the upcoming Istanbul-Gyeongju World Culture Expo 2013.
 Internationally acclaimed Korean director Kim Ki-duk, known for his award-winning films such as “Pieta,” “Arirang” and “Samaritan Girl,” as well as actresses Han Ga-in, Kang Soo-yeon and Ye Ji-won, actor Park Joong-hoon and other notables in the Korean film industry are slated to attend the film fest. 
The Korea-Turkey Movie Week in Istanbul will highlight 27 films in total ― 17 Korean and 10 Turkish. The Korean films that will be screened include “The Host” ― one of the Korea’s most successful films ― “Masquerade,” “The Thieves,” “Love Fiction” and “Architecture 101.”
 “We wanted to select the most representative Korean movies of the 2000s as well choose a few productions where viewers can visually experience Korean culture,” said EXPO programmer Bae Jang-su. 
Some of the 10 notable Turkish movies that have been selected for next month’s film fest include Cannes Grand Prix winner “Once Upon a Time in Anatolia” and other international award-winning productions such as “Night of Silence” and “Where the Fire Burns.” 
The films will be screened at three different theaters around the city for eight days from Sept. 12 to 19. 
The upcoming Istanbul-Gyeongju World Culture Expo 2013, to be held from Aug. 31 to Sept. 22, has been organized as an expansive cultural event aimed at forging closer ties between Korea and Turkey. The two countries have had diplomatic ties for 63 years. Around 40 countries are expected to participate in this year’s expo, which will showcase a wide variety of exhibitions, concerts and cultural events highlighting Korean films, music, cuisine, fashion, martial arts and more. 
The Korea Creative Content Agency (KOCCA) will also host a content trade fair and seminar during the three-week-long event. 
The Korea Content B2B Meeting and the Turkey-Korea Content Exchange Seminar will take place on Sept. 2-3. The seminar will discuss the current state of Turkish and Korean content industries in hopes of helping participants gain a better understanding of the two countries’ respective industries. Korean movie producer Kim Hyung-jun, best known for his hit film “Silmido,” will be giving a special presentation on the Korean content industry. 
“The Korean content industry has not had much contact with Turkish industries,” stated Kim Sung-dong, head of the K-Wave Export Team at the KOCCA in a press statement. “This will be a chance to broaden Korea’s horizon.”
 The content seminar will also provide an opportunity for the two countries to share information on business and industry-related topics such as broadcast licensing and marketing techniques and strategies. 
“Turkey’s strategic location allows it to access European, Asian, African and Middle Eastern markets,” he went on to explain. “This could be a chance for Korea and Turkey to export businesses abroad, and influence other potential markets.” 
