Peru: Home of the Inca Empire
Located in western South America, Peru is home to the world-famous Inca citadel of Machu Picchu. A nation steeped in history and culture, Peru is a popular destination for tourists of all backgrounds. From ancient archaeological ruins to diverse ecological treasures and delicious cuisines, there is no shortage of things to see, do and experience when visiting Peru.
 To get a taste of what Peru has to offer, here are some of Peru’s top tourist attractions.
 Cuzco 
Often called the “archaeological capital of America,” Cuzco is hands down Peru’s biggest tourist attraction. Once the capital of the Inca Empire, Cuzco is also home to the mystic and majestic Machu Picchu and, of course, the Inca Trail. A trip to Cuzco is a must for those hoping to get a glimpse of what life was like in ancient historic times. 
 Nazca Lines 
Another place full of mysticism is the region of Nazca. Bearing the same name as the culture that flourished in the area between B.C. 100 and A.D. 800, the mysterious and impressive Nazca Lines found between the towns of Nazca and Palpa along the northern Pacific coast. 
 Designated a UNESCO Cultural World Heritage Site, the Nazca lines are actually massive line drawings on the desert floor that cannot be discerned from the ground. In fact, despite having been created between B.C. 200 and A.D. 700, it was not until the 1920s - when Peruvian airlines began flying from Lima to Arequipa - that the lines were recognized as figures rather than just random lines. 
 Iquitos 
History buffs are not the only ones with plenty of things to explore in Peru. Nature lovers will have no problems finding exciting ecosystems to explore. For intimate contact with nature, the city of Iquitos, the world’s largest city that cannot be reached via road, is a must. Located in the Amazon, it is often the starting point of an Amazon boat tour in Peru.
 Uros Islands 
 Found of Lake Titicaca, the Uros islands are a series of artificial islands on which the Uros people built their villages. These artificial islands are basically huge rafts of dried totora reeds, which are both a primary source of food as well as the material they use to build their homes. 
