Should school attendance be voluntary?
PRO
 School attendance should be voluntary
 It’s true that schools offer necessary education to students. This education helps them to become competent members of society. Because of this, many adults insist that education at school is necessary. But I think school attendance can be voluntary.
 Since Korea offers compulsory education until middle school, it’s a little difficult to make elementary and middle school attendance voluntary. However, when it comes to high school students, I hold a very strong view on keeping attendance voluntary.
 This is because, although every teenager has unique talents and abilities, not all of them are interested in studying. Some students can have a gift for playing instruments and others can excel at drawing pictures. It is unfair to push all students to attend school. When students become high school students, they are mature enough to think about what suits them. They know what they can do well. The nation should help them to develop their own talents. This is what the government should rather pursue instead of forcing them to study.
 In addition, students who do not want to study at schools usually interrupt other students from studying by making noise. Others can’t concentrate on studying because of a handful of these students.
 To sum up, making school attendance mandatory is bad for both students who like to study in school and those who do not. If we truly hope to seek better education, the government should make school attendance voluntary, at least for high school students.
 Con-
 School attendance should not be voluntary
 Here in Korea, elementary school and middle school are compulsory, which means that we must attend classes every day. All students between the age of 8 and 16 have to go to elementary school and middle school, and be punished by the school if we miss classes. My opinion on the topic is that elementary and middle school attendance should be compulsory.
 The first reason is because elementary school and middle school give us basic information that we need to get in society. For example, in elementary school, we learn addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, and if we don’t have these skills, of course we can’t get a job and also cannot do many other things. If school attendance becomes voluntary, there will be students who don’t come to classes often, which will make them live without having basic skills. 
 Also, if you do not attend elementary school and middle school classes often, that will lead you to unemployment, which can result in you becoming a beggar. Nowadays, even smart people who graduated Seoul National University can’t get a job. So how will a person that did not go to class and lack basic knowledge get a job? At the least people who graduated universities have a possibility in getting a job, but people that don’t know basic things have much lower chance.
 As we all know, famous, and successful people like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Barack Obama, and many other famous people graduated elementary and middle school, and didn’t miss classes often. If they did not attend classes, they would not have succeeded that much. So, I strongly disagree with the idea of making school attendance voluntary. School is an important step that we have to undergo if we don’t want to live like beggars. 
