Rare brain disorder sends woman to sleep months in a row
A real life sleeping beauty is nothing romantic but painful, according to Daily Mail report on Aug. 22. 
 Imaarl Duprey, a 23-year-old fashion worker from London, has Kleine Levin Syndrome, dubbed “Sleeping Beauty Syndrome.” It is a rare neurological disorder that sends her to sleep for 20 hours a day for weeks at a time, allowing her to wake only for short periods, during which she remains in a trancelike state. 
 People with this syndrome experience extreme exhaustion, paranoia and hysterical behavior. Only about 1,000 people worldwide suffer from the condition. While she is asleep, her mother Kerry Griffiths, 46, and sister Shahnequa Duprey, 21, have to take care of her, giving her toddler-like round-the-clock care which entails making sure she eats, drinks and goes to the toilet properly.
 “It’s had a really big impact on me and my family. I need constant supervision. My sister missed numerous university lectures and my mom had to take a lot of time off from her work,” she said. “The condition has become a punishment for them, as well as me. I don’t know how I’d cope without them.”
 Imaarl first started showing signs of the condition in 2008 at the age of 18 years old when she started sleeping for 10 days. Her mother took her to numerous doctors but they did not give an answer. One doctor dismissed her symptoms as “typical teenage behavior.” It took years for the condition to be properly diagnosed after she underwent brain scans at King’s College Hospital in London in Dec. 2012. 
 Leading a normal life is untenable for Imaarl, but she managed to finish college and earned a psychology degree at London’s Goldsmiths College. 
 “At times I would suffer from extreme tiredness. I missed deadlines and had to leave classes because I was too exhausted. Some people assumed I was lazy or going to parties all the time,” she recalled. 
 “She did amazingly well to get through it in the end. We’re all really proud of her,” Kerry said.
 “I’m a happy person in everyday life and I don’t want KLS to overtake me. I’m not sure about the future, but I want to stay positive,” Imaarl insists.
 KLS typically lasts between 10 and 15 years, Dr. Guy Leschziner, says consultant neurologist and sleep physician at Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospital in London. The cause and remedy of KLS are still unknown.
