A week to remember: Let's enjoy Chuseok to the fullest
Chuseok this year falls on Sept. 18 to 20. Like every other occasion or festivity, if you know what is going to happen in advance for a certain event, you can enjoy it to your heart’s content. So, let‘s take a look at what kind of events, programs or fun activities are waiting for us for the traditional Korean holidays.
 Movies
 The Flu - Having opened at Korean theaters nationwide in August, the action drama featuring hot stars Soo Ae and Jang Hyuk deals with the spread of a deadly strain of the avian influenza virus H5N1 in Bundang, a city just outside Seoul. As people struggle to survive amid the chaos, disease specialist In-hye (Soo Ae) and rescue worker Ji-goo (Jang Hyuk) go into the city to find solutions.
 Jobs - As introduced in our previous newspaper, this movie portrays the life of the late Apple founder, Steve Jobs. Ashton Kutcher plays Jobs, mimicking his trademark look and walk. If you have known or read about how poor and unpromising Jobs' task was in the beginning, you will find the movie much more impressive. Jobs will make a great model for you if you aspire to make a name for yourself despite a difficult start.
 The Grandmaster - Featuring hallyu star Song Hey-kyo and Hong Kong star Tony Leung, the martial arts flick shows the life of a kung fu expert and his wife. Ip Man (Tony Leung) is challenged to a duel by another master who is known for his brilliant hand techniques. Ip wins, but then meets the daughter of the expert and gets into another round of intense fighting.
 KBS special
 People might find this show similar to the famous “Dad! Where are you going?” but the theme, flow and duration of this TV program is quite different. The three-day Chuseok special “Superman has returned” featuring Korea’s famous middle-aged men such as Jang Hyun-sung, Choo Sung-hoon and Lee Hwi-jae depicts fathers spending 48 hours with their children without mom’s care. The KBS special tries to show what it takes to become a real father, who is like a superman at work but loses his ground at home.
 Unusual events
 G-Dragon exhibition – The Big Bang member is scheduled to hold “G-Dragon – Space 8” exhibition at CAIS Galley in Seoul from Sept. 10-17, right before the Chuseok holidays start. The exhibit will display photographs and items that were used for his concerts but never been exposed to the public. The event will be held for eight days showing 88 items with an entrance fee of 8,800 won. The number “8” represents the singer’s lucky number, taken from his birthday Aug. 18, 1988.
 Busan Grand Sale - If you are one of those dwellers living in the second largest city in the country, a great annual sale is waiting for you. The city‘s biggest sales event, lasting until October will offer discounts up to 70 percent on shopping, accommodation, dining and travel programs. Around 4,000 businesses are participating in the event, Haeundae Grand Hotel, for example, offers a 40 percent discount on weekdays. The event goes on until Oct. 10 from Sept. 1.
 Hallyu street opening in Seoul - Gangnam District in southern Seoul plans to build a hallyu-themed street within September. The so-called “K Star Road” will span from the S.M. Entertainment building to the headquarters of Cube Entertainment. Celebrity hand-printings, souvenirs, and a gallery will be also added later on.
