Not enough rooms for Chinese tourists
A tourism industry study estimated that around 70,000 Chinese tourists would visit Korea during China’s week-long national holiday that started on Oct.1. It would be an increase of 20 percent from the same period last year, the study said. However, complaints from the visitors have been oozing out, mostly concerning Seoul’s lack of hotel rooms.
 As more and more tourists arrive in Seoul, the problem with insufficient accommodation grows. There are not enough hotel rooms to accommodate them and some Chinese tourists were even forced to stay in suburban areas near Seoul. In 2010, the number of hotel rooms in Korea was only 23,645, the study said. 
According to tourism officials, about 30,000 of the 70,000 Chinese arriving in Seoul during the holiday week will have to stay in Gyeonggi province as most hotels are already occupied. 
The problem with tourists staying in Gyeonggi province is that they need to end their visits to Seoul early to get to their hotel rooms, which often involves one or two hours’ travel. This is a real deal breaker for Korea’s prospective tourists. 
According to a recent survey conducted by the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the majority of Chinese tourists (39.1 percent) were upset with Korea’s level of accommodation. 
One new trend in the nation’s tourism industry is that there are more individual travelers coming from China. These tourists tend to spend more than group travelers. The Seoul Metropolitan Government reported that Chinese tourists spend an average of $2,195 while traveling Korea. That is $550 more than the average Japanese tourist.
 Industry analysts predicted Chinese tourists would spend a total of $100 million in the first week of October alone, mostly buying products that were made in Korea. 
The Seoul Metropolitan Government said the number of foreign tourists in Korea jumped to 8.79 million in 2010 from 5.32 million in 2001, a 65 percent increase. 
To meet the rising demand from tourists, the central government has encouraged the construction of new hotels and remodeling of buildings into hotels. 
Jang Yeong-hwa, an official at the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism stated “We are building more than 4,000 rooms, but it is still not enough to cover the increasing number of tourists.”
 On top of securing sufficient number of decent lodging places, Yonhap News argued that Korea needed to come up with more interesting tour programs to boost the country’s tourism industry.
