Auto camping in the fall
Rapid industrial development is bringing changes to people's pastime activities, and one of the most recent is the increase in auto camping.
 Travelers used to carry everything in their backpacks to enjoy their precious weekends.
 But with the increase in the number of camper vans, tourists can reach their destinations quickly and use their cars for the night without worrying about accommodation.
 Before the era of auto camping, people had to make their luggage as compact as possible, but now owner-drivers can bring barbecue grills, tents, coolers, fishing chairs, stoves and more.
 Auto camping has long been enjoyed overseas in countries such as Germany, Austria, New Zealand, Australia and Japan.
 But Korea is also witnessing an increasing number of auto camping sites, cars and relevant equipment. A recent statistic showed that the number of auto campers in Korea topped 1.3 million and there are over 1,000 auto camping sites in the country.
 As to why auto camping in Korea is becoming popular, experts point to the growing number of outbound tourists who enjoy the new camping scene and the increasing number of online auto camping communities. The country’s economic development also played its part, they said.
 Although auto camping is more popular in summer than fall, there are still many camping sites highly recommended by enthusiasts for the brisk weather.
 Check out these three places where you can enjoy the autumn breeze as recommended by The Korea Herald.
 Mangsang Auto Camping Resort 
The resort is located right by the Mangsang beach in Donghae City, Gangwon Province. Aside from having enough accommodation for dozens of tents, it has caravans, a camping site and other convenience facilities. For information, visit www.campingkorea.or.kr
 Jarasum Camping 
 Even professional campers recommend Jarasum Camping complex as a good destination. It is located on the 536,930 square meter Jara Island. It has mobile homes, caravans, a playing field and other public facilities.
 Songjiho Auto Camping Resort 
 Also located in Gangwon Province, this camping complex has about 100 tent lots for campers. Early reservation is a must as the sites become booked way in advance. The resort usually opens from April to November. For more information, visit http://camping.goseong.org
