Is having a television channel exclusively for dogs a good idea?
Pro-　
 Today, pets are not just animals that people own; they are valuable members of the family. As people take a keen interest in other family members’ well-being and happiness, making sure that their animal friends are healthy and happy everyday has become a crucial part of people’s lives. With that, I believe that making a TV channel exclusively for dogs is a brilliant idea.
 The idea of making a television channel for dogs came from owners’ considerate wish to let their pets enjoy their days with great joy and fun. While owners are out at work, dogs stay alone at home, bored, depressed and lonely. Watching dog TV when their owners are not home can replace owners’ caring and it will give them comfort; TV can be dogs’ best friend.
 In addition, the dog TV channel helps dogs to relax by sending dog-tailored music and images. This might help alter the behavior of dogs that are always acting out and troubling owners by barking loudly or being hostile to neighbors. The Dog TV programs can give pets psychological health and turn them into obedient and docile family members.
 Lastly, for houses where single women live, owning a dog and turning on the dog channel for their pets may help prevent burglars and thieves from entering the house. And the channels help dogs focus their attention on TV, rather than on the furniture, clothes or food at home; thus it may help keep the house tidy while owners are not around.　
 All in all, a dog channel can be a dog’s best friend, comforting them and giving them joy throughout the day. It may also help dogs develop better attitudes, keep the house clean and protect houses from intruders. This is why I believe that a TV channel for dogs is a clever idea.  
 Con-
 Recently, a channel exclusively for dogs was made. Costing $4.99 a month, DogTV is broadcast on DirecTV. The show is said to provide dog-friendly and scientifically developed programs for dogs at home alone. Thus DogTV is not a TV channel “about” dogs, but rather “for” dogs. People anticipate that the channel will become good company for dogs as other channels are for people. But it is unlikely to perform that function.
 First of all, it is because of the way dogs see. TVs don’t look like TVs but just a slideshow of flashing images to dogs, and this is because dogs see the world at a faster frame rate than humans do. Dogs have 70- 80Hz flicker fusion rate while humans have 50-60Hz flicker fusion rate. So when watching TV, dogs see the blinking black space between the scenes. In other words, TV images don’t look real to them.
 So DogTV increased the frame rate to 100Hz using new LCD technology. Now dogs can watch programs from TVs as a form of video. But another problem is that, according to Katherine Houpt, a professor of animal behavior at Cornell University, dogs mostly sleep when their owners are gone. They tend to wake up to drink water, go back to sleep again every 20 minutes or so. Another thing is that dogs aren’t that interested in what they see. “Dogs are not primarily visual ... and what interests them is typically smell first, sight second,” wrote Alexandra Horowitz, author of a best-selling book “Inside of a Dog.” She said that “smelling TV” would be better for dogs. 
 The idea of making a TV channel for dogs was nice. The program could give company to lonely dogs. But the creators missed out something vital. Dogs don’t get interested in TV like humans. Rather than paying $4.99 a month and trying to plant your dog in front of a TV when you’re gone, wouldn’t it be better to get something else to accompany them, such as another dog?
