Hayao Miyazaki, Japanese animation legend, set to retire
Hayao Miyazaki, arguably the most famous and influential animation director in Japan who gave birth to priceless animation pieces such as “My Neighbor Totoro” and “Princess Mononoke” will be retiring from filmmaking for good, Reuters reported on Sept. 1. 
 The 72-year-old animation director has produced 11 animated features in his celebrated career, which spans more than five decades. He first came to prominence in the 1970s with his TV animations. 
 At the Venice Film Festival on Sept. 1, Koji Hoshino, president of Studio Ghibli, Miyazaki’s production company, made the announcement that Miyazaki will be retiring after “The Wind Rises,” which was shown at the festival. 
“He decided that ‘Kaze Tachinu’ (‘The Wind Rises’) will be his last film,” Hoshino said. “He wants to say good-bye to all of you.”
 “The Wind Rises” tells the life of Jiro Horikoshi, the engineer who designed the fighter plane used in the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. The film provoked many controversies both domestically and internationally. Some conservative Japanese have criticized the film’s antiwar stance and foreign audiences have accused him of romanticizing the inventor of a plane used in World War II. “The Wind Rises,” has grossed more than $80 million at the Japanese box office in just six weeks. The movie is slated to be shown this month at the Toronto International Film Festival and the New York Film Festival. 
 Some of his most cherished works include, “Princess Mononoke,” “My Neighbor Totoro,” “Howl’s Moving Castle” and “Spirited Away.” With the last piece, he won an Oscar for best animated feature in 2003. In the film “Spirited Away” he talks about the story of Chihiro, a 10-year-old girl who is whisked away to a spirit world and in “My Neighbor Totoro” Miyazaki tells the story of two sisters who make friends with wood spirits in postwar rural Japan. 
 The director previously retired in 1997 but returned to make “Spirited Away.” He was awarded the Golden Lion for lifetime achievement at the Venice Film Festival in 2005. 
