A step beyond tech-savvy: The Kumaran brothers
Shravan and Sanjay Kumaran are just 13- and 12-years-old, respectively, but have achieved more than many adults could even dream of. As the youngest Mobile Application programmers in India, the Kumaran brothers are more than just your average, tech-savvy teenagers. 
Having developed seven applications on the iTunes App Store to date, the Kumaran brothers are also co-founders of the app-developing company, GoDimensions (www.godimensions.com). Featured in various newspapers and magazines around the world, the two brothers have already made a name for themselves as successful and innovative mobile app developers, in spite of their young age. 
In an email interview with The Junior Herald, the young and talented Kumaran brothers, who are scheduled to speak as special guests at the Herald Design Week 2013, talked about their current success as well as some of the challenges they had faced as young programmers. 
What prompted your interest in computers at a young age? Is there anything specific that you liked about computers?
 Shravan: We were always amazed with how much we could do with computers. Specifically, how so much information is available to us so easily.
 Sanjay: When we were younger, my dad had a computer. We were fascinated with it from the beginning and soon began playing games. There was no looking back from there - I fell in love with what computers could do.
 We started off with PowerPoint, which we learned quickly. Soon we began learning about programming, as it was nice to see ourselves building something and getting results. The jump to building Apps came soon after.
 Of all the applications you have developed, which one is your favorite?
 Shravan: Our latest application, “Car Racing HD,” is my favorite. We got 2,000 download on the first day and we currently have more than 100 people challenging themselves through Apple’s GameCenter.
 Sanjay: “SuperHero Jetpack EI5” is my favorite app because it is fun. In this free app, a Hero runs in three different worlds. Users can challenge themselves and against their friends through Apple’s GameCenter.
 Is there an app that holds a particular place in your heart?
 Shravan: “Catch Me Cop” because it is the first app we published in iTunes’ App Store. We also faced lot of challenges before we were finally able to get it out. We crossed one hurdle after other before we finally got it out. We were so happy when we were able to finally do it, so it will always remain close to our heart.
 Sanjay: As my brother Shravan said, “Catch Me Cop” is special to me not just because it is our first app, but because of what it took to get it published.
 Tell us what it’s like to be some of the youngest mobile application programmers in the world.
 Shravan: We feel really happy to be one of the youngest mobile application programmers in the world. There are so many experienced and great programmers out there, and to have our App feature among them is a great feeling.
 Sanjay: I really feel happy about it. When I see people use our apps I feel really happy.
 As co-founders of the company, GoDimensions, could you elaborate a little on some of the biggest challenges you face as the president and CEO?
 Shravan: One of the biggest challenges we still face is app marketing. We get steady downloads on our apps but I think we need to invest in some more App Marketing.
 Sanjay: We’d like to build apps with high quality user interface (UI). It takes lot of time to do it, and given the time we have it is a huge challenge.
 Clearly, you two have achieved more at such a young age than most adults. Where do you plan on going from here? Do you have any specific goals in mind?
 Shravan: I love to travel and eat different vegetarian cuisine from around the world. I would love to be able to continue doing this in the future. Also, I would like to help poor people and make some difference in their lives.
 Sanjay: I want to go all around world and meet people from different countries with different cultures. I also want to fly into space. I also wish to contribute to my country’s development.
 As someone who many students – and even adults – could look up to, do you have any words of encouragement to the readers of The Junior Herald?
 Shravan: Please follow your passions – it is the most important thing. Once you have something that you like, you would love to do it more and more.
 Sanjay: Follow your dreams and always try to do something different. It is also important to be creative when trying out new things.
 Kumaran brothers’ apps found on iTunes:
 Catch Me Cop 
“Catch Me Cop” is a free game App available on iTunes’ App Store, wherein a nationwide manhunt takes places after a prisoner, “the Con,” escapes his prison. The Con has to run through a Desert, Beach & Maze to escape the police. There are multiple levels in the game, based on varying speeds and number of cops. 
 Alphabet board 
The “Alphabet Board” is a Learning App available for Apple products. As a game app designed to help learn the alphabet, it is both educational and fun for kids. 
Prayer Planet 
This app is for praying God when on the move, these app has 4 different religious symbols, that of Hindu, Christian, Muslim & Buddhism. When selected it plays religious songs along with images associated with that religion.
 Colour Palette 
The “Colour Palette” app is another learning app for kids designed to teach about colors. Colors are shown on a palette and when selected, the color is spelled out and explained. Users can swipe through all the colors and learn about each of them. 
 Emergency Booth 
The “Emergency Booth” application is designed to help senior citizens as well as others in distress. It can be used to dial emergency numbers with a single button. It can also send text messages (SMS) to two pre-selected numbers. Supported in 14 different countries, the app is useful even when travelling. 
 Super Hero Jetpack EI5 
The “Super Hero Jetpack EI5” app is an action game application that provides endless fun. A superhero runs across different zones - Earth, Sky and Sea - to collect coins. Integrated with Apple’s GameCenter, users can keep track of their high scores and compare them with friends and fellow gamers. 
Car Racing HD 
They “Car Racing HD” app is another game app in which users race a car against oncoming traffic. The objective of the game is to collect coins as well as goodies while navigating through the traffic. 
