Android 4.4 Kit Kat: Google’s surprising partnership with Nestle
The tech world was abuzz recently when Google revealed that the next version of its Android operating system (OS) will be codenamed “Kit Kat,” after the Nestle chocolate bar of the same name, rather than the generic “Key Lime Pie” name that the company had previously indicated.
 Since 2009, Google had codenamed each Android OS release after a type of treat in alphabetical order. Previous versions have been called Cupcake (v. 1.5), Donut (v. 1.6), FroYo (v. 2.2), Gingerbread (v. 2.3), Honeycomb (v. 3.1~3.2), Ice Cream Sandwich (v. 4.0) and JellyBean (v. 4.1~4.3). 
Rather than sticking to generic names, Google has decided to go a different way and enter into a licensing deal with the Swiss-based food and beverage maker Nestle to use the trademarked brand name “Kit Kat” as its codename for the upcoming release of Android 4.4. 
The announcement, made by Google’s senior vice president Sundar Pichai via his personal Twitter account on Sept. 3, unleashed a firestorm of commentary discussing the pros and cons of abandoning its tradition of using generic names. Google’s decision to partner up with a decidedly non-technology related company was surprising to many, but the most surprising aspect of the partnership is that no money was exchanged in the licensing deal. 
“This is not a money-changing-hands kind of deal,” John Lagerling, director of Android global partnerships, told the BBC. Rather, the goal was to do something fun and unexpected.
 Many experts, however, expressed concern over the possible pitfalls of the Google-Nestle licensing partnership. 
“If your brand is hooked up with another, you inevitably become associated with that other brand, for good or ill,” said Simon Myers, a partner at Prophet. 
“If that brand or business has some reputational issues that emerge, it would be naive to think as a brand owner that your good name, your brand equity, would not be affected.” 
The announcement came in light of a milestone achievement by the tech giant. On May 15, Google’s Android operating system surpassed 1 billion activations. According to market research companies International Data Corporation (IDC) and Gartner, Android now controls almost 80 percent of the smartphone market and half of the tablet market. 
