Former NBA star Dennis Rodman makes friendly visit to Pyongyang
Former NBA Hall of Famer Dennis Rodman’s latest trip to Pyongyang on Sept. 3 brought speculation from media over whether the retired athlete might seek the release of an American prisoner in the reclusive nation. 
 His sudden visit came just days after North Korea refused a visit by the U.S. envoy for North Korean human rights, Robert King, in his apparent effort to seek a release of Kenneth Bae, who has been serving 15 year prison sentence in the North since earlier this year. North Korea has accused him of trying to establish an anti-Pyongyang base. 
 It was Rodman’s second trip to the Hermit Kingdom this year. Speaking to reporters at Beijing airport Rodman played down his trip simply as a “friendly gesture” to the communist leader, Kim Jong-un, according to AP news. “I just want to meet my friend Kim and start a basketball league over there,” he said. 
 However, when Rodman first met Kim in February this year to host basketball exhibitions, he suggested “basketball diplomacy” could warm relations between the North and the U.S. and even called Kim an “awesome guy.” He was believed to be the first American to personally meet the authoritarian leader.
 Rodman left North Korea on Sept. 7 without a detained U.S. citizen Kenneth Bae. Speaking to reporters at Beijing’s airport, he said he and Kim talked about his basketball team and the North Korean basketball team in the country. When asked about the fate of Bae, Rodman shouted, “You should ask it to Mr. Obama.” 
 The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un is reportedly a huge fan of basketball. It is said that Kim was obsessed with basketball while studying in International School of Berne in Switzerland. 
 Born May 13, 1961, the 52-year-old former basketball legend Dennis Rodman played for the Detroit Pistons, San Antonio Spurs, Chicago Bulls, Los Angeles Lakers, and Dallas Mavericks in NBA. He won five NBA championships and was nicknamed “The Worm” for his fierce defensive and rebounding abilities. His biography at NBA.com states that he is “arguably the best rebounding forward in NBA history.” 
