Occupy Wall Street protest gains momentum
What began with a handful of people in tents outside of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has grown to a nationwide movement against social and economic inequality. 
Occupy Wall Street began on Sept. 17 when a few dozen demonstrators tried to pitch tents in front of the NYSE for a peaceful sit-in in protest against corporate greed and inequality. In less than a month, it has grown to become a nationwide anti-corporation, anti-war movement with thousands upon thousands of people gathering in various cities in New York, the District of Columbia (D.C.), California, Oregon, Washington and more. It has even encouraged a similar movement in England. "Occupy London" held its first event on the weekend of Oct. 15. 
 Inspired by the recent “Arab Spring” uprisings, Occupy Wall Street was started by a handful of citizens who are sick of being unemployed or living paycheck to paycheck while Wall Street executives see record earnings and the government spends trillions of dollars funding unpopular and long-lasting wars abroad. 
 Though the protest initially drew criticism for its lack of concrete goals, it has begun to evolve as it gains momentum and draws international attention. Towards the end of September, labor unions began showing their support for the movement. 
 “I think initially the movement started as just an airing of grievances by people frustrated by the economy and by the lack of government responsiveness to inequality,” Dorian Warren, a political science professor at Columbia University was quoted as saying in an article by ABC News. “But now you see those frustrations starting to congeal into a more formal list of goals and demands, a more specific articulation.”
 On Oct. 4, protestors in New York City drafted a manifesto, listing the objectives and complaints of the Occupy Wall Street movement. According to ABC News, the manifesto criticizes such practices as “foreclosures, executive bonuses, workplace discrimination, politicians beholden to lobbyists, monopoly agriculture, and the sale of personal privacy data. It decries everything from colonialism to ‘faulty bookkeeping.’” 
 As of Oct. 7, New York City is the only city to have issued such a declaration. 
 Though the reason why protestors have gathered varies between cities -- and sometimes, even within the same group -- a running theme for the protests across the nation has been unemployment. 
 In fact, the official Occupy Wall Street website (www.occupywallst.org) describes itself as a “leaderless resistance movement with people of many colors, genders and political persuasions. The one thing we all have in common is that We Are The 99 percent that will no longer tolerate the greed and corruption of the [wealthy] 1 percent.” 　
 Celebrities have also begun to show their support for Occupy Wall Street, including actors Penn Badgley and Tim Robbins, Yoko Ono, and director Michael Moore.
