Should the two Koreas be reunified?
PRO - All elementary, middle and high school textbooks say that we should put effort into achieving unification between the two Koreas. 
In my opinion reunification is necessary. Many politicians, experts and adults say we must unify because of the loss of national defense expenditure, North Korea’s resources and so on. 
To be honest, at my age, I can’t really sympathize with those reasons. Therefore, I want to tell you why we have to unify based on my perspective.
 First, we must unify because of the separated families. When my dad went on a week-long business trip, I was so depressed because I wanted to see him. It has been 63 years since the Korean War started. 
If a brother and sister were separated when the war broke out and each was 20-years-old, 63 years have passed since they last met. So right now they would be 83-years-old. I heard that North and South will be holding a meeting between separated families next month. However, this will only happen for a handful of separated families. 
Secondly, most of our country’s young men are afraid of going to the Army. National defense duty is an obligation, of course, but if we unify, Korea’s military service would be voluntary, and then people will have a choice about whether or not to enlist in the army.
 Reunification is the biggest problem that our country faces today. I sincerely hope that the two Koreas can reunify for the reasons mentioned above.　
 CON - The topic of reunification has remained at the forefront of Korean politics for a very long time. Although most people will cite separated families as the main reason why North and South Korea should reunify, I would like to argue against reunification for the following reasons. 
First of all, the two countries are at very different levels of development. South Korea is far more developed - especially in terms of its economy - than the North. If the two were to reunify, South Korea’s economy would not be able to handle the sudden rush of highly impoverished North Koreans. 
One only has to look at what happened to Germany’s economy when the East and West reunited at the end of the Cold War. Although Germany’s economy has since recovered, it is important to remember that the difference between East and West Germany’s economies wasn’t as big as the gap between North and South Korea’s economies today. 
Second, from the perspective of the North Koreans, the reunification of the two countries may come as too much of a shock, driving a bigger wedge between the two peoples. Although Koreans from both the North and the South may have the same descendants, we are no longer the same people. We would not seek the reunification of two different countries, such as Canada and the United States of America, why would we seek the reunification of North and South Korea? 
There is now 63 years’ worth of cultural and societal differences between the people of North and South Korea. Although families have been separated and we share the same history and ethnicity, this does not mean that reunification is the answer. Opening up borders is one of the many other possibilities for peace. It is time to open our minds to other possibilities as reunification may bring more problems than solutions. 
