Preview of 18th Busan International Film Festival
One of the grandest movie festivities in Asia, the Busan International Film Festival (BIFF) is all set to begin on Oct. 3.
 The event that lasts until Oct. 12 has significant implications as it takes place when the number of domestic moviegoers to watch Korean films this year is expected to surpass 10 million mark in early October.
 For the event, 35 screens at seven theaters including Busan Cinema Center, Dongseo University Sohyang Musical Theater and Megabox Haeundae will be used.
 A total of 299 films from 70 countries will be shown, and such world-renowned movie professionals as Shahana Goswami (India), Amos Gitai (Israel), Watanabe Ken (Japan) and Jimmy Wong (Taiwan) will participate as special guests.
 The opening movie is “Vara: A Blessing” directed by Bhutanese producer Khyentse Norbu who wrote the screenplay based on a short story “Blood and Tears.” The third feature movie by Norbu revolves around traditional dance, telling through the story of two lovers, their self-sacrifice and a woman‘s will to survive adversity.
 The closing film is “The Dinner,” a work by Korean director Kim Dong-hyun who also produced “A Shark” (2005) and “Hello, Stranger” (2007). The movie touches upon an ailing daughter who is a single mom, the youngest son who makes a living as a chauffer service driver and the eldest son who tries to keep the family from falling apart.
 Among other Korean directors that draw special attention from domestic moviegoers are Park Joong-hoon and Ha Jung-woo, both of whom are new to movie directing scene.
 Park introduces his 107-minute long “Top Star,” in which Eum Tae-woong and Kim Min-jun play as main characters. The film talks about a success story an actor aspirant.
 Ha Jung-woo, who is more widely known as a star actor with movies including “Rules of the Time” (2011) and “The Berlin File” (2013), will make his directorial debut at the Busan film festival with “Fasten Your Seatbelt,” a comedy featuring actor Choung Kyoung-ho.
 For Junior Herald readers who are also movie buffs, here are some other foreign films that will be screened at the festival, as introduced by the BIFF’s official website.
 The Fifth Estate (United States, Directed by Bill Condon)
 WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and his colleague Daniel Domscheit-Berg team up to become underground watchdogs of the privileged and powerful. On a shoestring, they create a platform that allows whistleblowers to anonymously leak covert data. Soon, they are breaking more hard news than all of the world’s leading media organizations combined. 
Ida (Poland/Denmark, Directed by Pawel Pawlikowski)
 A beautiful work with stunning visual of each shot. Brought up by convent nuns and about to take her religious vows, Anna goes to see her only living relative Wanda. Wanda reveals that Anna is Jewish. Both women start a journey to uncover their family story and find out who they really are. 
Short Term 12 (United States, Directed by Destin Cretton)
 Grace is a supervisor at a foster-care facility for at-risk teenagers. When a teenager, Jayden arrives at the facility, Grace finds herself no longer able to ignore the difficulties of her own childhood. She must find her way through a crisis that both pushes her to the edge and allows her to discover unexpected glimmers of humor and hope. 
Intimate Parts (Russia, Directed by Alexey Chupov and Natasha Merkulova)
 The movie tells “behind the door” stories of Russian middle class people, the secrets they hide from others. These people know how to make love and money, but not how to be happy. They are opposed by Ivan, a photographer who preaches absolute freedom and portrays people in entirely and sincerely. 
End of Time (Germany, Directed by Sebastian Fritzsch)
 A young girl survives a comet that hit earth and wiped out most of humanity and all of civilization. Alone and abandoned she leaves the ruins of cities and enters nature. She grows to become a lone wolf who braves her fate and her raw surroundings -- in a pure fight for survival. 
Family Tour (Spain, Directed by Liliana Torres)
 After a year abroad, Lili joins her eccentric mother on a taxing month-long tour through her family’s history and the landscape of her childhood. Lili is forced to confront her own frustrations and the flaws she inherited while maintaining her sense of humor. 
My Sweet Pepper Land (France/Germany/Kurd, Directed by Hiner Saleem)
 In what could be called a Kurdish western set following the fall of Saddam Hussein, war hero and cop Baran and schoolteacher Govend are the unwelcome outsiders intent on cleaning up a lawless Turkish border town ruled by a corrupt tribal chief, Aga Aziz. 
