Twitter goes public … in secret
With a tweet, Twitter announced on Sept. 12 that it had filed for an initial public offering (IPO), setting the stage for the most high-profile stock market debut by a tech company since Facebook’s IPO in 2012.
 Twitter announced the filing on its own social media messaging service, saying: “We‘ve confidentially submitted an S-1 to the SEC for a planned IPO.”
 Since the announcement, the media world has been abuzz with rumors and speculation.
 While some have accused Twitter of undermining transparency with its decision to file a “confidential” IPO, while others have praised the decision to go public at a time when demand for IPOs has begun to heat up. 
 What is an IPO?
 An initial public offering (IPO) is a type of public offering wherein shares of a company’s stock are sold to the general public on an exchange for the first time. This process helps transform a private company into a public company. Just like any decision a company, or person, must make, however, the decision to have an IPO has both advantages and disadvantages.
 From the company’s perspective, an IPO is exciting because it means that the company has become successful enough to require more money to continue growing. By offering public shares in the company, the company itself can now tap into a wider pool of investors to provide itself with money for growth, repayment of debt or working capital. Not only does an IPO provide a company with cheaper access to money, but it also increases exposure, prestige and public image. An IPO also allows the company to attract better talent by offering its employees stock options instead of high wages. 
 On the other hand, the IPO process provides some disadvantages to a company as the process itself has significant legal, accounting and marketing costs. The IPO process also requires a certain degree of transparency, meaning that a company must disclose a significant amount of financial and business information that could end up being useful to competitors. Another disadvantage of an IPO is the possible loss of control over the company.
 The earliest record of a company issuing public shares dates back to Roman times.
