Miley Cyrus: From Disney princess to tabloid headliner
Miley Cyrus has recently dominated the headlines of various newspapers around the world, but not always for good reasons. Most recently, certain aspects of Cyrus’ public and personal life have made it increasingly difficult to view her as the Disney princess she once was. Not only does her physical appearance look starkly different from her “Hannah Montana” days, her behavior makes it hard to forget that little Miley has grown up.
 After becoming the star of the Disney Channel’s “Hannah Montana” at age 14, Cyrus gained unprecedented fame at a young age by playing Miley Stewart, a young girl leading a double life as an average teenager by day and a famous pop singer by night. 
The show premiered to the largest audience for a Disney Channel program and quickly became one of the highest-rated series on basic cable. The popularity of the show helped propel Cyrus to teen idol status as well as making her the first artist to have deals in television, film, consumer products and music with The Walt Disney Company. 
Cyrus’ role as Hannah Montana/Miley Stewart in “Hannah Montana” helped her launch not just an acting career, but a music career as well. Though credited as “Hannah Montana,” Cyrus herself sang several tracks featured on the show, including the show’s theme song. 
For Miley Cyrus, 2008 was a year of transition. It was during this year that she began trying to transition into a more adult image at the age of 16. As she became increasingly in the public’s eye, Cyrus began to act out, leading many to criticize her inappropriate behavior, given her position as children’s role model as a star of the kid-friendly Disney Channel.
 Beginning with the release of her 2009 album, “The Time of Our Lives,” however, Cyrus’ performances and behavior became even more explicit and controversial in nature. It was at this time that the tide began to change, with news outlets becoming increasingly critical of Cyrus. Cyrus soon began trying to show the world that she was no longer the little Disney princess that they were accustomed to. In 2012, Cyrus generated considerable media attention after cutting her traditionally long, brown hair into a pixie-style cut and dyeing in blonde. Cyrus also began to dress less conservatively, opting to show more skin, as well as performing increasingly provocatively and controversially both on stage and in her music videos. 
In fact, her most recent outrageous antics are rumored to have been the cause of her recent break-up with now ex-fiance Liam Hemsworth, who she met on the set of the 2010 film, “The Last Song.” 
