Escape the city noise without ever leaving - Bukhansan Dullegil
This is part of The Korea Herald‘s selection of the 10 best places for walking and hiking in Korea. - Ed.
 The hustle and bustle of city life in Seoul just comes with the territory. However, for those looking for a break from the chaos and noise, Seoul has no shortage of scenic mountains that are perfect for a brisk walk. 
 The Dullegil Trail of Mount Bukhansan, Seoul’s highest mountain peak, is a 70-km trail that winds through downtown Seoul and into the surrounding Gyeonggi Province areas. Opened in late 2010, the Dullegil Trail is made up of 21 connecting sections, including nine sections alongside Mount Dobongsan. 
 Each one of these 21 sections offers hikers a different experience, from basking in the wonders of the mountain’s natural beauty and plush green forests to taking a walk through time, via a number of historic Buddhist temples and the national park’s iconic fortress wall.
 Each section has a separate entrance and exit, allowing walkers to choose on which path they wish to begin their adventure. For hikers looking to immerse themselves in some of the trail’s most cultural, historical and scenic sections, the connecting trails of Pyeongchangmaeul-gil (section six), Yetseong-gil (section seven) and Gureumjeongwon-gil (section eight) make for a perfect half-day course. 
 The Pyeongchangmaeul-gil section is approximately 5 km and runs through the affluent neighborhood of Pyeongchang-dong at the foot of Mount Bukhansan. The trek can be seen as taking a stroll through the Beverly Hills of Seoul and getting a glimpse of the lifestyles of the rich and famous. Unlike most of the Dullegil Trail, this course is mostly paved and offers trekkers the opportunity to gaze at some of the area’s luxurious and artistic architecture as well as giving people of a taste of history as the trail also cuts through the Hyewonsa, Cheongnyeonsa, Bogaksa and Jeonsimsa Buddhist temples. 
 Following the Pyeongchangmaeul-gil path is the Yetseong-gil section, which stretches across approximately 2.7 km and is the only portion of the Dullegil Trail that allows hikers to pass through the Tangchun Daeseong stone fortress gate, part of the Mount Bukhansan fortress wall. This particular section of the Dullegil Trail provides breathtaking panoramic views of the city from above as well as rest stops for hikers to take in the sights of surrounding mountain peaks. Before entering the next trail in the course, the end of the section ventures down to street level and takes in a quaint public rose garden. 
 Section eight of the Dullegil Trail is referred to as the Gureumjeongwon-gil path, famous for its “sky bridge,” which allows hikers to walk above portions of the mountain’s dense wooded areas. The Gureumjeongwon-gil section is around 4.9 km and its vast forest landscape is both serene and calming, an ideal hiking environment for those looking to take in the beauty and sounds of nature and the trail’s particularly fragrant pine scent. 
 Walking at a moderate pace, these three sections combined take approximately six hours to complete. Each of the three trails is similar in terms of their level of difficulty, which is moderate. For the most part, this course can be taken as a pleasant stroll with a few minor exceptions that make some the sections feel more like a climb. However, these trails welcome hikers of all skills and age levels and allow options for those who wish to take a detour to experience other attractions that Mount Bukhansan has to offer, whether it be for a couple of hours or an entire day. 
 Attracting 5 million visitors a year, the Dullegil Trail is a perfect example of when city meets nature. The entire course has signs posted in both English and Korean at every turn, so getting lost should not be a concern. Although the paths often come within the city limits, there are only a few stops where you can purchase water or other refreshments, so bringing along water and snacks is advised. 
