Should history be a mandatory subject on the College Scholastic Ability Test?
Pro
 The Ministry of Education agreed on the final decision to include Korean history on the College Scholastic Ability Test (CSAT) on Aug. 1. This decision, along with frequent changes in the entrance exam system, has created an environment rich in controversy and pressure for current high school seniors and test takers. Despite the complexity of the situation, I remain positive about history becoming a mandatory subject on the CSAT.
 The most important reason to make students study our glorious history is to prevent the distortion of history by other countries such as China and Japan by making sure that they have accurate understanding of history. Most Korean students answering one survey thought that the Korean War was started by an invasion of North Korea. This fact makes us realize the importance of providing accurate education on history.
 Another important reason for making history a mandatory subject on the CSAT is that it allows students to learn important lessons from the past that could be helpful when entering society and becoming successful. By looking back on other people’s lives, we can create a successful future for ourselves.
 In short, making history a mandatory subject on the College Scholastic Ability Test is helpful for students in many ways. Therefore, I think that the decision by President Park Geun-hye to do so is a desirable one for everyone.  
 Con
 The decision to formally include Korean history on the list of subjects that college-bound students must study to pass the College Scholastic Ability Test (CSAT) was recently announced by the Ministry of Education. The decision was made in light of the shocking results of a recent survey which found that the majority of Koreans have a poor understanding of Korean history. Despite the seriousness of Korean students’ poor grasp of their nation’s history, I believe that making Korean history a mandatory subject on the CSAT is a bad idea.
 Although many Korean students do not have a good understanding of Korean history, I believe that including the subject on CSAT to force students to memorize historical facts is not the answer. In Korea’s current educational environment, memorizing facts is the norm. This method of studying will not help improve students’ understanding of history. Instead, it will merely show how well students can regurgitate facts that they have memorized. 
Another reason why history should not be a mandatory subject on the CSAT is that it could potentially worsen Korean students’ health and stress levels. Korean students are famous for being overly-stressed about grades due to society’s emphasis on academic achievement. Adding an extra subject to the CSAT will make an already-stressed out and suicide-prone generation of students feel even more pressure, potentially resulting in worsened mental and emotional stability. 
In conclusion, although President Park Geun-hye and the Ministry of Education may have very good reasons for making Korean history a mandatory subject, I don’t think it is necessarily a good idea. Not only will forcing students to memorize historical facts fail to help their understanding of what happened in the past, it will also potentially harm students’ health. 
