KBO demand for new stadium location gains momentum
The NC Dinos have officially joined the nation’s top baseball league in demanding their home city change the location for the team’s new stadium, based on issues of accessibility.　
 In a statement released on Sept. 25, NC Dinos stated that they will formally ask Changwon, South Gyeongsang Province, to pick a different location for the team’s new ballpark. The announcement comes a day after the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) made the same demand.
 The Dinos had joined the KBO as the league’s ninth and newest team earlier in the year. Currently playing at the renovated Masan Stadium, the agreement between NC Dinos and the KBO stipulated that Changwon must complete a new stadium that seats at least 25,000 people by 2016.
 Earlier in the year, Changwon City had announced that the new stadium for NC Dinos would be built on land previously occupied by the Army College. There had been three locations under consideration and critics argue that the city went with the location that was least accessible for the city’s 1.1 million citizens. 
Citing findings from feasibility studies it conducted on the stadium sites, the KBO came forward on Sept. 24 demanding that the city reconsider its location for the Dinos’ new home based on claims that the current choice is highly flawed on many levels. Changwon, for its part, rejected the KBO’s request, stating that a lot of money had already gone into the construction and it was not feasible to change the plan.
 “We had hopes that the new baseball stadium Changwon promised would be the field of dreams for our ball club and fans,” read the statement by NC Dinos, which had tried to stay out of the feud between the KBO and Changwon City. “But we were disappointed with the KBO‘s findings that the location for the stadium was chosen after inadequate research.”
 The Dinos also noted that Park Wan-soo, the mayor of Changwon, failed to keep his promise that the top priority for the new ballpark would be accessibility to local residents.
 “We can’t stake the future of our team, fans and professional baseball in the country on such a poor decision,” the Dinos said. “The location for the new stadium must take into account the opinions of our regional fans as well as the entire professional baseball league.”
