Love Hangeul, love Korea
Hangeul Day is a Korean commemorative day marking the invention and the proclamation of the native alphabet of the Korean language by King Sejong the Great. It is observed annually on Oct. 9. 
 According to the Sejong Sillok, the historic documents during the period of King Sejong‘s reign, King Sejong proclaimed the creation of Hunminjeongeum in the ninth month of the lunar calendar in 1446. In 1926, the Hangeul Society celebrated the 480th anniversary of the declaration of Hangeul on the last day of the ninth month of the lunar calendar, which fell on Nov. 4 of the Gregorian calendar. Members of the Society observed the day as “Gagya Day” -– Gagya referring to an early colloquial name for Hangeul. The name was changed to “Hangeul Day” in 1928. 
 The discovery of an original copy of the Hunminjeongeum Haerye, a volume of commentary to the Hunminjeongeum in 1940, revealed that the Hunminjeongeum was announced during the first ten days of the ninth month. The 10th day of the ninth month of 1446 of the lunar calendar was equivalent to Oct. 9 of the Julian calendar. Later, when the Korean government was established in 1945, Hangeul Day was declared a legal holiday on Oct. 9. This is how Hangeul Day officially came to be marked on Oct. 9. 
 Unfortunately, Hangeul’s legal status as a holiday was lost in 1991 because of the pressure from major employers to decrease the number of holidays. Yet the Hangeul Society has strived to restore its status and finally in Nov. 1, 2012 the National Assembly voted 189 to 4 to the restoration of Hangeul Day.
 And starting this year Hangeul Day has been reinstated as a national holiday, so this year’s commemoration is even more significant.
 A handful of unique activities to promote the holiday have already been created.
 To commemorate the 567th anniversary of the proclamation of Hunminjeongeum as well as its reinstatement into a national holiday, the nation’s biggest airport, Incheon International Airport held a permanent exhibition titled “Hangeul Paints the World” on the fourth floor of the Passenger Terminal on Sept. 25, promoting the greatness of the Korean Alphabet to the world. 
 Hunminjeongeum Haerye, Hangeul-inspired clothes by local designer Lie Sang-bong, and traditional Korean paper, Hanji, designed by Rosy Park will be displayed in the exhibit.
 It consists of five differently themed pavilions: “Experience the Beauty of Hangeul,” “Feel the Flavor of Hangeul,” “Know the Story of Hangeul,” “Understand the Wonder of Hangeul” and “Shine the Excellence of Hangeul.” The five separate zones will teach visitors about Hangeul, and foreigners and kids will be able to enjoy trying out calligraphy classes using a brush and ink. The exhibit will run through September, 2014. 
 Additionally, to cherish Hangeul, the government has suggested various methods to promote its native language.
 The government vowed to get rid of as many foreign words from Korean as possible starting this year. At the state level, government officials will strive to limit the use of foreign words in public documents and replace them with easier Korean words. The government points out that it is the “citizen’s right to use simple language.” 　
 Some Foreign words adopted in the use of Korean language are not only difficult to understand, they also disturb efficient policy implementation processes by creating misunderstandings. According to Hyundai Research Institute’s 2010 survey, 57 percent of Koreans were against using English in administrative documents. Equivocal expressions are believed to have caused economic losses in the administration worth 285 million won every year. 
 It also disrupted social health. Misused words, abbreviated words, transformed words and words derived from foreign languages all created a lack of communication among old and young in society, elevating social conflict. 
 “The government will pursue comprehensive efforts for the adoption of easier public language in order to build strong bonds between the government and its people. We will revise basic law of Hangeul, implement an easy public language certification system and the National Institute of Korean Language will offer counseling services as well,” Rha Jong-min, art director at the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism noted. 
 The Korean government is also eager for Hangeul’s globalization. Kim Jae-kyung, Saenuri Party lawmaker, pointed out that the country should help build a creative economy via globalization of Hangeul. The Hangeul Institute of KAIST (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology) co-hosted the event held at the National Assembly. 
 This year’s meeting was the second of its kind since the first conference in 2008. Kim insisted that Korea should take advantage of its cutting edge information technology industry to create a creative economy. He said if Hangeul’s globalization were realized, Korea would grow into a global culture powerhouse. 
 Hangeul Day is also slated to bring in celebration in the United States. In Manhattan, New York, Hangeul writing and speaking contests will be held on Oct. 11 to celebrate Hangeul Day. Sponsored by Korean Cultural Service New York, the contest consists of two categories: adult competition and high school student competition. In the former group, non-Korean residents of New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania over 18 years old are eligible to participate and in the latter category, students who learn Korean at schools can apply. 
 The grand prize winner in the high school category will earn a chance to study Korean at Korea’s Kyung Hee University for three weeks. The winning pieces will be made into electronic books and posted on the organization’s website.
 “With the popularity of K-pop and Korean drama expanding, the demand for Korean learning has exploded among students and citizens in the global village. This will give them valuable opportunity to evaluate their Korean skills and understand the culture of Korea,” Lee woo-sung the president of Korean Cultural Service New York claimed.
 Hangeul is the epitome of the Korean culture and the Korean people. And celebrating Hangeul Day is a natural thing for all Koreans. However, for too long we have taken the special day for granted. As we regained the chance to officially and appropriately cherish its value, we should make our utmost efforts to give genuine care and attention to Hangeul.
 To learn more about Hangeul, visit the national institute of Korean language, at www.korean.go.kr or go to an exhibit about Sejong the Great King at the Sejong Center in Gwanghwamun where the history of Hangeul is meticulously presented.
