China’s growing demand for diamonds
In recent years, China’s jewelry industry has seen a massive shift in popularity from gold-based jewelry to that of diamonds.
 According to data from the market research firm Euromonitor, China’s diamond market has more than tripled to $22.8 billion over the last five years. At the center of this trend are China’s 13 million brides each year.
 Gold is indeed still hugely popular in China, both as jewelry and as an investment, but diamonds have steadily gained momentum in China’s overall jewelry market. According to Euromonitor, diamonds now account for just under one-third of China’s jewelry market, up from the one-quarter just five years ago. 
“From 2006 until now we’ve seen a threefold increase, close to 200 percent, of Asian buyers purchasing jewelry worldwide. What they’ve really focused on, of course, is diamonds,” Patti Wong, chairman of global auction house Sotheby’s Asia, told Reuters. 
Even De Beers, the largest diamond producer in the world, clearly sees China as driving growth in the diamond industry over the next four years. It currently has five diamond-focused outlets in China with plans to open more by the end of the year.
 The reason behind this shift from gold to diamond-based jewelry is explained by newly engaged Lily Cai.
 “Western films have a kind of ‘bridge’ effect, so when Chandler buys a diamond ring for Monica in ‘Friends,’ it really left a deep impression,” the 30-year-old civil servant told Reuters, referring to the hit U.S. television series. “A diamond ring is a symbol of love, and the larger the diamond the deeper the love.” 
“Mainland Chinese are becoming more westernized, so they tend to select diamond rings for their engagement proposal and wedding,” said Kent Wong, managing director at Chow Tai Fook, China’s biggest jewelry retailer, which recently struck a deal with Russian miner AK Alrosa OAO to ensure its diamond supply. 
The growing demand for diamonds in China has propelled the nation to becoming the second-largest diamond jewelry market after the U.S. According to Bain & Co., a global management consulting firm, China, along with India, is projected to be the main driver of growth for the $72 billion global diamond market over the next few years. 
