Stephen Hawking ? His early years…
Renowned theoretical physicist and author Stephen Hawking was introduced in the previous issue of The Junior Herald (Issue No. 485, Words of the week) when he spoke to the press at the premiere of “Hawking,” a documentary film about his life. Hawking is considered one of the most remarkable figures of our time, not only for his intellectual genius but also as an inspiration to those with disabilities. 
Born Oxford, England on Jan. 8, 1942, Hawking began his studies at the Byron House of School, later attending St. Albans School. Growing up in a family that placed high value on education, Hawking was known as “Einstein” during his days as a student, despite not being successful academically at first. 
At a young age, Hawking developed a considerable aptitude for scientific subjects, after inspired by his mathematics teacher at St. Albans School. Hawking was later awarded a scholarship to Oxford University in 1959 at the age of 17, where he studied physics and chemistry. 
During his first 18 months at university, Hawking had difficulty adjusting to college life. Being younger than most students, Hawking was bored and lonely, and says he found the academic work “ridiculously easy.” Although Hawking began making more of an effort to “be one of the boys” during his second and third year, Hawking became increasingly concerned that he was being viewed as a lazy and difficult student. Fortunately, he was held in higher regard than he believed. After receiving a first-class honors B.A. from Oxford, Hawking went on to do conduct his graduate studies at Trinity Hall, Cambridge, in 1962.
 It was during his time at Cambridge University that Hawking began struggling more and more with his health. As he began experiencing increased clumsiness and slurred speech between his final year at Oxford and his time at Cambridge, his concerned family began taking him to the hospital for medical diagnosis. 
At the age of 21, Hawking was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also referred to as motor neurone disease or Lou Gehrig’s disease. At the time, doctors gave him a life expectancy of two years, a diagnosis that would have plunged Hawking into depression had it not been for his relationship with Jane Wilde, with whom he became engaged in October 1964. 
Despite what his doctors predicted, Hawking went on to live past the age of 23 and still continues to live a long and fulfilling life, in which his triumph over disability remains an inspiration to many.
