Does the three-part SBS reality show, ‘Song For You,’ glamorize the behavior of troubled students?
Yes　
The three-part SBS reality show “Song For You” has consistently made headlines since it first aired on Sept. 21. One of the main reasons that it was being talked about on the news was because of accusations that the show glamorized the behavior of troubled students. Personally, I agree that the show glamorized the students’ poor behavior rather than sticking to reality.
 First of all, the mere act of putting these troubled students on TV helps to glamorize their bad behavior. Consider some of the other, less-troubled students in Korea who were not part of the show. What would they think after watching students who are less well-behaved than them, hanging out with celebrities and getting an once-in-a-lifetime chance to travel abroad and compete in an international choir competition for free? In particular, well-behaved but poor students who dream of being singers could have watched the show and learned that behaving badly could make them more famous than behaving properly.
 Additionally, although the show may have been on air until late September, filming for the show ended around Sept. 12, when the choir competition in Poland took place. This is important to note because some of the controversy from the show comes from the social media posts made by some of the students between when the competition ended and the show began to air. This means that rather than learning from their behavior, some of the students reveled in the media spotlight the show put them under and continued to behave as poorly as before. 
Although the show’s premise may have been to give the troubled students of Korea a chance to succeed and learn from their mistakes, I don’t think the show did what it hoped to accomplish. Rather than helping the students understand why their behavior and actions were inappropriate, the show merely glamorized their bad behavior and taught them that being bad pays off in the end. 
 No 
A show about students from two high schools participating in a choir competition, called “Song For You,” was broadcast as a special on SBS. The two high schools mostly had troubled students, but the show wanted to prove that these students could achieve something. However, many arguments about the behavior of the students were floating among the netizens and I strongly believe that the show did not glamorize the behavior of troubled students, but rather showed how their behavior changed over time. 
When the show first aired, the behavior of these troubled students was very poor. They had no manners. However, at the end of the show, the students were very much changed and they showed how they managed to improve themselves. As they were preparing for the competition, they were given a huge responsibility and they carried it out well. 
Also, for those netizens who are judging those students, the students lacked good attitudes, but they showed that they could improve and eventually, they changed. Now, they have pledged to themselves and to the public that they would change and live a new life. But, if netizens keep judging them, they will give up and return to their old life in which they created a lot of trouble. Is that what netizens really want? 
The show gave the students a chance to change and perhaps it was the first time that they were given such a huge opportunity and responsibility. I believe that this program provided an opportunity for every student to think about their past mistakes. The program also showed that everyone can have a second chance, and therefore I believe that the show did not glamorize the behaviors of troubled students.
