New CEO of KORAIL faces tough task
Former president of the Korea National Railroad College, Choi Yeon-hye, was named the new CEO of Korea Railroad Corp. (KORAIL) in an inauguration ceremony on Oct. 2, becoming the first female CEO of the nation’s state-run railway operator.
 A well-known expert on railways in Korea, Choi was involved in the long-discussed project to connect the Trans-Siberian Railway with the Trans-Korean Railway. Despite her extensive knowledge and experience with railway management, however, some industry watchers expressed concern over whether she would be able to tackle the imminent issues faced by KORAIL, including mounting debt and eroding public trust.
 “As of the end of last year, KORAIL’s debt reached 14 trillion won ($13 billion) with a debt ratio of 244 percent,” said Choi in her inauguration address. “We are in crisis. The defaulted Yongsan International Business District Project, along with increasing losses, threatens the financial soundness of the company.”
 In addition, “anxiety resulting from the company’s structural reorganization of the past 15 years has reached a boiling point and staff morale has hit the floor,” Choi said. 
More than just facing a financial crisis, however, KORAIL has suffered a series of accidents recently that has affected its reputation as Asia’s leading railroad operator. 
In 2011 alone, there were 130 incidents involving the high-speed KTX trains alone, according to the Board of Audit and Inspection. Most recently in late August, a KTX bullet train was involved in a three-way train collision in Daegu that resulted in more than 120 injured passengers. 
“Safety is the best customer service as well as our core value that is irreplaceable,” said Choi in her address to executives and employees. “I urge you to spare no efforts in implementing an advanced safety system as well as a safety-first office culture.” 
Despite the many problems plaguing the nation’s state-run railway operator, as the new CEO, Choi remains hopeful about the future of KORAIL, promising to restore public faith and reduce the company’s debt.
