Controversies cast dark clouds over upcoming FIFA World Cups
Upcoming FIFA World Cup tournaments have been in the spotlight recently, but not for the reason most football fans would want. Rather than being excited that the games are afoot, controversial working conditions for those building facilities in Brazil and the various 2022 Qatar stadiums have left a dark cloud over the eagerly-anticipated games.
 2014 Brazil World Cup
 The upcoming Brazil World Cup had faced numerous challenges from early on with violent protests erupting ahead of the Confederations Cup, this year’s warm-up tournament for the 2014 World Cup games. 
In addition to local protests, the stadium currently being built in the Amazon has faced a series of delays and backlash as reports of dire working conditions have begun to surface. Having already been the focus of criticism over choosing to build a stadium within one of the most endangered places in the world, the upcoming 2014 Brazil World Cup games has once again found itself in the limelight for less-than-stellar reasons. 
According to BBC News, an investigation into the expansion of Sao Paulo International Airport found that workers are facing “slave-like” conditions. According to the labor attorney general office, some workers had to pay more than $220 to secure a job with the construction crew despite which many were not immediately employed but had to stay in one of 11 makeshift camps near the airport. The labor attorney general’s office went so far as to say that it found the workers living in “conditions analogue to slaves.” As a result of these findings, similar investigations are being conducted at other World Cup-related building sites, attorney Cristiane Nogueira from the labor attorney general’s office in Sao Paulo, told the Brazilian newspaper Folha de S Paulo recently. 
Additionally, construction at the controversial Arena da Amazonia has faced a series of setbacks that has pushed the opening date to December rather than in July as originally scheduled. According to online sports media outlet BleacherReport.com, there is now a “mad scramble to finish the project before November, when the rainy season will flood the area and virtually halt all construction.”
 2022 Qatar World Cup
 As the host of the 2022 FIFA World Cup games, Qatar also finds itself under severe scrutiny as reports of human rights abuses have begun to surface. 
The Guardian recently reported that Nepalese workers in Qatar are facing “exploitation and abuses that amount to modern-day slavery.” The findings have reportedly left tournament organizers “appalled,” and even prompted FIFA to put out a statement in response to the allegations.
 “The health, safety, well-being and dignity of every worker that contributes to staging the 2022 FIFA World Cup is of the utmost importance to our committee and we are committed to ensuring that the event serves as a catalyst toward creating sustainable improvements to the lives of all workers in Qatar,” read the statement. 
According to the investigation by The Guardian, at least 44 workers have died between June 4 and Aug. 8 due to heart-related issues or workplace accidents, with some Nepalese men claiming that they have not been paid for months and their salaries and passports have been retained to stop them from running away. The report also found that on some occasions, access to free drinking water on construction sites had been denied despite the desert heat. 
Though Qatari officials have denied that working conditions are as bad as reported in The Guardian, the allegations are being investigated by a “deeply concerned” Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee, the body tasked with organizing the World Cup. 
Critics of the 2022 Qatar World Cup have also pointed to the fact that the country does not have the infrastructure necessary to host the games. According to ESPN Soccernet, Qatar will have to spend as much as $220 billion to build the necessary infrastructure -- including whole cities -- to host the World Cup. In fact, the city that is set to host the final, Lusail City, doesn’t exist yet. By comparison, South Africa had spent a total of $3.5 billion to host the 2010 World Cup, less than 1/60th of Qatar’s projected cost.
 Stadiums’ post-tournament use
 One of the biggest concerns of building new, world-class stadiums for the World Cup is what to do with it afterward. Though many countries opt to turn the stadiums into entertainment venues for concerts and other sports tournaments, the eye-watering operational costs of these stadiums have caused a backlash.
 South Africa, for example, is still struggling to figure out what to do with the Cape Town Stadium (also known as Green Point Stadium) that was built for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Though the stadium is now home to a small South African Premier League team and has hosted a handful of concerts, the nation’s biggest union is now calling for it to be taken down and converted into affordable housing. Despite construction having cost the nation $600 million and yearly operational costs hovering at over $7 million a year, the stadium earns just $1.5 million a year in revenue from hosting local sports events. As a result, the stadium has been a source of concern for many since the 2010 World Cup games. 
Similar fears have already begun to strike a number of Brazilian World Cup stadiums. Of particular concern is the Arena da Amazonia located in Manaus, a city in the Amazon rainforest. Still under construction and already facing controversy, the stadium has already cost $240 million so far. Even more disconcerting is the fact that the stadium will be used for just four group-stage matches and not at all in the knockout rounds of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, which means that each game will have cost the country upward of $60 million. 
In an effort to address the issue head-on, local judge and current president of the Amazonas prison system’s monitoring group Sabino Marques had come up with an innovative and unique plan to use the stadium as a prison after the World Cup games. Local officials, however, have rebuffed his outside-the-box thinking as “ridiculous,” accurately pointing out that the structure of a prison is quite different from that of a stadium. 
