Finland: Trailblazers in gender equality
The World Bank recently released a report on gender equality around the world that found Finland to be the most progressive in terms of women’s political and economic participation. 
Released on Sept. 27, the 2012 World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development found that women’s participation in politics was especially low around the world. 
“The number of women holding parliamentary seats is very low, and progress in the last 15 years has been slow,” the report noted, adding that female representation in national parliaments increased from 10 percent in 1995 to just 17 percent in 2009. 
By comparison, the number of female cabinet members in Finland accounted for 42.5 percent in 2011, up from 38.5 percent in 1991. 
As one of just nine countries whose total female cabinet members stood at more than 40 percent in 2008, Finland has long made great strides in ensuring gender equality in all areas of life. In 1906, Finnish women became the first in the world to have unrestricted rights to vote and run for parliament, blazing the trail for gender equality in the political sphere. 
Though women in New Zealand and Australia may have won the right to vote before their Finnish counterparts, women in Finland were the first in the world to be able to stand as candidates at parliamentary elections. In 1907, the first female members of parliament in world history were elected in Finland, and Finnish women have since played a central role in the nation’s politics. 
Gender equality in terms of economic participation is also considered a crucial part to the Finnish welfare state model. Since 1987, Finland’s Act on Equality between Women and Men has sought to achieve full equality for all genders. Rather than merely offering protection for women, the legislation sought to not only place women in occupations dominated by men, but to also bring men into fields traditionally believed to belong to women, such as child care and elementary school education. 
