Revisiting the mystique of Silla
This is part of The Korea Herald’s selection of the 10 best places for walking and hiking in Korea. - Ed.
 Home to some of the most exquisite ancient relics in the country, Gyeongju, North Gyeongsang Province, has long been the top destination for school trips in Korea.
 Gyeongju, like many other tourist attractions, is the kind of city that requires going at one’s own pace and time. It is one of the best cities in Korea for walking tours ― “a museum without walls, under the open sky” ― showing off its ancient tombs, scenic Buddhist temples, and stone pagodas one after the other. 
Gyeongju’s downtown area is filled with the city’s most iconic sites and relics, including Daereungwon and Cheomseongdae, which are only about 15 minutes from each other. 
Daereungwon, a park that houses 23 large tombs of Silla kings and noblemen ― the most famous being Cheonmachong ― is a great place to walk among the tombs, which look like small hills. 
Cheonmachong is believed to date from the fifth century, built for an unknown king of the Silla Kingdom. 
Near the Cheonmachong site is a residential area consisting of hanok, or traditional Korean houses, boasting a serene, peaceful atmosphere. 
Daereungwon to Cheomseongdae is an easy walk, surrounded by other large tombs outside the Daereungwon Complex as well as tasteful hanok buildings, all blended harmoniously into Gyeongju’s unique landscape. The curves of the tombs complement the gentle mountain ridges spreading out like a folding screen in the background.
 Once you’ve arrived at Cheomseongdae, the oldest surviving astronomical observatory in East Asia, head to Gyochon Traditional Village, one of Gyeongju’s oldest villages. From Cheomseongdae, the walk takes about 15 to 20 minutes on a road surrounded by trees and plants, including calabashes. 
Gyochon is a village of old hanok houses, some of which are important tangible cultural properties designated by the country. It is a small, slow and quiet village, and one can spot its residents, mostly elderly, riding bikes and chatting with each other in their gardens. 
Yet there are a number of modern touches, too. Cafes in the village serve patbingsu and Americanos in stylish, modernized hanok buildings reminiscent of those in Samcheong-dong, Seoul.
 The walking course in general is also enjoyable with a bike, especially in Gyochon Village. 
