Is traditional, herbal medicine more trustworthy than modern medicine?
Yes - In my opinion, I think that traditional, herbal medicine is more trustworthy than modern medicine.
 This is because traditional, herbal medicine enhances people’s overall health by balancing their yin and yang, invigorating their bodies, and boosting their energy with its medicine whereas modern medicine just cures a specific disease a patient is suffering from at the moment. Both medicines may help treat one’s diseases eventually but in the long run, traditional, herbal medicine will be a better choice for people as it will improve their overall health.
 In addition, traditional, herbal medicine consists of more natural ingredients than modern medicine. Since traditional, herbal medicine is made of medicated foods and herbs it is less likely to create allergic reactions and any sort of adverse reactions from different people compared to modern medicine. Modern medicine is a chemically made drug which is more artificial to people’s bodies. In that vein, I think traditional, herbal medicine is a more natural way of curing people’s diseases than modern medicine.
 In summary, I think that traditional, herbal medicine is more trustworthy than modern medicine; because, first, the former helps people’s overall health in the long run and it uses ingredients that are more natural to people’s bodies.
 No - Most people go to big hospitals when they catch a cold or for more serious diseases. Not only that, we can find modern medicine easily at the school nurse’s room or at home. But traditional medicine hospitals such as herb clinics are still around us. 　
 When people have neck, head or knee problems, they visit traditional herbal doctors. People love those places because they ease people’s tired bodies. But I trust modern medicine more than traditional, herbal medicine and here are some reasons.
 Firstly, I think modern medicine has higher professionalism than traditional, herbal medicine. Professionally educated doctors and nurses use diagnostic methods for every disease. Also advanced medical devices used in treatments can give you a more specific treatment.
 Secondly, modern medicine is a developed form of traditional medicine. Medical practices developed in the past were combined with modern techniques and this gave birth to modern medicines of today. Therefore it has supplemented tradition, herbal medicine’s weaknesses.
 Because of these reasons I trust in modern medicine more than traditional, herbal medicine. 
