N. Korean luxury ski resort opening delayed
The opening date of a multi-million dollar luxury ski resort in North Korea has been pushed back to January 2014 after a series of setbacks delayed efforts to meet the initial Oct. 10 construction deadline, according to Chinese state media.
 Located in North Korea’s east coast, construction on the Masik Pass resort began earlier this year. Believed to be the pet project of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, who reportedly skied during his time as a student in Switzerland, the project raised eyebrows as many questioned the practicality of Kim’s latest megaproject.
 According to South Korea’s spy agency, the North Korean regime has “wasted” $300 million to build leisure and sports facilities in the past year, including the Masik Pass resort, despite chronic food shortages.
 In addition to questions about the North Korean government’s misappropriation of funds, only an estimated 5,500 North Koreans out of the regime’s estimated population of 24 million know how to ski, prompting many to question the reason for building the multi-million dollar resort. 
“It will have a big impact on the economy,” North Korean Academy of Social Science economist Ri Ki-song told AP, adding that the goal of building such a lavish ski resort is said to be to show the world that the country is as civilized and culturally advanced as any other.
 “We are now trying to build a lot of tourism sites, and skiing is the kind of sport that developed countries enjoy. It will also be a place for our own people to use,” Ri added. 　
 Despite billboards posted around the construction site urging workers to complete construction in time for the Oct. 10 deadline marking the 68th anniversary of the formation of the Korean Workers’ Party, heavy rains and landslides in recent months have derailed efforts to meet the initial deadline.
 During a visit to an annual trade fair between Pyongyang and Beijing in the Chinese border city of Dandong, a senior official at the North’s General Bureau of Tourism Kim Yong-il told the official China News Service that, “Basic facilities have already been set up at the Ski Resort on Masik Pass and construction will be completed in late November.”
 The Masik ski resort “will begin formal operations in January next year and be open to domestic and foreign tourists,” Chinese media quoted Kim as saying.
