Good-bye Steve Jobs
Apple confirmed on Oct. 6 that the company’s chief, Steve Jobs had died a day earlier, ending his long fight against an unusual form of pancreatic cancer. Jobs is survived by his wife, Laurene Powell, who he married in 1991, and their three children: Reed Paul, Erin Sienna and Eve. He was 56. 
Steve Jobs left behind a great legacy with his iconic products, including the first ever personal computer, the iPhone, the iPad to the iPod, the iMac and the iTunes. Industry experts noted that Jobs changed the worlds of computing, music recording and communications.
 His cutting-edge electronic devices are known for their excellent aesthetics, as Jobs always emphasized the importance of designs in his products. This helped Apple get an advantage over its competitors.
 Soon after his death, Apple’s homepage showed an announcement reading “Steve Jobs 1955-2011” next to a full-page picture of him. The following message of commemoration accompanied it: “Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor. Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple.”
 While working at Apple, he took three extended periods of sick leave and as his conditions worsened, he got a liver transplant in 2009. Then he handed in his resignation on Aug. 24, 2011. In his resignation, he said, “Unfortunately, that day has come.” He had previously promised his fans and his colleagues that if he could no longer carry out his duties as the chief executive of Apple, he would let them know first. 
The saga of Apple began when Jobs dropped out of college at 21 and started Apple with his childhood friend Steve Wozniak in his parents’ garage. Jobs co-founded the Apple Computer in 1976 and together they created the world’s first personal computer, the Apple II. 
He became a multi-millionaire at the age of 25, but in 1984 was forced to leave Apple, the company he founded. Jobs recalled that he had “a falling out” with one of the executives.
 However, Jobs did not give up. In the years that followed, he built NeXT computers and in 1986 bought the computer graphics arm of Lucasfilm, Ltd. NeXT computers later became Pixar Animation Studios. Jobs proudly called it “the world’s greatest animation studio” during his commencement speech at Stanford University in 2005. In 1996, Apple bought NeXT and a year later he became CEO of Apple. Since then, Jobs made Apple’s renaissance possible. 　
 One of his most remarkable accomplishments is the creation of the iPod, a pocket-sized, elegantly simple MP3 player. People no longer need to go to a record shop to buy music; they could just buy digital music files at Apple’s iTunes online music shop and store it in their iPod. His genius vitalized the sagging music industry. It was a revolution.　
 In 2007, with the iPhone, cell phones have transformed into computers, music players, messaging devices and digital wallets. It opened a new horizon for the information technology industry.
 The iPad came out in 2010. It was a revolutionary tablet computer of minimalistic design with Apple’s iconic touch screen. The iPad was used for almost anything, from watching movies and taking pictures to reading books.
 Under Jobs’ command, Apple has grown into the world’s most valuable company. In the summer of 2011, the company’s stock hit the $400 level, surpassing Exxon Mobil.
 What makes Steve Jobs so special was not the fact that he invented new things; it was that he made amazing improvements on what were already there and enriched and inspired so many people’s lives.
Many people worldwide shared their thoughts, memories and prayers upon hearing about Steve Jobs’ passing. 
 Bill Gates, the former CEO of Microsoft commented: “I’m truly saddened to learn of Steve Jobs’ death. Melinda and I extend our sincere condolences to his family and friends, and to everyone Steve has touched through his work.”
 Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook stated: “Steve, thank you for being a mentor and a friend. Thanks for showing that what you build can change the world. I will miss you.”
 Statement from the U.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi: “Steve Jobs was a visionary who changed the way we live, an innovator whose products brought joy to millions, a risk taker who wasn’t afraid to challenge the status quo, and an entrepreneur who led one of the most creative companies of our time.
 Walt Disney president Bob Iger said: “Steve Jobs was a great friend as well as a trusted adviser. His legacy will extend far beyond the products he created or the businesses he built. It will be the millions of people he inspired, the lives he changed, and the culture he defined. Steve was such an ‘original,’ with a thoroughly creative, imaginative mind that defined an era. Despite all he accomplished, it feels like he was just getting started. With his passing the world has lost a rare original ...”
 Statement from New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg: “Tonight, America lost a genius who will be remembered with Edison and Einstein, and whose ideas will shape the world for generations to come. … Steve’s passionate belief in the power of technology to transform the way we live brought knowledge and power that is reshaping the face of civilization.”
