2013 Herald Design Forum talks of significance of responsible design
Some of the world’s leading designers gathered for the 2013 Herald Design Forum at Blue Square in Seoul on Oct. 8, where they shared their design philosophies to inspire designers in Korea. 
 The forum, which includes lectures by nine distinguished designers, gave valuable insight into the future of design and its shift toward a more meaningful and responsible approach.
 Japanese architect Toyo Ito was the first presenter at the forum. Presenting some of his major architectural works, he mentioned about design’s growing responsibilities in society. Ito said design should make human life more convenient. His marvelous work, “Gifu Media Cosmos” used geothermal and solar energy for the building’s cooling and heating. His “Home for All” project built a space for people who lost their homes through the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. According to Ito, 21st century design must be open, substantial and relatable to history, and close to nature. 
The second presenter, Italian designer Stefano Giovannoni said it was design that created a brand’s value. He used plastic materials for his design, such as Alessi’s fruit bowl and biscuit box and the Pinocchio funnel. They were different from the conventional designs, with bright colors and cartoon-like features, but that very quality made those products ultra-successful in the global market. Giovannoni has worked with local companies such as Samsung electronics and LG. He recently created a smart box for Samsung-Google TV.
 U.S. designer Maggie Macnab, founder of the design consulting firm Macnab Design, who teaches at Santa Fe University of Art and Design, Institute of American Indian Arts, University of New Mexico and Santa Fe Community College, has been known for her beautiful and functional design. She began her lecture with a quote, “The soul never thinks without an image.” She said that she incorporated “energy (images)” from nature into her design and advised her audience to slow down and not to be too engrossed in their glittering surroundings in order to discover nature’s energy.
 The first Korean presenter, Don Tae Lee, co-president of London-based strategic design consultancy Tangerine, talked about designers’ animal instinct. He said that most of the time consumers did not know exactly what they wanted or could not elaborate on their specific needs, so it was designers’ job to figure out their needs and present them with much foresight. 
 Another local designer Joon Oh!, creative director of Korean cosmetic brand, Amorepacific, predicted that Korea would flourish in the beauty, health, entertainment, fashion, book, food, robot and finance industries in the future. He said the Korea’s modern design began in 1989 in earnest, when travel was liberalized by the government. As more people began to see the world outside Korea and experience new things through overseas trips, the boundary of Korean design has greatly expanded. Therefore, Oh! Insisted that Korean design should not be a mere representation of its past. He said he added “Myeongdong” logo on the AmorePacific cosmetic bottles as part of an effort for “Seoul Branding.” Oh! also stressed the importance of pursuing responsible and meaningful design. 
 While the 30-year-old British designer Gary Card mesmerized the crowd with his glamorous artwork, another British designer, Gavin Hughes showed a more serious side. Gavin Hughes, an interior designer and graphic designer with Strategy Plus at AECOM, introduced his renovation project for West Hill Primary School in London. On his first encounter, the school, a Victorian Style building with classic and traditional look, lacked creativity and inspiration to him. So he added more bright colors and altered its interior design to add fun and energy to the building. Following the renovation, the school achieved an outstanding level of learning and teaching, Hughes said. He pointed out that successful design could be aesthetically appealing without costing a fortune.
 Audiences were scrambling to ask questions to young star designer Gary Card, who had worked with celebrities like Lady Gaga. They were curious how he brings out his creative ideas. He replied: “Get out of your offices and do something different. Go to an exhibit.” Card said that his biggest concern for design is to create new things which people never thought before. He said his Christmas tree made of auto parts was a good example of this. 
 IDEO CEO Tim Brown mentioned the importance of creative confidence. According to Brown, many people have creative talent but it is more important that they have confidence in their gifts. Asked about the secret for keeping a successful design firm, he said, “At my firm, everyone is up to assisting others to succeed.” He said if you help someone who has great potential the influence has a wide reach. He has a departing quote for the audience: “Everyone is a designer and we may as well get good at it.” 
 The world’s youngest CEOs of a mobile application company, the Kumaran brothers, Shravan Kumaran, 13, and Sanjay Kumaran, 12, were invited to the forum as special guests. They created apps such as “Catch Me Cop” and “Alphabets Board” which have been downloaded by more than 35,000 users from nearly 50 countries in Apple’s App Store and Google’s Android Play store. “We have a vision to give back to society,” the boys said at the venue.
 The forum’s last presenter and the most dynamic lecturer was veteran French fashion designer Jean-Charles de Castelbajac, known for crossing fashion and art. He said that creativity was his “food and necessity.” He said that he is doing revolution by his work. He showed the audience his powerful fashion runway show that resounded with loud electronic background music. The fashion designer also shared his quirky side, such as his obsession with primary colors, his jacket made entirely of teddy bears, and his woman’s dress with a poster of U.S. President Barack Obama on it. 
 To sum up the 2013 Herald Design Forum, many designers raised the growing need for responsible design. We have all realized that design makes people’s lives more convenient but now its influence and responsibility in society has changed. That is why designers should take more responsible approaches to their creative work.
 This year’s Herald Design Forum was the third of its kind and after the forum it felt as if the quality and depth of the occasion had been greatly enriched; that is what makes the next year’s Herald Design Forum that much more anticipated. 
