Park pushes for improved economic ties with Southeast Asia
October was a busy month for President Park Geun-hye, as she traveled to Southeast Asia for a series of annual meetings aimed at bolstering economic ties within the Asian community; a trip she has termed as her second “sales diplomacy” trip. 
Park first traveled to Brunei for an annual summit with the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, followed by a meeting between ASEAN and its three Northeast Asian partners, South Korea, China and Japan (the ASEAN Plus Three summit). Next came a meeting of the East Asia Summit (EAS) forum before arriving in Jakarta on Oct. 10 for a three-day visit to discuss a comprehensive economic partnership agreement between the two countries. 
Throughout the meetings, Park focused on strengthening ties within Asia. Pointing to the region’s numerous vibrant economies with high growth potential, Park emphasized the need for building trust in order to capitalize on the region’s ever-growing economic power. 
According to the presidential office, Park had embarked on the series of summits for the purposes of winning support for the “Northeast Asia peace and cooperation initiative.” Specifically calling for the need to build trust throughout the region through non-political cooperation before expanding into political and security matters, Park’s vision gained support from the international community. 
During a roundtable discussion in September, Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se had compared proposals outlined in the “Northeast Asia peace and cooperation initiative” to Europe.
 “Seeing as how Europe moved toward political integration through the creation of the European Economic Community after World War II, these proposals reflect our aspiration that East Asia could follow a similar path,” he said.
 “South Korea wishes to expand its role as the driving force for the realization of the East Asian Community using its unique strategic position within the region,” he added. “The formation of a single market with a population of 600 million and $2 trillion gross domestic product is just around the corner.”　
