Should Japan‘s Meiji Industrial Revolution sites be included on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites?
YES - Many expressed outrage when news that Japan would be recommending a group of historic sites that played a key role in the industrialization of Japan for recognition as a UNESCO World Heritage Site hit the papers. Despite opposition from various countries - Korea and China in particular - I believe that the Meiji Industrial Revolution sites should be included on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
 One of the biggest arguments against allowing the Meiji-era industrial sites to be designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site is their dark history. Though it is understandable why people who were negatively affected by the Meiji-era industrial revolution would be against having these sites designated as world heritage sites, it is illogical to refuse the designation for purely emotional reasons. 
A nation’s history, much like the history of the world, has always been tinged with darkness. Wars and war crimes have been around since the beginning of man, and despite our status as an “advanced society,” it seems there is no end in sight. To forbid the Meiji-era Industrial Revolution sites to be designated world heritage sites based purely on claims that some people in the world were negatively affected is silly. From the perspective of Japan’s history, the sites played an important role in where they are today. That reason alone should be enough to include the sites on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
 Also, despite the harmful effects that the industrial sites may have had on Japan’s neighboring countries, it remains a fact that those actions are part of their histories as well. As such, although it may not be pretty or pleasant to consider, no one can doubt that the Meiji-era Industrial Revolution sites played an important role in the world’s history. For that reason and more, I believe that the Meiji-era Industrial Revolution sites should be allowed to be designated UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 2015.
 By Park So-eun (spark@heraldcorp.com)
 NO - In my opinion, the sites of Japan’s Meiji Industrial Revolution should not be included in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 2015.
 Meiji Restoration refers to the time when Japan successfully adopted a modernization policy by copying the West in the late 19th century. The Meiji era Industrial Revolution built the foundations for a strong Japan, but because of this, Southeast Asian countries as well as Korea and China, suffered huge damage. Yawata Steel Works, for example, produced tons of warships and weapons for the purposes of invasion. 
Bidding to designate cultural sites that have these types of characteristics as UNESCO World Heritage Sites shows that Japan does not regret its history. This is the same attitude Japan takes when it argues that Dokdo is its property and Japanese politicians worship every August at the Yasukuni Shrine, where war criminals from World War II are honored.
 Also, UNESCO World Heritage Sites should have an important value to humanity, a value that should be agreed upon by the people. The Meiji-era Industrial Revolution sites do not fulfill these standards as they were a major contributor to the war that put our planet in danger. 
UNESCO World Heritage Sites all over the world show the proud and beautiful history of each country. Unlike these, isn’t it wrong to designate the relics of a nation that does not regret their history of invading neighboring nations? For these reasons I believe that the Meiji-era Industrial Revolution sites are not suitable for designation as UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
