Seoul takes steps to preserve modern heritage
The Seoul Metropolitan Government has begun to take steps toward preserving Seoul’s modern historic sites as part of the capital’s heritage.
 Government officials said that the municipal authorities would push bylaws to protect Seoul’s modern landmarks from being damaged or lost as a result of rapid urban development.
 Seoul heritage of the past century includes a house inhabited by famed historian Ham Seok-heon; Chungjeong Apartment, Korea’s first apartment building; a house of the late novelist Park Kyung-ni; the first bridge built over the Hangang River; and Changgo Theater, located behind Myeongdong Cathedral.
 Another historic site that has been targeted for preservation is “Emun Seolleongtang,” the oldest restaurant in Korea serving “seollongtang,” located in the Jongno district of Seoul. Kim Du-han, a mafia boss-turned politician, former Vice President Lee Si-young and Korea’s first Olympic gold medalist marathoner Sohn Kee-chung were all known to frequent the restaurant, which opened its doors in 1904. 
 “Currently, many facilities having historic and symbolic value are used for residences or have even been remodeled or destroyed at the behest of the owner. We need to protect what could be heritage in the future,” Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon said in a media briefing.
 Preparatory preservation work is already under way to preserve modern heritage. The bylaws are expected to further raise the public awareness of the modern legacy of Seoul as well as lay a legal basis for municipal heritage projects, according to officials.
“The ‘Future heritage project’ is designed to prepare what will be considered treasures 100 years down the road,” said Park. “Modern and contemporary heritage sites are valuable assets that the current and future generations can share.”
 Up to 1,000 sites within Seoul will be preserved. The sites will be determined by July 2014 via studies conducted by district offices as well as public opinion polls.
