Korea's per capita GDP to top $30,000 in four years
Korea’s per-capita gross domestic product (GDP) is projected to reach $30,000 in 2015, the International Monetary Fund said in early October.
 The IMF’s per-capita GDP projection for Korea this year was $23,749, and it will reach $25,948 in 2012, the 28th largest among the 34 countries categorized as advanced economies by the international financial organization.
 According to the IMF, Luxembourg will be on the top in 2012 with its per capita GDP forecast at $126,325 followed by Norway ($98,682) and Switzerland ($92.166).
 Korea’s per-capita GDP based on Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) is expected to mark $31,753 this year, the IMF added.
 The PPP is used to measure living standards in terms of purchasing power of people around the world based on the assumption that all other factors, such as living expenses and foreign exchange, are the same.
 Meanwhile, Korea’s Finance Ministry gave its forecast on the national economy on Oct. 4.
 The ministry said foreign experts at credit-rating agencies and international financial institutions had judged Korea’s situation to be favorable.
 In particular, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch have given the country high ratings in terms of financial soundness, with significant improvement in the external situation and its financial market compared to the period of the 2008 financial crisis, the ministry explained.
 It further said that it was unavoidable that Korea would be affected by external risks but that the growing volatility of the foreign exchange and stock markets was not limited to Korea.
 The ministry made comparisons with other economies around the world and said that in Brazil, Russia and India the depreciation of the exchange rate was larger than that of Korea, and that major Asian countries had rates similar to Korea.
 The supply of foreign currency, the Finance Ministry said, has significantly improved compared to the period immediately before Lehman’s collapse.
 The ministry explained that the current account had registered a surplus for 18 consecutive months, from March 2010 to August, and that the trade balance had posted a surplus for 20 straight months as of September this year.
