Halloween Special: Superstitions from around the world
Halloween is one of the most eagerly anticipated holidays around the world. For most, Halloween’s appeal comes from the fact that it is a day to dress up as whatever you want and eat as much candy and chocolate as your heart desires. For others, Halloween is a day to indulge in scary stories and haunted houses. Regardless of your preferences, Halloween is a time of magic and enchantment, fun and fear. 
 In celebration of the enchanted night of Halloween, let’s take a look at some of the most popular (and some very bizarre) superstitions from around the world!
 Black cats 
Black cats are considered bad luck in many cultures around the world. In fact, as symbols of misfortune, black cats are often used in Halloween decorations. Their reputation as a bad omen dates back to the Middle Ages when witch hunts were commonplace. During this time, single, elderly women with pet cats were often believed to be witches. The cats were believed to be either witches’ “familiars” - demonic animals that had been given to them by the devil -– or witches themselves, as it was believed that they could turn into cats. Another medieval myth suggested that Satan himself would turn into a cat when socializing with witches. 
 Due to their association with witches, either seeing a black cat or having one cross your path was deemed bad luck.
 Bird poop 
Understandably, no one would enjoy having to deal with a bird pooping on them or anything they own. Interestingly, however, some Russians believe that when a bird defecates on you, your car or your property, it brings good luck in the form of riches. In fact, it is believed that the more birds involved, the richer you’ll become.
 Gum chewing
 Chewing gum is a favorite habit of many, especially baseball players. If ever you find yourself in Turkey, however, stick to just daytime gum chewing. Some Turks believe that chewing gum at night in Turkey means that you’re actually chewing the rotting flesh of the dead. 
 Soul-capturing mirrors 
Most people will look in a mirror at least once a day. But have you ever noticed that mirrors appear rather frequently in scary stories? This is because according to an ancient yet popular superstition, looking into a mirror steals your soul. A similar superstition is the belief that photographs steal souls. When photography was first invented in the early 19th century, people all over the world believed that taking someone’s picture was akin to taking their soul. 
 Breaking mirrors
 Another superstition related to mirrors is the belief that breaking one results in seven years of bad luck. This superstition can be traced back to the Romans, the first to create glass mirrors, and the long-standing belief that mirrors can steal souls. The Romans, along with Greek, Chinese, African and Indian cultures, believed that breaking a mirror would bring bad luck because when a person’s reflected image became distorted in any way, it would result in the corruption of their soul. 
 The number 13 
In Korea, the number four is considered unlucky, as evidenced by the use of the letter “F” to mark the fourth floor of a building. This superstition is based on the phonetic pronunciation of the number and how it sounds the same as the Chinese character for death. Many other cultures also associate a number with bad luck. For many, the number is 13. Though the superstition can be traced back to as far as Babylonian times (1800s B.C.), experts have not yet been able to figure out why the number is associated with bad luck. Interestingly, the fear of the number 13 is so real to many that it has been recognized as a phobia (triskaidekaphobia). 
 Opening an umbrella indoors 
Many cultures believe that opening an umbrella indoors brings bad luck. Though not definitive, there are several theories about the origin of this superstition. One explanation can be traced to using umbrellas as protection from the sun. It was believed that opening an umbrella indoors was an insult to the sun god who would then curse you with bad luck. Another theory, however, is that since umbrellas protect you from the “storms of life,” opening one inside your house insults your guardian spirits. As the guardian of your home and protector against the storms of life, the insulted guardian spirits are believed to then abandon you and leave you unprotected. 
 Rabbit’s foot
 The belief that a rabbit’s foot acts as a good luck charm can be traced as far back as the 7th century B.C. The superstition varies among many cultures around the world. Although the origin of this belief cannot be definitively proven, a popular theory is that it comes from an old Hoodoo belief that the lucky rabbit’s foot comes from the left foot of a witch that shape-shifted into the form of a rabbit. 
On New Year’s Eve in Spain, rather than kissing at midnight, superstitious people eat 12 grapes to bring 12 months of good luck.
