U.N. report shows global economy still struggling
The world economy has yet to recover from the financial crash of 2007, according to a recent U.N. economic report.
The gloomy assessment of a stagnant world economy was reported by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). According to the report, global economic growth in 2012 was 2.2 percent, the same rate at which the world economy is forecast to grow in 2013.
 “The global economy is still struggling to return to a strong and sustained growth path,” the UNCTAD reported. 
 Although the forecast for the world economy as a whole remains bleak, developing and transitional economies are expected to see a 5 percent and 3 percent growth in gross domestic product, respectively, compared to the 1 percent projected for developed economies. 
 “The expansion of the world economy, though favorable for many developing countries, was built on unsustainable global demand and financing patterns. Thus, reverting to pre-crisis growth strategies cannot be an option,” the UNCTAD report said.
 “In order to adjust to what now appears to be a structural shift in the world economy, many developing and transition economies are obliged to review their development strategies that have been overly dependent on export for growth,” the report added.
 In particular, the report identifies as a problem the focus on finance over real economic activity, an approach resulting in a highly uncertain outlook for the world economy. 
 “The momentum in pushing for reform has all but disappeared from the international agenda,” the report said.
 To remedy the situation, UNCTAD suggests “a rebalancing of the drivers of growth, with greater weight given to domestic demand,” a shift that will be “a formidable challenge for all developing countries, though more difficult for some than for others.” The report specifically points out the need to adopt a “new perspective on the role of wages and the public sector in the development process.”
