How Instagram can ruin your appetite
Most people, especially in Korea, have experienced the confusion and frustration of having to wait for someone to take a picture of a pretty meal before digging in. This increasingly popular trend is even more prevalent in the world of Instagram where you can find hundreds, if not thousands, of personal accounts dedicated to sharing with the world what the person had to eat. 
 In the past, taking pictures of delicious food was limited to advertisers hoping to market a particular restaurant or cookbook. With the explosion of social media, however, this trend has been adopted by eager bloggers and tweeters worldwide and Instagram users are the biggest culprits of all. Though it may be natural to assume that looking at pictures of delicious food will stimulate your appetite, researchers at Brigham Young University have found otherwise.
 In a recently-released study, researchers at BYU found that looking at too many Instagram photos of food results in a sensory overload that actually impedes your ability to enjoy the real thing. 
 “In a way, you’re becoming tired of that taste without even eating the food,” BYU professor and study coauthor Ryan Elder said in a statement published on the university website. “It’s sensory boredom - you‘ve kind of moved on. You don’t want that taste experience anymore.”
 “If you want to enjoy your food consumption experience, avoid looking at too many pictures of food,” added study researcher Jeff Larson, a marketing professor at the university. 
 Researchers noted, however, that it takes more than one or two pictures of food to kill study participants’ appetites.
 “You do have to look at a decent number of pictures to get these effects,” said Elder. “It‘s not like if you look at something two or three times you’ll get that satiated effect.”
 Luckily for those who enjoy taking pictures of food prior to each meal, a separate study published in Psychological Science found that engaging in a ritual - such as taking pictures - before eating may actually enhance your enjoyment of the experience. 
