Korean-American Kenneth Bae’s name has made frequent appearances in headlines all over the world since November 2012. Unfortunately, the circumstance under which his name has become recognizable are not of the sort anyone would envy. 
 Born in South Korea in 1968, Bae made headlines last year when it was discovered that he had been arrested in North Korea while working as a North Korean tour operator. More recently, his name appeared in headlines when his mother, Myung-hee Bae, was given permission to visit her imprisoned son. It was the first time in almost a year that his family had been able to see him.
 “I was happy to see him and to hold him, but it broke my heart to leave him behind,” she said in a statement released on Oct. 15. “I am more anxious than ever to bring him home. His year-long imprisonment has taken a heavy toll not only on Kenneth but on the whole family; every day the pain and anxiety continue to carve a deep scar on all of our hearts.” 
 Despite numerous calls on North Korea to release Bae by U.S. officials, the hermit kingdom has yet to budge. 
 Bae’s arrest
 Bae had moved to China in 2005 where he founded a tour company called “Nations Tour.” Though “Nations Tour” purported to be a run-of-the-mill tour company that specialized in tours of North Korean special economic zones, it was rumored that the tours were secretly Christian missionary trips. 
 It was while traveling through North Korea as a tour guide with five European tourists that Bae was arrested by North Korean officials and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor. Discovered carrying a computer hard disk containing pictures of starving North Korean orphans, Bae was accused of several crimes by North Korean officials. 
 Bae is accused of a list of offenses including planning an anti-North Korean religious coup d’état called “the Jericho operation”; attempting to topple the North Korean government from China; encouraging North Korean citizens to bring down the government and conducting a “malignant smear campaign.”
 For further updates on Kenneth Bae’s situation, visit www.freekennow.com, a website dedicated to getting Bae released. 
