Should companies rely on exam scores to determine fluency in English?
Yes-
 The more society becomes international, the more companies demand advanced linguistic ability from potential employees. According to Saramin, a local recruitment agency, seven out of 10 companies consider linguistic ability and value English the most among foreign languages. In a survey, they reported checking on the scores of exams such as TOEIC and TOEFL to judge applicants’ foreign language skills. It was revealed that some of the companies conduct interviews or debates in foreign languages. But I think the best way to decide their hiring is to rely on exam scores.
 First of all, exam scores are objective. Let’s say that a company conducts English interviews or debates in the process of hiring. Some employers may consider the applicant’s English to be good but others may not. All of us have different standards in testing English ability. Some may consider fluency of expression and some may consider grammar. So it isn’t appropriate to judge whether the skills are good or not. However, exam scores are expressed in exact numbers, and so are hard to dispute.
 Moreover, there is often corruption in hiring employees. Some people even enter companies by illegal means. However, when it comes to scores, applicants get their exam results individually. Also, it is fair since there is little cheating on the test.
 Lastly, other methods such as English interviews and debates require much time and manpower. The companies not only need time to conduct them but also people to judge the applicants’ abilities. I think it is more efficient to check the scores quickly than spend much time and effort to screen all applicants. 
 In conclusion, we cannot find a perfect way to hire someone. But I think checking exam scores is the most objective and fairest way. It would be even better if we could correct their shortcomings to find a better method.
 By JH Student Reporter Kim Ji-yeon
 (3rd Grade, Pungmu Middle School)
 No-
 English is one of the most popular topics when it comes to education, and students strive to get good results in certification tests. Besides education, English certification tests are considered a standard measuring stick for companies to determine whom to hire. People still argue over whether this is proper or not. In my opinion, employment relying on test scores is improper.
 Foremost, it can cause a negative social tendency: a preference for private education from childhood on. More people may start attending private English institutes from a young age, and this isn’t advisable. Applying the cramming method of study to young students can damage their ability to think creatively. Also, young students should foster values like friendship by socializing with peers, not going to private academies and cramming in more information.
 Furthermore, English certification tests can’t evaluate a person’s ability to use English in practical life. Most English certification tests, such as TEPS, estimate a person’s ability by examination. However, written tests cannot guarantee a person can speak the language fluently in real-life situations, which is the most important point of learning a language.
 I understand the companies’ position of wanting to employ a person who is skillful at English. However, I believe that this could cause negative social trends, and a person’s ability cannot be measured by English certification tests. Therefore, using English proficiency test scores as a standard for employment isn’t desirable.
