Is the universe still expanding?
AP reported Oct. 4, that three U.S.-born scientists -- Saul Perlmutter, Brian Schmidt and Adam Riess -- won the Nobel Prize in physics for discovering that the universe is expanding at a faster rate. 
 Perlmutter is from the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and University of California, Berkeley and Schmidt works at the Australian National University in Weston Creek, Australia. Riess is an astronomy professor at Johns Hopkins University and Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore.
 The discovery may well lead to a theory that the cosmos could eventually become a colder, bleaker space, nearly devoid of light.
 The conventional idea prior to the trio’s founding was that the expansion of the universe had slowed 13.7 billion years after the big bang.
 Perlmutter and his team of scientists calculated the speed of the universe’s expansion by analyzing light from dozens of exploding stars called supernovas. They found the light was weaker than they had thought, which meant the expansion process had sped up.
 The three scientists have labeled the force pushing the universe apart “dark energy,” in their discovery, though the report insisted that there remains a bit of uncertainty whether it actually exists.
 Mentioning the reverse phenomenon, where the universe collapses -- a term called the “big crunch” -- Robert Kirshner, a Harvard astronomer who was part of the team added that “it seems very important to learn more about what the dark energy is.“
 The Nobel committee stated that the topic was probably “the greatest enigma in physics today,” while announcing the three scientists’ winning.
 Paul Steinhardt, a physics professor at Princeton University said that in trillion years, galaxies will be stretched farther and with the speed of current expansion, galaxies will soon be invisible from one another.
 Lars Bergstrom, secretary of the Nobel physics committee also said that “the universe will get increasingly cold as matter spreads ever-vaster distances in space.”
 The Nobel Committee told that Perlmutter will get half the $1.5 million prize and Schmidt and Riess will share the other half.
 The Nobel Prizes have been awarded since 1901 from the will of Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel. The prizes are presented to the winners on Dec. 10 every year, the anniversary of Nobel’s death in 1896.
