Teen drama seeks TV throne
Script writer Kim Eun-sook is famous for her script writing style. Her magic has been proven in her previous works including “Lovers in Paris,” “Secret Garden,” and, most recently, the sensationally popular drama “Gentlemen’s Class.”
 The star writer has come back with a new story titled “The Heirs,” which revolves around the country’s richest high schoolers and their dangerous teenage romances and friendships. The drama is enough to rock the heart of young viewers. 
 Yet despite the incredibly glamorous cast -- including actor Lee Min-ho, model-turned-actor Kim Woo-bin, actress Park Sin-hye and Girl group F(x)’s Crystal -- the drama has not received the anticipated level of popularity, with its fourth episode hovering at just over 11 percent in the ratings on Oct. 17. It had been expected to easily garner the number one spot in the timeslot but has since lagged behind. 
 Kim once claimed to be able to deliver a “not-so-special” story in a fashion that no one had before --thus making an ordinary story special. That is why her screenplays --usually involving a woman consumed with the fantasy that a prince charming will rescue her from her pathetic life (the cliché of Cinderella) -– have been selling extremely well with the public, who have been mesmerized by her charming dialogue. 
 Still, no matter how enticing her stories have been, she must focus more on developing the structure and character of the drama to make it more convincing and attractive to viewers who have high expectations for her. 
 In the fifth episode, “The Heirs: Those who seek a crown must bear the weight,” the backdrop is moved to a luxurious high school, Empire High School. 
 According to Kim, there are four different social classes in “The Heirs.” Children set to receive multi-billion dollar businesses from their rich parents, those about to take a huge amount of company shares, those of socially respected professionals such as lawyers, judge and doctors and, lastly, deprived children who are expected to receive nothing but poverty from their parents.
 1.Kim Tan
 Main male character 
Tan is the heir of Empire Corp., the country’s most prominent conglomerate. 
On top of being exceptionally rich, he is also tall and good-looking so on the surface it seems Tan has the perfect life. However, he has his own pain; two mothers, and the stigma of being an out-of-wedlock child. Tan has always been lonely at home and to protect himself from getting hurt, he has always been cold to others. To escape his complicated life he went to the U.S. to study. There he could laugh and maintain a normal life and for the first time he felt happy. Then one day he met a mysterious girl named Cha Eun-sang and he saw his world turn upside down – in both good and bad ways.
 2. Cha Eun-sang
 Main female character 
Eun-sang is an heir of poverty. She has one older sister and a deaf mom who cannot speak. She had to do numerous part time jobs to support her family. Her older sister went to the U.S. to study by herself and one day told her that she was getting married to a rich American man. In order to alter her desperate life in Korea, Eun-sang decides to visit her sister. But Eun-sang found out that her sister lied and she was not studying but working as a waitress. She runs into Kim Tan while staying there and ends up staying at his splendid house. When Eun-sang returns home, her mom goes to live at someone else’s house as a housekeeper. Since she has nowhere to go, Eun-sang also has to live in the house. The house is in fact Kim Tan family’s. Tan’s father suggests that she attend Empire High School, the so-called royal high school for super rich students which Tan also attends.
 3. Choi Young-do
 Heir of hotel Zeus 
He has a high IQ but uses his talents to harass others. Seeing Kim Tan doing the same thing to others made the two close friends since they were young. Still, there has always been some sort of competition between them. Young-do had an unhappy childhood and when he finds out that Tan has a similar background, he gets disappointed and ends his friendship with Tan. Young-do had liked Tan thinking he was a better than him. So when Tan comes back from the U.S., seeing Tan acting differently around a poor girl named Eun-sang makes him interested in her; there begins a potential love triangle. 
 4. Yoo Ra-hell 
 Heir of RS International, Korea’s most distinguished fashion company 
Ra-hell decorates herself from head to toe with luxurious designer items and everyone calls her the Paris Hilton of Empire High School.
 She also has a charismatic and arrogant quality and her high maintenance personality makes it difficult for others to be friends with her. But she enjoys being alone. When her rich father became poor, her mom divorced and left him. From then she learned that money is the most important thing in one’s life. She decides to marry Kim Tan and they eventually got engaged at 18. But seeing Tan with Eun-sang makes her uncomfortable and she hates Eun-sang to death. 
