Women beat men at multitasking: study
A recent study by British psychologists suggested that women are better at multitasking than men, at least in certain areas.
 Adding to the time-honored comparisons between women and men, Dr. Gijsbert Stoet and Dr. Keith Laws released their test results in late October, saying that women were much better at “switching rapidly between tasks.”
 Dr. Stoet of the University of Glasgow compared the two genders in tasks such as jumping between incoming emails and phone calls, carrying out assignments while running in and out of meetings, and also cooking a meal while looking after children.
 The test involving 120 men and 120 women showed that both genders slowed down when carrying out mixed tasks, but that men made more mistakes as the switching became more rapid.
 The difference may seem small, but it adds up over a working day or week, Dr. Stoet told BBC news.
 In a separate test, a group of women and men were asked to complete a series of tasks for eight minutes. The tasks included locating restaurants on a map, doing math problems, answering a phone call, and deciding how they would search for a key lost in a field, according to BBC news.
 Dr. Laws of the University of Hertfordshire said that women showed a “clear performance advantage over men.”
 “Women used methodical search patterns, like going round the field in concentric rectangles whereas some men didn‘t even search the whole field in any particular manner,” Dr. Laws said to BBC news.
 He went on to conclude that women were more organized under pressure. He explained that women had spent more time thinking what to do while men had jumped into the task impulsively.
 While adding the test results should not be used to over-generalize that women are better than men in all multitasking, the authors of the study said people -- men and women alike -- were terrible at multitasking compared to their distant relatives, the apes.
 “If humans have lost multitasking ability during evolution, it suggests that simple, one-track minds could actually give us an advantage,” Dr. Stoet explained to BBC news.
