Korea’s first astronaut caught in MBA controversy
Korea’s first astronaut, Yi So-yeon, once venerated by Koreans, has been forced to learn a very hard lesson recently: there is no such thing as a free lunch.
 The 35-year-old scientist came under scrutiny recently when a lawmaker accused her of wasting taxpayers’ money by pursuing a seemingly unrelated degree in business administration. During his critical assessment of the Korea Aerospace Research Institute as part of a parliamentary audit on Oct. 21, Rep. Choi Jae-chun of the Democratic Party pointed to Yi as an example of the failure of the state-run institute to properly use its taxpayer-supplied funds to nurture young individuals gifted in science. 
 “Dr. Yi So-yeon was the symbol of Korea’s aerospace science, but she has not contributed to developing the nation’s technology in the field. Rather, she went abroad to take an MBA program, proving that the government has no strategy in managing key human resources in aerospace science,” said Choi in a press release.
 Currently residing in the U.S. after marrying a Korean-American doctor in August, Yi phoned in to Yonhap News to address the lawmaker’s criticisms. Yi stated that pursuing a degree in business administration was “a decision I made after realizing that I can’t live the rest of my life talking about what I did in space for 11 days.”
 “I chose to pursue an MBA because I want to be someone who connects science with investors,” she added, saying that studying business administration had always been part of her plan.
 “We can‘t make good use of scientific findings without corporate or government support. I believe that in order [to facilitate that] I needed to better understand the minds of businessmen or policymakers.”
 Profile 
Name: Yi So-yeon
 Born: June 2, 1978
 High School: Gwangju Science High School
 Higher Education: KAIST 
Most notable accomplishment: First Korean astronaut in space
When Yi So-yeon was launched into space on board Soyuz TMA-12 on April 8, 2008, she made South Korea the third country to have a woman as its first space traveler. The other two countries are the United Kingdom and Iran. 
