Autumn brings sea of eulalia
On a clear morning at Sangam-dong in Seoul in late October, hundreds of people in trekking suits were climbing the “280 steps” to Haneul Park, created atop a huge landfill.
 Some of them were kindergarteners on a picnic, school students taking a day off in nature or apparent retirees enjoying the changing foliage. In front of the park, venders sold all kinds of foods from fish cakes to ice cream and beverages, attracting people to stop by.
 At this time of the year, eulalia - a genus of about 30 species of mostly perennial grasses found in tropical Africa, Asia and Australia - is in its peak. The plant, which can grow as tall as an adult male, has become a representative image of autumn alongside fall foliage and reeds.
 The 12th Seoul Eulalia Festival took place in Haneul Park in Sangam-dong, Seoul, on Oct. 17-27. Visitors indulged in the beauty of eulalia under the spectacular moonlight. 
 From late October to early November, the peninsula is decorated with eulalia in various colors. Here are some places where you can enjoy the festivity to the fullest, accompanied by related events and beautiful autumn scenery.
 Mt. Myeongseongsan
 At the peak of Mt. Myeongseongsan in Pocheon, Gyeonggi Province, 923 meters above sea level, is a 200,000-square-meter eulalia field. At this time of the year, hikers can enjoy foliage colors at the foot of the mountain and the scenery of Biseon and Deungyong falls, and then climb up to enjoy the silver waves of eulalia.
 ‘Yeongnam Alps’
 The so-called Yeongnam Alps are a cluster of seven mountains, with some standing more than 1,000 meters above sea level, in the Gyeongsang region stretching from Ulsan, to Yangsan, Miryang, Cheongdo and Gyeongju. The 255-square-kilometer area is covered with eulalia in the fall, and local tourism authorities have created a 29.7-kilometer-long “Haneul Eulalia Road” linking one peak to another. 
 Jeju-do Island
 The whole southern island of Jeju seems to be a huge eulalia field at this time of the year. Saebyeol Oreum near Jungmun is one of the most famous spots to enjoy the autumn scenery. Also, near Geomun Oreum, there is “Eulalia Road” where only 400 people are admitted daily so as to protect the environment. The Jeju Olle Walking Festival near Ttarabi Oreum is also a must for those looking for a promenade covered with eulalia.
