Gyeongbokgung - finest architectural treasure of the Joseon Dynasty
Gyeongbokgung is a royal palace located in Jongno-gu, Seoul. It was originally built in 1394 during the reign of King Taejo, the first king and founder of the Joseon Dynasty.  Gyeongbokgung was the grandest and the most beautiful of the five palaces of the Joseon Dynasty, but it has a turbulent past. It was severely damaged by fire in 1553, completely burned to the ground by Japanese invaders in 1592, systematically demolished during the Japanese occupation from 1911-1945, and partially destroyed during the Korean War. Starting in 1989, the Korean government undertook a 40-year initiative to rebuild and resurrect the palace to its former glory, and today, Gyeongbokgung proudly stands as one of the finest examples of the essence and aesthetics of Joseon architecture. 
 The main gate to Gyeongbokgung is Gwanghwamun, and like the rest of the royal palace it fronts, it suffered destruction and disrepair for extended periods of time. Gwanghwamun underwent a major restoration starting in December 2006 and was reopened to the public in August 2010. The gate, once relocated by the Japanese Colonial Government to make way for the Japanese Governor General Building, was disassembled and moved back to its original location in order to accurately place the gate in its original location, which perfectly aligns it with the main north-south axis of Gyeongbokgung. The imposing gate, meticulously and painstakingly restored using native pine wood, once again stands guard to the great palace.
 The main structure within Gyeongbokgung is Geunjeongjeon, also known as the Throne Hall. This is where the king formally granted audiences to his court, conducted official business, and greeted foreign envoys, dignitaries and ambassadors. Geunjeongjeon sits at the center of a large rectangular courtyard on top of a two-tiered stone platform. The stone-paved courtyard is lined with two rows of “rank stones,” called pumgyeseoks, which indicate where the court officials should stand according to their ranks. 
Gangnyeongjeon served as the primary residential quarters for the king. It contains a series of corridors and 14 rectangular chambers, seven on each side of the building.  The king occupied the central chamber while the court attendants resided in the side chambers where they protected, assisted, and received orders from the king.  The building rests on top of a tall stone foundation with a stone deck located in front of the structure. 
 Gyeonghoeru Pavilion is a hall that was used to hold important state banquets. The building is a wooden structure that sits on top of stone pillars, with wooden stairs leading to the second floor. The entire structure sits in the middle of an artificial lake lined with weeping willows and is connected to the palace grounds by three stone bridges. With a backdrop of distant mountains and crystal clear reflections in the placid surface of the lake, Gyeonghoeru Pavilion is a scene of regal serenity. 
Gyeongbokgung is an oasis of calm and tranquility in the midst of the hustle and bustle of the cosmopolitan city of Seoul. It is full of history, culture, tradition and exceptional aesthetic beauty - and is well worth visiting again and again. 
