Should popular entertainment shows be allowed to release singles?
PRO - Following the 2012 “Infinity Challenge” music festival, another festival was planned in 2013 for eagerly awaiting fans. The “Park Myung-soo’s which song?” music festival gained recognition and monopolized the number one spot in lots of music charts, leading a few music critics to expect singles from this year’s song festival to once again beat out a lot of “real singers” and monopolize music charts. I strongly believe popular entertainment shows should be allowed to release singles that could compete with singles released by “real” singers.
 First, doing so gives us the chance to hear a variety of songs from different music genres. These days, the popularity of K-pop is becoming greater than ever, beating other genres of music. However, the songs from the 2012 “Infinity Challenge” music festival dominated the number one spots of different online music charts, going so far as to beat out K-pop. Additionally, a lot of people were able to enjoy music from different genres, not just K-pop. 
 Second, after popular entertainments shows release their singles, they donate money to poor people in Korea. As such, they not only entertain people, but help them as well. Not many current “real” singers donate all of their earnings from releasing singles. However, “Infinity Challenge” announced that it would donate all proceeds to charity, as it has done periodically from 2007.
 In conclusion, I believe that popular entertainment shows like “Infinity Challenge” should be allowed to release singles. This is because they let people hear different genres as well as providing help to those less fortunate. I hope that music festivals hosted by popular entertainment shows will continue forever.  
 CON - “Infinity Challenge” is hosting its 7th annual song festival, following the “Park Myung-soo’s which song?” music festival. As a result, “Infinity Challenge” is expected to take the top spot on many music charts. For reasons stated below, I believe that popular entertainment shows, like MBC’s “Infinity Challenge,” should not be allowed to release singles that compete with songs released by “real” singers in the music industry.
 First, existing album makers can incur big losses. According to Yonhap News, Korea Entertainment Maker Association claimed recently that “broadcasters that use their popularity to encroach onto the music market are no different from the octopus-like management of the business world by conglomerates.” Also, they claimed that “if media groups expand their businesses to include music, existing album makers will be buried under the media group‘s capital and influence.”
 Secondly singers who are more musically talented will fall behind in terms of public recognition, and thus the music industry will no longer be a competition among singers but more of a competition for recognition. Imagine how unfair it would be for singers who have either made a comeback after a long hiatus, or are just debuting, to be stuck in the bottom of half of music charts due to a lack of public recognition.
 I believe that entertainment programs using their popularity to release singles is a bad idea. If this trend continues, we will only be able to listen to music that is popular rather than authentic, and the boundary between the music and entertainment industries will become less and less defined. 
