SNU freshmen demographics hint at growing social inequality
The prestigious Seoul National University (SNU) was in the spotlight recently after a survey of freshmen demographics showed that freshmen there hailed from better educated and more affluent backgrounds than the national average.
 A report issued by SNU showed that of the 2,353 first-year students at the university, 83.1 percent of the students had fathers who were university graduates. Students who had mothers that graduated university stood at 72 percent. This is particularly telling when considering that according to the 2010 census, only 43.2 percent of adults across the country hold university degrees. 　
 In addition to being more educated than the average Korean parent, parents of SNU freshmen tend to have jobs and an income level that place them in the upper echelon of society. 
In terms of occupation, the majority of fathers were found to hold white-collar jobs (33.5 percent), followed by specialists (20 percent), service-sector professionals (10.3 percent) and managers (8.2 percent), whereas mothers were mostly housewives (48.4 percent), followed by service-sector staff (14 percent), specialists (12.2 percent) and office workers (11 percent).
 As a result of their parents’ occupational and academic backgrounds, 29.1 percent of SNU freshmen were found to have come from families with an average monthly income of at least 5 million won. The proportion of freshmen whose family income exceeded 5 million won was particularly high among freshmen enrolled in SNU’s College of Business Administration (46.7 percent) and College of Medicine (46.2 percent).
 Citing the results the SNU report, Democratic Party lawmaker An Min-suk underscored how the troublesome findings show an increasing gap in Korea’s social inequality.
 “The fact that fewer children of farmers or poorer families gain admission to SNU shows that it’s getting more difficult to climb the social ladder,” said An, adding that “the reality of an ‘inherited academic level’ is getting worse.” 
