Movie Day Special: Looking back at the top grossing films of 2013
With Halloween having come and gone, and Christmas just around the corner, it is easy to overlook the entire month of November as a holiday-less, transitional month. Just like every other month on the 14th, however, November also has a special non-official holiday that is just as fun to celebrate as “official” holidays like Halloween or Christmas. 
Much like the fun, made-up celebrations that follow Valentine’s Day in February - such as White Day (Mar. 13), Black Day (April 14), etc. – Nov. 14 is celebrated by many Koreans as “Movie Day.” In celebration of this relaxing yet fun day, let’s take a look back at the top grossing films in Hollywood and Korean cinema in 2013.
 HOLLYWOOD:
 A global favorite, the third installment of the “Iron Man” film series, “Iron Man 3” starring Robert Downey Jr. was the highest grossing Hollywood film in 2013, raking in more than $1.2 billion worldwide during its 19 weeks in theaters. Speaking to its worldwide appeal, two-thirds of the $1.2 billion grossed by “Iron Man 3” came from the foreign market, meaning only about $409 million of the film’s total box office earnings came from U.S. ticket sales. 
 2013 was clearly a good year for sequels, since the second-, third- and fourth-highest grossing films of the year so far are “Despicable Me 2,” with $911.8 million, “Fast & Furious 6,” with $788.7 million, and “Monsters University,” with $742.9 million. The eagerly-awaited Warner Bros. Superman remake “Man of Steel” came in fifth with a comparatively low but still impressive $662.8 million. 
 KOREAN CINEMA
 In general, box office grosses for Korean movies are lower than Hollywood, purely due to the fact that it has a smaller domestic market. Despite the comparatively low numbers, Korean films are enjoying growing popularity and recognition both domestically and abroad. 
This year, the highest grossing Korean film was the highly popular tearjerker, “Miracle in Cell No. 7,” which raked in a whopping $81.9 million in box office sales. Though the number seems rather low when compared to Hollywood films’ box office sales, keep in mind that within Korea, “Miracle in Cell No. 7” ranked higher in box office sales than the highest grossing movie worldwide, “Iron Man 3.” 
Unlike the top grossing Hollywood films, which were skewed toward action and animation films, the highest grossing Korean films of 2013 leaned more towards drama genres. Following “Miracle in Cell No. 7,” the highest grossing Korean films of 2013 so far are “The Face Reader” with $64.2 million, “Snowpiercer” with $59.8 million, “The Berlin File” with $48.1 million and “Secretly, Greatly” with $43.2 million. 
Although “Iron Man 3” ranks No. 1 in the list of highest grossing films of 2013 worldwide, it sits at No. 5 in the list of highest grossing films of all time. The title of highest grossing film of all time is taken by the 2009 film, “Avatar,” which grossed approximately $2.8 billion worldwide. 
 Don’t forget to watch out for these soon-to-be released movies! 
 NOVEMBER RELEASES 
 “HK: Forbidden Super Hero”
 　Release Date: Nov. 14
 　Genre: Action / Comedy
 “Black Gospel”
 　Release Date: Nov. 14
 　Genre: Drama
 “Marriage Blue”
 　Release Date: Nov. 21
 　Genre: Romance / Comedy
 “Cloudy 2: Revenge of the Leftovers”
 　Release Date: Nov. 21
 　Genre: Animation / Comedy / Family
 “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire”
 　Release Date: Nov. 21
 　Genre: Fantasy / Action
 “Lee Daniels’ The Butler”
 　Release Date: Nov. 28
 　Genre: Drama
