Fostering a creative economy with entrepreneurship
The importance of entrepreneurship in fostering a “creative economy” was emphasized by President Park Geun-hye during the four-day “Entrepreneur Week” event held from Oct. 28 to 30. 
“Entrepreneurship is a critical factor in economic prosperity and public happiness,” the president said in a speech read by Trade, Industry and Energy Minister Yoon Sang-jick at the opening of the 2013 Entrepreneur Week at the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI).
 The push for a “creative economy” was spearheaded by the Park administration in the hopes of bolstering Korea’s information and communications technology sectors. Although entrepreneurship has been underscored by the president as an important factor to fostering a creative economy, a rigid regulatory framework, the lack of a safety net for entrepreneurs and overall risk aversion have hindered Korea’s entrepreneurship.
 “Korea emerged from one of the world’s poorest nations a half century ago to the 10th largest economy in the world. This has been made possible by entrepreneurship,” Park Yong-man, head of KCCI said during his opening remark. 
“We are tasked with the job of embedding our version of entrepreneurial DNA into what we have inherited from our elders,” he said, adding that the corporate sector and the government were pushing to create an environment that will open the door for Korea’s youth to let loose their passion for the future.
 President Park called on entrepreneurs to “take the initiative in creating a second miracle of the Han River with creative innovation and a challenging spirit,” promising that the government would do its best to eliminate unnecessary regulations and establish a corporate environment that is aimed at revitalizing investment and creating jobs.
 What is “entrepreneurship”?
 An “entrepreneur” is a person who seeks economic success through the organization of a new business venture and takes on the risk of doing so. By extension, “entrepreneurship” is the practice of starting new organizations or businesses. It is important to note that the word “entrepreneurship” puts emphasis on the risks and efforts of the entrepreneur, as well as the innovations that result from it. 
