Why do people enjoy being scared?
Halloween has come and gone but one question that remains is: why do some people enjoy being scared? Many people may wonder why products aimed at scaring the living daylights out of people would exist, since logically, being scared is scary. 
The increasing popularity and profitability of haunted houses, horror movies and scary stories all over the world shows, however, that many people do, in fact, enjoy the occasional scare. Experts say that the enjoyment people experience from getting scared is twofold: hormonal and psychological.
 Hormonally, our bodies react to being exposed to a threat or crisis with a surge of adrenaline, resulting in what is often referred to an “adrenaline rush.” The surge of adrenaline changes our mental and physical states. The moment we feel threatened, we begin to feel more physically powerful and emotionally intuitive. 
On a psychological level, the appeal of being scared lies in the vicarious experience of what is forbidden, bizarre or dark. Horror movies in particular, allow people to explore scary experiences from the comfort and safety of home or a movie theater. Horror movies also allow people to identify with the dark side of human nature without getting in trouble; an experience that can also be quite cathartic for people. 
Despite our bodies’ automatic physical and emotional reactions to being scared, not everyone enjoys being scared. Some people have a higher tolerance for fear than others; something that is important to keep in mind the next time you plan on playing a scary trick on someone. 
 Getting scared and experiencing real fear are very different things. In fact, having a persistent, often irrational fear of an object or situation is called a “phobia.” Though the situation may seem irrational to others, the fear felt by those that suffer from phobias is very real. 
Occasionally, however, there are some phobias that may seem more funny and ridiculous than merely irrational. Here is a list of some of the most outrageous phobias.
 l Anatidaphobia – The fear that somehow, somewhere, a duck is watching you
 l Consecotaleophobia – Fear of chopsticks
 l Geliophobia- Fear of laughter
 l Arachibutyrophobia- Fear of peanut butter sticking to the roof of the mouth
 l Papyrophobia - Fear of paper
 l Hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia – Fear of long words
