World golf stars gather in Cheonan
The 54th Korea Open golf championship took place at the Woojeong Hills Country Club in Cheonan, South Chungcheong, from Oct. 6-9. With a total purse exceeding $1 million, it is one of the richest and most prestigious golf tournaments on the Asian Tour. This year’s event featured a strong field that included reigning U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, 2009 PGA Championship winner and defending champion Yang Yong-eun of Korea, 2010 PGA Tour Rookie of the Year Rickie Fowler, and the 2010 money leader on the Asian Tour Noh Seoun-yul of Korea. 
 Professional golf in Korea had a very humble beginning. After independence, there was only one professional golfer in Korea -- Duk Chun-yeon. The inaugural Korea Open was held in 1958 at a time when golf was not on the minds of many people, as the nation was in the process of rebuilding from the rubble and devastation of the Korean War. The first tournament featured a small field of local professional and amateur players and a few participants from United States and China. The winner was Orville Moody of the United States, who recorded a less-than-overwhelming 18-over par 306. Mr. Moody also won the championship in 1959 and 1960.
 The Korea Open benefitted greatly from aggressive promotional campaigns aimed at increasing its international exposure. Tournament organizers used the press to advertise the event globally to attract top-level players. As more international and local players took part in the tournament, the quality of play and competition level improved significantly. In 1964, Hahn Chang-sang became the first local player to win the Korea Open, breaking the streak of six consecutive wins by international players. He won the title seven times from 1964 to 1972, and in the process, became the most decorated champion in the history of the event. 　
 Over the years, Korea Open was able to attract some of the best players in the world to compete in the tournament. PGA tour and European Tour stars such as Vijay Singh, Sergio Garcia, John Daly and Scott Hoch were past winners of the event. In the annals of the Korea Open, incredible achievements and unforgettable moments abound. In 2002, Sergio Garcia of Spain won the title in dominating fashion, shooting a tournament record 23 under-par 265. Kim Dae-sub has the distinction of being the only amateur to have won the Korea Open, and he performed the feat twice, in 1998 and 2001. The most scintillating victory surely belonged to the 2010 winner Yang Yong-eun, who overcame a 10-shot final round deficit to snatch the title from compatriot Noh Seoun-yul. 
Although the first Korea Open was a relatively obscured event, the pioneering organizers and players had paved the way for golf to become one of the most popular sporting events and leisure activities in Korea today. It is a tournament that helped develop and nurture local players, and allowed the likes of K.J. Choi, Yang Yong-eun and Bae Sung-moon to showcase their talents and shine on the international stage. 
