The man behind the lovable villain ‘Loki,’ Tom Hiddleston
Playing Thor’s little brother Loki, Tom Hiddleston was not supposed to be the star of the Marvel film franchises “Thor” (2011) or “The Avengers” (2012). Nor is he supposed to be reason why people so eagerly awaited the recently-released “Thor” sequel, “Thor 2: The Dark World.” 
Though far from being a mere secondary character, “Loki” is not supposed to be the character that people watch the Marvel superhero movie franchises for. Whether it is due to his looks or the character he plays, however, it is undeniable that playing the lovable yet villainous character of “Loki” helped rocket Tom Hiddleston to international fame. 
Born in Westminster, London on Feb 9, 1981, even 32-year-old Hiddleston himself expressed surprise at his character’s popularity.
 “The immense popularity of the character has been an amazing surprise. I never expected it in my wildest dreams,” he said in a recent interview with Nuts magazine. “It’s fascinating to play the god of mischief. And he’s such a broken character - bitter, jealous, grief stricken, angry, lonely and proud. The cocktail of his psychological damage and his playfulness makes him really interesting to portray.”
 The public’s adoration of Loki was made even more apparent when Hiddleston stole the show at Comic-Con 2013. 
“I did not expect that,” he told the entertainment news site HitFix. “I expected it would be fun, but that level, that wall of sound, it was interesting and very, very flattering and fun.”
 Hiddleston began his acting career while a student at the University of Cambridge, where he was discovered by talent agent Lorraine Hamilton during a production of “A Streetcar Named Desire.” 
“I think I started acting because I found being away at school while my parents were divorcing really distressing,” Hiddleston had said in a 2012 interview with Live magazine. 
Despite having played numerous roles both on and off screen since graduating from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 2005, Hiddleston did not achieve international fame until the 2011 release of “Thor.” 
Though Hiddleston may be humble enough to attribute his newfound fame on the character’s appeal, Chris Hemsworth, who plays Thor, insists that Loki’s popularity is in part, due to Hiddleston’s great performance. 
“It might not have been the original plan to have Loki come back but Tom brings an incredible mixture of strength, villainy and vulnerability which means you can easily empathize with this misunderstood guy,” Hemsworth told Nuts magazine. 
Tom Hiddleston revived his role as “Loki” in the sequel “Thor 2: The Dark World,” which hit theaters on Oct. 30.
