Pitfalls of sugar addiction
Children have a natural penchant for sweets. They are especially attracted to the taste. It is shocking to see how much sugar youngsters put in their body each day. 
According to the American Heart Association (AHA), Average teens in the United States take in 34 teaspoons a day -- two to four times the amount of sugar recommended a day and even more than what adults consume (an average of 21 teaspoons). Children are literally growing into a generation of sugar addicts. 
Throngs of physicians and scientists have warned of the danger of excess sugar intake -- especially for those who are young. The dangers don’t just result in weight gain; there are heavy consequences for it. Studies have tied high sugar intake to a number of serious health problems, including obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease and tooth decay. 
Over the past decades, Type 2 diabetes accounted for 3 percent of new cases of diabetes in American children in 1990s but that number rose to 45 percent by 2004. Soft drinks are known trigger of child obesity along with fast foods. Sodas decay children’s teeth and work adversely on children’s bone development – and the main culprit is a huge amount of sugar inside the drinks. 　
 The more soft drinks a child drinks, the more likely that he or she will lose concentration and act aggressively, suggests The Journal of Pediatrics. To tackle this generational crisis, Enrique Pena Nieto, president of Mexico, the world fattest country, suggested fat tax on soft drinks. France’s high court also approved adding a fat tax on sweet drinks. New York City and Hungary have also jumped on the bandwagon. To fight obesity in the U.S., first lady Michelle Obama has launched a “drinking water initiative.” Drinking enough water is critical for people’s health but statistics show that more than 40 percent of Americans drink less than half of the recommended level of water each day. 
Then what makes sugar so bad for people’s health? The type of sugar people generally consume is 100 percent sucrose, or table sugar, which is a processed form of natural sugar found in sugar cane or sugar beets. When it is refined, all of the nutrients, vitamins and minerals are stripped from it and all there is left is a high glycemic index. Eating food with a high glycemic index raises your blood sugar level.
 The Journal of American Medical Association (JAMA) also notes that there is a close association between eating large amounts of sugar and aging of people’s skin. Researchers in the Netherlands and England evaluated the facial photos of 602 volunteers and discovered that those with the higher blood sugar appeared older than people with the lowest levels. Other studies also found that higher blood sugar levels can destroy the skin’s collagen and elastin, which help preserve the youthfulness of skin.　
 Despite all the dangers and side effects of sugar intake, why do people cling to sweets? As you all know, cutting out sugar from your diet is not as easy as it sounds. It is not because you are weak-willed or have a personality defect but it is due to an uncontrollable, compulsive behavior we call addiction. Like cocaine and other drugs, sugar activates the reward system in the brain. Sugar stimulates brain’s dopamine release, which makes you feel happy. Your brain recognizes and likes the feeling and continuously craves more. It may startle people to learn that heroin, morphine and sugar all stimulate the human brain through the same mechanism. This is why we just cannot stay away from those deliciously sweet chocolate bars, ice creams, candies, cakes, and so on. 
In fact, students at Connecticut College explored sugar’s addictive quality by testing Oreo cookies on lab rats. Like humans, rats liked the creamy center best and ate the middle first. Oreos were proved to be as addictive as cocaine or morphine to lab rats. Eating the sugary treats activates more neurons in the brain’s “pleasure center” than drugs such as cocaine, the team at Connecticut College explained. 
“These findings suggest that high fat/sugar foods and drugs of abuse trigger brain addictive processes to the same degree and lend support to the hypothesis that maladaptive eating behaviors contributing to obesity can be compared to drug addiction,” neuroscience assistant professor Joseph Schroeder says. “That may be one reason people have trouble staying away from them and it may be contributing to the obesity epidemic.”
1. Do you struggle to walk past a sweet treat without taking just one?
 2. Are your favorite foods sweet rather than savory?
 3. If you have a whole day without sugar, do you experience mood swings, headache, low energy, muscle pains and faster heartbeat (all signs of sugar withdrawal)?
 If you answered yes to just one of the three questions, you could be addicted to sugar.
Step 1: Exercise regularly 
Researchers found that exercise increases serotonin-- a feel-good hormone associated with mood elevation that can replace the pleasure of eating sweet treats.
 Step 2: Sleep well
 One 2013 study found that people’s sleep cycles have a huge influence on people’s sweet cravings—it means people are less equipped to resist a high-calorie treat if we are sleepy throughout the day.
 Step 3: Add fruit to your meals
 Adding naturally sweet foods to your meals shuts down sweet cravings. 
