Guesthouses and tourism
The number of foreign tourists arriving in Korea has seen an exponential rise in the past few years, topping 10 million last year. Not only is the number of tourists arriving in Korea on the rise, there has been a recent yet growing shift in the needs and desires of tourists traveling around the world. 
Though some tourists still enjoy being catered to in places like large hotels, many are now looking to spend less on pricey accommodation and more on activities that give them a taste of what the destination country has to offer in terms of experiences. 
With the influx of tourists, however, lodging has become an increasingly problematic issue. Hotels tend to be too expensive and unnecessarily luxurious for most, whereas the thought of spending a night at a jjimjilbang - as many locals are prone to do - may seem strange to some foreigners. Guesthouses are making up for the insufficient lodging options. 
Guesthouses are an inexpensive accommodation option for many tourists. Though types of guesthouses may vary around the world, in Korea they tend to be remodeled family homes with a shared kitchen and bathroom located near downtown or tourist areas. The popularity of guesthouses among tourists and entrepreneurs in Korea is undeniable. 
“It’s a pretty good business — you start by investing a little on renovations, but you can make up to 10 times more than giving the rooms up for rent,” Woo Seung-jee, who runs the Cozzzy Guesthouse with her brother, told The Korea Times, adding that it is a rather stable business thanks to the continuous stream of guests visiting Korea as a result of the Korean Wave. 
Unfortunately, guesthouses made headlines in early October when a culture ministry report found that 44 percent of guesthouses in Korea were operating without having properly registered with the authorities. According to Rep. Kim Hee-jeong, the number of complaints from foreign tourists about guesthouses operating illegally is on the rise. Unfortunately, the government has been lax in addressing the issues.
 Citing the report, Kim pointed out that even though 11 of the total 24 complaints reported to the Korea Tourism Organization (KTO) over the past three years were lodged against one facility, no measures have yet been taken to address the problem. 
“The safety of foreign tourists is being severely threatened,” said Kim, adding that better “system maintenance and measures need to be established in order to protect properly operating guesthouses and foreign tourists visiting Korea against abuse.”
 One way to distinguish between a guesthouse and a hotel, bed and breakfast or inn is the lack of full-time staff.
