Today’s toddlers use smartphones before they can talk
There is no doubt that technological advancements in the past few decades have changed the world in ways that were previously unimaginable. Despite the first mobile phone having been produced just 40 years ago, you would be hard-pressed to find someone today who doesn't claim to be unable to get through the day without a smartphone in their hands. 
Many discussions have already been had on the ways in which advancements in wireless technology has changed our society today. However, a recent study by Common Sense Media provides insight into how such wireless technology will affect our future. 
In a survey of 1,463 parents, Common Sense Media found a startling statistic about mobile device use among young children. The number of children under 2 using smartphones and tablets, for example, has jumped from 10 percent in 2011 to 38 percent today. This means that, since the average 2-year-old is only beginning to speak in two- or three-word sentences, a growing number of children are using tablets or smartphones before they can properly communicate through speech. 
Common Sense Media founder and CEO Jim Steyer told The Huffington Post that the results are particularly disconcerting considering the American Academy of Pediatrics’ warning against any digital media screen time for children below age 2. 
“The reason is, there’s clear evidence about some of the potentially damaging effects on development,” Steyer said. “And also there is no evidence that any learning happens via media until the age of 2.” 
Not only is the number of very young children using smartphones and tablets increasing, the amount of time spent on these devices is also on the rise. According to the survey results, the average number of minutes a day a child uses a mobile device has tripled in the past two years from 5 minutes to 15. 
Considering the many negative side effects that smartphone and tablet use has on teenagers and their ability to socialize, the implications that the survey has about the future of society are undoubtedly worrisome. 
