The Simpsons given the green light
Despite the recent drama over The Simpsons’ future, America’s longest-running sitcom has been approved for at least another two seasons. 
20th Century Fox Television announced its decision to renew The Simpsons for two more seasons on Oct. 7 after negotiations between Fox and the voice actors became embarrassingly public. 
The Simpsons is currently in its 23rd season, airing on Fox network’s Sunday primetime schedule. As the longest-running comedy series in the history of U.S. broadcasting, its future seemed to be in jeopardy when news broke that Fox had threatened to end the popular series unless the voice actors - whose current salary is an astounding $440,000 per episode - agreed to a 45 percent pay cut. 
Sudden and widespread interest in the negotiations led to Fox quickly issuing a statement on Oct. 4 explaining that it could no longer afford to “produce future seasons under its current financial model,” and that the pay cut would be necessary for the show to go on. 
According to news reports, the 45 percent pay cut ultimatum was delivered on the evening of Oct 3, as Fox denied the voice actors’ proposal of a 30 percent pay cut in exchange for a small percentage of the show’s billions in back-end profits from the global syndication and merchandizing of Simpsons products.
 The squabbling between the actors and Fox reached a boiling point when Harry Shearer - the voice for Principal Skinner, Mr. Burns, Waylon Smithers, Ned Flanders, Lenny Leonard and more - posted his take on the negotiations in a very public statement on Oct. 7. 
In his shockingly blunt statement, Shearer lamented that if a pay cut is what was needed for The Simpsons to continue, he would gladly lower his salary to less than half of what Fox is willing to pay. 
“In fact, to make it as easy as possible for Fox to keep new episodes of “The Simpsons” coming, I’m willing to let them cut my salary not just 45 percent but more than 70 percent - down to half of what they said they would be willing to pay us,” Shearer wrote, “All I would ask in return is that I be allowed a small share of the eventual profits.”
 Unfortunately for Shearer and his fellow actors, Fox has remained adamantly tight-pocketed on The Simpsons’ back-end revenue, refusing to share the billions they have already reaped - and will continue to reap - from syndication, merchandizing and licensing the rights of The Simpsons series and other related products. 
In fact, Shearer mentioned in his statement, “My representatives broached this idea to Fox yesterday [Oct. 6], asking the network how low a salary number I would have to accept to make a profit participation feasible. My representatives were told there was no such number. There were, the Fox people said, simply no circumstances under which the network would consider allowing me or any of the actors to share in the show’s success.”
 In the end, Fox issued a press release on Oct. 7 stating its decision to renew The Simpsons for two more seasons, “bringing the series total to an astonishing 559 episodes.” 
According to news reports citing sources close to the negotiations, the actors are still taking a pay cut, but only about $100,000 instead of $150,000 less than their current salary. A salary that even Shearer admits is “ridiculous by any normal standard.”
