X Factor Australia winner Im Dami
Korean-born Im Dami made headlines last month when she won the fifth season of The X Factor Australia, becoming the first Asian-Australian immigrant to win the singing competition.
 After having emigrated to Australia with her family at age 9, Im, a self-described “dag,” has found herself in a position of unprecedented success. 
“I’m not the usual cool kid who sits at the back of the school bus,” Im said in an interview with APN news.
 “I’ve never been the most popular girl or the prettiest girl at school or anything, but people still loved me for who I am,” she said.
 “People voted for me and I feel like I have a responsibility to be an inspiration for people who feel the same way and feel like losers or whatever; the uncool kids.”
 Within hours of her victory, Im was named the cultural ambassador of Logan City, where she currently resides with her former military serviceman husband, Noah Kim, with whom she married in Seoul in 2012. 
“She’s going to be a wonderful cultural ambassador for our city,” Logan Mayor Pam Parker told Fairfax Media. “We’re so extremely proud of her. This is our way of acknowledging her achievement and being a great role model to the young people of Logan.”
 “Dami is obviously an incredibly talented artist and musician and for this reason Logan recognizes her as a cultural - arts and music - ambassador,” Parker added.　
 Although Im famously did not sing during her years as a student, her musical talent as more than just a singer was evident from a young age. Not only does the 24-year-old sing well enough to win a national talent competition, she had also made various achievements as a violinist and pianist while a student at the Young Conservatorium of Music at Griffith University in Australia, where she began studying at age 11. Her achievements during this time include becoming a National Finalist of the Yamaha Youth Piano Competition, winning the Nora Baird Scholarship and the Queensland Piano Competition several times. 
Now signed with Sony Music Australia, Im went on to attend and receive her high-school diploma from John Paul College in Queensland, during which time the scope of her musical talent was hidden as she only accompanied the choir on piano and played violin for the school’s orchestra. In 2009, Im earned a Bachelor of Music degree from the University of Queensland, where she graduated with first class honors. 
When asked about broadening her horizons and releasing her music elsewhere, Im has expressed that she wants to be based in Australia. 
“My biggest dream is to just make my music in Australia,” she said.
 “This is my home and it’s where I grew up. I want to stay in Australia but I’m also open to being able to travel overseas. If I could have a career in Asia or internationally, but be based in Australia, then that would be awesome.”
