Should child actors be allowed to appear in R-18 or controversial films?
YES - A 17-year-old child actor was the main character in a recently released R-18 movie named “Hwa-Yi: A monster boy.” My mother said “I think the movie was too violent for a young actor like him to appear in.” But the child actor was highly complimented by the public, proving his real merit in the movie. In other words, regardless of the fact that the film was rated 18, the movie proved to be great for his career.
 There are many children who want to act. Most of them recognize that they might have to feature in very violent or provocative films, but they don’t give up because they really want to be child actors. For them, appearing in a controversial film provides them with just another opportunity to show their talents, knowing that it can be a turning point in their career. 
However, child actors should be protected mentally and physically. Their basic human rights should always be guaranteed. For that purpose, some child actors have gone through psychological examinations, and the boy who acted in “Hwa-Yi” was provided ample explanation regarding things like why a particular scene was needed and why it had to be violent. He has said that he was able to act with little difficulty thanks to the adults’ consideration. 
Child actors act because they want to. If adults pay enough attention to them and their needs, they will be protected both mentally and physically.
 NO - Throughout the years, many child actors have appeared in a variety of different films, including those that are controversial and rated 18. Although appearing in such films may provide them with some great opportunities to show off their talents, I believe that it is unethical to allow children under 18 to appear in films they are not even allowed to watch.
 No one can doubt that talented child actors help make or break certain movies. However, regardless of how talented a child actor is, they are still just children. By allowing child actors to appear in adult-only films with a lot of violence or controversial themes, the child has no choice but to learn about problems and issues that they are not ready to understand. 
No matter how much an adult tries to explain the reasoning to the child, the child’s brain will not have developed enough for them to fully understand what is going on. This is the same reason why children are not allowed to watch certain films to begin with. 
Another reason why child actors should not be allowed to appear in R-18 films is because it seems pointless if the child who acted in the film cannot see it. Though some people may say that acting in a variety of films may be helpful for child actors in gaining experience and learning, if child actors are not allowed to watch the final product, how much could the experience help their career? 
If children are not allowed to watch a film because of its controversial or violent nature, then child actors should not be allowed to act in them either. Not only will they not be able to learn anything from the experience if they are not even able to see their performance in the final product, exposing them to adult topics too early can have potentially serious consequences for them later in their lives.　
