Controversial ‘game addiction bill’ sparks national debate
A widening dispute over a proposal to toughen online game regulations has emerged as a hot political issue in Korea, dividing the nation and prompting a harsh war of words. 
The controversy stems from a new law proposed by the ruling Saenuri Party in April that would define Internet gaming and digital media content as one of four major sources of addiction, along with alcohol, drugs and gambling. If approved, the proposal would subject Korea’s online media and gaming industry to the same, tough government controls currently faced by the alcohol, drug and gambling industry.
 The proposed law initially stayed out of the public’s eye, but it quickly entered the limelight when chairman of the Saenuri Party, Hwang Woo-yea, highlighted the law during his speech to the National Assembly on Oct. 7. Just days later, Rep. Jun Byung-hun of the main opposition Democratic Party (DP) openly criticized the proposal in an online games community notice board, effectively turning the issue to a hot-button political debate.
 Proponents of the “game addiction bill” - along with a similar bill proposed by Rep. Shon In-chun of the Saenuri Party in January calling for the creation of a center to treat Internet game addiction - argue that the focus is on helping people suffering from game addictions rather than the industry itself. 
Opponents of the bill, on the other hand, regard it as a prelude to a series of draconian measures that would result in the death of the online game industry, considered one of Korea’s most promising growth engines. 
Additionally, addiction is a very complex problem that requires more than mere statistics to understand, according to Lee Dong-yeon, professor at the Korea National University of Arts and one of the most outspoken opponents of the law.
 “The social and educational surroundings [of a game addict] play much more important roles than the game itself,” he said.
 While neither the ruling party nor the DP has yet taken an official stance on the issue, an increasing number of lawmakers, concerned citizens and government bodies are beginning to do so, including the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, which has come out in opposition of the bill. 
