Disaster relief dos and don’ts
In light of the destructive aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in the tropical country of the Philippines, people from all over the world are scrambling to find ways to help out in the best way they can. As news outlets keep us updated on the situation, flashing images of destruction and devastation, the dire need for international aid is obvious.
 As one of the strongest storms to ever make landfall, Typhoon Haiyan’s impact on the Philippines has been devastating. An estimated 9.5 million people are believed to have been affected by the typhoon in nine regions across the country. In some regions, the devastation has been compounded by the fact that a 7.2 magnitude earthquake had hit the same region just three weeks earlier. 　
 With loss of life estimates ranging from as low as 2,500 to as high as 10,000, and an estimated 1.9 million people left homeless and 600,000 displaced, the Philippines is now faced with a humanitarian crisis. Though the jury is still out on how long it will take for the region to recover, one thing does remain clear: the Philippines is in great need of help from the international community.
 However, it is important to remember that while opportunities to help are abundant, not all efforts are necessarily helpful.
 Worst ways to “help” after a disaster
 When disaster strikes, most feel compelled to act. In most cases, most people’s first reaction is to gather up as many seemingly useful items as possible and attempt to donate them in the hopes of easing the pain and suffering of those who have lost everything. Oftentimes, a sense of urgency takes over. You want to send something they need right now rather than having to search for charities, donating to them and waiting for them to act. 
Although this zeal may have the most altruistic of intentions, it may backfire, causing more problems than it solves. One estimate suggests that 60 percent of donations to a disaster site are not needed. In fact, here are some of the worst things to do or donate when attempting to provide disaster relief to areas outside of your community.
 Donating used clothing, shoes or blankets 
Although it may seem reasonable to donate used clothing or shoes to areas devastated by natural disasters, disaster-relief organizers say that donated used clothing and shoes most often hinder, rather than help, recovery efforts. In fact, the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) cautions that used clothing donations are “rarely a useful item,” as boxes of mixed clothing need to be sorted by size and type and cleaned in some cases before they can be repackaged and delivered to those who need it most. 
In general, relief agencies and local officials do not have enough resources to go through all of the donations and used clothing tend to just fill up warehouses and end up in a landfill with the rest of the disaster debris. With shoes, sometimes an organization will call for donations of a particular type of footwear - such as lightweight slippers - in which case footwear donations would be helpful. In general, however, donating used shoes is a bad idea. 
When it comes to blankets, it is true that they are generally critical when it comes to recovery efforts, but they are seldom in short supply. 
 What to do:
 When it comes to used clothing or shoes, a better idea is to hold a yard sale and donate the funds to a disaster relief agency, or take them to a thrift store where there can be sold and the money can be put toward helping the needy.
 If an organization specifically asks for blanket donations, be sure to follow their instructions on how to properly pack and ship the blankets to the right destination. If not, it is best to avoid trying to donate blankets.
 Donating medicine 
Disaster relief agencies are usually well-stocked with the supplies necessary to manage a medical crisis. When needed, they generally work with drug companies and medical suppliers directly in order to get the right supplies to the right place at the right time. In 1999, the World Health Organization issued a report outlining some of the most common problems with medical donations to disaster areas. They include poorly labeled packaging, expired medications and drugs being sent that had nothing to do with the medical problems on site. 
 What to do:
 Do not, under any circumstances, attempt to donate medicine, particularly anything that has been opened or unused from your personal supply. It is best to leave medical relief up to the professionals.
 Donating pet supplies 
Although a love of animals may be a great characteristic, shipping heavy boxes of pet supplies to a disaster area is far from an efficient use of money or resources. 
 What to do:
 If you want to help animals during times of disaster, it is best to just donate to an established charity or organization dedicated to providing the proper food, shelter and medical services to animals in need.
 Donating mixed items 
Similar to the problem of sending a box of mixed used clothing, sending a box of mixed items causes more problems than solutions. The sheer amount of manpower and hours needed to sort through and organize the oftentimes hundreds of thousands of unlabeled boxes full of random items oftentimes results in a strain on volunteer resources and a waste of funds. This is because each box would have to be opened and emptied, after which the contents need to be identified then sorted between useable and unusable. The useable items then need to be repacked before being sent to the right location while the unusable ones are disposed of.
 What to do:
 Avoid sending boxes of mixed relief supplies at all costs. Instead, coordinate with a relief agency to donate specific items, making sure that your boxes are well-packed and sealed with the contents of the box clearly labeled on the outside.
 Donating canned food and bottled water 
Another popular myth of disaster relief is that food and water are the best things to donate after a disaster. While disaster relief agencies may sometimes be in need of nonperishable food and bottled water, individual collections of food supplies shipped to disaster areas are a bad idea. This is because unlike clothes or shoes, food items need closer inspection because the food could cause health risks to the survivors if they are expired or damaged. 
 What to do:
 Unless specifically requested for a local charity drive, it is best to just donate money to disaster relief organizations. The reason for this is twofold. First, it will help relief organizations save money on shipping. Second, they can purchase food closer to the disaster zone, which can be helpful in reviving the local economy. 
 Donating your unsolicited help 
Although wanting to go to the disaster site and help out in person is truly noble, having no knowledge of how disaster cleanup and recovery works will do more harm than good, no matter how great the intentions.
 “Well-meaning individuals who simply show up to help without prior contact or coordination with disaster management personnel in Missouri can further complicate or even hinder response and recovery operations underway,” warned the Indiana Department of Homeland Security after a massive tornado ripped through Joplin, Missouri, killing 161 people. 
Also, consider this: Where would you sleep and eat? Disaster areas are generally low on food and lodging and if untrained volunteers with no specific or useful skills show up unsolicited, there would be one less bed for a trained volunteer or distraught victim to sleep in and one less warm meal to eat. 
 What to do:
 If you want to donate your time and energy to disaster recovery, the best thing to do is to sign up with a national organization dedicated to disaster response. Not only will they offer you training in disaster relief methods, but you can be part of a team of volunteers that are mobilized and dispatched when the need arises. 
 All in all, the best thing to do is donate cash to charities or organizations that are tasked with providing the needed disaster relief. Keep in mind, however, that a number of fake charities tend to pop up after natural disasters. Be wary of scam artists and choose an established charity or organization as the target of your donations.
