Park, Putin agree to broaden economic cooperation
The presidents of Korea and Russia, Park Geun-hye and Vladimir Putin, have agreed to broaden economic cooperation between the two nations, including a Russian-led rail project, according to a memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed by the two presidents on Nov. 13.
 Putin arrived in Korea on Nov. 13 to take part in summit talks with Park, after which the two leaders released a joint statement addressing their agreement to expand and diversify their economic cooperation to include short and long-term projects in shipbuilding, financial infrastructure, logistics, energy, science, space and knowledge sharing. 
At the summit, the two leaders signed an MOU that would allow Korean companies, including POSCO, Hyundai Merchant Marine and the Korea Railroad Corporation, to buy a stake in the Rajin-Khasan railroad project. Dating back to 2000, the Rajin-Khasan railroad project refers to a Russian-North Korean joint venture to establish a 54-kilometer line linking the eastern Russian town of Khasan to North Korea’s port of Rajin in the hopes of facilitating freight shipments between North Korea and Europe. The MOU signing enables South Korean companies to take part in both the operation of the railroad and the construction of the ports in Rajin. 
“South Korea and Russia will join hands to create the era of Eurasia for the new future,” Park said at the joint press conference held after their summit, stressing that there was a need to build a new “Silk Road Express” between South Korea and Europe.　
 “Restoring Eurasia as a space for ‘communication, openness, creation and integration’ by opening a second Silk Road through the region, which has been isolated and detached due to a long history of ordeals, is extremely crucial for the sake of the future, hope and prosperity of humankind,” she added.　
 In terms of security issues, the two leaders affirmed their stance that North Korea should not have nuclear weapons status under the United Nation’s Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons treaty. The two nations underscored the need to resume six-party talks as a political and diplomatic solution to the denuclearization of North Korea. 
“Russia supports the resumption of six-party talks as soon as possible,” said Putin, adding that Russia and South Korea have common goals when it comes to the Korean Peninsula. In discussing a trilateral project to construct a pipeline for natural gas from South Korea to Russia via North Korea, Putin expressed his support for the peace and safety of the Korean Peninsula.
 “Our position is that these matters and cooperation should not be held hostage, and instead act as an important factor to creating harmony,” Putin said. 
