The Junior Herald Camp
First day
 I missed almost every program of the first day because I had a meeting during the camp. So I arrived when our team members were writing articles. 
After I got my badge and put on my team clothes, I went to the assembly hall where everyone was gathered. I was worried about awkwardness between team members. I thought the other team members had probably already introduced themselves and become friends, but that I might feel awkward because I was new. 
While I was worrying, I joined our team. Teachers taught me kindly on how to write better. My article was about the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics. I picked this topic because hosting the Winter Olympics in Korea is an old wish of Koreans. 
One of the team members was very active, and I was able to befriend her. Thanks to her, I got to know the other team mates. Our team leader was an older girl who was in high school. She was kind and nice to me, and had a good news writing ability. 
After writing articles, we voted for the best ones. I was concerned about which ones I should choose because everyone’s articles were pretty good. I picked one group article that was the most interesting. I hoped my team would get first place, but unfortunately another team won the prize. 
Second day
 I woke up and went out to have breakfast. After breakfast, we had a debate. The topic was “Is the Internet Good or Bad?” Our team’s argument was that it was bad. 
We did brainstorming at first and gathered lots of ideas. Then we divided up the work. Someone found evidence, such as articles, and others wrote arguments. We prepared hard and our team leader presented it. Sadly, our team didn’t get the prize again. 
After the debate, we had our first meeting with a Korea Herald reporter. She talked about how to become a reporter, the life of a reporter, the process of making news, and some interesting stories. Her speech was pretty fun because I could communicate with her and know more about real life of reporters. 
After lunch, we took pictures with the reporter and speaker and had an hour of free time. Someone played outside, and others watched a movie. I thought I had an opportunity to develop a relationship with other student reporters. 
After free time, a speaker from the Press Arbitration Commission gave a talk. He spoke about freedom and the responsibility of the media, explained the role of the Press Arbitration Commission, and some examples. His speech was also interesting because the press arbitration commission was new knowledge to me. 
As the end of camp drew closer, we had our final meeting about voluntary work. A Japanese teacher talked about the definition, characteristics, positive effects, and effective ways to do good and helpful voluntary work. It was really long, so it was little bit boring. But I think everyone could listen because it had good content. After the meeting, it was time to say goodbye. We had student reporter ceremony. I felt I really became student reporter for the Junior Herald. I hope I can write good articles so people can read my articles in the Junior Herald.
 This camp was had a big impression on me. I will not forget the camp, and will use knowledge that I learned there.
