A founding father of Korean economy, Lee Byung-chull
(4)Lee Byung-chull’s philosophy in life
Ho-Am Lee Byung-chull lived a life of extraordinary insight, with a delicate sense of timing and a resolute will until he passed away on Nov. 19, 1987. The late chairman Lee was more than just a successful entrepreneur. Lee was a true pioneer in Korea’s economy. It was not his glamorous business career but his noble and exemplary philosophy in life that defined the true Lee Byung-chull.
 First and foremost, he regarded trust as the most significant thing in his life. When he was asked during an interview to explain the secret for his success in business, he replied that it was putting his employees above anything else. Lee had fully trusted and supported his people, his team and his company as a whole. 
 Upon accepting an honorary doctorate in business economics at Boston University in the U.S., Lee Byung-chull delivered a beautiful speech. 
 “There is an old saying in the Orient: If you want one year’s prosperity, grow grain; if you want 10 years’ prosperity, grow trees; and if you want 100 years’ prosperity, grow men,”He said, adding that the success or failure of a company depends on the quality of the people who work for it. 
 Lee also said that it had been his utmost interest to hire the very best talent, irrespective of blood ties, regional origins, and school connections. 
 Lee assigned his employees to their most suitable positions and provided them with training to help them develop their potential to the fullest. In addition, Lee always tried to reward his workers fairly and equally, purely based on the quality of their performances. Throughout his career, Lee practiced the “lifelong employmen”’ policy and never let go of people who he had hand-picked. 
 Lee evaluated one’s moral character most significantly when hiring them. Lee Byung-chull underlined that the harmony between workers and an enterprise was the single most indispensable factor in both parties’ prosperity. For fifty years in business, Lee held a firm belief that a nation was the most cherished foundation for every corporation. He thought that if a company failed to serve its nation, it would lose its reason to exist. In that sense, his top managerial priority was no doubt, “serving the country through business.”
 Lee Byung-chull thought that the highest virtue of humanity lay in service. During his speech at Boston University, Lee stated, “Serving fellow men, serving the nation, and serving humanity is the greatest and the most meaningful thing in life.” He believed that businesses contribute to a society by creating jobs, paying taxes and promoting prosperity. 
 As a pioneer and beacon of Korea’s economic prosperity, Ho-Am Lee Byung-chull left behind many outstanding legacies in present day Korea. Lee often mentioned that the greatest happiness in the world comes from realizing one’s purpose in life. Furthermore, he emphasized that three of his most cherished values were: patriotic industrial service, human resources development, and the rationalization of operations. 
 Here are some excerpts from the late Lee’s acquaintances:
 Choi Woo-suk, the former vice chairman of Samsung Economic Research Institute: Lee Byung-chull poured all of his energy into his work and made his best efforts. He was a genius when it came to assigning the right people to the right positions and by doing that, helping them realize their true potential. Yet, there was one thing that Lee just could not stand and that was wasting time and work. So he always strived to manage his time very wisely. 
 Jung Joon-myung, the former chief of secretary: Lee was a man with an enquiring mind. Lee kept on researching, investigating and exploring to make progress in everything that he did. 
 Lee Pil-gon, the former vice president of Samsung Corporation: Lee Byung-chull possessed extraordinary leadership skills and he did not even mentioned of any hint of impossibility. Under the late chairman Lee’s command, Samsung was able to make a major contribution in the country’s economy. 
 Katharine Graham, the former honorary president of the Washington Post: Lee was a genuine entrepreneur with an unflinching mind. He indeed gave back to society by maintaining a personal philosophy close to his heart, which was that management should be a service to a nation and its people. Therefore, in the end, he managed to engineer prosperity for humanity. 
