Long-awaited contemporary art museum opens in downtown Seoul
Providing Seoulites with easier access to contemporary art, the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) formally opened the doors to its eagerly awaited Seoul Gallery on Nov. 12.
 As the newest addition to MMCA’s two galleries in Gwacheon and Deoksugung Palace, the Seoul Gallery is located in a far more accessible location across from Gyeongbokgung Palace in the heart of Seoul. Not only does the new gallery have better accessibility for contemporary art enthusiasts in Seoul, it is also much bigger than the gallery located within Deoksugung Palace.
 Plans to build a third MMCA gallery were first announced in January 2009 by then-President Lee Myung-bak on a location where the Defense Security Command and a military hospital once stood. After a total of 246 billion won ($229.69 million) was spent in project costs over four years, construction of the Seoul Gallery was finally completed on June 28, 2014. 
With three floors above ground and three underground for a combined six floors of useable space, the Seoul Gallery boasts eight exhibition halls, a movie theater, seminar room, digital book cafe, cafeteria, food court and various other facilities that combine to provide visitors with a complex cultural space to enjoy.　
 In order to distinguish between the three galleries, the Seoul Gallery will focus on presenting the latest trends in contemporary art, the gallery in Gwacheon will focus on exhibiting pieces that showcase the history of Korean contemporary art while the Deoksu gallery will focus on academic functions and exhibiting works by Korea’s leading modern artists. 
For more information on the Seoul Gallery and the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art, visit www.mmca.go.kr. 
Contemporary vs. Modern art 
 Most people are often confused by the terms “contemporary art” and “modern art” and are generally unable to differentiate between the two. Simply put, contemporary art generally refers to works of art that were produced after World War II. Additionally, it usually refers to artists who are still alive and producing work. Modern art, on the other hand, usually refers to artwork created between the 1860s and 1970s, when artists began challenging the traditional academic view of art. It also refers to artists who looked at the world differently to their contemporaries. 
