Blind worker at City Hall inspires hope for the disabled
Every morning Choi Su-yun takes the subway, crosses the streets and navigates her way through the corridors and office at City Hall. 
Although this may be a simple, daily routine for most people, it is somewhat of a challenge for the blind woman if not for On-you, her 3-year-old golden retriever and her 24-hour best mate. 
“On-you directs me the whole way and tells me whenever we face obstacles. He is so helpful,” 28-year-old Choi, told The Korea Herald of her guide dog. 
Attending a special high school and majoring in education with a counseling specialty in college, Choi passed the civil service exam last year. 
She has been working in the department that supports disabled people since September, helping low-income, severely disabled people gain access to education and housing. 
Choi is the first civil servant at the Seoul Metropolitan Government who works with a guide dog. On-you was donated by Korea’s first and only guide dog training facility, Samsung Guide Dog School for the Blind. 
“It was so awkward at first. I wasn’t used to calling his name or complimenting him,” she said. Adjusting to having a guide dog took Choi four weeks; two weeks at the training center followed by two weeks at home. 
While working at Seoul City Hall, Choi relies on a variety of support devices to help her with her tasks, such as an optical character reader and electronic reading enlarger. 
“Useful devices cannot perfectly substitute for my eyes. They cannot read images for me. But they are really helpful. City Hall here is much more prepared than other places,” she said.
 Although she has received a lot of help from people around her, Choi cannot avoid disappointing moments in life due to her blindness. 
“Whenever new interesting books are released, I can’t read them right away but must wait until they are converted to audio books or Braille, which usually takes one or two months.” 
Enjoying her work life with On-you, she now pursues a new dream. 
“I wish my life itself could change people’s perspective and prove that disabled people can work normally as others. And I hope my job keeps me helping someone in need.” 
