Korea’s longest walking trail reveals beauty of east coast
This is part of The Korea Herald selection of the 10 best places for walking and hiking in Korea. - Ed.
 Set to be the country’s longest walking trail stretching 770 kilometers along Korea’s east coast, the Haeparang Road offers some of the nation’s most diverse and scenic walking and hiking experiences. 
 Starting in the south from Busan and heading north all the way toward the demilitarized zone in northern Gangwon Province, “Haeparang Road” allows walkers to venture through more than 15 cities and counties on one long, uninterrupted trail. 
The construction of the still-developing trail was announced in 2010 and initially would establish 40 distinct courses; however, that number has now jumped to 50 trail sections, according to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
 The trail that runs through Busan, Gyeongju, Pohang, Yeongdeok, Gangneung and Goseong -- totaling 143 km -- is considered to be among the five best courses on the Haeparang Road trail.
 On this particular course of the trail, visitors can spend hours enjoying endless view of the ocean -- both by walking along hillside paths as well as walking directly on the sand on the area’s many beaches -- all the while watching the locals do what they know best: fishing. 
 Gangguhang Port in Yeongduk-gun is one of the trail’s biggest highlights as the last stop of the walk. The largest port in Yeongdeok County is full of restaurants serving up the region’s most popular local delicacy: snow crab.
 The giant red snow crabs are no doubt the theme of the Yeongdeok region. En route toward the port, one’s eyes will be bombarded with huge crab figurines that decorate the entire city, and Gangguhang Port is without a doubt one of the most famous destinations for enjoying hearty, filling snow crab meals from steamed crab to spicy crab stews.
 During the snow crab season, which runs from about November until May, snow crab boats flock to this location to unload their catches of the day. There is even an annual Yeongdeok Snow Crab Festival held between March and April in the port area.
