Is freedom of expression online worth the possibility of cyber bullying?
Yes-
 Nowadays, there are a lot of issues about cyber violence. Mity’s Web cartoon “malicious comments game” reveals the seriousness of negative online comments in Korea. 
 There are some people who have become cyber outcasts thanks to harsh online comments. But, some people claim that malicious comments should be allowed to some degree. And I am one of them. 
 We can think about malicious comments as a form of “criticism,” which is necessary thing which develops people. For example, amateur cartoonist “Gobatan” -- also known as “dog cartoonist” -- who wrote many cartoons including “Pemia” in Naver’s Webtoon section, frequently stopped posting. The disappointed readers’ comments were what the cartoonist deserved for his irresponsible behavior, and the reaction was something the cartoonist had to accept.
 Second, people should be assured of their freedom of expression, even to criticize maliciously. Many people think those who disturb other people’s natural rights do not deserve their own rights. But serious problems can happen if there are people who are stripped of their rights. In 1966 in the United States, their was a case where Miranda, a murderer and rapist, was acquitted because the detective arrested the criminal without notifying the criminal of his rights, such as the right to an attorney, to veto statements, and to remain silent. This example shows that guaranteeing people their rights is important. If innocent people cannot be assured of their rights, it can be a serious problem.
 For these reasons, I think that malicious comments can be allowed to some degree. I think it is better for us to secure people’s freedom of expression on the Net while implementing measures to prevent cyber bullying instead of just blocking malicious comments. 
 No-
 Freedom of expression is one of the most important freedoms. However, by claiming the freedom of expression, people often violate the rights of other people. Recently, there was a reporter and a blogger who spread false information about the breakup of a TV anchor and her husband. They were sued, and they will be expected to be punished. Is freedom of expression online worth allowing cyber bullying?
 Foremost, freedom of expression on the net is not worthy of the possibility of cyber bullying because a person can’t claim his or her freedom when it is violating other people’s rights. It is also mentioned in Article 21 of the Constitution that freedom of expression cannot infringe other people’s rights to privacy and respect.
 In addition, erroneous and tentative media coverage can mislead the public. Since people tend to believe whatever is on the Internet, even if there is no proof, one incorrect expression can make someone’s life miserable, even after the rumor is proven wrong. One of the best examples of this was the controversy over singer Tablo’s Stanford University degree. 
 Freedom of expression is important. However, when it violates other people’s rights, I believe that freedom of expression on the Net is not worth it.
