Record smasher, speed skating empress Lee Sang-hwa
This year, Korean speed skater Lee Sang-hwa has set world records in the women’s 500 meters not once, twice, thrice, but an unbelievable four times.
 In the second leg of the International Skating Union (ISU) Speed Skating World Cup in Salt Lake City, Utah, Lee broke her own world record for the second time in just two days, finishing the women’s 500 meters in 36.36 seconds and winning her fourth gold medal in 2013.
 At the World Cup competition, there was no competition for Lee (not even her archrival, China’s Wang Beixing). She was her own competition. Without a doubt she has grown into a dominant figure in women’s speed skating. 
 In total, Lee Sang-hwa set four world records in one calendar year. She set a world record in January at the ISU World Cup in Canada with the time of 36.80 seconds. Later in the first leg of the Speed Skating World Cup event held in Calgary, Canada on Nov. 9 she broke her previous record with 36.74 seconds. And this time in the second leg of event in Salt Lake City, Lee smashed her earlier records by finishing 36.57 seconds on the first day and 36.36 seconds on the following day. What a feat!
 Her superb performance in Salt Lake City made her one of four skaters who have set world records four times or more in the women’s 500 meters. Only female speed skate legends Catriona Le May Doan (Canada), Bonnie Blair (United States) and Christa Luding-Rothenburger (Germany) have done it.
 Lee Sang-hwa’s record speaks loud and clear that she is ready to defend her and the country’s first speed skating gold at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics following the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. 
 This raises the question: What is behind her repeated and unrelenting successes?
 Experts point out that it is a combination of three criteria that makes her success possible: Her top-notch technical skills, physical strength, and mental power.
 Technically, Lee Sang-hwa has improved a lot since her historic victory in the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. Today she can maintain her low posture from the beginning of the race to the end, helping her body to resist air pressure as much as possible. Keeping her body as low as she can helps keep her body steady throughout the run and lose the least amount of energy while racing. 
 In addition, since 2010 Vancouver Olympics, Lee has lost five kilograms to add speed to her starts and her race in the first 100 meters. After working with coach Kevin Overland, the men’s 500 meters speed skating bronze medalist in the 1998 Nagano Winter Olympics, Lee found a way to improve her performance during the first 100 meters. Since then, her 100-meter time in seven of her last eight races was the best among her competitors. In fact, her 100m record in her latest game in Salt Lake City in Utah shows that she ran faster (10.09 seconds) than Germany’s Bolf (10.13 seconds) who boasts of her quick starts. 
 “I think she is in perfect shape when I see her skating,” said Kim Gwan-gyu of the Korea Skating Union. “I think she improved a lot, especially in the first 100 meters of the race, which was her biggest weakness.”
 In the meantime, the muscular strength in her thighs has greatly improved thanks to thorough training, providing her with great acceleration and power in the final segment of the race. It helped shorten her lap times. Working on 1,000-meter races also paid off in terms of improving her stamina, Kim explained.
 Furthermore, Lee is known to have a perfect sense of self-control. She is not too worried about her race and does not feel a lot of pressure -- which is the key challenge for her at the 2014 Sochi Olympics.
 If Lee claims gold medal at the Sochi Olympics next February, she will become the fourth woman to become a 500m repeat Olympic gold medalist after Lyudmila Titova of old Soviet Union, Bonnie Blair of the United States of America and Catriona Le May Doan of Canada. 
 “I think I’m in good shape,” Lee said after the race. “But since the ultimate goal is to win in Sochi, I will try my best to show this level of performance in Sochi next year.” 　
 From late November to early December she will practice in Kazakstan and Germany’s Berlin for the third and fourth leg of the Speed Skating World Cup and from January next year she will be racing in Nagano, Japan to polish herself ahead of Sochi 2014.
 Born in 1989, Lee Sang-hwa first competed internationally when she was 14. She became an instant sensation at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics when she unexpectedly defeated world record holder Jenny Wolf to win the women’s 500 meters.
