Is it alright for teenagers to have girlfriends or boyfriends?
Pro- Students should experience life with boys and girls
 I agree that the students can play and form friendships with other friends with both genders. Boys and girls are both human, and they can form friendships like any person.
 First of all, students can have more experience spending time with the opposite gender in schools and public places to prepare for what’s to come in the future -- such as social life in universities, companies and so on. In order to prepare for life when they become adults, students have to form friendships with people of the opposite gender.
 Also, you can prepare for life with your wife or husband. Unless you want to live alone, you are going to have one in the future someday. So in order to know how to treat them, you have to experience it when you’re young. So forming friendships with the opposite sex is crucial.
 Finally, friend of the opposite sex can be fun. Once you know them, boys and girls have different characteristics and styles. It can be interesting to form a friendship with one of them.
 In conclusion, forming friendships is important because it will give you lots of benefits in the future. You will be able to learn a lot from the opposite gender.
Con- I think that teenagers should not be dating
 These days, there are many students who have boyfriends and girlfriends. I think that relationships are not good for teenagers. There are many reasons why I oppose it.
 First, it can disturb their studies. If students have girlfriends or boyfriends, they won’t have much time for studying. In that sense, they will get to have less time to prepare for their exams. As a result, students will get lower scores on tests because of having a boyfriend and girlfriend.
 Second, couples in school environment can make other students have some sense of incongruity. Students with boyfriends or girlfriends will hang out with those who are like them, and ones who do not have boyfriends or girlfriends will only become friends with students who are in the similar situation with them. Consequently, they might think students who have boyfriends or girlfriends are better than them. Then, it can hurt the feelings of students who are not in couples.
 Third, if couples break up, they can be emotionally very upset. They are only young kids and they will feel an immense sadness. They will be hurt.
 In conclusion, relationships are bad for teenagers. So if you want a relationship, you should do that when you grow up and are more mature.
