Kids today run slower than parents did at their age
If given the chance to race against their parents when they were children, the chances are today’s children would lose to their parents, according to new research presented at the American Heart Association’s Scientific Sessions 2013.
 According to data gathered from 28 countries in 50 different studies on running fitness between 1964 and 2010, children today take 90 seconds longer to run a mile (1.6 kilometers) than they did 30 years ago. Researchers said that the decline in children’s aerobic fitness is particularly problematic in that it indicates worse health in adulthood.
 “If a young person is generally unfit now, then they are more likely to develop conditions like heart disease later in life,” lead author of the study and senior lecturer at the School of Health Sciences at the University of South Australia Grant Tomkinson said in a press release.
 “Young people can be fit in different ways. They can be strong like a weightlifter, or flexible like a gymnast, or skillful like a tennis player. But not all of these types of fitness relate well to health,” he continued. “The most important type of fitness for good health is cardiovascular fitness, which is the ability to exercise vigorously for a long time, like running multiple laps around an oval track.”
 Analysis of the data revealed that children’s running speed began to drop in the 1970s, with kids getting slower and slower every year. Although running speed for children between 9 to 17 years old varied country to country, the average decline in running speed was consistent regardless of gender or age. 
The biggest culprit for the decline in children’s cardiovascular endurance was found to be the growing obesity problem. 
“About 30 percent to 60 percent of the declines in endurance running performance can be explained by increases in fat mass,” said Tomkinson, once again emphasizing the need for children to engage in at least 60 minutes of physical activity a day. 
Food for thought
 Do you need more than mere health to motivate you to get some exercise? How about this: Another recent study found that adolescents who engaged in moderate to vigorous exercise routinely were found to be more likely to get better grades in school than their out of shape peers. 
