Korean designers dominate car industry
As competition in the auto industry has gotten more and more cut-throat due to narrowing gaps in quality and technology, the demand for bolder, innovative designs has grown. Such designs are crucial in helping automakers differentiate themselves from other brands, and from the global talent pool of car designers, South Koreans have become a hot commodity, according to a recent Reuters report. 
Dubbed “Asia’s Italy,” a group of South Korean designers has begun to gain influence among top automakers around the world for the impact that their flair and signature has had on car design, fashion and aesthetics. 
“Koreans are extremely good designers, well trained and disciplined,” Chris Bangle, former BMW design chief, told Reuters.
 According to the Reuters report, there are several theories for the auto industry version of the Korean wave, ranging from the rise of Hyundai as a global car brand and the nation’s famed work ethic, to Korea’s societal emphasis on external beauty and the impact of a popular 1990s comic book and TV series called “Asphalt Man.” 
“In most mature markets, people have moved on and cars are generally nothing more than a means of transportation” said Lim Bum-suk, a Korean native and professor of car design at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California. “In Korea, and increasingly, China, people still dream of owning cars and they’re considered a status symbol,” making car design a desirable option.
 Lee Sang-yup, who is in charge of exterior design and advancement design at Bentley’s main studio in Crewe, England, told Reuters that he was one of many kids inspired by the fictional car designer in “Asphalt Man.” 
“We don’t have a strong automotive tradition in Korea, so most of us are very hungry and willing to work hard” to gain the knowledge and expertise in car design, Lee added. “That makes us flexible and versatile.”
 Influential Korean designers and their work
 Lee Sang-yup – Led the team that redesigned the new GM Camaro in 2009
 Hubert Lee – Masterminded the styling of the Mercedes-Benz CLS luxury coupe
 Christine Park – Lead interior designer for the Cadillac XTS
