Ku Hye-sun goes for the whole nine yards
The multi-talented Ku Hye-sun has found a new way to challenge herself, despite already making a name for herself as an award-winning filmmaker, actress, singer and artist. The ever ambitious and hardworking Ku now plans on writing, directing and starring in her next movie project, titled “Daughter.”
 Born on Nov. 9, 1984, Ku Hye-sun first stepped into the limelight in the early 2000s, when she became an online pseudo-celebrity as an “ulzzang,” a slang term used to refer to someone who has a very beautiful face. The entertainment industry took notice of her shortly after she began posting pictures of herself online, leading to her debut as a commercial model in 2002. Soon thereafter, she debuted as an actress in the popular sitcom “Nonstop 5.” 　
 Best known for her role in the hit TV drama, “Boys over Flowers,” Ku’s success and versatility as an artist only continued to grow as she began to take on other challenges. In 2009, Ku began to express her artistry in more diverse ways, making her debut as a film director, artist and writer all in the same year. 　
 Ku made her official debut as a director at the 2008 Puchon International Fantastic Film Festival with her short film, “The Madonna,” but not before she published a bestselling, semi-autobiographical novel, “Tango,” about a woman’s experience with love and relationships. Her debut as an artist coincided with the release of her novel, when in July 2009 she held her first solo art exhibition at La Mer Gallery.
 Refusing to just limit herself to the visual arts, Ku also began to show off her vocal talents. Not only was her singing voice featured on various drama soundtracks, Ku also composed and released an album of New Age music titled “Breath” in 2009, followed by numerous singles between 2010 and 2013. 
As though her already ample achievements at such a young age weren’t enough, Ku is now, for the first time, embarking on a journey to take up three different and very demanding roles as writer, director and lead character. The film “Daughter” is said to be a film about the difficult relationship between an abusive mother and her daughter. Ku will play the tormented daughter while veteran actress Shim Hye-jin has been cast to play the mother.
Ku Hye-sun was originally set to debut as a singer before YG Entertainment CEO Yang Hyun-suk advised her to pursue acting rather than music. Ku was supposedly training to debut in a 3-member girl group with 2NE1’s Park Bom and Sandara Park. 
