Should chess be considered a sport?
YES - I argue that chess should be considered as a sport. There are several specific reasons why I agree chess should be considered as a sport. 
The first reason is because online games and Baduk are categorized as sports in newspapers or online news. This means that chess can be considered as a sport, just like baduk. 
When my brother was in America, he participated in a chess championship as a representative of the school he was attending. Like this, in some parts of the world, chess championships are often held. Most sports have players who compete against each other. Chess also has players that compete against each other, and this is why I think chess is also a sport. 
If chess is not a sport, Baduk and online games should not be considered as sports either. Baduk is almost the same as chess. There are not many differences. It is same with online games. Therefore, I think chess should be considered as a sport.
 NO - Chess is a very popular game throughout the world. It is a game of strategy that requires the use of your brain. Some people consider chess a sport because it requires exercising your brain to play it. However, I disagree with this. 
The official definition of a sport is a form of competitive physical activity. Chess may be very competitive but it’s definitely not a physical activity, so it should not be considered a sport. In order to be part of the Olympics, they say that games must fit the exact definition for sports. If we consider a mental game like chess to be a part of the Olympics, then we should consider all mind games, like Poker or the traditional game Baduk, to be part of the Olympics. 　
 Another reason why chess should not be considered a sport is because you do not need physical energy to play chess. Sports are a kind of activity where you reach your physical limits but still try to push yourself just a little bit further. Chess, however, is a mental game that doesn’t require a lot of energy. 
Chess has too many differences to be considered a sport. Instead, chess should just be thought of as a hobby.
