2013 College Scholastic Aptitude Test
Every year, parents of high school students across the nation spend the month of November holding their collective breath and praying in earnest as their children undergo one of the most important moments in a Korean student’s life: the College Scholastic Aptitude Test (CSAT). 
Students and parents across the nation erupted in cries of joy and disappointment as the results of this year’s CSAT were revealed on Nov. 27. Although most students were more than relieved to be able to finally put the stressful exam behind them as they eagerly apply to colleges and universities, there are an undoubted few who shed tears of disappointment at their scores, dreading the prospect of having to go through the entire process again. 
Since low CSAT scores limit Korean students’ abilities to apply to certain universities, many feel they have no choice but to have to retake the exam next year, hoping for a higher score. The amount of pressure to receive high scores on the CSATs is hard enough on high school graduates without the added stress of worrying about ambiguous wording or outright errors in the exam questions. 　 
In an exam where each question wrong can mean the difference between being able to apply to Korea’s top-tier universities and not being able to even turn in an application form, most students spend endless hours poring over every study material they can get their hands on. Even after completing the exam, many students spend hours going over each exam question and answer, trying to figure out their scores before the results are calculated. 
It is because so much pressure is put on the CSAT scores that the Korea Institute of Curriculum and Evaluation (KICE) - the state agency in charge of the CSAT - is now under fire for a series of claims of ambiguous questions, at least one of which has prompted students to file a class action lawsuit. 　 
There are three questions in particular that students have claimed to be confusing or ambiguous on this year’s CSAT. 
In the mathematics A section, students took issue with the wording of question number 18. The question asked students to calculate the probability of each student getting at least one white and one orange table tennis ball when distributing eight white and seven orange table tennis balls between three students. However, the question as it appeared on the exam caused some confusion as it did not specify whether or not students were supposed to differentiate between balls of the same color. 
Several questions in the English B section also brought up complaints for being almost identical with sample questions on EBS’ study materials. 
Although those two questions brought nothing but complaints, one question in the World Geography section has prompted more than 50 students to file a class action lawsuit. The problematic question asked students to pick the best comparison of the European Union and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) blocs. 
According to KICE, the correct answer was that EU’s combined GDP was greater than that of NAFTA. However, many argued that recent data shows that the EU’s current gross output is actually smaller than that of NAFTA member states. The error was identified and brought up to the institution before the release of the test scores, but the response from KICE prompted further controversy. In response, KICE dismissed the complaint, stating that there was “nothing wrong” with the question because it was based on statistics between 2007 and 2011 as written in all high school textbooks.
 However, the source of dissatisfaction with KICE’s response lies with the labeling on the world map that was included in the question, which read “2012.” Although KICE has stated that the question was based on statistics between 2007 and 2011, students insisted that the “2012” label on the map should validate their complaint. 
Ambiguous or problematic questions are not the only reason why KICE faces lawsuits from students this year. According to local news reports, a high school senior has filed a lawsuit contesting the nullification of her CSAT score on Nov. 20. The student, whose name has not been identified, reportedly had her scores nullified for cheating when it was revealed that she wore a watch that included a stopwatch function while taking the exam on Nov. 7. 　
 The student argued that the stopwatch would have in no way affected her ability to take the exam, adding that labeling her actions as cheating was excessive. Education authorities, however, stated that they stood by their decision to nullify her results, since her watch went against test taking regulations and she should have turned it in before the start of the first exam period. 
“The nullification (of the student’s exam score) is appropriate because it was a clear violation of regulations,” an official of the education authorities was quoted as saying. “Test-taking students who are looking to take the CSAT are responsible for making sure to check the relevant regulations very carefully.”
 Despite all the controversy surrounding some of the questions that appeared on the exam, however, 33 students from all over the country are reported to have received perfect scores on this year’s CSATs. 
One student in particular, has attracted public attention for being the only CSAT taker this year to get a perfect score on the natural sciences portion of the exam. Out of the 650,747 students that took the CSAT this year, Chun Bong-yeol from Mokpo Hongil High School was the only one to receive a perfect score on the exam’s natural sciences section. Chun is reportedly planning to apply to the pre-med program at Seoul National University’s College of Medicine. 
Interest in the number of students to receive perfect scores is particularly high because only six students took home perfect scores in last year’s CSAT. The surprisingly high number of perfect score recipients has prompted many to wonder whether this year’s exam was unusually easy. 
