Activists call for SOFA revision
Two American soldiers in Korea were arrested for rape.
 The Korean government, faced with growing public anger over the U.S. forces stationed in the country, is now poised to gear up its legal jurisdiction on the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), Yonhap News reported on Oct. 10.
 The SOFA is the code of agreement which states the legal status of U.S. troops here in Korea. Calls for the revision of the SOFA have emerged after two U.S. Army soldiers were charged with raping teenage girls in Dongducheon and Seoul last month. In 2002, there was a nationwide protest against the U.S. military after two local middle-school girls were killed by an American armored vehicle.
 Since then, the issue has been a hot potato for the administration and the breakout of the two unfortunate incidents added more pressure to it. A number of South Korean lawmakers and civic groups chanted about what they claim the unfairness of the SOFA, saying it overprotects the U.S. soldiers while posing disadvantages to many locals. They said that South Korean police have the automatic right to take custody of the U.S. servicemen only if they were caught red-handed, even in the most heinous crimes such as murder and rape. Even though the U.S. Army generally hands over soldiers who commit crimes off-duty once the Korean authorities request it.
 “We are reviewing whether there are inconvenient factors in the process of investigation and prosecution with regard to crimes committed by U.S. soldiers here,” a related official said.
 He hinted that a possible improvement or revision of the SOFA would be discussed at next month’s meeting between the two governments.
 In the wake of recent incidents, Gen. James Thurman, the top U.S. military commander in Korea, imposed a 30-day nighttime curfew on the troops to ease public anger in the nation.
 Arriving Korea, Kurt Campbell, assistant U.S. secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs also mentioned that he and his country “would like to apologize to the Korean people for the tragic and inexcusable rape." 
