Korea’s underground economy
A recent report released by LG Economic Research Institute (LGERI) showed that Korea’s so-called underground economy accounted for 24.6 percent, or 314 trillion won, of the nation’s gross domestic product in 2012.
 The alarming size of Korea’s underground economy, which saw an increase of 8.4 percent in 2010, is beginning to raise concerns over its impact on the nation’s tax revenue. Referring to unregulated or undetected business activities, the so-called “underground economy” provides many self-employed Koreans with ways to evade taxes. 
“The rate of tax evasion for the self-employed hit 57 percent between 2005 and 2012, which means that they did not report 570,000 won to the authority for every 1 million won they earned,” said Cho Young-moo, a researcher at LGERI.　
 In fact, the International Monetary Fund calculates that only 48 percent of taxable income was collected by the Korean government in 2012, a figure that is well below the 70 percent tallied for advanced countries and 69 percent for developing economies. 
Meanwhile, experts anticipate that the size of Korea’s underground economy will continue to expand, based on the fact that Koreans have already reduced their use of cash receipts and credit cards in the first half of 2013. By not using cash receipts or credit cards, taxable revenue is nearly impossible to keep track of by the National Tax Service.
 So, what exactly is the “underground economy”? 
 The underground economy, or black market, is a market in which goods or services are traded illegally. Though products sold through an underground economy may not be illegal to own or sell per se, the transaction itself is illegal because it is not monitored by the government.
 There are two common motives for operating in an underground economy. The first is to buy and sell contraband. The second, financial motive is to avoid taxes or price controls. 
Since the transactions that occur in an underground economy are illegal, the market itself is forced to operate outside of the formal economy. This means that since a country’s tax authority is unaware of how much revenue businesses operating in an underground economy are generating, it is unable to tax these generally self-employed businessmen. Additionally, as the unmonitored underground economy continues to grow, the amount of money circulating in the formal economy will begin to decrease, which could eventually lead to a recession. 
