Korea successfully launches STSAT-3
Seoul successfully sent its first observation satellite with infrared radar into space in late November.
 Using Russia’s ballistic missile-turned space launch vehicle Dnepr, the STSAT-3 reached its target orbit, officials from the Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI) confirmed.
 Beacon signals were picked up by Norway’s Svalbard Satellite Station about an hour after the satellite blasted off from Russia’s Yasny Launch Base at 1:10 p.m. (4:10 p.m. KST) and successful deployment of the satellite was again confirmed about six hours after liftoff when it established its first radio communication with the South Korean ground station. 
 “The satellite has successfully been deployed from the launch vehicle, and the main computer of the satellite has now been turned on,” Lee Seung-woo, a Korea Aerospace Research Institute official in charge of the Science and Technology Satellite 3 (STSAT-3) program, told reporters. 
 “The radio contact with South Korea’s ground station further confirms that the satellite successfully reached its target orbit,” Lee said. 
 However it will take several months to confirm that the satellite and all of its equipment are working properly, experts noted. 
 The launch of STSAT-3 will allow more in-depth forecasts of geological and environmental changes, such as earthquakes on the Korean Peninsula and its surrounding areas.
 STSAT-3 will operate closely with the Korean Multipurpose Satellite-5 (KOMPSAT-5), the country’s first satellite with synthetic aperture radar, which was launched in August this year. KOMPSAT-5 uses an advanced form of side-looking airborne radar that uses radio waves to detect changes in a target area. It is capable of 24-hour surveillance of the earth’s surface regardless of weather conditions.
 The STSAT-3 is equipped with infrared radar that can detect changes in temperatures on both the Earth’s surface and underground. It also orbits the earth once every 97 minutes at an altitude of 600 kilometers, and has a maximum lifespan of two years.
