Seized art to hit the auction block
The infamous art collection seized from the family of former President Chun Doo-hwan will be put up for auction at two major auction houses in Korea in December.　
 The government designated K Auction and Seoul Auction as the official auction houses tasked with selling around 300 artworks each during their regular winter auctions, including masterpieces of Korean art.
 A total of 600 artworks with an estimated total value of more than 5 billion won were seized by officials earlier in the year, according to auction officials. The money collected through the auction will be used to pay the fine imposed on the disgraced former president.
 K Auction will begin its first auction of the Chun collection in Sinsa-dong on Dec. 11, where 80 artworks out of some 300 pieces in its collection will be presented. An online auction will follow on Dec. 13 to 17. Pieces being sold by K Auction include major modern and contemporary paintings by Kim Whanki, Lee Dae-won, Kim Jong-hak, Oh Chi-gyun and the calligraphy of former Presidents Chun Doo-hwan and Kim Dae-jung.　
 A 1965 abstract painting by Kim Whanki alone is estimated to be worth between 450 and 800 million won.　
 “The Chun collection is diverse in genres and artists,” Lee Sang-kyu, CEO of K Auction, said at a press conference on Nov. 27, adding that the collection had been titled, “Chun Jae-kook Art Collection” after the former president’s eldest son, who was an avid collector who is said to have been planning to establish an art museum. 
Seoul Auction will begin presenting its own collection of artworks confiscated from the Chun family a week after K Auction, on Dec. 18. Artworks to be auctioned off by Seoul Auction include landscape paintings by nine late-Joseon master painters such as Jeong Seon, Kang Se-hwang and Sim Sa-jeong which are estimated to be worth 500 to 600 million won each. 
Seoul Auction will also put up for auction a series of artworks by renowned foreign artists, including an acrylic painting by American post-modernist Davide Salle, Italian Trans-avant-garde movement artwork by Mimmo Paladino and prints by the world-famous British painter Francis Bacon. The auction will be held at Seoul Auction in Pyeonchang-dong. 
