Candidate for ITU unit chief vows to bridge digital divide
The Korean candidate for director of a U.N. agency for telecommunications said that South Korea can play a critical role in bridging the gap between developed and less-developed nations through the world’s information and communication technology (ICT) sector. 
“Korea is now in a position to lead the world’s ICT industry. It is not a follower anymore,” said Lee Chae-sub, a candidate for the director of the Telecommunication Standardization Sector, a division of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU-T).
 He added that “Korea, once a beneficiary of aid after the 1950-53 Korean War, is now capable of contributing to global society with its advanced ICT, and it is time to do something about this.”
 Lee, who is a researcher at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), the nation’s top tech school, has also been serving as the chairman of ITU-T SG 13, a study group linked to the U.N. agency, since 2009.　
 In order to narrow the digital divide between advanced nations and less-developed ones, Lee said that collaboration was necessary between mobile makers and ICT firms such as Samsung Electronics, LG Electronics, Apple and Google in enhancing interoperability. 
“Interoperability among devices is critical, and even more so in less-developed and developing nations, where incompatible technologies among devices and networks could impair efficiency and effectiveness,” he said. 
If elected as the chairman of the U.N. agency, he said he would shed light on the current issues of the ICT sector in Korea, often referred to as one of the most wired nations in the world. 
Cyber fraud and hacking, along with countermeasures against cyber crimes, will be a part of this agenda, according to the ITU-T candidate. 
It is expected that the chairmanship will be a boon to the domestic ICT industry, as the government and domestic private firms will have more opportunities to network with the ITU member nations, multinational businesses and key players in academia, which will help accelerate the globalization of Korean ICT technologies. 
“Korea, in return, will be able to serve as a test bed for new technology, thanks to its advanced technology and infrastructure, and this will benefit other members as well,” he said. 
The director of the ITU-T, whose term is four years, will be elected through a vote of its member countries during the plenipotentiary conference of the ITU in Busan in 2014.
