Is it credible to judge a person based on their zodiac sign or blood type?
Yes –
 I personally believe that there is no harm in judging people based on their zodiac sign or blood type to some degree. 
 To begin with, if you know someone’s blood type in advance you might have a clearer idea of what the person will be like. For example, if a girl has blood type A, which is associated with a timid personality, you can be more careful with your words and actions toward her when you first meet her. With this knowledge, you will have less trouble in building a friendship with her. 
 So blood types can be used as a way not for having prejudices against people prior to actually getting to know them, but for having a better knowledge and understanding of their characters and eventually building better relationships with them. 
 Additionally, I think people in the same zodiac signs tend to have similar personalities. People have different childhoods, upbringings and relationships with family and friends, so having a certain zodiac sign cannot tell everything about that person. Yet, people in the same zodiac signs tend to bear similar personalities to some extent. For example, the majority of Pisces that I know tend to be artistic, and Leos tend to be active. So knowing people’s zodiac signs can be fun.　
 All in all, I think there is nothing wrong with judging people based on their blood types or zodiac signs as they can be useful and fun.
 NO-
 In school or in society, there are many tests designed to evaluate people. In my school we have many tests too, and my teachers judge me by test scores.
 I think we can evaluate people by this kind of test, because teachers can figure out whether they have put the right amount of effort into them.
 But I don’t think we can evaluate a person by his or her zodiac sign or blood type. A zodiac sign is based on the person’s date of birth. So it can’t be related to the person’s personality. 
 For example, my zodiac sign is Leo, which means that I trust people very easily. But it’s not true. At school or at my house I don’t believe anyone that easily.
 And I think blood type is wrong too. In the U.S., they do not believe in the connection between blood type and personality, so one’s blood type is only needed in hospitals.
 They think a person’s character can change anytime, so they cannot judge a person based on their blood type. I agree with this opinion -- a person can change their personality. And blood type is determined by your parents’ blood type, so I think we can neither judge a person based on their blood type nor their zodiac sign.
