Korea’s competitive edge
Today Korea is in the news a lot. The country’s frequent appearances in world news are in part because of its other half - North Korea’s volatile nature that has grabbed international attention. But there is more to the recent global hype about Korea. South Korea excels in at least 10 areas around the world according to a U.S. news organization CNN. The country is as small as Iceland but the nation is packed with potential. Here are five extraordinary qualities that this article pointed out.
 1. Advanced information technology
 Korea’s Internet penetration rate of 82.7 percent is one of world’s highest and 78.5 percent of its population uses smartphones. Among 18- to 24-year-olds, the number is even higher: Some 97.7 percent of youngsters use these tech gadgets.
 Koreans can do almost everything with their mobile devices, from online shopping and watching real-time TV to chatting with their friends on Kakao Talk, South Koreans’ favorite texting service. Wireless Internet connections are even available underground on another great Korean asset - the high quality subway system. 
 Nowadays people around the world recognize the South Korean brand, Samsung and its amazing galaxy smartphone line-up - which represents Korea’s superb information technology.
 2. Korean pop culture
 Cute singers, with inventive choreography and glamorous stage performances, have helped fuel Korean wave, also known as Hallyu. SNSD and Psy have become global stars that not only local fans but also people around the world look up to and adore. The global popularity of Korea’s idol stars and Korean drama has prompted the government of South Korea to use the Korean Wave as a tool for its soft power.
 3. Hard work
 Koreans are famous for their unfathomable and unquenchable quest for education. It has the highest education level among the members of Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); about 98 percent of the population complete secondary education and 63 percent of them receive college education - and the habit does stop there. 
 The amount of hours Koreans spend on working every week handily outstrips most workers around the world. According to 2012 data from Seoul’s Ministry of Strategy and Finance, Koreans work 44.6 hours per week, compared with the OECD average of 32.8 hours.
 4. Flourishing beauty industry
 There is a deep connection between Koreans and their beauty industry. Just like France and the U.S., Korean beauty products are thought of as hot and innovative. Korean make-up uses unconventional ingredients — food such as avocado and Korea’s Jeju island tangerine, and the products of living creatures like snails. Nowhere in the world except Korea could people find moisturizer made with snail trails. The popular BB cream originated from Korea and spread to other parts of the globe. The streets of Myeong-dong in central Seoul are inundated with Japanese and Chinese tourists scrambling to get their hands on as many Korean make-up and skin care products as possible.
 Additionally, Korea’s plastic surgery is one of the world’s best, making it a regional mecca for cosmetic surgery. Russians, Chinese, and Japanese flock to Korea for plastic surgery “medical tours,” not just because of its skilled surgeons but for its relatively low prices. 
 5. Sports stars, especially female golfers
 Of the top 100 female golfers in the world, 38 are Korean. What’s even more striking is that of the top 10 there are four Korean players.
 Park In-bee won LPGA player of the year in 2013, and she clinched the most prize money in Women’s golf. In January, Korea-born New Zealander Lydia Ko, 14, became the youngest woman to ever win a professional golf tournament. 
 What’s more, South Korean baseball players are famous too. Many will recognize names of Korean pitchers - Ryu Hyun-jin of the L.A. Dodgers and former L.A. Dodgers pitcher Park Chan-ho.
 While some parts of the CNN report were encouraging, some were grim. The more negative mentions were of frequent after-work boozing by Korean workers, the culture of blind dating (Korean singles often turn to blind dates – either set up by their friends, relatives or parents or use matchmaking companies to find a match) and the world’s highest credit card use. The Bank of Korea data show that Koreans made 129.7 transactions with their credit card in 2011 while Americans made 77.9 credit card transactions per person in 2011 and Canadians 89.6.
 Seeing how foreigners view Korea offers us a chance to think more objectively about ourselves. Knowing what Korea lacks also makes it more convenient for the nation to make improvements on its shortcomings. 
