Korean libraries embrace new, expanded roles
While some people still assume that the library is a place for bookworms and exam takers, changes in demographics have forced libraries to shift their focus to reinforcing their resident-centered programs for seniors and multicultural families. 
“The public library is where I can get educational benefits either free of charge or cheaper than anywhere else, and I want to make the most out of it,” Ahn Si-young, a regular library-goer and 55-year-old mother of two, said in an interview with The Korea Herald. 
Along with Ahn, more Koreans aged 50 and older, particularly retiring baby boomers, are flocking to public libraries. Given that South Korea is one of the fastest-aging countries, it’s no surprise that the average age of library users is going up. According to the National Library of Korea, the proportion of users aged 60 or older at the state-run library jumped to 19 percent in 2013, compared with 14 percent in 2010. 
Another major demographic change in Korea is the growth of multicultural families. Government data predicts the number of multicultural family members, estimated at 272,000 in 2009, will climb to 2.1 million by 2050.
 The impact is already changing the scene at many libraries, where programs are being customized for users with a multicultural background. Behind the push for these new library programs is the “Reading Culture Promotion Act” enacted by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
 The policy places importance on expanding the library’s functions, pushing libraries to provide seniors with a venue for lifelong education and helping narrow the gap between information haves and have-nots, including migrant workers and multicultural families. 
For libraries, holding such programs is advantageous as the participants tend to revisit the library. For senior citizens and multicultural families, the course not only offers educational activities but also opportunities to build relationships with other participants.
 Not all libraries have the necessary resources and manpower to provide a diverse range of services, however, because Korea has a relatively weak starting point when it comes to libraries. While European public libraries serve an average of 10,000 users, Korean public libraries handle more than 66,000 people. There are only 3,300 librarians at Korean public libraries. This means that on average, one librarian serves 15,000 Koreans, a ratio that is far below the 1 librarian per 2,500 users recommended by the International Federation of Library Association and Institutions.
 Against this background, focus and customization are crucial. According to Professor Kim Gi-yeong of Yonsei University, both libraries and government bodies should consider different conditions and issues when they map out programs. 
