Who do Korean college students look up to the most?
A recent survey conducted by an economics professor in Korea found some interesting trends about the people that Korean college students consider as their role models. 
The survey, conducted by professor Kim Jae-won of Hanyang University, asked 267 students to write down the names of living figures who they considered to be their role models at home and abroad. Among Koreans, the students picked U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as their top male role model and figure skater Kim Yu-na as the woman they look up to the most. 
These results are not particularly surprising, given that their popularity amongst Koreans is well-established. What is interesting, however, are the results for global figures.
 Chairman and founder of Microsoft Corp. Bill Gates was picked as the most respected foreign male figure while U.S. TV personality Oprah Winfrey listed at the top of respected foreign women. 
Who is Bill Gates?
 Born on Oct. 28, 1955, Bill Gates is the American business magnate, investor, programmer, inventor and philanthropist behind the world’s largest personal computer software company, Microsoft Corp. Consistently ranked in Forbes magazine’s list of the world’s wealthiest people, Gates is famous for more than just being the co-founder of what is arguably one of the most successful global conglomerates in the world. As one of the best-known entrepreneurs of the personal computer revolution, his reputation as a philanthropist is also well-documented. During the later stages of his career, Gates set up the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000, through which he has donated large amounts of money to various charitable organizations and scientific research programs. 
 Who is Oprah Winfrey?
 Born on Jan. 29, 1954, Oprah Winfrey is an American media proprietor, talk show host, actress, producer and philanthropist best known for her multi-award-winning talk show “The Oprah Winfrey Show.” Not only is she considered the richest and most philanthropic African-American of the 20th century, Winfrey is also considered by some to be one of the most influential women in the world. Though she may be one of the richest, most successful people in the world today, Winfrey was not born with a silver spoon in her mouth. In fact, she was initially born into poverty to a single, teenage mother, making her success and recent awarding of the Presidential Medal of Freedom even more remarkable and admirable.
