Should gambling be banned?
YES - Almost everyone knows that gambling is a negative thing. However, the gambling issue doesn’t leave our side. What is the main reason for this? If it’s dangerous enough to harm people mentally, should we ban it? With respect to this question, I believe that gambling should be banned.
 First of all, I think that gambling has negative features rather than healthy ones. Society aspires to build a world in which everyone can earn money from their diligence. However, people who gamble habitually just want to hit the jackpot rather than earning money through hard work. This means that gambling goes against the goals of society. That is why gambling should be banned. 
Moreover gambling is addictive. People who lack self-control find it difficult to stop gambling. When addicted people fail to make money, they try to hide the fact that they lost a lot of money and keep gambling in order to try and redeem their mistakes. It’s a vicious circle. 
Last but not least, gambling can ruin people’s lives completely. Not only can it act as a barrier to a person’s happiness but it can also destroy a family’s peace. One study found that those who gamble are more likely to suffer from depression and commit suicide. 
Some people say that the issue with gambling has nothing to do with them as those who gamble are spending their own money. However, if you consider what it would be like if people around you, like family or friends, are addicted to gambling, you must do everything in your power to help them get out of gambling.
 NO - Nowadays, we hear news about celebrities being arrested because of illegal gambling. As such, there are efforts to ban gambling from our society because gambling is so addictive that it can ruin one’s life forever. But should gambling be banned?　
 The gambling industry can be useful when it comes to reviving abandoned areas. For example, Kangwon Land is the only casino among the 17 casinos in Korea that Koreans can actually access legitimately. The goal of establishing Kangwon Land was to develop a coal-mining zone. As you see, Kangwon Land is very successful and it has accomplished its intended goal. 
In addition, the gambling industry is essential to society because human desire cannot be suppressed permanently. If a person is forbidden from something, he or she is very likely to violate the restrictions and do it illegally. Therefore, a gambling industry supervised by a government institution can be rather profitable for a society.　
 People tend to think that gambling is detrimental and therefore it should be prohibited. However, we must understand that merely abolishing the gambling industry will not resolve the intrinsic problem. There should be policies trying to limit the gambling behavior of the public rather than banning it entirely.
