College students avoiding graduation to top 100,000
An increasing number of students enrolled in colleges in Korea are putting off graduating in the face of abysmal employment rates and the belief that remaining a student will increase their chances of landing a job.
 Referred to as the “Moratorium Tribe,” more and more students are choosing to stay in school longer than the obligatory four years. On average, male students are now graduating eight years after enrollment, while female students tend to stay in school for six years before finally graduating. Consequently, leading private universities in Seoul are finding their campuses filled with students whose numbers surpass their enrollment quotas by 30-40 percent. 
In fact, the number of students that defer their graduation has increased by about 10,000 students in the last year, according to data from the Ministry of Education. At this rate, the total number of students that fall in the “moratorium tribe” is expected to exceed 100,000 by next year.
 Rather than being unable to graduate, students are choosing not to. Students have begun to intentionally fail or lower their grades and taking advantage of the option to re-take the class. This allows them to remain in school as a part time student, paying lower tuition rates. As a result, a new trend has emerged in the academic environment with students now pleading with professors to lower rather than raise their grades, a phenomenon that would have been unthinkable in the past. 
The reasoning behind this phenomenon is the belief that remaining a student will increase their chances of landing a job. A prevailing theory among college students today is that employers are more likely to hire someone who is still a student rather than a recent college graduate. 
“The number of students pushing back their graduation began to increase as the realization that companies are reluctant to hire (graduated) job seekers began to spread out,” President of the Korean University Academic Deans Association Ha Soo-kown told the Korean-language daily, Hankook Kyungjae. 
