Five things you didn’t know about Christmas: Holiday traditions unmasked
Christmas is a time for celebration, beloved by many all over the world. It comes with its own distinct set of decorations and traditions that are recognized by people of all ages. Christmas trees, reindeers, candy canes and presents wrapped in beautiful, decorative papers. You can’t imagine Christmas without picturing these classic symbols. But have you ever thought about their origins? Well look no further! Let’s take a look at the history behind the five most common Christmas decorations:
 Gift-wrapped presents 
 Gift wrap as we know it today was accidentally discovered in 1917 by two brothers who needed something else to wrap their customers’ purchases in after they ran out of the standard red, green and white tissue paper at their stationery store. On a whim, the brothers decided to try wrapping the purchases in thin, fancy paper intended for lining envelopes. Upon learning that it was a hit with the customers, the brothers decided to start selling the paper itself and make gift wrap their main business. The names of the brothers were J.C. and Rollie Hall, founders of Hallmark. 
That said, the practice of wrapping presents dates further back, believing to have started in Korea as early as the first century A.D. Traditional Korean wrapping cloths, known as “bojagi,” had many uses, one of which was gift wrapping. Although it was popularized during the Joseon Dynasty, the practice of using bojagi to wrap presents first appeared in the Three Kingdoms Period. The practice of using fancy paper and lace, however, originates from the Victorian era in the West. During this time, the use of elaborately decorated paper to conceal gifts was a luxury-oriented practice limited to upper-class Victorians.
 Gingerbread houses
 In many Western cultures, the tradition of decorating gingerbread houses is an annual holiday treat. Though it may not be that common in Asia, it is not very difficult to figure out the origins of building “houses” out of gingerbread and decorating them with candy. For a hint, think of two German siblings whose names start with H and G.
 Although ginger may have originated from Asia, the practice of turning it into gingerbread comes from Europe, where gingerbread fairs soon became popular. Although the English are credited with being the first to bake and sell gingerbread when they introduced the “Gingerbread Man,” they were far from being the first to bake this delicious treat. Gingerbread was readily available for purchase throughout Europe in the 16th century. It wasn’t until gingerbread reached England, however, that people began painting decorations on it, which is how gingerbread cookies as we know them today were born. 
As the trend of decorating gingerbread cookies began to grow, the practice of decorating gingerbread houses with candy did not become popular until a particular, well-known story published by two German brothers featured a witch’s house made of candy. Their names? Wilhelm and Jacob Grimm. Their story? “Hansel and Gretel.” 
 Candy canes
 Candy canes are one of the many things that make Christmas such a sweet holiday. As a staple Christmas decoration and treat, few of us have ever questioned where candy canes come from or why they are shaped the way they are. Did you know, however, that the origin of the candy cane is actually a mystery? Though there are many theories and myths, no one can seem to agree on where exactly it came from or what it signifies. 
Many people believe that candy canes are a Christian candy, with one myth going so far as to claim that the candy was used as a secret identifier of early persecuted Christians. However, the only religious connection between the candy and Christianity that has any sort of historical support is a legend from 1670 alleging that the Christian Church appropriated an already popular Christmas candy, which was originally in a simple, stick form, and reshaped it as a shepherd staff to give to children at mass to keep them quiet. Not quite as exciting as some other theories, but still the most plausible. 
Christmas trees
 As most people are aware, Christmas was originally a Christian holiday celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ, and one of the most recognizable symbols of this holiday is the Christmas tree. However, the practice of decorating evergreen trees - or “Christmas trees” - during this time is a tradition that dates back to before the advent of Christianity.
 Evergreen plants were often used as winter decorations during ancient times to remind people that “life” would return in the spring. In general, this practice was often tied to worship. Ancient Egyptians, for example, used to decorate their homes with evergreen boughs during the winter solstice ? the shortest day and longest night of the year - to symbolize the triumph of the sun god Ra over death. During ancient Egyptian times, many people believed that winter came every year because the sun god would get sick and weak. The winter solstice was celebrated with evergreen decorations because it reminded the people that green plants would grow again once the sun god was strong and thus summer would return. 
Christmas tree decorations as we know them today did not emerge until the 16th century. Germany is largely credited with starting this tradition when devout Christians began bringing decorated trees into their homes. 
 Santa Claus 
 As with Christmas trees and candy canes, no Christmas is complete without Santa Claus. Although most people around the world may know the tale of Santa Claus and his elves in the North Pole, how many people know that the Santa Claus character was born by merging the Dutch Sinterklaas (St. Nicholas) and the British Father Christmas? 
St. Nicholas, or Sinterklaas in Dutch, was a Greek-Orthodox bishop who lived around A.D. 300. Known for his great generosity, St. Nicholas’ actions and subsequent sainthood was the catalyst of the entire Santa Claus legend. Unlike in the Netherlands, the personification of Christmas in England did not take after a specific person from history. Rather, “Father Christmas” was born out of a carol attributed to Richard Smart from the 1400s, which takes the form of a sung dialogue between a choir and a figure representing Christmas. 
The idea of a “jolly old man” did not come about until the 1800s when the poem “A Visit From St. Nicholas” (better known today as “The Night Before Christmas”) was published in the Troy Sentinel by an anonymous author on Dec. 23, 1823. In fact, many of Santa Claus’ modern attributes are established in this poem, including the sleigh riding, entering through the chimney and having a bag full of toys. 
