Having discovered the power of films, global automotive companies are increasingly vying to have their vehicles appear in Hollywood movies or TV shows, because their global audience gives car brands more international exposure than regional commercials. 
In some movies, cars can even play starring roles. James Bond, for example, would not be 007 without his Aston Martin. 
So what about Hyundai? Well, the Korean auto giant ― for which any publicity, good or bad, is better than none ― has also put considerable resources into exposing its vehicles on-screen.
 Hyundai’s screen debut was the Grace minivan in the 1996 Hong Kong action movie “Police Story 4” starring Jackie Chan. But its cars were almost invisible on the big screen until the early 2000s. 
Things began to change when a scene in “Bourne Supremacy” (2004) had lead actor, Matt Damon, chasing bad guys in an EF Sonata sedan, yelling: “Look at that silver Hyundai.” Although there were no product placement deals in place, the car managed to capture the audience’s attention for about five minutes. 
The EF Sonata then began appearing in other movies, including “War of the Worlds” (2005) and “The Hurt Locker” (2008), becoming the most-seen Hyundai car in Hollywood films.
 “Hyundai used to focus more on building quality cars. But the carmaker started putting resources into design and more recently marketing under the leadership of vice chairman Chung Eui-sun (who is also the son of the group chairman Chung Mong-koo),” said Kim Sang-hoon, professor of marketing at Seoul National University. 
“Until now Hyundai has been desperate to expose its cars more frequently. But now is the time for a more strategic approach,” he said, adding “Product placement is touchy and it has to be done properly.”
 As part of the efforts, Hyundai has bravely decided to associate itself with brain-eating zombies as it has offered its Tucson crossover to AMC’s graphic series, “The Walking Dead.”　
 Since 2011, the Hyundai Tucson has played a key supporting role in recent episodes of the zombie drama, helping a group of survivors fight against the undead.　
 “The bidding war was fierce among carmakers,” said a Hyundai spokesperson. “After its appearance in the drama, the Tucson, one of our top-selling models in the U.S., has gone viral among younger generations.”
 Despite the carmaker’s recent efforts to appeal to more premium buyers, however, it still seems far from likely that superheroes would choose a Hyundai over their favorites such as the Lamborghini or Bentley. 
