Want to remember the experience? Don’t take pictures
In a world dominated by social media, taking photos of everything is no longer a behavior unique to just tourists. As society grows increasingly accustomed to instant photo-sharing thanks to Social Networking Sites (SNS) like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter, people all over the world have taken to documenting their everyday lives in pictures.
 In general, people take pictures hoping to immortalize their memories of certain experiences with the photos serving as proof. Contrary to what may seem like the obvious, however, recent studies have shown that taking pictures of an event or trip may actually hinder rather than help your ability to remember details about the experience.
 “People so often whip out their cameras almost mindlessly to capture a moment, to the point that they are missing what is happening right in front of them,” said lead author of the study Linda Henkel, psychology professor at Fairfield University. 
Henkel’s study found that people who took photographs during a museum tour were less likely to remember details about the tour than those who merely looked at the objects. Henkel called this phenomenon the “photo-taking impairment effect.” 
“When people rely on technology to remember for them ― counting on the camera to record the event and thus not needing to attend to it fully themselves ― it can have a negative impact on how well they remember their experiences,” she said in a statement.
 Remembering the experience becomes even harder with an overabundance of pictures. Henkel pointed out that past research on memory showed that the only way in which photos can help people remember is if they take the time to observe and review them.
 “Research has suggested that the sheer volume and lack of organization of digital photos for personal memories discourages many people from accessing and reminiscing about them,” Henkel said.
 “To remember, we have to access and interact with the photos, rather than just amass them.”　
