Downfall of Jang Song-thaek, uncle of the supreme leader of N. Korea
On Dec. 12, the once-powerful Jang Song-thaek was executed shortly after a special military trial found him guilty of “anti-party, counter-revolutionary factional” charges, according to North Korea’s official state media, Korean Central News Agency (KCNA). 
Jang’s fall from grace was swift and a shock to the outside world. The decision to oust him from all of his positions was made at a televised politburo meeting of the ruling Central Committee of the Workers‘ Party of Korea (WPK) on Dec. 8. Although there had been speculation that Jang may find his way back up the political ladder ? as he had done in the past after twice being kicked out of Pyongyang’s inner circle ? KCNA reported that his capital punishment sentence was “immediately executed.”
 Married to Kim Kyong-hui, the younger sister of Kim Jong-il, Jang had often been labeled as the second most influential man in North Korea. In fact, in 2008, South Korean officials and experts on North Korea went so far as to suggest that Jang may have taken on de facto leadership over the reclusive nation during Kim Jong-il’s later years and eventual death. 
Jang, who had graduated from the Kim Il-sung Senior High School before studying in Moscow between 1968 and 1972, began his political career as an instructor to the Pyongyang Party Committee. After multiple promotions, Jang was eventually appointed first deputy director of the Organization and Guidance Department of the WPK Central Committee in 1992. 
Under Kim Jong-il, Jang was able to continue up the political ladder to the position of Vice Chairman of the powerful National Defense Commission. This effectively placed him second in command and prompted rumors that he would be the possible successor to Kim Jong-il.
 Once Kim Jong-un came into power after the sudden death of his father, Jang was widely seen as his mentor and adviser during the period of transition. Prior to his very public downfall, there were speculations that Jang would replace 85-year-old Kim Yong-nam as the President of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
 Born on Feb. 2, 1946, Jang was 67-years-old at the time of his reported execution. 
