Should parents allow their children to believe in Santa Claus?
Yes- Christmas is a special day that many people wait for regardless of their nationality. When I see the streets filled with carol songs, families and couples, I can’t help thinking that the day is a time for sharing and love among people. Especially, Christmas may be the happiest day for children as they believe they can receive gifts from Santa Claus.
 Even if the presents are prepared by their parents, I insist that children believe in the existence of Santa. This is because, first, children must maintain their imagination. It could help enhance their creativity greatly. Creativity is the main key to thinking differently and coming up with great ideas, so it’s emphasized more so these days. But it gets harder to enhance creativity as people get older. For example, when we tell a child funny stories, we usually say that animals like bears and monkeys speak. It can never happen in real life, but we do not say it’s a lie. 
 Secondly, we should consider the general social mood. Society induces children to believe in Santa, so what will happen when we tell them the truth? Children will be very confused. Every book and television program says that children can receive gifts from Santa and even kindergartens and schools teach children in the same way. Letting children believe in Santa prevents confusion among children.
 I cannot forget the excitement that I used to have on Christmas morning even now. Whenever I think about Christmas, opening my presents with my sister is the first thing that I remember. After a few years, I realized that the Santa didn’t give me presents on Christmas Eve. However, it’s a special memory for me and my sister. I don’t think it matters if Santa exists or not. The more important thing is not to lose their childlike innocence. Therefore, I insist that parents should help their children believe in Santa Claus.
 By JH student reporter Kim Ji-yeon
 (3rd grade, Pungmu Middle School)
 No- I think that parents should not let their children believe in Santa Claus.
 This is because first, no matter what good intentions they might have in doing so, what they are doing is basically lying and parents should never lie to their kids. 
 Parents should always be honest with their kids and truthful to their children no matter what. Denying the existence of Santa Claus in order to be truthful to one’s children may sound too extreme to some, but I believe it is important that parents build a habit of telling nothing but the truth to their children at any occasion for the sake of their relationship. Once parents start telling lies to their kids even if their intentions were good, they will lose respect from their kids in the long-run and it may hurt their parent-child relationship.
 Of course there is a positive kind of lie that we call a “white lie” which people tell to prevent others’ feelings from getting hurt. Yet, sometimes kids need to learn to face the reality even if it is harsh. In this way parents could raise their kids as mature human beings, not as weak-spirited ones. 
 Secondly, if parents say that Santa Claus exists and then kids later find out that he is in fact not real they will be greatly disappointed. It would be worse if children find out later that Santa Claus does not exist while constantly being told by their parents that he does. They will be deeply disappointed by their parents as well. 
 As kids grow up, they will eventually realize that Santa Claus does not exist. Parents should tell the truth to their children, that he is a fictional figure, so that they won’t be so crushed when they find out the truth from others.　
