All you need to know about the year of the horse 
2014 is the year of the horse. What news the horse year will bring and how it will play out is of a great concern for many. As we say farewell to year 2013, let’s find out what we might expect in the coming year.
 The horse in the Chinese zodiac has long been described as a symbol of power, speed, fidelity and success. Thus, the year of the horse is considered a fortunate year that brings good blessings. 
 Horses are thought to be lucky animals because many important battles were fought and won with the power and strength of horses in the past. Horses appear on various earthenware items from the Shilla period, representing good fortune. In the Joseon period, horses were related to high social status, so people from the ruling classes shared horse paintings with one another.
 Astrologists note that the year of the horse brings high energy. They say year of horse is a time of fast victories, unexpected adventure, and is an excellent year for making decisive action.　
 People born in the year of the horse -- in 2014, 2002, 1990, 1978, 1966, 1954, 1942, 1930, 1918 and 1906 -- tend to be bright, cheerful, popular, and fun loving, according to traditional beliefs. They love being with crowds and have childish innocence, sunny disposition, and natural charm that attracts many friends. A horse is thought of as a highly intuitive animal, so people born in the year of the horse follow their intuitions. 
 Horses also have a carefree nature and they love freedom, so when constrained by rules, they will rebel, refusing to be restrained. Those who are born in the horse year may like to pursue high profile careers, too. Speaking of high profile, there are number of celebrities in Korea and abroad who were born in the year of the horse. 
 Cindy Crawford, Cynthia Nixon, Denzel Washington, Harrison Ford, Jackie Chan, Halle Berry, Aretha Franklin, John Travolta, Oprah Winfrey, Paul McCartney, Ashton Kutcher, Emma Watson, Josh Hartnett, Katie Holmes, Kristen Stewart, Kobe Bryant, Park Shin-hye, Bora of SISTAR, Soo-young of Girls’ Generation were all born in the year of horse. 
 In keeping with horses’ energetic nature, 2014 is set to welcome abundant international sports events.
 First, the 22nd Winter Olympics are scheduled to take place from Feb. 7 to 23, in Sochi, Russia. Ninety-eight events in 15 winter sports are scheduled to be held at the event.
 Second, the FIFA World Cup, an international men‘s football tournament, is scheduled to take place in Brazil from June 12 to July 13. It will be the second time for Brazil to host the competition. South Korea will be competing in group H against Belgium, Algeria and Russia in the tournament.
 Third, the 2014 Asian Games, also known as the Asiad, is the largest sporting event in Asia governed by Olympic Council of Asia. It is set to take place in Incheon from Sept. 19 to Oct. 4. A combined total of 437 events in 36 sports and disciplines will be featured in the Games. Incheon is the third Korean city after Seoul (1986) and Busan (2002) to host the Asian Games. The event’s official slogan is “Diversity Shines Here" which represents the significance of Asia’s diversity in history, cultures, and religions.
 2013 in retrospect: Top 4 global news stories
 1. Resignation of Pope Benedict XVI
 On Feb. 11, Pope Benedict XVI announced his resignation ? the first time a pope had done so since Gregory XII in 1415. He mentioned his “advanced age,” along with the physical and mental demands of the papacy as the reason for his shock resignation.
 2. Continuing Syrian War
 The current war in Syria began on March 15, 2011, and has caused the death of more than 100,000 people. And it continues to wreak havoc on the nation and its population. 
 3. Royal baby 
The Duchess of Cambridge of Britain gave birth to Prince George Alexander Louis of Cambridge, who is third in line to the British royal throne.
 4. Asiana Airlines plane crash
 Asiana Flight 214 from Seoul, which had more than 300 passengers and crew on-board, crashed at San Francisco International Airport during landing in July. 
 As Koreans await the coming of the New Year, a Job search site Scout polled from Dec. 2 to 15, some 881 college students and business people about their wishes for 2014. They picked job creation (25.9 percent) as the top wish for the and also chose the Korean national soccer team advancing beyond the group stage at the World Cup as their most sought after news (42.1 percent).
 To add a bit more joy to the coming of year 2014, we have the most days off work in twelve years 2014, with 67 days.
 Beginning a new year with a strong start will provide a much needed boost until the end of the year. So prepare to be as energetic and active as a horse to ensure a remarkable 2014!
