 Oil spill devastates New Zealand coast
Volunteers have sprung to the aid of New Zealand as it struggles to cope with the recent oil spill caused by the now stranded ship Rena running aground on the Astrolabe Reef on Oct. 5. As of Oct. 17, Rena has spilled more than 350 tons of oil and dozens of containers into the sea since the accident. Thanks to the efforts of volunteers and the Bay of Plenty community however, a small section of beach at Mount Maunganui and Moturiki Island was reopened to the public on Oct. 13. 
The clean up is far from over however, as unfavorable weather conditions have postponed salvage attempts for several days and angry residents have begun to lash out at the Rena’s crew members. 
According to AP, environmentalists have warned that this recent oil spill could cause a disaster for wildlife if all of the ship’s 1,700 tons of oil and 200 metric tons of diesel are allowed to spill into the ocean. 
On Oct 14, mayor of Tauranga Stuart Crosby was forced to appeal for calm when reports surfaced of an angry backlash against the Rena’s Filipino crew. In response to the evacuation of most of Rena’s 25-man crew from New Zealand by the Philippine Embassy, Crosby urged the community not to vent its frustrations on the crew. 
“There needs to be accountability and that’s taking place with regard to the captain and other officers,” Crosby tells TVNZ.
 According to AFP, the Rena’s captain and second officer have been charged over the spill, “which has fouled beaches and killed wildlife along a 60 kilometer stretch of coast on the environmentally sensitive Bay of Plenty.” 
“But in some respects that crew are victims as well, and I’d like to think that we’d be looking after them in a proper manner, as Kiwis should,” Crosby continued. 
Despite this kind attitude towards the Rena’s crew however, Crosby showed a lot less sympathy for the Rena’s owners, Greek shipping company Costamare, which released a video statement apology.
 “It seemed to be half an apology and a lot of excuse,” Cosby said, “It’s not good enough. I’d like to see the ship owner come to New Zealand, come to Tauranga, stand up in front of our people.” 
According to Maritime New Zealand, about 500 dead birds and 4 oil-covered seals have been recovered as of Oct. 13, with many more expected to turn up. Nearby residents have been asked to keep their windows closed to avoid noxious fumes from the pollution while clean up crews attempt to salvage the once beautiful beaches. 
