2013: The year we said goodbye to… 
Every year, millions of lives are lost while millions more begin. The year 2013 was no different. As much as each birth brings into the world, the amount of pain brought about by each death is even greater. Rather than dwelling on the loss, it is important to celebrate their lives. 
 Let’s take a look at some of the people that the world has had to say goodbye to in the year 2013. 
Pauline Friedman Phillips, the person behind the famous “Dear Abby” column, died on Jan. 16 in Minneapolis after a long battle with Alzheimer’s disease. She was 94.
 "My mother leaves very big high heels to fill with a legacy of compassion, commitment and positive social change,” her daughter, Jeanne Phillips, said in a statement.
 The long-running “Dear Abby” column first appeared in the San Francisco Chronicle in 1956 and has since been featured in newspapers all around the world. Phillips, who wrote under the name Abigail Van Buren, continued to give advice on love and marriage until 2002, when the family announced that she had Alzheimer’s disease.
Margaret Thatcher
 Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, also known as the “Iron Lady,” died on April 8, following a stroke at the age of 87.
 Thatcher, who led Britain from 1979 to 1990, remains the only female Prime Minister in British history. She was also the longest serving British Prime Minister of the 20th century. Her nickname as the “Iron Lady” was coined by a Soviet journalist because of her uncompromising politics and leadership style. 
 "It‘s terribly sad news. She was a titan in British politics,” Michael Howard, a British politician who served as the Leader of the Conservative Party and Leader of the Opposition from 2003 to 2005, was quoted as saying by AFP. ”I believe she saved the country, she transformed our economy and I believe she will go down in history as one of our very greatest prime ministers.“
Ku Ok-hee 
Ku Ok-hee, a first-generation Korean female golfer, died of a sudden heart attack while playing golf at a country club in Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan, on July 10, 2013. She was 57.
 Ku was the first golfer to be inducted into the Korea LPGA Hall of Fame in 2004. After turning pro in 1978, moved to Japan in 1983 and went on to win the LPGA of Japan Tour 23 times between 1985 and 2005. She served as president of the Korean LPGA from 2011-2012.
 As part of her legacy, Ku also won the LPGA Tour in 1988, going down in history as the first Korean golfer to do so.
Nelson Mandela 
South Africa’s first black president, and an anti-apartheid revolutionary, Nelson Mandela died on Dec. 5 after suffering a prolonged respiratory infection. He was 95.
 A well-respected figure in world politics and human rights, Mandela was imprisoned for 27 years before an international campaign successfully lobbied for his release. As a former boxer, lawyer and prisoner of apartheid, Mandela went on to become the first democratically-elected black president of South Africa. 
 Mandela died a global symbol of sacrifice who sought peace with his enemies.
 "We’ve lost our greatest son. Our nation has lost its greatest son. Our people have lost a father,” South African President Jacob Zuma said during his announcement of Mandela’s passing. “Although we knew that this day would come, nothing can diminish our sense of a profound and enduring loss.”
