Is graffiti art or vandalism?
Art-
 Street walls, metro stations and under bridges -- no matter where we go, graffiti can be seen in a variety of places. However, conflicts between graffiti artists and the police are common, and the debate about whether graffiti is a type of art or just simple vandalism continues. In fact, it has been an issue since the 1980s when it became popular in the South Bronx. I think that the artistic value of graffiti should be appreciated and that it should be considered art.
 Firstly, graffiti can add artistic beauty to a plain object. Colorless walls and streets can ? with graffiti ? be changed into art exhibitions. No two graffiti pieces are the same, nor are they painted on the same background, which makes every painting unique and new. As graffiti artists often paint over each other’s paintings, every new coat of paint gives a whole new feel to the bigger picture.
 Second, graffiti is a great form of public self-expression. There are things that cannot be expressed in mere words, feelings that one thinks that everyone else ought to see. Because graffiti is a very public way of expression, it helps one fulfill the freedom of expression. Using graffiti, people can share their feelings with others whilst changing the atmosphere of the place. 
 Finally, graffiti can play the role of a canvas for artists who either lack the economic resources or the environmental circumstances to display their work in galleries. Since spray paint is generally a lot cheaper than commonly used canvas paint, artists who lack the money to purchase these ingredients can use the walls as their canvas. Also, artists who do not have a good place to make their art can use the walls because graffiti does not require an art studio.
 For these reasons, I believe that graffiti should be considered as art rather than vandalism. Cavemen drew on walls millenniums ago. Why can’t we do the same now?
 By Student Reporter Park Yeh-rim
 2nd Grade, Sunae Middle School
 Vandalism-
According to JTBC news, on Nov. 13, KORAIL found the Mugunghwa trains, Seoul’s subway line No. 1 and the Youngdong railroad freight trains to be covered in graffiti. There are many people who think positively about graffiti, but there were also many negative reactions. The police started an investigation into who painted the graffiti and whoever is found guilty will be punished for damaging public property. In my opinion, such graffiti is just a form of vandalism, for the reasons I outline below.
 First, there is a strong likelihood that graffiti is illegal. In the example I gave above, the people who painted the graffiti will be punished for damaging public property with a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. Art should be created within the legal boundaries. If the range of art is expanded to illegal acts, it can lead to serious social confusion.
 Second, if someone paints graffiti on a place that is not one‘s house or building without permission and residents don’t like that, it is a grave discourtesy that could result in resentment. If someone vandalized on your house and asked you to understand because it’s graffiti, you would be angry.
 Following these reasons, I am claiming that graffiti is just a form of vandalism. It is hard to consider something that is often illegal or incurs resentment as art. 
