Asthma may worsen this winter due to fine dust from China
Winter weather can be a major trigger for asthma, a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways, due to increased indoor activity, respiratory infections and breathing cold air. 
 This year, asthma patients have another winter problem: smog arising from a seasonal increase in coal use in China. Fine dust levels have surged to several times the usual concentrations, according to a state-run environment research center.
 “Patients suffering from asthma should be extra vigilant about the increase in the level of fine dust in the air because it could aggravate asthma symptoms,” said Yoo Se-hwa, a leading respiratory physician who serves as a member of the medical assessment committee at the Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service.
 Asthma is a chronic disease that causes airways to swell and narrow. Asthma patients repeatedly suffer from wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness and coughing. 
 The disease is caused by both environmental and genetic factors, and can be worsened by changes in weather, flu, air pollution, smoking, exercise and stress.
 According to a study by HIRA, the number of asthma patients visiting hospitals between 2008 and 2012 was 445,830 in December, about 60 percent higher than patient numbers in the summer months.
 “In the winter, being indoors can cause problems because of poor air quality as well as dryness,” Yoo said.
 More than 2.33 million Koreans are affected by asthma, the state-run insurance assessment agency said. 
 In the winter time, patients are advised to visit asthma clinics regularly to check the condition of their lungs and take preemptive medication, particularly before going outside in cold weather.　
 “Wear masks that could filter air pollutants or wear a scarf over your nose and mouth in order to warm up the air before you breathe it in,” Yoo suggested.
 It is also important to keep one’s home as asthma-friendly as possible, others say, through vacuuming, using anti-allergy bedding and using air filters.
