Korea-U.S. summit in Washington
Korean President Lee Myung-bak visited the United States of America from Oct. 11 to 15, through which he earned the U.S. Congress approval of the Korea-U.S. FTA, addressed the Congress -- the first time in 13 years a Korean president has done so - and reaffirmed the military alliance between the two countries.
 President Lee also visited a Hyundai Mobis plant in Detroit accompanied by U.S. President Barack Obama, before he returned home on Oct. 16.
 The Korean president arrived in Washington on Oct. 11 as the U.S. Congress prepared to approve the long pending Korea-U.S. FTA (KORUS FTA)
 The FTA had a great significance for Korea since its economy relies heavily on exports for economic growth. Lee has been aggressively seeking free trade agreements with foreign countries to expand Korea’s “economic territory” as Lee called it.
 Korea has seven FTAs in effect, including those with the European Union and India, and is negotiating trade agreements with Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand and more.
 Meeting with key economic figures
 On the second day of his visit (Oct. 12) President Lee promoted the merits of the FTA to the American CEOs who gathered at a meeting hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Lee said, “If businessmen of the two countries make active efforts, trade between the two countries is expected to increase by more than 50 percent by 2015 and sharply expand investment.”
 Lee added that the U.S. and Korea had forged a strong “economic alliance” in addition to the 60 years of political and military alliance that date back to the 1950-53 Korean War.
 Lee’s business meeting with CEOs was attended by key U.S. figures such as U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue, Gale International Chairman Stan Gale and Cargill CEO Joe Stone.
 Unprecedented visit to Pentagon
 On Oct. 12, President Lee made a visit to the Pentagon, making him the first Korean president to do so.　
 At the Pentagon, Lee was briefed on North Korea and other major security issues by top American military officials. 
Lee’s Pentagon visit was not in his itinerary, but was later organized by the U.S. government.
 “The U.S. government’s invitation of President Lee to the Pentagon is an act of showing respect to the head of state of the ally South Korea and reaffirming the firm U.S. commitment to security on the Korean Peninsula,” a Cheong Wa Dae official said.
 Korea-U.S. summit
 At a bilateral summit between President Lee and President Obama at the White House on Oct. 13, the former said that Korea and the U.S. had agreed to develop their ties into a stronger alliance.　
 Lee also said he expects to see progress in inter-Korean relations and the North Korean nuclear stalemate as a proposed project to pipe Siberian gas through North Korea to South Korea proceeds.　
 Lee and Obama shared confidence that the landmark FTA would upgrade their 60-year-old alliance.
 “I can never say it enough: The commitment of the United States to the defense and security of the Republic of Korea will never waver and as we have for decades, the United States will maintain our strong presence in the Asia-Pacific which is a foundation for security and prosperity in Asia in the 21st century,” Obama said during the joint press conference that followed the summit meeting.
 The U.S. President also sent a warning to North Korea by saying, “If Pyongyang continues to ignore its international obligations, it will invite even more pressure and isolation.”
 Lee said that he agreed with Obama to continue to work closely together to end Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions while sticking to a “principled approach,” referring to his long-standing policy that unless the North denuclearizes, no large amounts of aid will be provided.
 Lee said the only way for North Korea to ensure happiness of its people was to abandon its nuclear ambitions, adding that Seoul would “speak with one voice” with the United States on North Korea issues.
 Lee’s address at the U.S. Congress
 Following the summit with Obama, Lee delivered a speech to a joint session of the U.S. Congress. He thanked the members of the U.S. Senate and House for promptly passing the FTA five days after Obama submitted it to the Congress.
 “Here, where the Mutual Defense Treaty was signed by Korea and the United States in 1953, a new chapter in our relationship has opened. Our relationship has become stronger,” Lee said.
 While their husbands held the summit talks, first lady Kim Yoon-ok and her U.S. counterpart Michelle Obama visited a public high school in Annandale, Virginia, in the outskirts of Washington, D.C. The two first ladies watched musical performances by the students and encouraged them to work hard in pursuit of their dreams. 
Lee and Kim attended a state dinner hosted by Obama on the evening of Oct. 13 at the White House, at which U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and a number of Korean-American celebrities participated.
 Visit to automobile plants
 Lee flew to Detroit on Oct. 14 to visit a General Motors plant with Obama. The two leaders hailed the Korea-U.S. free trade agreement at the plant.
 President Obama emphasized that the Korean and the U.S. governments worked hard to reach an understanding.
 He added, “Here in the United States, this trade agreement will support at least 70,000 American jobs. It will increase exports. It will boost our economy by more than our last nine trade agreements combined.”
 President Lee appreciated the partnership between Korean and American engineers to develop the Chevy model being assembled at the factory and described its operation as pro-environment and efficient.
 Following the visit to the GM factory, Lee stopped at the Hyundai Mobis plant in Detroit and gave words of encouragement to the workers after being briefed on its operation.
 Lee then flew over to Chicago and met with 16 U.S. business leaders including the chairmen of Boeing, General Electric, Motorola and JPMorgan Chase.
 President Lee returned home on Oct. 16, wrapping up his five-day trip, highlighted by the trade deal ratification on top of reaffirmation of their traditional political and military alliance.
