Men vs. women: Differing perceptions about beauty
Men and women have very different ideas about what the “ideal female face” should look like, according to a survey conducted by online beauty retailer, Escentual.com. 　
The survey asked 1,000 British men and women to pick facial features from a list of celebrities to create what they considered to be the perfect female face. The results were surprising in that they revealed two very different faces.
While both men and women agreed on the most attractive eyes (Mila Kunis) and chin (Megan Fox), neither could agree on any other feature.
Men selected Kate Middleton’s eyebrows, Shakira’s blonde hair, Jennifer Anniston’s forehead, Miranda Kerr’s nose and Angelina Jolie’s cheekbones and lips.
Women picked Cara Delevigne’s eyebrows, Freida Pinto’s dark hair, Natalie Portman’s forehead, Blake Lively’s nose, Kiera Knightley’s cheekbones and Scarlett Johansson’s lips. 
“The differences seen in the results from men and women are quite extreme so when it comes to female looks? perhaps men really are from Mars and women from Venus?” a spokesperson from Escentual.com was quoted as saying by The Daily Mail.
The digitally enhanced ideal faces created in the survey point out how starkly different women and men’s tastes are in defining the “perfect female face,” something that people have been fascinated with for years. 
In fact, studies that claim to have found the “recipe” for what makes a woman beautiful are published at least once a year. Meredith Jones, author of “Skintight: An Anatomy of Cosmetic Surgery,” points out, however, that such claims are arbitrary because beauty is an “utterly cultural construct.” 
Not only do perceptions of beauty vary among cultures, what is considered beautiful has long been known to change over time as well. The facial features people considered beautiful in Victorian times, for example, are vastly different from what would be considered beautiful today.　
As such, although it is no surprise that men and women differ in their perceptions of the “ideal female face,” it is interesting to note how it differs between the two genders.
