Should cellphones be allowed in schools?
Yes - Cellphones are part of our daily lives, and it’s hard to imagine life without them. The main purpose of owning a cellphone used to be making calls. However, as technology has developed, their facilities have become boundless. As the number of cellphone owners increases, so does the number of students who own cellphones. 
 The improvement of cellphones meant a lot to students -- more fun and games during classes. Students use cellphones during classes to surf the Internet, send Kakao Talk messages and play games. Teachers somtimes complain about the students’ poor attitudes, and we often see discord between students and teachers because of the indiscreet use of cellphones in classes. 
 We are aware that cellphones are causing some troubles in school, and for this reason, many schools are banning the possession of them. However, I believe it is better for schools to come up with a solution to the problem I mentioned above rather than just banning cellphones from schools. In this way, cellphones can be allowed in a school environment.
 By JH Student Reporter Kwon Hyung-sun
 (3rd Grade, Junggye Middle School)
 No - I don’t think that cell phones should be allowed in schools. 
 Schools are for studying, not playing. If you give cellphones to students, they won’t pay attention to what the teacher says. Students usually use their cellphones for games, not studying. If we give phones to students, they’ll have no interest in studying. 　
 My guess is they’ll be engrossed only in playing with their cellphones, no matter what the teacher says. Of course, some students who really want to study and get good grades would listen and study hard, but most students would not. That’s the problem with allowing students to use cellphones in schools. 
 Let’s take me as an example. Of course, it would be nice if schools allowed us to have cellphones, but when I studied in the past with my cellphone nearby; it was hard not to think about the phone and I could not focus on my studies. I would fiddle with my phone from time to time, perhaps every 20 minutes. And that made me unable to concentrate and get good grades. So I think cellphones should not be allowed in schools.
