Implications of KORUS FTA
Both chambers of the U.S. Congress, the Senate and the House, approved the Korea-U.S. FTA, on Oct. 12.
 The approval came just a day before President Lee Myung-bak and President Barrack Obama met for a summit at the White House.
 The Republican-controlled House passed the bills on the Korea-U.S. FTA and two other trade deals with Colombia and Panama earlier on the day. Hours later, the Senate passed the FTA in a 83-15 vote.
 It took the U.S. congress more than four years to pass the bill, after the Korean and the U.S. governments signed an official treaty regarding the bilateral free trade deal in June 2007.
 Korean Ambassador to the U.S. Han Duck-soo, who also served as Korea’s Prime Minister from 2007 to 2008, called the vote of the Congress historic during an official statement, and added that the bilateral FTA would herald a new era in the Korea-U.S. alliance.
 President Lee Myung-bak said in a speech at a meeting with American business leaders, “If the businesses in the two countries make active efforts, trade between the two countries is expected to increase by more than 50 percent by 2015 and sharply expand investment.”
 Korean government expects the bilateral trade pact to increase the country’s gross domestic product by 7.2 percent to $32.6 billion within the next 10 years, while creating 520,000 new jobs.
 At a joint dinner held after the Korea-U.S. summit on Oct. 13, President Lee said the FTA was a win-win agreement that would benefit both of the countries in countless ways. President Obama chipped in by saying that the trade pact would boost American exports by up to $11 billion and support some 70,000 American jobs.
 For the U.S., the FTA with Korea is the largest trade pact since it passed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in early 1990s.　
 President Obama called the Congress passage of the deal “a major win for American workers and businesses.”
 He said that the bipartisan support would boost exports, support numerous quality jobs and protect labor rights. He added that American automakers and farmers would be able to compete in new markets.
