Trends that will shape 2014
New beginnings are filled with anticipation, hope, and jitters. As we step into the Year of the Horse in 2014, we wonder how the New Year will pan out -- what sort of new trends will develop and what kind of international events will surprise us.
 Last year, the year of the snake, was described as the “Cobra Twist Year” by author and professor Kim Nan-do of Seoul National University, who researches consumer trends. According to Kim, one of the most significant trends that arose in 2013 was the emergence of “scandimoms,” which refers to Korea’s young moms who emphasize building equal relationships with their children and raising them to be independent individuals.
Kim called this year the “Year of Dark Horse,” and predicted 10 yearly trends of 2014. One of the interesting trends he made in his report was the emergence of a new group of powerful consumers -- men in their 40s. 
 According to Kim, 40-something men are increasingly becoming child-like figures and the market for these kidults -- combination of words kids and adults -- will establish in 2014. High-end toy and leisure products and character items for men in their 40s will give a boost to related industries which include hair shops, cosmetics, skin and body care spots exclusive for men. It also means that men with stable incomes will surface as a new power consumer in Korea following the lead of female consumers aged between 20 and 40. 
 Industry experts also shared a big consumer, business and economic trend that will impact 2014. They forecast that the demand for consumer electronics will see strong growth in 2014. According to US Consumer Electronics Sales and Forecasts revealed in July, 2013 consumer electronics industry sales growth is projected to increase by 4.5 percent, with industry revenues reaching $211.7 billion in 2014, up from $202.6 billion in the previous year. 　
“There is no doubt that the smartphone -- and, more specifically, the premium smartphone -- has made huge inroads across Africa in recent years and this is not set to change any time soon due to demand and compatibility,” said George Ferreira, Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Samsung Electronics Africa. 　
Local retail giant Lotte Department Store also released New Year’s consumer outlook. It revealed that the key word for this year’s domestic consumer trends will be summed up by the acronym “BREAK.” 
The company noted that the continued sluggish local economy and fierce competition will tire people out, and this will be directly mirrored in their consumption patterns. People will spend more money on leisure activities, seeking psychological and physical relaxation, said the company.
 To briefly mention what “BREAK” stands for, Lotte Department points out that B stands for “Burn-out.” Burn-out consumers will seek to release their stress in a form of showy and presumptuous consumption, purchasing luxury sedans, designer bags and high quality appliances this year. 
 R stands for “Rejuvenation.” People’s desire to look younger and fresher than their actual age will be reflected upon the market trend with cosmetic companies launching anti-wrinkle or wrinkle erasing creams and fashion brands for younger women churning out outfits that will suit the tastes of 40-something women. 
 E stands for “Epicure.” As people are increasingly aware of their health and wellbeing, they turn to popular and healthy eateries -- not only for meals but for simple snacking. Bakery and cafe places in department stores have seen their profits jump over the years.
 A stands for “Alternative consumption.” Alternative Consumption means replacing expensive items with affordable ones.
 Lastly, K stands for “KitschNiche” market. Kitsch culture is what we call “low quality, B-class culture.” And the company sees that more of its influence metastasizing throughout 2014 in local industry. 
 In terms of beauty industry, beauty mavens note that glowing face makeup, chic eye makeup and coral lipstick will be the key spring-summer looks. In fashion, masculine looks and comfortable, easy wear with warm light pink, beige and sky blue colors are in. 
Speaking of the global political arena, Hyundai Research Institute notes that conflicts over territory, land and resources is expected to rise in the world over. World economic powerhouses such as Japan and Europe will gain traction thanks to powerful quantitative easing and a series of economic stimulus packages. The institute added that the U.S., banking on its stable prices, varied production and transportation channels, will resurge as an economic power, replacing nations in the Middle East. 
In addition, influence of Chinese tourists in global tourism industry will rise. From 2005 to 2012, the number of tourists in China grew by 15.1 percent annually. On the contrary, China’s role as world’s biggest manufacturer will shrink, and other countries will emerge in the geopolitical scene to be rightly called as post-China nations, experts predicted. 
