English fluency: Status symbol for Koreans
Koreans’ zeal of English proficiency is well-documented and undeniable. Since the 1990s, English proficiency has become a vital means of survival in Korea’s hypercompetitive society.
“English has long been a critical part of college entrance exams. Also due in large part to the country’s close relationship with the U.S., infatuation with English has become a sociocultural phenomenon,” Cha Kyung-whan, dean of the College of Education at Chung-Ang University, told The Korea Herald.
“English proficiency, measured in specific scores, has greatly influenced many aspects of people’s lives and in many cases, this has actually attested to correlations between one’s English skills and his or her social success.”
As such, English kindergartens have gained popularity despite their exorbitant tuition costing nearly an arm and a leg at more than 1 million won ($946) a month. It is therefore unsurprising that government data shows the total expenditure on English education for schoolchildren in 2012 was calculated at 6.5 trillion won, exceeding that of any other subject.
The sociocultural importance placed on English proficiency goes beyond the world of academia. Not only is English proficiency viewed as an indicator of adaptability in today’s globalized and hyper-connected society, even those who do not need the language in their day-to-day work lives are being asked to be proficient in English to improve their profile.
Song Seung-cheol, an English literature professor at Hallym University, expressed concerns that using English fluency as a mark of status has resulted in Koreans forgetting the true meaning of learning a foreign language.
“You learn English to better understand English literature or the outside world, or to better communicate with foreign friends. That is the original purpose of learning English,” he said. 
“But if you learn English to become a community service worker (as required in the application process), that is ridiculous. That should stop.”
