Unknown donor leaves cash for charity for 14th year 
An unidentified person has made another cash donation in 2013 in Jeonju, North Jeolla Province, without being noticed.
The mysterious donor has been the subject of interest for more than a decade. Rather than coming forward to seek recognition, the anonymous man has been leaving huge sums of cash in front of a community center of the city office each year for the past 14 years.
According to the Nosong-dong Community Center in Jeonju, on Dec. 30 a man presumed to be in his 50s called at around 11:15 a.m. to let them know where he left the money.
The man said over the phone, “I put the money beside the statue of ‘An Unknown Angel’ beside the garden in front of the center. Please use the money for less fortunate members of the community.” 
The generous donor then promptly hung up.
After the call, employees of the community center rushed to the site and found a piggy bank and a paper box packed with bundles of cash. The 10,000 won and 50,000 won bills and the many 100 won coins left there totaled 49,246,740 won ($46,632). Similar amounts have been left at the site in a similar fashion each year.
In the box was an A4-sheet of paper that read, “Young boys and girls who support their parents and siblings: always stay in good spirits though you live a tough life, and Happy New Year.”
The “Unknown Angel” statue was put up by local residents in honor of the unidentified donor. The location of the statue was decided based on the fact that the donor tends to leave his charitable contributions there each year.
Residents and civil servants believe that the same person makes the anonymous donations each year based on the way the money is donated, the timing of each donation and the man’s voice.
The donor leaves tens of million of won around Christmastime every year. So far, his donations have totaled about 350 million won.
He has never revealed his identity. Residents had speculated that he might skip donating in 2013, but his later-than-usual donation proved them wrong.
