Is Korea a good place to live as a foreigner? 
YES - Imagine that you are a foreigner and you find yourself living in Korea. This is your first time visiting Korea and you don’t have much information about the country. Would Korea be a good place for you to live? Even though there is potential for war since Korea is divided into South and North, I believe that Korea is a good country to live in for foreigners 　
One reason is that Korea has high levels of public order and security. Since the use of guns is prohibited in the country, the number of gun incidents is lower than other countries. According to a CNN report, Korea is classified as a very safe country when it comes to gun-related incidents, whereas countries like Russia and Mexico are considered dangerous areas with the highest number of deaths from gun-related incidents. Moreover, the streets are generally safe at night. This can be seen by the fact that many Koreans believe that it is OK to walk the streets alone at night, and the roads are mostly lit by street lamps. 
Secondly, most Koreans are kind to foreigners. Even if some people criticize them for showing kindness to white people only, Koreans are mostly kind to foreigners and are willing to help them when they are in trouble. 
Lastly, many foreigners living in Korea agree that its metro system is efficient. They say that the subway is cleaner than any other country and it’s easy to pay for the tickets. There are even multi-language announcements in English, Japanese and Chinese at stations that are often used by foreigners.
I can’t affirm that Korea is the best country to live as a foreigner. But, as mentioned above, Korea has many advantages which are attractive to foreigners. Koreans are warm-hearted even though they seem somewhat curt. In conclusion, I believe that Korea would be a good place for those who want to live abroad.
 NO - Nowadays, there are a lot of foreigners in Korea. However, when compared to other countries, there are only a few foreigners in Korea. Why is that? I think it’s because Korea is not fit for foreigners to live in. 
The first reason why foreigners do not like to live in our country is because Koreans like white people more than black people or people from undeveloped countries, like those in the Southeast Asia. Most Koreans think black people are strange and try to get away from them. On the other hand, Koreans treat white people very nicely, and respond in a friendly manner when white people say hi to them, while Koreans mostly feel afraid when black people greet them. In this situation, white people might think Korea is a good place to live, but black people, or people from undeveloped countries like Southeast Asia, might not think so. 
Moreover, our culture is very different to most foreign cultures, with the exception of those of countries like Japan and China. Korea can be a hard place to adapt to for people from Western countries, like the U.S., England and Italy, because the cultures are very different. For example, the food culture is very different. In the West, they generally eat a lot of bread and meat; however, Koreans mostly eat rice. 
In conclusion, because Koreans discriminate against black people and Korean culture is very different from other countries’ cultures, Korea is not a good place for foreigners to live in.
