Dennis Rodman’s ‘basketball diplomacy’
After years flying below the radar after retiring from the National Basketball Association, former professional basketball player Dennis Rodman emerged onto the spotlight once again. Having always been known for his eccentric behavior both on and off the court, Rodman continued to surprise the world when he suddenly delved head-first into the fragile world of global politics. 
When it first came out that Rodman would be visiting North Korea, people were understandably surprised. After his first successful visit to the reclusive state in February 2013, some began harboring hopes of what his possible role in improving relations between the U.S. and North Korea could bring, particularly because he is the first known American to have met with Kim Jong-un in person. 
However, with his most recent trip - accompanied by several other former NBA players - to play against a North Korean team to mark the birthday of Kim, Rodman faced a seemingly unprecedented amount of public condemnation.
Rodman drew particular ire from human rights activists for two distinct reasons. The first is when he appeared to suggest in a CNN interview peppered with obscenities that U.S. missionary Kenneth Bae was responsible for his own incarceration. Although Rodman has since apologized for his comments, it has done little to stem the flow of criticism, particularly after he led a chorus of North Koreans to sing “Happy Birthday” to Kim on Jan. 8. 
Unfortunately, despite hopeful speculations about Rodman’s “basketball diplomacy” - an allusion to the Ping-Pong diplomacy that helped open U.S. relations with China in the early 1970s - former U.S. State Department official and ambassador to NATO Nicholas Burns disagrees. 
Burns has said that claiming Rodman’s actions are a form of sports diplomacy is wrong because what Rodman is doing is “disgraceful” and that his actions are hurting, rather than helping, the U.S. 
“When the American National Ping-Pong team went to China in the early 1970s, we had not had diplomatic relations with China for 20 years,” Burns told Public Radio International. “They broke the ice. It was sports diplomacy. And it was a very important event that began to allow the Chinese and Americans to talk to each other.”
The key difference, Burns adds, is that unlike Rodman, the Ping-Pong players remained apolitical. They did not embrace Mao nor did they laud him as “a friend for life” as Rodman has done. Burns asserts that Rodman crossed the line from apolitical to political when he began to announce his personal support for Kim Jong-un, going on record saying that he is a “great dad” and a “best friend.” In fact, Rodman went so far as to suggest that all it takes to improve U.S.-North Korea relations is for U.S. President Barack Obama to “pick up the phone” and talk to the erratic Kim. 
The U.S. State Department has begun distancing itself from the former professional basketball player, saying that although it remains open to speaking with Rodman, it did not want to “dignify” his increasingly controversial behavior by commenting on it.
“We have not reached out to him. We’ve said before, if he wants to reach out to us, we’re happy to hear from him and what he has to say,” department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters.
What is ‘sports diplomacy’? 
 Sports diplomacy is the use of sports to influence diplomatic, social and political relations. According to the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs, sports diplomacy has “emerged as an integral part of efforts to build ever-strengthening relations” between countries by using the “universal passion for sports as a way to transcend linguistic and sociocultural differences and bring people together.”
The biggest example of using sports for diplomatic means is the Olympic Games. 
