Fun Photos of the Week
Kinda heavy... but it's okay. (약간 무겁지만 괜찮아...)
You are so irritating!!! (너 완전 짜증나!!!) 
IKEA sets its sights on Seoul
Before the first store has even opened, the world’s largest furniture retailer IKEA has announced its plans to open a third store in Korea, this time within Seoul’s city limits.
The announcement regarding a third potential IKEA store in Gongdeok-dong was made by the Gangdong district office on Jan. 5, adding that although negotiations with the Swedish furniture company were still underway, final approval from the Seoul city government is required before the plans can become a reality. 
If approved, it will be the third IKEA store to open in Korea with its opening slated for 2017. The first is scheduled to open near the KTX Gwangmyeong Station in the second half of 2014, while a second store is not scheduled to open in Goyang, Gyeonggi Province, until two or three years after that.
The move by IKEA to negotiate a third store before the first one has opened has raised a few eyebrows. The move is seen as particularly unusual because IKEA has been known to hold back on opening a second branch in a country until after it has spent two or three years monitoring the success of its first branch. 
Not only is IKEA Korea currently in negotiations about opening a third store before the first has opened, the announcement of its second branch in Goyang was also made just four months after it received approval for the Gwangmyeong branch. 
Although local governments may expect their regional economies to be boosted by the IKEA stores, some say that the plans for the third branch may not be approved by the Seoul Metropolitan Government due to concerns that the retail giant will have a negative impact on smaller businesses. 
 What is IKEA? 
As of January 2008, IKEA has become the world’s largest furniture store chain in the world. Registered in the Netherlands, IKEA is a furniture store that designs and sells ready-to-assemble furniture (i.e. beds, chairs, desks, etc.), appliances and home accessories. It is particularly popular among consumers for its modern architectural designs and the eco-friendly simplicity of its goods. 
