The National Museum of Korea
The National Museum of Korea is located in Yongsan Family Park -- with Namsan in the background and the Han River in the front. It is a place that preserves and showcases the essence of Korean history, culture, and art from ancient times to the modern era. It houses more than 220,000 relics and artworks, with about 13,000 of them on exhibit at any given time. In recent years, more focus has been placed on presenting historical treasures from other countries and cultures. The National Museum of Korea is among the largest and the most visited museums in the world.
 Korea’s first National Museum was established in 1945 after the nation regained its independence. It was a significant first step in restoring the nation’s heritage and cultural pride after years of Japanese colonial rule. During the Korean War, museum artifacts were temporarily evacuated to Busan for safekeeping. The National Museum was placed in Deoksugung after the war. In 1972, a replica of a national treasure-level wooden building was constructed inside Gyeongbokgung as the new home of the renamed “The National Museum of Korea”. In 1986, the museum was relocated to the Jungangcheong, the former Japanese General Government Building. It was a controversial move because many people considered the new site a symbol of colonialism. Bending to public pressure, the Korean government moved the museum to Gyeongbokgung, and started the construction of a new home for National Museum of Korea in Yongsan Family Park.
 In October 2005, the National Museum of Korea reopened in its new permanent home in Yongsan. The museum occupies a total land area of nearly 300,000 square meters with about 138,000 square meters of floor space. It is a six-story structure built with a steel frame, reinforced concrete and granite. The construction concept is a blending of traditional Korean architectural elements with contemporary sensibilities, and the result is a museum that is in harmonious balance with its natural surroundings. The building itself consists of two main wings connected by an open plaza that serves as the gateway to every part of the museum. Museum grounds feature a central pond, an outdoor exhibition area, waterfalls, streams and greenery. 
 The museum is divided into three floors with six permanent exhibition sections. On the first floor, the Prehistory and Ancient History section displays artifacts that represent some of the earliest evidence of Korean civilization and culture, while the Medieval and Early Modern History section displays historical and cultural items from the Goryeo and Joseon periods. On the second floor, the Calligraphy and Painting section displays Korean traditional painting, Buddhist painting, and calligraphy, while the Donated Works section displays treasures that have been generously donated to the museum by individual collectors. On the third floor, the Sculpture and Crafts section displays many of the finest specimens of Buddhist sculpture, metal arts, and ceramics, created by expert Korean artisans, while the Asian Art Section displays artwork and cultural objects gathered from throughout the continent, featuring pieces that reflect the universal aspects of Asian culture.
 The National Museum of Korea also houses a Children’s Museum and hosts a variety of special exhibitions, cultural events, concerts and educational programs. Admission is free to the Main Exhibition Hall and the Children’s Museum.
