Korea kicks off 2014 with exciting festivals
Korea has undoubtedly kicked off the year 2014 with a bang, as a series of exciting festivals are causing thousands of visitors to flock to various places across the nation. 
Led by provincial governments’ push for tourism revenue, Korea has seen a noticeable increase in the number of local festivals over the past couple of years that has attracted Koreans and foreigners alike, and this year is no different.
The 2014 Hwacheon Sancheoneo Ice Festival in Hwacheon, Gangwon Province (Yonhap News)
One of the more impressive winter festivals in Korea is the Hwacheon Sancheoneo Ice Festival (www.narafestival.com) held in the scenic mountain town of Hwacheon, Gangwon Province. Attracting more than 1 million visitors each year since it was first held in 2003, the Hwacheon Sancheoneo Ice Festival offers a variety of exciting events for people of all ages to enjoy, including ice fishing, sledding, ice sculpting and ice soccer. 
Pyeongchang Trout Festival (Yonhap News)
Another festival worthy of a visit by outdoor enthusiasts is the Pyeongchang Trout Festival (www.festival700.or.kr), held in the same place where the 2018 Winter Olympic Games is scheduled to take place. Located in one of the coldest regions in Korea, the Pyeongchang Trout Festival offers visitors a chance to experience outdoor activities that include riding four-wheel ATVs on the ice, snow rafting and sleigh trains on top of trying your hand at fishing for trout. 
Boseong Green Tea Light Festival (Boseong County Office)
For those looking for a more ethereal and ambiance-centered experience, consider taking a trip to check out the Boseong Green Tea Plantation Light Festival (www.english.boseong.go.kr), held at the Boseong green tea plantation in South Jeolla Province. During the light festival, not only are the terraced tea fields in Boseong decorated with thousands of colorful lights, but a Guinness World Record-holding 120-meter-tall “Millennium Tree” covered in lights is sure to take your breath away.
If any of these festivals seem like your cup of tea, be sure to hurry! The Hwacheon Sancheoneo Ice Festival is scheduled to end on Jan. 26 while both the Pyeonchang Trout Festival and Boseong Green Tea Plantation Light Festival will officially end on Feb. 2. 
