Should celebrities be given preferential admissions to universities?
Yes - Some celebrities such as Yuri and Yuna of Girls’ Generation and Kang Ji-young of Kara have been given preferential admission to famous universities. This caused a huge controversy about whether this system should be repealed. But I agree with this system.　
 Universities select celebrities and general students separately. This means students who have good scores would never fail to enter the university because of those celebrities who applied for the same department in the university. They go through different admissions processes.
 I believe that celebrities who get into university courses in their fields deserve acceptance. For example, if an actor applies for the department of theater, this actor has more experience and knowledge in this area than ordinary people. People could say the actor gets into university using his fame, but this actor actually gets into university on the back of his acting ability.
 Also, even though many don’t attend their universities often because of their busy schedules, it is they who lose out, not us or the university. Moreover, let’s say that they get a diploma, but it is revealed that they paid no attention to university life. No one will think they deserve recognition for it, and their diploma will become meaningless, regardless of the status of the university they attended. 　
 For these reasons I believe that we should allow universities to give preferential admission to celebrities. 
 No - Moon Geun-young, Go Ah-sung and Park Eun-bin. Do you know what they have in common? They are famous Korean actresses who are loved by the public. But there’s another thing; they were all given special admission to universities because of their popularity. 　
 Moon and Go majored in Korean language and literature and social sciences in Sungkyunkwan University, respectively, and Park attended the Department of Social Sciences at Sogang University. This means that they all majored in departments which were not related to their talents. Do you think it is fair? I strongly believe that the universities should break this custom.
 It’s pretty certain that they worked hard to become good singers or actors. But their efforts can’t be compared with the ones that ordinary students devote to go to their desired universities. It’s no problem if the actors and actresses enter into the department of theater and film and the singers major in music.　
 Secondly, they have already succeeded in their fields, and I think that they want diploma of popular university as a decoration. And the purpose of universities is to raise intellectuals. This doesn’t accord with the celebrities’ purpose of going to university.
 Lastly, they don’t have much time to attend lectures. Celebrities have too much work like dramas, movies and their albums while general students usually focus on being just students. And schools offer conveniences to their “star” students. It totally goes against fairness.
 For the reasons I mentioned above, I think that schools and celebrities must think twice before the stars are allowed to enter the school.
