Pope Francis: No more business as usual
Pope Francis of the Roman Catholic Church selected 19 new cardinals on Jan. 12. His choice of new cardinals was somewhat non-traditional, indicating a new direction that the first Latin American pope wants to take the church in, according to a CNN report. 
Cardinals’ most important duties are to select the next pope and helping the current pope carry out his far-reaching service. And while making his own selection, the pope made sure that all parts of the world were equally represented.
 Of the 19 new cardinals named by Francis, four are from the curia, or the Vatican bureaucracy; four are from Europe; four are from North and Central America; three are from South America, including the Archbishop of Buenos Aires, Pope Francis’ position before his papal election; two are from Africa and two from Asia. Among the two Asian cardinals, one was a Korean priest, Yeom Soo-jung.
 While naming cardinals from poorer countries such as Haiti and Burkina Faso, the pope passed over at least three influential American archbishops. 
 Archbishop Chibly Langlois became the first-ever cardinal from Haiti. “The choice of cardinals from Burkina Faso and Haiti shows the pope’s concern for people struck by poverty,” Rev. Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, commented. 
 More than at any other time, the Roman Catholic Church has been governed by orthodoxy not so much with compassion, the pope deplored. In an interview with Jesuit magazines, Francis said “the church has sometimes locked itself up in small things in small-minded rules.” He stated that the people of God want pastors “not clergy acting like bureaucrats or government officials.”
 By selecting a new set of cardinals, Francis is emphasizing new priorities on the religion that put heavier emphasis on gospel instead of the church’s orthodox and ideology. And he is trying to engage more with the poor and marginalized as he has repeatedly said that “authentic power is service.”
 Francis’ bold language since his inauguration in March 2013 has posed a fierce challenge to the status quo in the Roman Catholic Church. He has called for big changes, saying the church needs to rethink rules and customs that are no longer widely understood or effective for evangelizing: “I prefer a Church which is bruised, hurting and dirty because it has been out on the streets, rather than a Church which is unhealthy from being confined and from clinging to its own security.”
 Pope Francis has made headlines not only by decrying the iniquities of modern capitalism but also by reaching out to gays and lesbians. He also emphasized the importance of female religious leaders’ role in the church.
 In his 85-page statement “Evangelii Gaudium” (The Joy of the Gospel) Pope Francis says: “My hope is that we will be moved by the fear of remaining shut up within structures which give us a false sense of security, within rules which make us harsh judges, within habits which make us feel safe, while at our door people are starving.” 
 “We need to create still broader opportunities for a more incisive female presence in the Church,” the pope added.
 In regards to homosexuality, unlike his predecessors including Benedict XVI, who was a more traditional and conservative pope, Pope Francis said the church cannot “interfere spiritually” in the lives of gays and lesbians on judging homosexuals.
 During an interview conducted at his home in Rome in August 2013 by the Rev. Antonio Spadaro, editor of the Jesuit journal La Civilta Cattolica, the pope remarked that when he was a bishop in Buenos Aires in Argentina, he received letters from gays and lesbians who said they were “socially wounded” by the church.
“Who am I to judge (gay people)?” the pope asked. 
 Though the catechism, the Catholic Church’s book of official doctrine, condemns homosexual acts, gays and lesbians must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity, insisted the Pope. “God in creation has set us free: It is not possible to interfere spiritually in the life of a person.”
 One of the top priorities of Pope Francis’ papacy is fighting poverty. His speech never ends without a mention of the homeless and disabled. “This culture of waste has made us insensitive even to the waste and disposal of food, which is even more despicable when all over the world many individuals and families are suffering from hunger and malnutrition.” 
 Francis said in June: “We should all remember, however, that throwing food away is like stealing from the tables of the poor, the hungry.”
 Pope Francis is probably one of the most beloved and popular popes up to date and there seems to be adequate reasons behind it.
The pope is quite approachable and affable; the picture of him taking his first papal “selfie” with Italian teens went viral online on Aug. 28 last year. Marking his 77th birthday on Dec. 17 last year, Pope Francis invited homeless men to a Mass and a meal at the Vatican. He also refused to use a fancy car that had been given to him but instead chose to drive a white Renault 4L.
