Formula One: Korean Grand Prix
The Formula One 2011 Korean Grand Prix, the 17th round of the F1 racing season, took place at the Korean International Circuit (KIC) at Yeongam, South Jeolla on October 14th – 16th. Korea is one of the seven Asian nations -- along with Malaysia, China, Singapore, Japan, India and Abu Dhabi -- to host the world’s most prestigious auto racing event. The increasing presence of Formula One in Asia reflects the rising popularity and the enormous growth potential of auto racing in the world’s most populous continent. 
 The Korean International Circuit, a $264 million auto racing complex designed by famed German engineer, racing driver, and circuit designer Hermann Tilke, is a state-of-the-art venue that achieved the Federation Internationale de l‘Automobile (FIA) Grade A standard. KIC’s track is set counter-clockwise. This is a bit unusual, since out of the 20 circuits that are listed in the 2011 Formula One Calendar, only 5 countries have counter-clockwise tracks: Turkey, Brazil, Singapore, Abu Dhabi and Korea. The KIC has the longest straight track in Asia -- a 1.2km straight line that allows drivers to reach speeds up to 320kph. 
 Korea officially became part of the Formula 1 circuit in 2010. It was part of a seven-year deal, with an additional five-year option, that would make Korea a regular stop on the F1 circuit through 2021. The inaugural race, the F1 Korean Grand Prix, had a tumultuous beginning. In the wake of the sinking of the Korean corvette Cheonan in March 2010, Bernie Ecclestone, the CEO of Formula One Management, declared that the race would be in jeopardy if political tensions continued to escalate. The race was further threatened by delayed construction. 
 The first F1 race in Korea finally took place on October 24th, 2010 to great fanfare and enthusiasm. However, racing conditions were less than ideal as continuous rain and poor visibility caused a mid-race stoppage of 40 minutes. In slippery and treacherous conditions, nine of the 24 cars in the field retired due to engine troubles, accidents and collisions. The race was won by Fernando Alonso of Ferrari, with Lewis Hamilton of Mclaren-Mercedes and Felipe Massa of Ferrari in second and third, respectively. The legendary Michael Schumacher of Mercedes finished fourth. Overall, the race was a great success as racing fans in Korea finally had a chance to experience firsthand the thrill an excitement of Formula One.
 The 2011 edition of the Formula One Korean Grand Prix promised to be as exciting and adventurous as the inaugural race last year -- the rain was back again. Before coming to Korea, Sebastian Vettel of RBR-Renault already clinched a second consecutive world championship with a third place finish in Japan; however, he vowed to go all out to try and win the race and avenge his loss at the hands of Jensen Button of Mclaren-Mercedes and Fernando Alonso of Ferrari in Suzuka. Vettel, who was robbed of victory at the KIC last year due to engine failure, picked up his 10th win of the season, emerging victorious in Korea. 
