Sochi: Home of the 2014 Olympic and Paralympic Games
With the opening ceremony for “Sochi 2014” less than two weeks away, fans of winter sports are gearing up to cheer for their favorite athletes. As discussions about the event begin to take over the world, most people are inclined to focus on the athletes, missing out on the wonders of the Russian city.
Having entered the global consciousness when it won the bid to host the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2007, Sochi is actually often referred to as the unofficial “summer capital” of Russia. In an ironic twist, the host of the 2014 Winter Olympics is also the home of Russia’s biggest and busiest summer seaside resort. Sochi is a particularly popular holiday destination thanks to its beautiful mountainous coastline, endless beaches and warm sunny days. 
In fact, Sochi often sees its population double with tourists during the peak travel season between May and September. Another ironic twist - given its successful bid for one of three biggest international sporting events in the world - is that only a small percentage of its tourists are international travelers. Despite its plethora of tourist attractions, the majority of visitors to Sochi are domestic travelers. 
Sochi’s appeal to domestic tourists, however, is wide and all-encompassing. From history and architecture buffs to outdoor enthusiasts, Sochi has more than enough charm to capture the hearts of domestic and international visitors alike. 
Popular Sochi Attractions
 Godlik fortress - Remains of a Byzantine fortress that was initially built between 4 and 5 A.D.
 Riviera Park - The most popular and biggest public park of Sochi, it was established in 1898 and has numerous leisure attractions, including restaurants, a cinema and sports facilities. Its most famous attraction, however, is the “Friendship Alley.” Established in 1960, it is an alley lined by trees planted by famous politicians, celebrities and the like. 
Sochi Discovery World Aquarium - The largest oceanarium in Russia and one of the largest in Europe. 
Mount Akhun - The highest coastal point in Sochi, with a beautiful panoramic view of the city. 
Akhtyrshskaya Cave - A scenic cave in the Alder district of Sochi, it was once the home of primeval people. Visitors to this cave will have the chance to see some petroglyphic drawings and other such prehistoric remains. 
