Infamous celebrity hacker found
Christopher Chaney, aged 35 from Jacksonville, Florida, was arrested on Oct. 12 for allegedly hacking into email and other online accounts of more than 50 people, including celebrities Scarlett Johansson, Christina Aguilera and Mila Kunis. 
Using several aliases such as “trainreqsuckswhat,” “anonygrrl,” and “jaxjaguars911,” authorities allege that Chaney was able to hack into celebrities’ accounts by monitoring social media and other public sources for information. Through this monitoring, Chaney was able to gain access to certain accounts by finding the answers to the security questions. Once he hacked into one celebrity’s email account, he was able to gain access to other celebrities’ email addresses, expanding his victim pool.
 One famous victim is Scarlett Johansson. Authorities allege that Chaney is responsible for stealing nude pictures of Johansson last year, which appeared online soon after. 
Chaney was indicted on charges stemming from a year-long investigation into the hacking of individuals associated with the entertainment industry dubbed, “Operation Hackerazzi.” Steven Martinez, the assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles field office said that the term “hackerazzi” was coined by authorities to describe the hackers of celebrities’ email accounts. Martinez explained, “The paparazzi is always chasing them [celebrities] down, and now you have a virtual way of doing it by looking at posts they put on social media sites.”
 According to U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr., Chaney allegedly “also took financial information, movie scripts and conversations that the celebrities believed to be private.” 
Charged with 26 counts of aggravated identity theft, illegal wiretapping and computer hacking for gain, Chaney made his first appearance at the U.S. District Court in Jacksonville on the afternoon of Oct. 12. He was subsequently released on $10,000 bail while awaiting the verdict of his trial. 
According to Laura Eimiller, an FBI spokeswoman in Los Angeles, the conditions of his release included “no new criminal activity, no possession of firearms, no use of controlled substances or excessive use of alcohol”, and most importantly, no use of computers or other devices with internet access. 
According to Birotte, if Chaney is convicted of the 26 counts filed against him, he could face a maximum sentence of 121 years in federal prison. 
According to AP, investigators are hoping that this “celebrity-infused case will jumpstart those who don’t value online security enough to protect their personal information and create more secure passwords that can’t be easily figured out by would-be hackers.”
