Should learning a second language be mandatory in schools?
Yes - First, I have a question. Why do you study languages? And why do you study English? I study languages to communicate and get information, because we are now in a global age. I think learning a second language should be mandatory in schools. 
Nowadays, we can see lots of foreigners in Korea. And sometimes they ask or say something in Korean. When I hear that, I am very happy because they speak to me in Korean. Foreigners probably feel the same way. They also like speaking in their mother tongue. So I think if we learn a second language, it will be very useful in the future when making contracts with other companies, getting more information and many other things. 
Do you remember President Park Geun-hye’s speech at the U.S. Congress? It was a big issue because she spoke in English. She also spoke in Chinese during her speech in China. Some people criticized her, but in my opinion, she was practicing proper etiquette.
If we say something in Korean to other people, we must go through the process of interpretation. It would be the same if a country doesn’t use English as its official language. In that case, communication will be uncomfortable and it would be difficult to express our opinions efficiently. 　
Languages are among the hardest subjects to learn, but it has amazing power in this global age. It can be very helpful in our future. As a result, I hope that learning English as a second language is something we can all enjoy. 
 No - Most schools nowadays require their students to learn a second language. While there are many benefits to learning a second language -- especially English -- I don’t think it should be mandatory for all students.
It is undeniable that languages play a very important role in society. It allows us to communicate effectively while also helping bridge gaps between cultures. While learning a second (or third) language is very useful in life, I don’t think it is necessary to force students to learn another language. 
Students should focus more on other important subjects that are necessary to become productive members of society, such as basic math, science, history and reading and writing. In this case, “reading and writing” subjects should first focus on the official language of the country, because one of the biggest problems plaguing society is the inability of today’s Internet-savvy teenagers to communicate properly in their own language. I think being able to communicate well in your own language is more important than being a mediocre communicator in three languages. 
Another reason why I don’t think learning a second language should be mandatory in schools is because it takes all the fun out of it. I think learning another language should be a choice for students. If they are interested in learning a second language, they will be more inclined to study it. If it is made mandatory at schools, the excitement and motivation to learn is sure to decline. 
Most people -- both children and adults -- find it difficult to enjoy something when it becomes mandatory. Making it voluntary could help make languages more interesting to students.
Overall, languages are an important part of culture and knowing how to speak in more than one language has an unlimited number of benefits. However, forcing people to do something makes it less likely that they will enjoy it, which eventually results in people either resenting or just downright not enjoying the activity. Therefore, I believe learning additional languages should be voluntary, rather than mandatory in schools.
