Massive data leak causes mayhem
With the Lunar New Year just a week away, tens of millions of credit card holders in Korea flocked to their nearest credit card offices in a panic, hoping to get their credit cards either reissued or canceled in light of the worst personal information breach in Korean history.
Roughly 82 million KB Kookmin Card, Lotte Card and NH Nonghyup Card accounts were compromised. Taking into consideration people with more than one account, there were an estimated 15 million victims, according to information provided by the three credit card firms at a press conference on Jan. 20.
Despite a pledge by the three credit card companies to provide “complete compensation” for any financial losses caused by the leak and the resignation of almost 40 top executives, frustrations peaked in the days following the information breach as people took umbrage with the lack of proper procedures in place to deal with the problem. Credit card holders were particularly aggravated by the long queues at physical locations, website crashes due to the sudden influx of traffic and endless hold times at call centers.
In a struggle to dispel rising concerns over the leak of personal data - including bank account numbers, phone numbers, home and office addresses and credit card numbers - Korea’s financial regulator, the Financial Services Commission (FSC), reasserted on Jan. 23 that the information stolen from the credit card firms had not been circulated. 
“It was confirmed that the leaked data was not distributed, and there is little chance that credit card holders will be scammed with the stolen data,” said FSC chairman Shin Je-yoon.
Shin added that top executives at the three companies involved will face strong punitive measures while the companies themselves will have their businesses suspended for up to six months. 
Despite the assurances of the FSC, however, fears that the leaked information may have fallen into the hands of scammers continue to mount; with some already having come forward to say they have been targeted by phishing scams in the days following the leak. 
