Campus Travel presents… Eagles vs. Tigers
Once again, it is that time of the year. The time when 12 years of hard work can be summed up into one, simple question: What college are you enrolling in next year?
 Most, if not all, students spend 12 years of their lives vying for one of the coveted spots in Korea’s prestigious SKY universities. Focusing on improving their academic scores, studying day and night in preparation for the upcoming College Scholastic Ability Test. It is important to keep in mind however, that academic skills aren’t everything. The social environment of a school can be just as important as the type of classes it provides. As the old saying goes, “all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.”
 Just for fun, let’s take a look at two what the highest ranked universities (and biggest rivals) in Korea have to offer in terms leisure... 
 Yonsei University, Sinchon Campus 
Mascot: Eagles
 Lavazza is a favorite amongst studious Eagles who don’t like feeling trapped inside of a library. The house blend coffee is a favorite, not necessarily for its taste, but for its rather reasonable price of 2,500 per cup and only 1,000 per refill. Another reason for why it is so popular amongst Eagles fans could be because it is owned by a fellow alumnus. 
For nourishment, a third-year Eagles supporter recommends the Noodle Box. Well-known amongst the students of Yonsei University, the Noodle Box is popular for its easy-on-the-wallet prices and delicious noodle dishes from all around Asia. The American-Chinese-take-out style boxes used by Noodle Box also appeal to those who enjoy watching American dramas and shows. 　
 Who can turn down dessert? What about a fusion of traditional and modern? Azabu features a very modern twist of the traditional Bungeobbang. Many Yonseians make the trek to Azabu -- which is located closer to Ewha Women’s University - to try out their very cute re-interpretation of the Bungeobbang. 
 Korea University, Anam Campus
 Mascot: Tigers 
 For the Tigers, Soul Kitchen Coffee is the place to go to hang out or study with your drink of choice. Soul Kitchen Coffee offers a variety of pastries, unique teas and coffee blends. The baristas make your drinks even more enjoyable with some very cute and quick “latte art.” For the studious, Soul Kitchen Coffee offers a variety of different rooms with group or individual tables, depending on your studying style. 
The Tigers like to keep it simple and traditional when it comes to food. A first-year Tigers supporter recommends a nearby bunsik restaurant called Goreun Hetssal. In fact, this particular bunsik restaurant is so popular that it has had to expand in the past year in order to accommodate the number of visitors it gets on a daily basis. 
For those with a big sweet tooth but a low cash supply, Tigers supporters would suggest you check out The Very Waffle. A take-out only dessert place, there is always a long line of students standing outside to grab one of the many combinations of waffles available. Aside from their tasty delights, one of the main attractions of The Very Waffle is its very reasonable prices. 
