World’s richest 85 own as much as half of the world’s population
The amount of money controlled by the 85 richest people in the world is equal to the amount of money controlled by half of the world’s population, according to a recent report by Oxfam, a British-based anti-poverty charity.
The report, issued just before The World Economic Forum opened in Switzerland in late January, suggests that that just one of the 85 richest people has access to the same amount of resources that approximately 42 million average people do. To put it into perspective, 42 million is just below the entire reported population of Colombia or Spain and more than the entire population of the continent of Oceania.
“The past quarter of a century has seen wealth become ever more concentrated in the hands of fewer people,” reads the report. 
“The wealth of the 1 percent richest people in the world amounts to $110 trillion. That’s 65 times the total wealth of the bottom half.”
In 24 out of the 26 countries whose data was analyzed by Oxfam, the richest 1 percent saw its income share rise between 1980 and 2012. The report only found two countries where this did not happen: Colombia and the Netherlands. In places like the U.S., China and Portugal, the report found that the same demographic saw its share of income more than double in the same period. 
Unlike the majority of people on Earth, the world’s wealthiest saw their income increase in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis. In fact, they collected 95 percent of the money made during the slight growth since the crisis. 
This increasing gap in financial inequality has caused some people to say that the purported equal opportunity of capitalism is becoming nothing more than a pipe dream. 
“When there is growth and diminishing inequality, the rules governing markets are working in favor of the middle classes and the poorest sections of society,” the report read. 
“However, when only the rich are gaining, the rules start bending towards their interest exclusively.” 
 Another 210 people joined the ranks of billionaires in 2013, bringing the total number of billionaires in the world to 1,400 (less than 0.00002 percent of the world population).
