China opens memorial hall honoring Ahn Jung-geun
China recently opened the doors to a memorial hall in honor of Ahn Jung-geun, a Korean independence fighter best known for his assassination of a prominent Japanese colonial leader in 1909.
The 200-square-meter memorial hall in Harbin Station is considered particularly significant given the fact that its location is where Ahn assassinated Hirobumi Ito, the first Japanese governor-general of Korea, on Oct. 26, 1909. As a result, Ahn was branded a terrorist by Japan and executed a year later at a Japanese prison in the northern Chinese city of Ryojun (present-day Lushun). 
Although the assassination took place before Japan’s 36-year colonial rule over Korea began in 1910, Hirobumi, four-time prime minister of Japan, is credited with having laid the foundation of modern Japan and Japan’s annexation of Korea. 
Many expressed surprise over the location and scale of the memorial hall, including Korean President Park Geun-hye. Park had initially asked Chinese leader Xi Jinping to allow Korea to erect a stone monument for Ahn at the site of the assassination during a summit in Beijing in June 2013. While Xi had accepted Park’s request, the scale of this memorial hall exceeded everyone’s expectations, especially given that China had previously refused such requests for fear it would offend Japan. 
As expected, the memorial hall, which features a diverse set of historical data related to the assassination, has evoked criticism from Japan. 
On Jan. 20, Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo that the decision by China to go ahead with the memorial hall was “extremely regrettable,” adding that “the coordinated move by China and South Korea based on a one-sided view (of history) is not conducive to building peace and stability.”
In response, China’s Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei told reporters at a daily briefing that the memorial was “justified.”
“Ahn Jung-geun is a famous anti-Japanese personnel who is also respected by the Chinese people,” he said, adding that “the establishment of the relevant memorial facility is completely reasonable and justified.”
