Mother of Harry Potter, J. K. Rowling
The author of the dazzling Harry Potter series, J. K. Rowling was born in July 31, 1965 in Yate, Gloucestershire, England. She has a younger sister named Dianne and attended St. Michael’s Primary School. 
 Today, some speculate that the headmaster of St. Michael’s Primary School, Alfred Dunn, was the inspiration of the headmaster in Harry Potter, Albus Dumbledore. By the age of nine, Rowling moved to Church Cottage in the Gloucestershire village of Tutshill, close to Chepstow, Wales.
 When she was young, Rowling enjoyed writing fantasy stories and reading them to her sister. She attended a secondary school at Wyedean School and College. Remembering her days at Wyedean School and College, Rowling said that the Hermione character in Harry Potter was somewhat based on her own self-image. 
 After receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in French and Classics at the University of Exeter, she moved to London to work as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International. 
 Rowling recalled that the idea for the Harry Potter series was conceived during a train trip from Manchester to London in 1990. She said, “A story of a young boy attending a school of wizardry” came through her mind. 
 Then Rowling moved to Porto, Portugal to teach English and got married to a Portuguese television journalist Jorge Arantes on Oct. 16, 1992. In Portugal, in July 27, 1993, she gave birth to her daughter, Jessica Isabel Rowling Arantes. She and her husband separated in November the same year, and a month later, she and her daughter moved to Edinburgh, Scotland where Rowling’s sister lived. 
 Harry Potter is now a global brand worth $15 billion. The series has been translated into 65 languages, made into box-office-mega-hits, won many awards, sold more than 400 million copies and stole countless hearts worldwide. 
 Rowling’s life is a genuine rags-to-riches story, moving from living on welfare to multi-millionaire within a few years. In March, 2011, Forbes estimated Rowling’s net worth as $1 billion. She was also named the ‘Most Influential Woman in Britain’ in October 2010, thanks to her gargantuan social, moral, and political influence all over the world. 
