2014 Sochi Olympics
For sports fans in Korea, hopes are running high at this year’s Sochi Olympics as there are a few sure-fire gold medalists in the Korean national team. 
 To name just two, Olympic champion figure skater Kim Yu-na is gearing up for her second Olympics and speed skater Lee Sang-hwa is also eyeing her second Olympic gold. It seems that these two Korean athletes are unrivaled in their fields -- in the women’s figure skating and women’s 500 meters speed skating. And there is Korea’s ever-powerful short track team. But this time around there are other sports that we need to keep an eye on, as there are promising hopefuls representing Korea in the bobsleigh, snowboarding, freestyle skiing, ski jumping, ice skating, curling and the skeleton events.
 For this year’s winter Olympics, Korea has sent the largest delegation in six areas. At the 2010 Vancouver Winter Games, the country won an all-time high of 14 medals, including six golds, and this year the country hopes to take home at least four gold medals. 
 About Sochi 
 On July 4, 2007, the International Olympic Committee announced that Sochi would host the 2014 Winter Games, edging out PyeongChang, South Korea and Salzburg, Austria.
 This is the first time that Russia has hosted the Winter Olympic Games.
 Sochi is a city in Krasnodar Krai, Russia, located on the Black Sea coast near the border between Georgia and Russia. It is one of the very few places in Russia with a subtropical climate, with warm to hot summers and mild winters, making it Russia’s largest resort city.　
 The nearby ski resort of Roza Khutor at Krasnaya Polyana is the location of the alpine and Nordic events at the 2014 Winter Olympics. 
 Slogan for 2014 Sochi Olympics is “HotㆍCoolㆍYours,” with “hot” referring to passions that players and spectators have for the event and “cool” referring to cold winter days when the Olympics takes place and “yours” meaning the joy people can share during the event. 
Mascots for this year’s Olympics are the polar bear, rabbit and snow leopard and the symbolic color of the Sochi Olympics is blue.
 Olympics in numbers 
 This is the year when South Korea sent its first ever Olympic delegation to the Winter Olympics. The Games were held at St. Moritz, Switzerland.
 Sochi Olympics is South Korea’s 22nd Olympics. 
 The number of areas that the South Korean national team will take part in during the 2014 Games; Korea will compete in skiing, ice skating, biathlon, bobsleigh, curling and luge.
 The number of Korean athletes competing at the Sochi Olympics 
South Korea hopes to reach the top 10 in the medals table in Sochi 
 The number of gold medals that Korea hopes to earn in Sochi. 
 The number of countries that have hosted Winter Olympics. Korea will become the 12th host nation of the Winter Olympics 
 The total number of medals that Korea has earned in the Winter Olympics so far -- 23 gold, 14 silver and 8 bronze. 
 Kim Yu-na, Lee Sang-hwa and Mo Tae-bum are all going for their second gold medal at Sochi
 The number of participating nations -- three more than at the Vancouver Olympics in 2010. 
The number of athletes participating at this year’s Games.
The number of medals up for grabs at the 2014 Winter Olympics. 
The number of days that this year’s Olympics will last
 The number of times that Russia reached No. 1 spot in the medals table in Olympics (Russia 1, Soviet Union 7 times). The host nation has become No. 1 in the medal count more than any other single nation. 
 53 trillion won
 The amount of money poured into hosting the Sochi Olympics. It set the record for the most expensive Olympics ever 
 Things to know about Russia 
-Russia is the biggest country in the world and has the ninth-largest population in the world -- smaller than that of Bangladesh. (In comparison, Korea is the world’s 109th-largest country in terms of territory and has 25th-biggest population in the world) 
 -In Russia, the hand shape that signifies okay in English can be an act of sexual harassment.
 - Saying hi, thank you and I love you in Russian:
 “привет” (pri-VET) means “Hi” in Russian.
 “СПАСИБО” ( SPAH-SEE-BAH) means “thank you” in Russian. 
“Я тебя люблю” ( Ya tebya lyublyu) is the direct translation of “I love you.”
