Is plastic surgery good or bad?
Pro- Plastic surgery: A matter of choice
 Plastic surgery has become so common in our society that nowadays the double-eyelid surgery is not even considered a surgery, but a basic procedure. Some people have negative opinions about plastic surgery, but I’m in favor of it for three reasons.
 For one, plastic surgery can help people’s confidence. Many people think things like “If I change my eyes a little, I would look much better.” 
Of course we all have some complexes about our body, including our eyes, nose, and skin. The gist is that, if the complex upsets you and lowers your confidence, plastic surgery can help you deal with this problem.
 Secondly, plastic surgery is needed for the patients who have suffered from accidents. In these cases, they get plastic surgery to restore their injured parts to the way they were.
 Lastly, we have the right to make ourselves attractive, and plastic surgery is just one way to do that. People all want to be beautiful, so they buy clothes or accessories to adorn themselves. Putting on makeup, beauty treatments, and even plastic surgery are some examples.
 Side-effects and addictions are concerning and are very serious problems, but there are always two sides to everything. We have to know that plastic surgery cannot be made to disappear and is desperately needed by some people.
Con- Let’s be proud of ourselves
 I believe that plastic surgery should be done only when someone has an accident, such as when one’s jaw, leg, arm or nose is broken. 
 Recently, people have plastic surgery to rearrange their bodies and change their faces to make them look more pleasant and appealing. 
 Plastic surgery should only be done to cure your body after your body gets damaged from accidents. Therefore, people should not abuse plastic surgery.
 Michael Jackson was a famous singer who everyone loved, but he had many plastic surgeries. He was a good example who abused plastic surgery. In the end, his face looked unnatural, superficial and artificial. 
 Many singers, dancers, and actors who are in the entertainment industry often do plastic surgeries. Yet this does not seem very desirable. We should think twice before choosing to alter the faces that our mothers gave us. This is because our faces are beautiful just the way they are and everyone has their unique beauty.
 In conclusion, I think that we should be satisfied with the way we look and refrain ourselves from plastic surgery. 
