Despite rising income, Koreans remain unhappy
An analysis of data from 2002 to 2012 showed that Koreans remain largely unhappy, despite earning more money, according to the LG Economic Research Institute (LGERI).
In a recently published report, LGERI found that on average, Koreans’ income rose to $22,708 in 2012, up from $12,100 in 2002. While the proportion of the population that reported being satisfied with their lives increased by 12.6 percent between 2003 and 2012 (20.4 percent and 33 percent, respectively), the number of people who reported being unhappy with their lives saw a bigger increase. While it is encouraging to see an increase in the number of satisfied people, the figures indicate that this only applies to a third of the population.
A closer look at the data also showed that while participation in and availability of recreational activities have diversified following the introduction of the five-day workweek a decade ago, the proportion of people satisfied with leisure has declined over the years. 
The report attributed this decline to the high cost of taking part in recreational sports and activities. In fact, while 35.9 percent of people in 2000 reported being unable to take part in recreational activities due to the financial burden, that number jumped to 61 percent in 2011.
In addition to the relationship between income and life satisfaction, the report also took a look at how different factors affected people’s satisfaction with familial and spousal relationships. 
The proportion of people that reported high levels of satisfaction with their familial relationships increased in 2012, but there were significant differences between different age groups. As age increased, satisfaction levels decreased with 71.8 percent of respondents in their 20s reporting being satisfied compared to the 46.9 percent of people aged 60 and above.
Cutest animal sport - Puppy Bowl
There may be a good many sports events that feature animals, but Puppy Bowl, a derivative of the Super Bowl, is arguably the cutest such annual event, and is loved by increasing number of fans around the world.
Puppy Bowl is a program provided by the U.S. satellite TV channel Animal Planet.
Throughout the show, tens of puppies, all around 4 months old, compete with a sponge doll in place of an oval ball for two hours.
Puppy Bowl 2014 which marked the 10th anniversary in early February (Super Bowl Sunday on Feb. 2) featured 66 puppies playing with a variety of toys in a mini-stadium set that is 5.8 meters long and three meters wide. 
In the previous year, the show was viewed by over 12 million people, according to Animal Planet.
The interesting show is more than just a fun annual sports festival; it was devised to raise people’s awareness of animal safety, Animal Planet says, and on the playing site veterinarians are in place to ensure the well-being of the puppies and stop them from becoming aggressive toward one another.
Shown along with the tens of puppies this year were 30 untrained kittens, five penguins, four police dogs, among others. All the animals except the penguins were adoptable, the organizers said.
Super Bowl
 The Super Bowl is an annual sports event of the United States where the winning team of the National Football League is decided. The first Super Bowl game, or Super Bowl I, was played on Jan. 15, 1967.
