Daft Punk, Lorde win big at 2014 Grammy Awards 
At the 56th annual Grammy Awards held on Jan. 26 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, the night’s top prize went to the two Frenchmen known as Daft Punk, whose signature look conceals their faces behind shiny helmets. The French duo claimed album of the year, for “Random Access Memories,” and won record of the year and best pop duo or group performance with their song “Get Lucky,” featuring Pharrell Williams and Nile Rodgers.
 Even when accepting the awards, Daft Punk took the stage clad in their headgear and gloves, looking like robots.
 "Honestly, I bet France is really proud of these guys right now," Pharrell Williams said of the French artists.
 The night’s other big winner was 17-year-old New Zealand singer Lorde who won the song of the year and the best pop solo performance awards for her hit, ”Royals.“
 ”Thank you to everyone who’s let this song explode, because it’s been mental,“ Lorde said when giving her acceptance speech at the awards ceremony. 
 Other Grammy stars who shone that night were Paul McCartney of former legendary group the Beatles and Ringo Starr who performed together. McCartney and Starr accepted a lifetime achievement award before the show. 
 Beyonce and her popular husband and song producer Jay-Z began the show with powerful husband-wife duet performance with her new songs ”Drunk in Love“ and ”Surfboard.“ 
 Here are lists of key Grammy winners
Album of the year - Random Access Memories, Daft Punk
 Record of the year - Get Lucky, Daft Punk feat Pharrell Williams Nile Rodgers
 Song of the year - Royals, Lorde 
Best pop duo/group performance - Get Lucky, Daft Punk feat Pharrell Williams Nile Rodgers
 Best music film - Live Kisses, Sir Paul McCartney
 Best music video - Suit and Tie, Justin Timberlake
 Best dance/electronica album - Daft Punk, Random Access Memories
Meet the SKEC writing contest winner
Jeong Hyeon-bin, a first grader at Gaewoon Middle School in northern Seoul, is just an ordinary student who enjoys practicing martial arts and listening to pop music when he is free of schoolwork.
 But the contest winner has his own way of studying the English language, which has won him the grand prize at the Seoul National University of Education-Korea Herald English Contest (SKEC) in January this year.
 Jeong told The Junior Herald in an email interview that he was glad to win the third SKEC event, and explained how he tried to make the best out of his time in and out of school.
 He goes to an English language institute twice a week, but this is not so much different from his schoolmates. What has earned him the grand prize was his slow and steady approach to English language study.
 “I tried to read English newspapers as much as I could, and I make it a habit of buying English books that suit my needs. However, my favorite school subject is gym class, not English,” he said.
 But that does not mean he hates English. A Junior Herald Student Reporter for 2014, Jeong studies English every day through an online study program and tries to understand the language in the same way he learned his mother tongue, he said.
 Jeong noted that he tried to treat the English language as a great tool that facilitates the life in general and also as a source of fun - by listening to as much pop music in the language as possible.
 He also said that working as a student reporter helped him familiarize himself with the language.
 While giving Jeong a pat on the back, his father Jeong Yun-duk, 42, elaborated on Hyeon-bin’s secret to studying English.
 The father said that there was no such a thing as an easy way to study the language; Hyeon-bin’s constant interest in the language, followed by steady practice of reading, listening, speaking and writing, has given him his ability, his father said.
 Hyeon-bin, who even today keeps writing lengthy articles on a self-given topic once a week, told The Junior Herald that he would enter the SKEC again next year.
