Should students be able to leave school for lunch?
Yes - Some students want to eat their lunch outside of school because school lunch is not delicious or for other such reasons. There are three reasons why I think that students should be able to leave school for lunch. 
First, some students are allergic to certain foods. They should not be eating food that they are allergic to, but sometimes it is served in school lunches, so they cannot eat at the school canteen. If they could buy their lunch or eat at home, they would be able to eat suitable food.
Second, students need to rest during lunch time. There are always a lot of students at school which makes it very noisy so students cannot rest comfortably. After studying hard in the mornings, they should take a break and relax. A calm atmosphere would be better for relaxing. For example, people generally can’t sleep or relax in noisy places like classrooms or amusement parks.
Third, students can select their lunch menus themselves. Each student has their own preference when it comes to food, and sometimes students complain about the school menu. If students buy their lunches themselves, there would be no reason to whine about lunch, and they could also learn to manage their diets and choose healthy foods.
In conclusion, I agree that students should be allowed to leave school for lunch. Not only are there students who have food allergies, but students also need to relax during lunch time. In addition, going out of school for lunch will allow students to choose their own lunches. School meals can be great, but I think having lunch out of school is better.
By JH Student Reporter Chung Hye-won
 6th Grade, Seoul Sangsoo Elementary School
 No - I absolutely disagree that students should be able to leave school to eat lunch. While lunch time is a time set aside to eat lunch, in other ways, it’s also the biggest break time where we can hang out with our friends. 
Firstly, most schools worldwide do not allow students to leave school for lunch. From the teachers’ perspective, leaving school at lunch can expose students to bad situations. This means that the school could end up being responsible for any accidents or problems that might occur outside of the school during the lunch hour. It is a lot easier and safer to care for students on school premises than outside of it.
Secondly, as I said above, lunchtime is the biggest break time for students during school hours. Having lunch or hanging out with friends at lunchtime helps students get along with each other faster and easier. School isn’t just for an education; it’s also a place for communicating with others. Communicating with friends or teachers is also an important thing that we can learn at school. We can use the time at lunch to hang out freely with friends or even with teachers outside of a formal classroom setting. 
Therefore, I do not agree with allowing students to leave school for lunch.
