Koreas wrangle over cross-border family reunions 
Just a day after setting a date for a series of reunions between families separated by the Korean War for the first time in three years, North Korea threatened to cancel the gathering due to a scheduled South Korea-U.S. military drill set to take place at around the same time. 
Seoul’s Ministry of Unification had announced on Feb. 5 that a cross-border reunion was scheduled to be held from Feb. 20 to 25 at Mount Geumgangsan, where approximately 100 family members from each side will have the chance to reunite with their relatives. 
“We expressed regret that the North side did not keep its promise for last year’s reunions,” a Unification Ministry official told reporters on condition of anonymity. 
“We made sure that this must not occur again and the North side concurred.” 
Just a day later, however, North Korea’s National Defense Commission threatened to cancel the reunion upon learning that a military drill between South Korea and the U.S. was being scheduled to take place at the same time.
“We will not just sit back and watch a situation in which U.S. strategic nuclear aircraft hover around in the sky and underneath it, a play, in which (the South) pushes to build trust (with the North), unfolds,” the North’s commission said in a statement on Feb. 6.
“We make it clear that dialogue and the rehearsal for a war of invasion, and reconciliation and confrontational commotion, they are absolutely incompatible.” 
For its part, Seoul has asserted that the drills in question are annual, regular drills and defensive in nature. As of Feb. 10, no decisions have been made regarding the status of the scheduled reunions.
Meanwhile, families that were scheduled to take part in the reunions can do nothing more than sit idly by and hope for the best. The scheduled family reunions would have been the first such meetings since October 2010. To date, there have been 18 in-person and seven video conference reunions involving more than 4,380 families since 1985. 
