Korea-Japan summit bears fruit
Freshly taking office in September, Japanese Prime Minister Noda arrived in Seoul on Oct. 18 for his first, two-day state visit. 　
 The following day, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak and his Japanese counterpart had a summit and the two heads of states pledged to make greater efforts to seek a brighter bilateral relationship.　
 During a joint press conference, Lee emphasized that the Seoul-Tokyo relationship was crucial for the peace and stability in Northeast Asia. He also mentioned that Japan should do more to resolve problems related to its 1910-45 colonial rule of Korea.
 “While mentioning that moving toward the future without forgetting history is the basis for Korea-Japan relations, I emphasized that Japan needs to make active efforts over issues stemming from the 1910-45 colonial rule, “ Lee said.
 The relationship between the two nations has been rocky as the latter refused to make a sincere apology for the past wrongdoings and as it has preposterously claimed territorial rights over the South Korean islets of Dokdo.
 It seemed that Japanese Prime Minister Noda is eager to restore relations with Korea. He brought five volumes of centuries-old, royal Korean books at the summit. It was the former Prime Minister Naoto Kan who had previously pledged to return a total of 1,205 volumes of books.
 The issue of a currency swap was raised during the meeting. The two leaders agreed to ratchet up their cooperation to fight global financial uncertainties and to stabilize the two countries’ financial markets. Thanks to the meeting, the Korea-Japan currency swap volume was enlarged to $70 billion from $13 billion.
 The possibility of Korea-Japan free trade agreement was another hot topic. The agreement was raised in the past but it has slipped into a gridlock due to Korea’s large trade deficit with Japan and due to some other dissonances regarding the treaty. 
 About the North Korea issue, the two leaders were clearly on the same page as both shared the view that North’s nuclear programs must be scrapped. To reach peace and stability not only in the Korean Peninsula but also in Northeast Asia, Seoul and Tokyo promised to work closely together toward the common goal.
