Korean women’s struggle to balance work and family
The struggle to find a balance between working and being a mom is a problem that has plagued women all over the world for years. For Korean women, the struggle with the glass ceiling is made even harder due in large part to Korea’s notorious working culture. 
“I thought I would become a successful career woman. … A stay-at-home mom was the last thing I wanted to be,” 35-year-old Lee So-young, a summa cum laude graduate from a university in Seoul, who is now a mother of two daughters, told The Korea Herald. 
Despite trying to re-enter the workforce after giving birth, Lee ended up quitting after three months.
“I realized that I couldn’t keep up with the long-hours working culture anymore while leaving my baby behind,” she said. “The funny thing was that no one at work suggested I think twice. They acted as if they knew that I was going to leave the office soon.”
Unfortunately, Lee is just one of millions of Korean women who fall under the “career-discontinued women” category due to the difficulty of balancing a career and family. 
A 2012 study by Statistics Korea showed that more than 70 percent of women aged between 25 and 29 had entered the job market. The number of women in the workforce dropped to 55 percent when they reached their 30s, the age when women usually start having children. 
The problem, however, is not just limited to the nation’s notoriously time consuming working culture. The longstanding social perception that women are more responsible for raising children than men is another major obstacle for women trying to have both a career and family. 
“In order to help women to return to work, I think the role of husbands has to change at home,” Health Minister Moon Hyung-pyo said in a recent news conference in Seoul. According to recent study, Korean men contribute about 30 minutes of housework a week compared to the one hour contributed by Japanese men.
It is important to note that the issue with “career-discontinued women” isn’t just about gender equality. A study by the Korean Women’s Development Institute (KWDI) showed that this departure of female workforce led to 128 trillion won in socio-economic losses, which accounted for about 14.2 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2008.
“Korean women are highly educated and have great potential. If they are forced to choose family over work, it would mean a great loss to the country,” warned Kim Jong-soog of the KWDI.
