Jinx!!! -- manual for puppy love 
“Jinx!!!” is a Japanese film about young love and friendship. K-pop girl group T-ARA member Hyomin plays the movie’s main character, Ji-ho, who goes to Japan as an exchange student. 
 She decides to go to Japan to study after her boyfriend dies in a car accident. She wants to get away from the excruciating pain and sadness of losing her boyfriend. 
 She attends a university in Japan and meets Kaede. Kaede reminds her of her past before she met her deceased boyfriend, Tae-woong. Before meeting him, Ji-ho was a lonely soul; she had no friends and was comfortable being by herself all the time. But Tae-woong taught Ji-ho how to build true friendships and the joy of sharing time with others. 
 Thinking of what Tae-woong taught her, Ji-ho wants to help Kaede build true friendship. They become best friends. One day, Ji-ho realizes that Kaede has feelings for Yusuke. 
Kaede and Yusuke went to middle school together and they happened to attend the same university. Kaede wants to go out with Yusuke but she has never dated and does not know anything about romance. So, being a cupid for Kaede and Yusuke’s puppy love, Ji-ho uses her knowledge and helps both of them out. 
 First, Ji-ho teaches Kaede about “Mildang,” a Korean expression for playing hard to get. Ji-ho teaches Kaede not to answer Yusuke’s first phone call and also tells Kaede that she should not say yes when Yusuke first asks her out. 
 To Yusuke, Ji-ho also offers her advice on starting a romantic relationship. She introduces a host of romantic films such as “When Harry met Sally,” “Eternal Sunshine” and “Love Actually” to help him confess his special feelings for Kaede. While teaching both Kaede and Yusuke Korean-style romance, Ji-ho shares her precious memories with her boyfriend. On their 100th day anniversary Tae-woong prepared an event where he showered Ji-ho with soap bubbles in the streets of Seoul. 
 Through Ji-ho’s enthusiastic teaching, Kaede and Yusuke finally become an item. On the last day of school, Ji-ho is once again showered with soap bubbles by her true friends, Kaede and Yusuke.
 The film premiered on Oct. 20, 2013 at Tokyo International Film Festival. It opened in theaters nationwide on Feb.13.
