Places worth visiting, but perhaps not for living
In today’s globalized world where the possibility of relocating yourself to one of the thousands of beautiful cities scattered across six continents is at our fingertips, trying to figure out which city to settle down in or visit can be a little like trying to find a needle in a haystack.
Every country boasts beautiful cities, each with its own unique charm that makes the trip worthwhile. But how do you narrow down your choice to one of hundreds of different countries, let alone a specific city?
In an effort to narrow the scope of your search for your next great adventure, expatistan.com ranked over 1,500 cities around the world based on how much it costs to live there. Here are three cities that you may consider visiting, but perhaps forgo moving to because they also have the highest cost of living. 
London (England) 
London, the capital city of England, has a history that goes back nearly two millennia. In fact, London has a long history of being the most populous region of the United Kingdom since as far back as A.D. 50, despite expatistan.com ranking it as the most expensive city to live in. Rich in cultural and political history, it is no surprise that London is also a top destination for tourists all over the world. 
 Oslo (Norway) 
Norway’s capital, Oslo, is both a beautiful city with a rich cultural history that has the power to make anyone want to live there, but sadly it is also the second-most expensive city to live in, according to expatistan.com. Much like other global cities, Oslo has a reputation for ranking at the top of various quality of life and cost of living indices. 
 Geneva (Switzerland) 
The second-most populous city in Switzerland, Geneva may have a smaller population than Zurich, but its cost of living is higher. This, however, is not too surprising when you consider that Geneva is considered the worldwide center for diplomacy, thanks to it being the home of the United Nations headquarters amongst other international agencies. 
