Should Korea continue its tradition of giving cash to children on Seollal?
YES - On Lunar New Year’s Day, children visit their elders and bow to them. After the bowing ceremony, children receive money from them. There are controversies whether Koreans should carry on the tradition of giving pocket money on Seollal. 
 I believe that giving allowance to children on Seollal is a tradition to be respected. It is a custom that has been practiced for a long time, and our ancestors have followed it. It is part of Korean tradition to give money to younger ones and give words of blessing to them. By this action, children can develop respect for their elders.
 Also, the cash is useful to children when they prepare to go back to school. They can buy school supplies, reference books, and things they need for school work with the money. The money is especially valuable for children starting at a new school, because they need to buy uniforms. 
 Some people might think that giving money to children as a reward for bowing is not desirable, because children could misuse the money and misinterpret the true meaning of Seollal as “money receiving day.” But I think the act of giving cash is part of Seollal and a priceless convention to be followed. Therefore, Korea should maintain the custom of giving cash to children at Seollal.
 By JH Student Reporter Kwon Hyung-sun
 3rd Grade, Junggye Middle School 
 No - I think Korea should scrap its tradition of giving out cash on Lunar New Year’s Day to youngsters. This is because, firstly, the focus of New Year’s Day should not be getting as much money from elders as possible. It should be about spending time together with your family and making precious memories with them. 
 Once receiving cash becomes the most integral part of Korea’s New Year’s Day celebration, there is a chance that this holiday will become too commercial and shallow. Youngsters may favor those who give them the largest allowances and hold grudges against those who give a small amount of money or give nothing at all. Money should not be the yardstick for one’s feelings toward others. This is why money should not be any way get involved in New Year’s celebrations.
 So, in order to build a more desirable Seollal celebration, Koreans should play traditional games, such as playing Yut, which all family members can participate in as a group. Playing traditional poker, or “Go-Stop,” is part of Korean New Year tradition but this game is not an ideal form of entertainment. This is because only adults play it and youngsters do not and should not take part in it. 
 Since Korea’s New Year celebration is the most significant traditional holiday, it should be preserved thoughtfully and to do that, money should not get involved in its national celebration.
