Pompeii -- past and present 
What would our final day on Earth be like, asks the newly released film, “Pompeii.” The disaster blockbuster vividly depicts the throes of the victims on the day when Mount Vesuvius erupted and engulfed the Roman city of Pompeii.
The film shows a love story in a time of disaster: A slave named Milo tries to save his true love Cassia, the beautiful daughter of a wealthy merchant, as the volcano erupts, sending the surrounding area near the Bay of Naples into chaos. The film makes us wonder what exactly happened on that day.
The extravagant resort town of Pompeii attracted wealthy vacationers who wanted to soak up in the sun during the ancient Roman period in Italy. The city was located about 5 miles from the Mount Vesuvius, which had erupted more than 50 times. It was a flourishing town for Rome’s most distinguished citizens; elegant houses and elaborate villas lined the paved streets, tourists bustled in and out of shops, cafes, and bathhouses. Yet, the magnificent scenery quickly turned into desperation and unimaginable horror as the grim tragedy arrived. 
On Aug. 24, 79 A.D., the eruption of Mount Vesuvius dumped a thick, blazing layer of ash and lava onto the town of Pompeii, completely destroying the city. The scale of the tragedy was appalling: What had been one of the most thriving and splendid resort in ancient Italy was wiped from the map. The disaster killed more than 2,000 people and Pompeii, along with the smaller neighboring towns of Stabiae and Herculaneum, were buried under the layer of ash. It stayed that way for nearly 2,000 years, as if time had come to a permanent standstill in the area.
Pompeii remained undiscovered until a group of explorers came to Campania and began an excavation in 1748. The city re-emerged from the centuries of darkness. Underneath all the dust and debris, Pompeii was mostly intact. The ashes had acted as a marvelous preservative. The buildings, artifacts and skeletons buried under were exactly the same as they were about 2,000 years ago. The discovery provided significant evidence of Roman civilization, customs, trades and daily life.
Many scholars say that the excavation of Pompeii played a major role in the neo-Classical revival of the 18th century. Europe’s wealthiest and most influential families displayed art and reproductions of objects from the ruins, and drawings of Pompeii’s buildings helped set the architectural trends of the time. For instance, wealthy families in England often built “Etruscan rooms” that mimicked those in Pompeiian villas. The excavations have continued for almost three centuries and today about four-fifths of the remains have been unearthed.
The film “Pompeii” conveys this real-life environmental disaster in the most realistic manner as possible. It ends with photos of human fossils created from the horrific disaster; a mother holding her child and lovers holding each other tightly as ashes ate them up. Their facial expressions show how painful it was. The volcanic eruption in Pompeii demonstrates how fragile humans are against the power of Mother Nature. 
“Pompeii” hit theaters across the nation on Feb. 20.
