Justin Bieber: A fading star
The once-beloved pop sensation Justin Bieber has transformed himself from teen heartthrob to pesky troublemaker in what many consider to be his very public superstar meltdown. 
In the past year, Bieber has been accused of a laundry list of criminal and immoral behavior, ranging from the mild -- such as underage drinking and spray-painting graffiti -- to the downright shocking -- spitting on his neighbor’s face and urinating in a mop bucket at a restaurant in New York -- which has resulted in numerous run-ins with the law before eventually leading to his first arrest on Jan. 23. 
Bieber’s problems extend beyond the point of being a poor role model for his fans. He is now facing assault charges in Toronto, Canada, driving-related charges in Miami Beach, Florida, and felony vandalism in Calabasas, California. With the pending criminal cases, Bieber has also been placed on the Homeland Security watch list, which means that he will be a target of searches and interrogations by U.S. Customs every time he leaves and flies back into the U.S. 
His troublesome behavior has sparked worry from his friends and fans, with rumors circulating that those closest to him have begged him to reconsider his relationship with some of his troublemaking friends and consider entering rehab for his escalating drug use. Unfortunately, it seems Bieber doesn’t see his behavior as “problematic” as evidenced by his actions following each incident. If his behavior continues along this path, there is no doubt that the only winners will be his very expensive, very busy lawyers.
Justin Bieber’s pending cases:
Toronto, Canada
 Bieber surrendered to Toronto police on Jan. 29 after they charged him with assaulting a limousine driver in December 2013. Bieber is accused of having hit the driver in the head several times during an altercation in the early morning hours of Dec. 30. It has been reported that the fight began when Bieber asked for the music to be turned up and became irate when the driver did not turn it up as high as he had wanted. 
 Miami Beach, Florida
Bieber was arrested on Jan. 23 on suspicion of driving under the influence, driving with an expired license and resisting arrest without violence. A drug test revealed that Bieber had marijuana and Xanax (an anti-anxiety medication) in his system at the time of his arrest. 
 Calabasas, California
Bieber is facing a felony vandalism charge in California after an egg-throwing incident on Jan. 9 caused an estimated $20,000 in damage to his neighbor’s home. The 19-year-old singer had thrown more than a dozen raw eggs at his neighbor’s home (the same neighbor he is accused of having spat on). Bieber is facing the more serious felony charge because the damage amounted to more than $400. 
‘Garden of Light’ -- A special exhibition
Displaying the true essence of modern art, “Garden of Light” (http://gardenoflight.co.kr/) is an interactive media art exhibition that allows its visitors to understand that there is more to light than just being a tool for illuminating the dark. 
Held at the special exhibit center of the Galleria Foret in Seoul Forest until March 2, “Garden of Light” is an exhibition made up of 20 art pieces that were carefully selected from Japan’s immensely popular traveling exhibition, “Magical Art Museum.”
By using techniques that range from analog to state-of-the-art digital techniques to create an interactive media art exhibition on light, the “Garden of Light” exhibition overcomes a challenge that most modern art exhibitions have difficulty with: appealing to a wide audience. The focus on appealing to a person’s sense of sight and touch in conjunction with the desire to participate has also helped make the exhibit a bedazzling experience for everyone. 
Below are just some of the exciting artworks that can be found at the “Garden of Light” exhibit:
Secret Garden
This exhibit was designed to bolster one’s imagination by posing the question, “what would it be like if birds became plants?” 
Tool’s Life
An interactive artwork, “Tool’s Life” uses everyday objects and their shadows to force people to question the logic of reality. For example, touching the trowel on display transforms its shadow into a bird that sprouts its wings and flies off. 
Lake Awareness
The “Lake Awareness” exhibit uses sensors to detect movement, so that when visitors reach out toward the light the lights begin to ripple as though they are water.
 On the Fly Paper
The “On the Fly Paper” exhibit is a particularly exciting technical display. Visitors can pick a card that has a robot on it, place it on the table and suddenly a virtual display of the robot begins to move. This interactive piece is sure to enthrall visitors of all ages. 
