Should schools support interscholastic sports competitions?
YES -- When you think of interscholastic sports competitions, Yon-Ko-jeon or Ko-Yon-jeon is the most obvious example. Yon-Ko-jeon or Ko-Yon-jeon is a big festival between Yonsei and Korea University held every September to promote goodwill between the schools through friendly competition in sports and other fields. Much like Yonsei and Korea University, such interscholastic sports competitions have a long history of having a positive effect on the schools.
As I mentioned, the best thing about having interscholastic competitions is the development of friendly relations between two schools. Through an annual sporting competition, both schools solidify their friendship, and what is important isn’t winning or losing, but rather the students’ enjoyment of the event. In addition, students are able to develop their social skills by working together with students of other schools.
Also, thanks to the competition, students can learn about school and community spirit. During the time it takes to prepare for the competitions, especially in sports, students who attend the games can learn about the spirit of teamwork, and while working to improve their school’s reputation, students can also cultivate a school spirit. Moreover, students who aren’t part of the games can also learn about community spirit by cheering and encouraging the teams.
For these reasons I believe that schools should support interscholastic sports competitions.
 NO -- Recently, there was a TV program called, “Our Neighborhood Arts and Physical Education” that has been gaining popularity. In “Our Neighborhood Arts and Physical Education,” many stars practice various sports such as table tennis, badminton, basketball, etc. and compete with other teams. After this program became popular, many students began practicing the sports that appeared in the show, competing against each other. However, I think that interscholastic sports competitions can be a bad influence on children for reasons stated below.
First, fights can occur due to an escalating war of nerves between students. There is a lot of physical contact that happens in sports competitions. As a result, if players bump into each other and start getting upset, students who have difficulty controlling their emotions can get into fights with other students. Actually, there are lots of physical fights or brawls during sports competitions at my school, too. Furthermore, school sentiment and conflict between schools could degenerate into regionalism.
Second, if other students plan to be part of and practice with the varsity cheer team, it can take up valuable time needed for studying. Following the school’s sports teams and cheering for them can be considered a good thing since it increases one’s affinity toward their alma mater, but if they become too engrossed in cheering during important times, such as the examination period, it can be a problem.
Much like other topics, debating whether interscholastic sports competitions are good or bad can divide people depending on their assumptions. But if we focus on generic cases, there is the possibility of some serious problems, including fights that tend to break out among excessively emotional students going through puberty and the possible problems with the grades of students in the varsity cheer team. 
competitions?
