International Women’s Day 2014 -- Inspiring Change
A lot of things have changed for women over the years and since the early 1900s, International Women’s Day (IWD) has celebrated those social, economic and political achievements. Celebrated every March 8, International Women’s Day is a day for recognizing those achievements but also bringing attention to the areas that require further improvement.
The theme for each International Women’s Day may differ across regions and groups. Some groups, for example, can develop themes that are specific to their local needs and environments. Others, however, can work with the themes developed by larger, global organizations. Regardless of the official theme, International Women’s Day celebrations range from a general celebration of respect and appreciation of women to specific celebrations of women’s social, political and economic achievements.
Theme 
 The United Nations’ theme for IWD 2014 is “Equality for Women is Progress for All” with a commemoration ceremony scheduled to be held at the U.N. headquarters in New York on March 7. The International Women’s Day global hub (www.internationalwomensday.com), on the other hand, offers the theme of “Inspiring Change,” which calls for a greater awareness in women’s equality; increased participation of women in senior leadership roles and in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math; growth of women-owned businesses and fairer recognition of women in sport. 
 History 
 The celebration of women began in the U.S. in 1909, a year after more than 15,000 women marched through New York City demanding shorter working hours, better pay and voting rights. Although the U.S. began observing a National Women’s Day in 1909, the idea of an International Women’s Day was introduced during an International Conference on Working Women held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in August 1910. 
 Two women, Luise Zietz and Clara Zetkin, proposed the idea that every country should celebrate a “women’s day” every year to promote equal rights. Although the date had not been set, the idea received unanimous approval from the over 100 women from 17 countries attending the conference. As a result, the first International Women’s Day was celebrated the following year on March 19, mostly in Europe. 
The March 8 date was not adopted until 1913, on the eve of a World War I campaign for peace by Russian women. 
With the growing popularity and momentum of this movement, the U.N. began celebrating International Women’s Day in 1975, which the international organization had designated as “International Women’s Year.” 
Now, lots of global corporations have begun actively supporting International Women’s Day through internal events and the support of external ones, while some countries have declared it an official holiday. In fact, some countries have elevated International Women’s Day to the same level of Mother’s Day, where children give small presents to their mothers and grandmothers. 
 Women who became legends in their own lifetimes: 
Queen Elizabeth II 
The current constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, Queen Elizabeth II (born Elizabeth Alexandra Mary) is known to be the second longest serving British monarch. Having first ascended to the throne upon her father’s death in 1952 at the age of 26, Queen Elizabeth II has served as an effective and popular leader during her more than 50 years in reign, during which time she witnessed the world undergo rapid social and economic change. 
J.K. Rowling 
The author of the phenomenally popular Harry Potter series, J.K. Rowling, has been credited with leading the revival of children’s reading. The sales of her series was so high that Rowling has gained recognition for sparking interest in reading among children at a time when children were largely abandoning books for computers and television -- a view supported by data gathered by The Kids and Family Reading Report in 2006.
Kim Yu-na
Having earned her nickname as a “figure skating queen,” Kim Yu-na’s achievements as a figure skater has been an inspiration to many young women around the world, especially in Korea. Not only has Kim broken the world record 11 times, she has yet to place lower than third at an international competition during her professional career. Kim was named one of the world’s most influential people by Time magazine in 2010, the same year she was named an ambassador for the G20 summit in Seoul. 
Malala Yousafzai 
A Pakistani schoolgirl, Malala Yousafzai has become a global advocate for women’s rights at the young age of 11. In early 2009, Yousafzai began writing a blog under a pseudonym for the BBC, in which she detailed her life under Taliban rule. Defying threats from the Taliban on her campaign for the right to education, Yousafzai survived getting shot in the head and has become an award-winning international symbol for women’s rights, particularly the right to education. 
