Beginnings of a Lego empire
Since it was first introduced to the world in 1949, Lego bricks have become a staple toy in many people’s childhoods; so much so that Lego bricks were one of the original inductees into the National Toy Hall of Fame in New York in 1998.
The Lego building toys have always been enormously popular among kids, but the recent release of “The LEGO Movie” highlights The Lego Group’s decade-long pursuit of “an increasingly diversified customer base,” the New York Times (NYT) reported recently.
According to the report, The Lego Group, the Danish company behind the classic construction brick toys, has built a strong stable of brands over the years, and that “with the apparent success of its first feature film, Lego is considering a multimedia strategy for other properties.” 
“Lego has such a halo,” Gerrick Johnson, analyst at BMO Capital Markets, told the NYT. “It has such a strong brand name that kids want to see what’s next from Lego.”
Below are just a few examples of the company’s attempts to expand their reach:
 Build with Chrome 
 The Lego Group teamed up with Google recently to launch a new Chrome experiment called “Build with Chrome” on Jan. 25. The concept behind “Build with Chrome” was to bring the popular line of construction toys to the digital age by using 3-D graphics to allow users to play with virtual Legos. This joint project can be found at www.buildwithchrome.com. 
 “The LEGO Movie” 
 “The LEGO Movie” is The Lego Group’s first foray onto the big screen. Based on its classic construction bricks, the film was a resounding success as evidenced by its near record-breaking opening weekend in the U.S. In fact, as of Feb. 18, it has grossed more than $146 million at the North American box office and $60.4 million internationally. 
 LEGO Friends 
 LEGO Friends is a recently developed line of toys designed to appeal to girls. First introduced in 2012, the Friends line is not too different from the original toy line save for its “mini-doll” figures that are more detailed and realistic than the traditional minifigures. In addition to the “mini-dolls,” the Friends line of construction sets tend to depict scenes from suburban life and are produced in pink and purple color schemes. Although this line had generated controversy upon its launch for its focus on gender stereotypes, the launch is reported to have been one of the biggest successes in Lego’s history, according to NPR. 
