The Monuments Men: Men in quest of saving masterpieces from war 
The film “The Monuments Men,” displays people’s passion for cultural treasure in a time of war.
The film, directed and produced by Hollywood heartthrob George Clooney, is based on “The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History” by Robert M. Edsel. The book was based on a true story. A-list actors Matt Damon and Cate Blanchett star in the movie alongside Clooney. 
 Art historian Frank Stokes, played by George Clooney, assembles an army, nicknamed “The Monuments Men,” comprising seven museum directors, curators, and art historians, in search for stolen arts in World War II. They are on a mission to return them to the rightful owners. 
 During the war, Hitler issued the Nero Decree, which ordered the destruction of all German possessions if he dies or Germany falls. Stokes believes that art treasures and Western civilization should be protected from this destruction.　
 In Paris, France, a curator named Claire Simone, played by Cate Blanchet, witnesses Nazi officer Viktor Stahl steal art from her gallery to Germany as the Allies approach Paris. Simone helps out Stokes by giving crucial information about the stolen art.
 Yet, the road to saving the art is arduous, as the Allies’ armed forces are reluctant to restrict their operations for the sake of preserving cultural items. And in their holy quest for saving masterpieces from destruction, two members of the “Monument’s Men” are killed. In the end, the men track down tons of stolen art hidden in mines and castles throughout Germany. Two major pieces -- the statue of the Madonna and Child by Michelangelo and a Belgian panel set of religious artwork (the Van Eyck altarpiece looted from Ghent cathedral) -- are retrieved. 
 At the end of the film, the U.S. President Truman asks Stokes whether recovering artwork and various other culturally significant items was worth the loss of his comrades, and Stokes confidently replies that it was. 
