Benvenuto alla bella Italia!
The beautiful country of Italy has been featured in several Junior Herald articles recently, including this week’s main World article (p. 4) and last week’s cover story (“Pompeii - past and present”). There are many reasons why Italy should be highlighted in the news, not the least of which is its popularity as a classic European tourism destination. 
While there are thousands of reasons to visit Italy, let’s take a look at some of the facts behind one its most famous landmarks and cuisines.
Perhaps the most famous Italian landmark is the Roman Colosseum. With its impressive, if not bloody, history, it is one of the first stops for many tourists visiting Italy. Another famous architectural landmark of Italy, however, is the ever-entertaining Leaning Tower of Pisa. Located in Tuscany, the freestanding bell tower is best known for its tilt. 
What many don’t know, however, is the reason behind the tilt. The building’s now-infamous slope actually began during its construction. The tower’s foundation was built on ground which was soft on just one side. As a result, the structure began leaning to one side due to the weight of the tower and the lack of adequate support on the soft ground. Although its structure has been stabilized since the late 20th century, the tilt had increased in the decades between its construction and stabilization. 
More than just its architecture, Italy is also famous for its food: most notably, pizza. This oven-baked delight originated in Italy but is now enjoyed by people all over the world. Although similar foods -- seasoned flatbread baked in an oven -- have existed in other Mediterranean cultures, the modern pizza was invented in Naples, Italy, where it was known as “Neapolitan flatbread.” 
The first modern Italian pizza came into existence in the 18th and early 19th century with the introduction of tomatoes to Italian cuisine. Although tomatoes had existed in Italy since the 1500s, they were widely considered to be poisonous and thus were only used as decoration. It is believed that pizzas came into existence when the peasants of Naples began using this supposedly "poisonous" fruit in their meals. Although it took a while for the rest of society to accept this “crude peasant food,” once they did try it, it became an instant classic. 
For more information on Italian travel destinations, check out the travel article in Issue No. 428 of The Junior Herald, titled “Viva l’Italia!” 
 Pronunciation 
 The title “Benvenuto alla bella Italia!” is pronounced as “behn-veh-NOO-tee AHL-lah BEHL-lah ee-TAH-lyah.”
