The secret to why ‘You Who Came From the Stars’ is so popular
When you get on a bus or go to a cafe, you can often see people talking about “You Who Came From the Stars.” A SBS Wed-Thurs drama, ”You Who Came From the Stars” has captured the interest -- and the hearts -- of many people; its popularity is reflected in the show’s ratings, which are riding high. 
“You Who Came From the Stars” is a drama about the love story between Do Min-jun, an alien who fell to Earth 400 years ago, and an actress named Cheon Song-i. Superficially, it may sound childish. Nevertheless, on Wednesday and Thursday nights at 10 p.m., many people, regardless of age, will inevitably find themselves sitting in front of the TV to watch it. 
One of the reasons “You Who Came From the Stars” is so popular is because of its wonderful direction. Rumors that the drama would star Kim Soo-hyun -- whose popularity these days would not be exaggerated by calling him the most popular actor in Korea -- and Jeon Ji-hyun, who made a return to TV drama after 14 years, were enough to raise viewers’ expectations. The drama lived up to its expectations, becoming a hit amongst viewers thanks to the fine acting of the two leads.
Another factor behind the drama’s success is its unusual story. If you look back at the past and currently popular dramas, you will generally find that the main character is either a little different from the norm or has psychic powers. For example, this can be seen in “Master’s Sun,” “I Hear Your Voice” or “You Who Came From the Stars.” This strategy helps people detach themselves from their hard lives and reality, using the drama to achieve vicarious satisfaction. In addition, the story contains a lot of subject matters that people can empathize with that allows viewers to laugh but also makes them sad. 
It isn’t possible for dramas to be popular just because of actors and actresses, nor just because of the story. You need actors and actresses who can show realistic acting and have a story that fits them well. If a drama satisfies these two conditions, then it will create synergy effect and gets more attention. I believe this helps bring some understanding as to why “You Who Came From the Stars,” which satisfies these conditions, is so popular.
