How a prisoner exchange could help ease tensions in the Middle East
In a rare show of cooperation, an Israeli-Palestinian prisoner exchange mediated by Egypt on Oct. 18 has left many hopeful for a possible cooling of tensions in the historically violent region. 
According to AP, the exchange of Israeli soldier Trading Sgt. Gilad Shalit by Hamas for 1,027 Palestinians held by Israel as part of a prisoner exchange is “reshaping complex regional ties, mostly in favor of Gaza’s once isolated Islamic militant rulers.”
 Shalit had been captured by Hamas five years ago during a clash with Israel. His capture had been a key reason for the ongoing border blockade imposed by Israel on Gaza, as well as raids by the Israeli military which killed more than 200 Palestinians. Refusal by Hamas to free Shalit also played a role in Israel’s decision nearly three years ago to wage a three-week war, which killed hundreds of Gazans, devastated the economy and drove thousands deeper into poverty. 
Hamas leaders have portrayed the prisoner swap as a “victory for the movement’s hard-line ideology,” AP reported. 
Tens of thousands of people showed up for the homecoming celebrations in Gaza on Oct. 18, signaling renewed support for Hamas, which has seen a decline in their popularity over their “heavy-handed rule and Gaza’s ongoing isolation.” 
With hopes that the recent prisoner exchange will boost efforts to resume peace talks between Israel and Palestine, another significant achievement of the prisoner exchange has been to improve Hamas’ relationship with Egypt, its greatest ally. 
“We [have] rebuilt trust with Hamas and our relationship is now more in-depth,” an Egyptian security official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told AP. “Hamas showed strong commitment to protect Egypt’s border with Gaza and cooperate on security issues.” This swap has also helped establish Egypt as a regional power. 
According to another unnamed official, the next goal for Egypt is to push for unity between Hamas and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas’ Fatah movement. The official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, revealed to AP that having rival Palestinian governments, Abbas’ Fatah movement in the West Bank and Hamas in Gaza, endangers the region.
 According to Al Jazeera English, no matter how Egypt’s role in the negotiations is perceived by Arab countries, “helping broker such a major deal [the Israeli-Palestinian prisoner exchange] scores Egypt diplomatic points with the U.S. and Israel at a delicate time.” 
