Does smartphone technology make life easier?
Yes - Without a doubt, smartphone technology has made people’s lives more convenient and easier. Honestly, people today cannot think of living without their smartphones. We begin our days by checking the weather on our smartphone’s weather application and we check with public transportation apps when we want to take a bus or subway. The biggest strength of smartphone technology is that it offers information fast and conveniently.
 Smartphones are very convenient when you need to find locations. You can use Google maps to spot the location you are looking for. Also, if you are suddenly curious about something, you can easily take out your smartphone and search the specific information on search engines like Naver, Google, Yahoo, etc. Smartphone technology has made information cheap and ubiquitous. Moreover, when you want to try making a new dish for your family or friends, you can easily search for the recipe using your smartphone, and easily make the dish by following the steps that smartphone technology delivers. Furthermore, you can study and read newspapers via smartphones whenever and wherever you want if you have your smartphone. 
 Since smartphone technology offers an unfathomable volume of information fast and free of charge, I have no doubt that it has made our lives more convenient. 
 By Um Yoon-sun (uys@heraldcorp.com)
 No - Of course, smartphones have in many ways made people’s lives more convenient. With smartphones you can find whatever you want to know within a minute and with them, people can easily keep in touch with their friends and family members in a variety of ways. However, I believe there are some ways in which smartphone technology has made people’s lives more complicated and inconvenient. 
 To begin, smartphone technology is upgraded at least every year, so people who are using them must learn the drill and be adept at adjusting to new ways of using their devices. Every time a new product comes out we need to get accustomed to the new gadget, and it brings about huge inconvenience. 
 For instance, if you are not adept at using the newest technology or product you feel like you are trailing behind others. You may also feel that you are ostracized by your peer group. This creates unnecessary stress in your relationships and certainly makes your life more complicated. 
 As technology develops, there are more steps to learn to use the new, upgraded versions of products. So, I think that smartphone technology has made people’s lives harder unnecessarily. 
