World’s most-loved candies 
In just a couple of days, it is White Day (March 14)! On White Day, Koreans share one another candies or other sweat treats. Typically, it is the day when men give sweets to their girlfriends or wives and spend the special day as a couple. 
 The day is as sweet as it can be - after all, who does not like sweet treats? Sweet treats like candies, chocolate, jelly and chewing gum give us endorphins and make us happy. And to share that happiness with our JH readers, here is a run-down of the world’s beloved candies. Just be prepared to feel hungry whilst reading it. 
1. MM’s
 The best-selling candy in the U.S. is MM’s. The small round chocolate balls with brightly colored sugar coatings are made by Mars Inc. In the U.S. alone, MM’s make up about $1.8 billion in sales annually. They were invented in 1941 by Forrest Mars and R. Bruce Murrie. According to Candy Industry magazine, its manufacturer, Virginia-based Mars Inc., is now the world’s leading confectioner, and also produces the ever-popular Snickers chocolate bar. Originally MM’s were packaged in one variety ? plain milk chocolate, but today there are a dozen versions, including MM’s Peanut, which was introduced in 1954. 
2. Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups
 First introduced in 1928 by Hershey’s, $516.5 million worth of Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups are sold every year in the U.S. Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups are especially in demand during Halloween as it is one of trick-or-treaters’ favorite items. Its creator H.B. Reese was a former dairy employee of Milton S. Hershey. He began selling “penny cups” of peanut butter dipped in Hershey’s chocolate in 1923 and Hershey bought his company 40 years later. In the classic 1982 movie, E.T., the extraterrestrial creature reveals that Reese’s Pieces is his favorite. 
3. Snickers
 Mars, the same company that made MMs, is also the manufacturer of Snickers. It was first introduced to the market in 1930 and today the traditional chocolate bar rakes in up to $457 million in sales annually. Snickers launched a famous advertising campaign where the line goes, “You’re not you when you’re hungry.” It created a sensation across the world, helping to raise its sales. The candy bar was named after the Mars family’s favorite horse.
4. Hershey’s chocolate bar
 Milton S. Hershey began making a 5 cent milk-chocolate bar in 1900, six years after he opened a factory to make chocolate to coat caramels. A second variety, with almonds, was added in 1908. The bar went global during World War II, when more than 1 billion were included in U.S. soldiers’ rations. In 1994, Hershey’s created its new flavor, Cookies ‘N’ Creme, which accounts for $100 million in sales annually in the U.S.
5. Kit Kat
 The four-finger wafer bar was introduced in Britain by Rowntree in 1935, prompted by a worker’s note in a company suggestion box. Today, the sales of Kit Kats total $306 million annually in the U.S. The Kit Kat brand is owned by Nestle, but Hershey got the licensing rights for the U.S. in 1969. Kit Kat is made by Nestle elsewhere. Recently, Kit Kat launched a co-promotion with Google, which named the most recent version of its Android operating system after the snack. 
6. Kisses
 The first Hershey’s Kisses rolled off the Hershey production line in 1907 and back in the old days, each one was hand-wrapped. In 1921, as sales rose, the company began using machines for the production and now 1,300 Kisses can be foil-wrapped in a minute. 
7. Skittles
 This fruit-flavored, brightly coated candy made by Mars debuted in Europe in 1974. Mars began importing the candies to the U.S. in 1979 and making them domestically in 1982. 
8. Twizzlers
 Twizzlers’ original manufacturer, Young Smylie, opened for business in 1845, making this licorice America’s classic candy. Black licorice dates further back to ancient Egypt and Greece, but Hershey’s Twizzlers’ top flavor is hands down strawberry. In the U.S., $158.1 million worth of Twizzlers are sold annually. 
9. Twix
 Twix, which comes in a two-stick pack, was introduced by Mars in Britain in 1967. The company brought it to the U.S. in 1979. The candy bar ? a caramel-topped cookie coated in milk chocolate ? was called Raider across Europe until 1991. Now this chocolate bar makes up $172.4 million in sales in the U.S. annually. 
The list shows that chocolate is the most popular candy. According to data from BusinessWeek, the candy industry is big business all over the world. But confectionary giants, such as Mars, Nestle and Kraft, dominate the global candy market. 
 Many of the world’s most loved candies are more than half a century old. Only Twix and Skittles were introduced after World War II.
 But, it does not mean that there has been no innovation in candy land. Companies have added new flavors to live up to customers’ high expectations. This is why we can look forward to the coming White Day. Have a luscious White Day!
