Man of Steel, Park Tae-joon - Starting from scratch
This special report on the founder of POSCO is part of The Junior Herald‘s “Business Hero” series. Through the series, readers will learn each enterprise’s success stories and improve their knowledge of Korea’s economic development as well. - Ed.
 POSCO, which currently operates two integrated steel mills in Pohang and Gwangyang, is one of the world’s leading steel manufacturers. The company was established in 1968, aiming to develop Korea’s national economy through realizing self-sufficiency in steel production. Behind this was the company’s founder Park Tae-joon (TJ Park).
Park was born in Busan in 1927 and graduated from Korea Military Academy in 1948. Before he became the president of Pohang Iron and Steel Company (currently POSCO) in 1968, he worked for the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction and Korea Tungsten Mining Company.
Park Tae-jun and Park Chung-hee
 One of the most decisive events in the POSCO founder’s life was meeting former President Park Chung-hee. When TJ Park entered Korea Military Academy, he met the future president, who was an instructor at the school at the time.
TJ Park stood out among his colleagues at the school, and Park Chung-hee was impressed by TJ Park’s self-controlled attitude in class.
The two met again in 1960 as high-ranking army officials. One day, then Maj. Gen. Park Chung-hee tried to test Col. TJ Park. He directed his officers to get TJ Park drunk and ordered TJ Park to submit the armament plan of the army by 8 o’clock in the morning.
That night, the officers took Col. Park to a bar, and all of them became totally drunk. TJ Park’s drinking capacity was astonishing, as he used to drink strong liquor in icy battlefields. It was the other officers who passed out first. Park took all of them to their places and stayed all night to finish up on the report.
At 8 a.m. the next day, Col. Park was waiting in the commander’s office. Maj. Gen. Park, who appeared a little later, was very surprised. When he listened to the colonel’s briefing, he was thrilled. “Are you a human or a lump of iron? Last night, you cleaned up everything after drinking so much liquor, didn’t you?” Col. Park had passed the test of will power, mental strength and responsibility. 
Their mutual trust and respect for each other made it possible to succeed in building an integrated steel mill. After Park Chung-hee’s death, TJ Park visited the national cemetery after a quarter of a century of history together and said that the meeting with him made the foundations of this great history possible.
Spirit of turning right
Steel was a religious belief for TJ Park. He thought that steel was the nation itself, and thus the economy of the country depended on the success of the steel mill. He put his everything into building the iron and steel mill. People were fighting with sand-storms on the vast construction site to realize the long-cherished hope. TJ Park checked out the construction site constantly and encouraged all employees himself.
“We should take pride in realizing Korean people’s long cherished dream. It will be built upon our ancestor’s sacrifices. We’ll leave an indelible stain on our history if we fail in this construction. If so, we should ‘turn right’ and walk into Youngil Bay and drown ourselves,” he said.
TJ Park’s determination inspired the workers. The expression “turning-right spirit” started to spread among them and it was the slogan most commonly heard on the construction site.
The spirit was invoked again when the site for the steel mill was being prepared. On a winter’s day in 1968, President Park Chung-hee and TJ Park visited the construction site in Pohang. There was a strong wind blowing on the sandy plain. President Park could not get off the helicopter for a while because the sand-wind was in the way of the helicopter’s landing.
Within hours, TJ Park guided president Park into a building to report the progress of the construction. TJ Park reported a host of problems that the construction faced, and President Park looked at the desolate sand plain and said: “Can the steel mill be really built here? We pulled down people’s houses, you know.”　
TJ Park had no words to say. He knew that about 800 houses had already been demolished to make room for the construction. Many residents gave up their houses. Park thought he could not make up for the losses should he fail in the construction. The only way to reward their sacrifice, he thought, was to succeed in the construction.
TJ Park quit his all leisure activities including drinking liquor and playing golf. “It is a matter of life and death. If we fail, we’ll ‘turn right’ and walk up to drown ourselves into the East Sea. We will never fail,” he said to all employees at the construction site. That night he made a firm resolution to make a success of it.
The turning-right spirit once again encouraged all the construction workers to overcome their difficulties. And in the years that followed, POSCO employees shouted “turn right” whenever they faced any type of difficulty, making it one of the company’s signature slogans.
