Should statewide mock tests be abolished?
YES - The main purpose of the statewide mock tests is for high school students to get some experience with taking the College Scholastic Ability Test (CSAT) and prepare for university entrance exams. However, I disagree with this system.
Statewide mock tests are for high school students across the nation. This means that neither first-time nor multiple repeaters can take these tests. However, the CSAT is currently taken by test-takers of every age, including high school seniors and repeaters.
This is where the problem occurs. About 20 percent of test-takers for the CSAT last year, for example, were repeaters. Approximately 76 percent of them were from the Gangnam district. As such, these test-takers, who tend to have more experience and skills in taking tests, will naturally earn higher scores, whereas high school students tend to get lower scores than usual. 
If the grades continue to be and are indeed being influenced by repeaters, high school students will not be able to get a realistic experience of the College Scholastic Ability Test grade rankings. Therefore I think that either the statewide mock tests should be abolished or repeaters should also take these statewide mock tests.
By JH Student Reporter Lee Hyun-ji
 2nd Grade, Yangmyung Girls’ High School
NO - High school seniors must take numerous other tests to prepare for the College Scholastic Ability Test. One of these tests is the statewide mock test. Although many say that statewide mock tests are not really needed, I strongly believe that they should not be abolished.
First, although statewide mock tests are not really important when taking the CSATs, they still have a lot of benefits. The main reason that the government started to make statewide mock tests mandatory was to help high school students prepare for and feel more comfortable about taking the CSAT. If students do not take the statewide mock tests, they will not be able to know what the real CSAT is like, and they will not be comfortable when taking it, which could lead to bad results.
In addition, taking statewide mock tests would help students understand where they stand and which areas they need to do additional work on. For instance, my brother used to be good at math, so he didn’t really have much interest or worry about studying math. When he took the statewide mock test in April, however, his lowest score was in math and he has since been focusing on studying math more than any other subject.
In conclusion, I believe statewide mock tests should continue because they have a lot of benefits and help show students what they need to do for the CSAT.
