Cheating - is it worth it?
As the time draws near for students to begin applying to colleges for the upcoming school year, a universal worry plagues all students - how to get the passing grade required by schools for admission. Some try to do some last minute studying, while others just pray for luck as they try to guess the right answer.
 Unfortunately, more and more students are turning to cheating as a method for success. Even more unfortunate is that this cheating behavior isn’t limited to only students trying to gain entrance to their dream colleges. In today’s ever globalizing and financially unsound world, people have had to look for job opportunities further and further away from home. This means having to learn a new language and passing the language test requirements of the country. Like their student counterparts, many choose the ‘easy way out’ by turning to cheating.
 In fact, there have been two recent cases wherein students and job-seekers were caught cheating on the SATs and TOPIK, bringing the issue of cheating back into the spotlight. 
Cheating on the SAT
 Seven teenagers from Great Neck, New York, were arrested on Sept. 17 for participating in a SAT cheating scheme that has forced administrators to question the efficacy of the standardized test. Six current students from Great Neck North High School are accused of having paid a former student, 19-year old Sam Eshaghoff, up to $2,500 to take the SAT exam in their place. 　
 Eshaghoff, now a student at Emory University in Atlanta, is facing felony charges for allegedly using fake identification documents to pose as the college-bound students during the exams. His charges include scheming to defraud, falsifying business records and criminal impersonation. 　
 The investigation into Eshaghoff’s cheating ring has led authorities to expand the probe into two more school districts. A spokesman for Nassau County District Attorney Kathleen Rice warned on Oct. 11 that additional arrests are likely to happen as the investigation has expanded to two public high schools beyond Great Neck North, including a private school. 
Unfortunately, the SAT has a long history of students attempting to cheat their way into better grades. According to The Daily Beast, it is estimated that the College Board flags an estimated 2,500 cases of scores that “look suspect” every year. Upon further investigation, approximately 1,000 of those cases “result in the students’ tests scores being ‘withheld.’” As policy, the College Board never accuses students of cheating. Rather, it merely refuses to send the questionable scores to the schools. 
Fortunately, the College Board has a series of high-tech cheating-detection tools which help differentiate the cheaters from those who raised their grades through studying and hard work. 
For example, one of the most sophisticated tools used to detect cheating is explained by Bob Schaeffer, the public education director of Fairtest, a non-profit group that has challenged the fairness and validity of the SAT. Schaeffer explains that there are two types of cheating, “What we saw happen in Great Neck - impersonation - is the less common of the two. The more common form of cheating is collaboration.” To detect collaboration, the College Board uses “an algorithm that compares answers of kids sitting near each other during the test. The program looks for patterns of answers answered incorrectly. Correct answers will all look alike. But incorrect answers should have different patterns. When kids are collaborating, the wrong answers follow an identical pattern. And the algorithm sniffs it out.”
 Cheating on the TOPIK
 It was recently revealed by the Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor that cheating on the Test of Proficiency in Korean (TOPIK) in Southeast Asian communities has gotten out of hand. 
According to an official from the foreign workforce policy division of the labor ministry, foreigners seeking jobs in Korea are required to pass the Korean language proficiency exam if they want to be placed on the jobseekers list. Under the Employment Permit System of the Korean government, Korean employers must choose potential hires from this list of people who have scored a minimum of 80 out of 200. 
In Indonesia alone, 114 test-takers were caught cheating on the exam administered last June. Of the 114, there were 53 cases of someone else taking the test in place of the applicant, and 49 cases of test takers being expelled for failing to surrender their phones. 
Last year, a test taker was caught using someone else’s ID in Bangladesh, prompting the Korean government to cancel all exams scheduled in the country. 
Some cases of cheating have involved the abuse of close ties between local supervisors and test-takers.
 “We dispatch Koreans to supervise the test, but as their numbers are not large enough for appropriate test supervision, we employ locals as supervisors,” explained an official from the Human Resources Development Service of Korea. 
Such rampant cheating practices have prompted the Korean government to reconsider its current measures to prevent cheating. 
New regulations are being put into effect, including the random assignment of supervisors to test rooms, screening test takers by ensuring their faces match their ID cards, setting up metal detectors to weed out those concealing cell phones and most importantly, anyone caught cheating on the exam will be banned from ever taking it again. 
So what?
 Taking the easy way out always sounds better than working hard. 
In fact, most people have probably cheated on a test or homework at least once in their life and most of these same people will probably never do it again. Either because of the guilt of having cheated, the stress of worrying about getting caught, or the shame of knowing that they didn’t deserve the mark that they received. In most instances, the risks associated with getting caught cheating far outweigh any benefit one would gain from it. 
Eshaghoff, for example, probably enjoyed being paid to take the SATs. If he had been paid by 10 different students to take the SATs, he would have earned somewhere between $15,000 and $25,000, which sounds like a great deal. However, look where he ended up. Eshaghoff was arrested and is now facing felony charges which will forever be on his record. 
He is also currently under investigation by his school, Emory University, while Great Neck North High School will forever have a black mark on its reputation stemming from this incident. The high school students who were caught will now have an even harder time applying to colleges, especially considering the nationwide attention that this cheating scandal has received. 　
 With those who were caught cheating on TOPIK, they will now no longer be allowed to take the Korean proficiency exam, let alone consider working in Korea. In today’s economic climate, ruling out an entire country for possible job opportunities is a bad idea, not to mention potentially damaging to inter-governmental and inter-national relationships.
 The decision to cheat is always up to the person doing the cheating. Unfortunately, the decision to cheat and the resulting consequences of getting caught is never up to the cheater. 
