The 86th Academy Awards’ big winners
The Academy Awards, commonly referred to as “The Oscars,” is an annual awards ceremony celebrating achievements in the film industry. As one of the biggest awards ceremonies dedicated to the movies released that year, it is often one of the most eagerly anticipated events by film buffs, actors and filmmakers alike. This year, the 86th Academy Awards was held on March 2 at the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles.
Although thousands of films may compete for awards in several different categories, each awards ceremony results in one or two big winners; and this year was no different. The big winners of the 86th Academy Awards were “12 Years a Slave” and “Gravity.”
“12 Years a Slave” 
“12 Years a Slave” was clearly a big winner at this year’s Academy Awards, where it won in three categories: best picture, best actress in a supporting role (Lupita Nyong’o) and best adapted screenplay (John Ridley). 
This British-American historical drama film had received numerous awards and nominations, even prior to the 2014 Academy Awards. In fact, it received universal acclaim by critics upon its release. 
In his acceptance speech for best picture, the film’s director Steve McQueen dedicated the award to “the 20 million people who still suffer slavery today,” adding that “Everyone deserves to not only survive, but live.” 
 Synopsis: 
Based on the 1853 memoir of the same name by Solomon Northup, “12 Years a Slave” tells an incredible true story of survival and freedom. Northrup (played by Chiwetel Ejiofor) was a free African-American man with a wife and two children, who worked as a carpenter and fiddle player in New York. One day, he was approached about a two-week job as a musician, and kidnapped and sold into slavery. The film follows Northrup as he spends the next 12 years as a slave, struggling to stay alive, retain his dignity and regain his freedom.
 “Gravity” 
Although the best picture award may have gone to “12 Years a Slave,” many could argue that the film “Gravity” was the real winner at the 86th Academy Awards. Compared to the three awards won by “12 Years a Slave,” “Gravity” took home a whopping seven different awards for best cinematography, best directing, best film editing, best original score, best sound editing, best sound mixing and best visual effects. 
 Synopsis: 
A 2013 British-American sci-fi thriller set in space, “Gravity” is a story about a medical engineer (Dr. Ryan Stone, played by Sandra Bullock) and an astronaut (Matt Kowalski, played by George Clooney) who are forced to work together and survive after an accident destroys their space shuttle. The accident leaves the two strangers drifting around in space with only each other to rely on as they try to return home. 
 Spotlight: Lupita Nyong’o 
 Lupita Nyong’o is the 31-year-old actress of dual Kenyan and Mexican citizenship won best supporting actress for her portrayal of the tormented slave Patsey in “12 Years a Slave.” 
The novice actress, who was nominated alongside veteran actresses Sally Hawkins, Jennifer Lawrence, Julia Roberts and June Squibb, dedicated her astounding win to the spirit of the real Patsey during her acceptance speech, saying “It doesn’t escape me for one moment that so much joy in my life is thanks to so much pain in someone else’s.” 
Nyong’o was cast in her breakthrough role as Patsey in “12 Years a Slave” immediately before she completed her master’s degree in acting from the Yale School of Drama in 2012. Prior to “12 Years a Slave,” Nyong’o had had only two acting roles: her debut role in the 2008 short film “East River” and a starring role in the Kenyan TV series, “Shuga.” Nyong’o’s had, however, worked behind the screen in a variety of films as production assistant, writer, producer and director starting in 2005. 
