Man of Steel, Park Tae-joon -- his integrity and perfectionism
This special report on the founder of POSCO is part of The Junior Herald’s “Business Hero” series. Through the series, readers will learn each enterprise’s success stories and improve their knowledge of Korea’s economic development as well. -- Ed.
 Field commander of construction
 In August 1971, TJ Park stopped by Japan to check the equipment supply after signing a purchase agreement in Australia. Uchmi Kiyosi, the department manager of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, said that the equipment supply plan had to be changed because the basic construction of the factory was delayed by more than three months. 
 This did not make sense to Park. While leaving for Australia, Park ordered the staff to make up for a one month delay. He hurried back to Korea.
 The hot strip mill was the first facility under construction. If it were delayed, it would cause a successive delay to other constructions and harm competitiveness. Park received reports from the managers at the construction site. It was exactly as Uchmi had said. 
 Park reviewed the construction schedule carefully. Everyone was silent. Park wrote, “In September -- 700 cubic meters a day” on the construction map with a red pen. 
 “Mix 700 cubic meters of concrete a day with no excuse in September,” he said.
 It was more than twice the usual amount. The managers said that it would be difficult, and Park told them off: “We’re at the turning point of life and death. It is an emergency, a construction emergency. It is not construction, but a battle. We should win the war once we are engaged in it. Complete this battle without any excuse.”
 So 24-hour-construction started. It was like a battlefield. All cement mixers were collected. They were operated non-stop for 24 hours a day. without pause. The lamp from the top shed light on the construction site every night. TJ Park supervised the construction himself in overalls. He sat up all night with the workmen, rain or shine. When it rained too much, he had the workmen take a break, but he worked around the clock. The workmen sometimes napped for a moment on the construction site. However, the supervisors who did not complete 700 cubic meters a day were ruled out from regular promotion. One autumn day, it was raining hard again. Park found some trucks parked in parallel along the road. He found through the windshield that the tired driver was sleeping in the car. The same was seen in many other trucks. TJ Park had to wake them up. He sympathized with them, but this project was about the future of the country.
 On Oct. 31, 1971, the last concrete for the construction emergency was cast. Everyone at the site shouted “hurrah” as one. The construction workers had completed a two-month battle. TJ Park was the field commander who shared the pleasure and pain of the workers who were willing to follow his direction. TJ Park’s belief and will inspired the workers and they altogether accomplished the victory in the battle.
 ‘Blast the inferior concrete’
 TJ Park was a perfectionist. He had to restart from the beginning if he found any problem, regardless of how much time it took. He could not tolerate any faulty workmanship because if any part were imperfect, the whole structure might fall down later like a house of cards.
 TJ Park’s automobile appeared at the construction field in one afternoon in August 1977. All staff became nervous. After walking around the ventilator, Park stopped in front of the electric room. The foreman and the supervisor, Murakami, also stopped. Temporary bolts were used in place of regular bolts in the steel frame in front of the electric room because the latter did not fit well. TJ Park looked at it for a long time.
 “What’s that?” Park pointed at the bolts and asked. The supervisor answered that the temporary bolts were used as a substitute. According to the construction company and the supervisor’s agreement, they kept working irregularly. TJ Park called the construction director in a rage and gave a hard kick on the shin.
 “Are you the director? What are you doing right now?” The situation was serious. The next turn was the supervisor. “Where did you study? Did your professor teach you to handle concrete like that?”
 And then, Park turned to the Japanese supervisor. He criticized him in Korean and Japanese. There followed a long heavy silence. TJ Park opened his mouth.
 “Blast this concrete at once.” All construction staff looked at one another. They doubted what they heard. The basic construction was 80 percent complete at that time. 
 “Did he say blast?” they murmured.
 “Blast and redo it. Do you think rusty water will come out well if we build such an inferior iron and steel mill?”
 TJ Park entered the concrete chimney without hearing any answers and checked out the concrete there. He directed staff to check the basic construction situation and left the place without any word. At that night, Pohang construction site was frantic. The workers prepared blasting powder, received blasting permission from the Pohang police office, charged the blasting powder, and prepared a blasting operation with a technician.
 On Aug. 2, TJ Park gathered all the directors and department managers of POSCO and let them see the blast. At 11 a.m., the blasting ceremony was held. Bang! With a thundering noise, sand and concrete were thrown into the air. It was the moment showing TJ Park’s firm resolution against faulty workmanship. 
 Sam Hwan Company withdrew after taking responsibility and has not been in charge of a POSCO construction project ever since. The Japanese supervisor also was sent back to Japan at once.
