Global economy fights against unemployment
A worldwide economic slowdown, triggered by the 2009-2010 European sovereign debt crisis, is casting its dark shadow on the global employment market.
 The massive riots in Britain this August were arguably started by ingrained social inequality and soaring unemployment, and there were similar unrest in Greece, Italy and Spain.
 Citizens in New York, California, Washington and more of those in the U.S. are also raising their voices in criticism of the government’s economic policies, especially those related to employment.
 All these riots in Europe, North America and part of Asian countries have commonalities in that they express indignation against increasing unemployment.
 Unprecedented austerity measures by the Greek government increased the unemployment rate in the country by as much as 16 percentage points, and unemployed youths there take up 40 percent of all young people (defined as those aged between 15 and 29), according to a recent study.
 Korea’s latest youth employment rate stood at 40.3 percent, which is the lowest among all members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
 To tackle the unemployment problems, the Korean government announced that it would inject 10.1 trillion won in job creation for next year and make 562,000 new jobs. The allocation accounts for 3.1 percent of the government’s yearly budget plan, and it is higher than last year by 600 billion won.
 KB, the largest bank by asset value and market capitalization, and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) also joined hands to offer more jobs for young people in early October.
 The two organizations held a job fair in Songdo, Incheon on Oct. 6.
 The fair attended by Prime Minister Kim Hwang-sik, KB Financial Group President Lim Young-rok, KCCI Chairman Sohn Kyung-sik, and many other key economic figures was aimed at providing young people in their 20s with good jobs.
 Some 200 mid-sized and small businesses participated in the event, and the organizers expected it to help resuscitate the unstable employment market.
 KB President Lim said that his bank would exert efforts to contribute to reduce the income gap between the rich and poor and to improve social harmony as well.
 Over 5,000 jobseekers including 2,000 high school students visited the event and had a chance to glimpse at vocational training programs run by the KCCI.
