World’s richest people in 2014
True to form, Forbes magazine recently published its annual list of the richest people on the planet. Although 100 billionaires from last year’s list were dropped this year - proof that even rich, successful people are not immune to bad financial decisions - this year’s World’s Billionaires list swelled to a record 1,645 billionaires. To break it down, let’s take a look at who sits at the top spot, followed by the richest woman, then the youngest and oldest billionaires on the list.
World’s Richest Person 
Bill Gates regained his title as the richest man in the world with an estimated net worth of $76 billion. A self-made man, Gates earned his tremendous wealth through his software giant, Microsoft, which he founded in 1975.
World’s Richest Woman 
The wealthiest woman on Forbes’ list of billionaires is 59-year-old Christy Walton. Sitting at the No. 9 spot on the list with a net worth of $36.7 billion, Walton inherited her wealth upon the death of her husband John T. Walton, one of the sons of the founder of Wal-Mart. 
 World’s Youngest Billionaire 
Not only is the mysterious 24-year-old Perenna Kei new to the list of the world’s billionaires, Kei is also the world’s youngest billionaire. With a comparatively low net worth of $1.3 billion, Kei sits at number 1,284 on Forbes’ list. Despite the interest sparked by her billionaire debut, not much is known about Kei other than the fact that she inherited her wealth from her father’s real estate company, Logan Property Holdings.
 World’s Oldest Billionaire 
Ninety-eight-year old David Rockefeller Sr. is the oldest billionaire in the world, ranking 580th on Forbes’ list. Having garnered his wealth from oil and banking, David Rockefeller Sr. comes from a long line of billionaires that began with John D. Rockeller, his grandfather and founder of Standard Oil Co. Inc.
 According to Forbes, the past year saw the world’s wealth spread to new corners of the world, with 268 newcomers to the world of billionaires. Not only are there 42 new women billionaires in the world, bringing the total to a record 172, Forbes also found billionaires for the first time in places like Algeria, Lithuania, Tanzania and Uganda.
 The aggregate net worth of the 1,645 billionaires listed on Forbes’ list is a whopping $6.4 trillion. 
