Singapore: City of lions
Without having visited Singapore, the country generally conjures up images of clean streets and limited freedom, as rumors of its strict no gum chewing policy are whispered in voices tinged with disbelief. Despite its reputation as a country that restricts certain freedoms, there are plenty of things that make Singapore a favorite among world travelers.
While CNN Travel lists 50 reasons why Singapore is one of the world’s greatest cities, here are just some of the more fascinating facts about the beautiful country and reasons to consider taking a trip to the City of Lions. 
Food 
 Singapore is a great place to visit for food lovers. As a food capital of the world, with dishes from every conceivable country in the world to be found here, Singapore has everything a foodie could possibly want. In a nation filled with food bloggers, what more could you expect? 
If sweet, chocolatey drinks are more your style then it’s time you head over to Singapore and try their mouthwatering Milo Godzilla, the Singaporean adaptation of the Malaysian Milo Dinosaur (a cup of Milo topped with an extra spoonful of undissolved Milo powder). The Milo Godzilla is essentially the Milo Dinosaur topped with ice cream and whipped cream. 
 Singapore Flyer 
 For those unafraid of heights, Singapore is also home to the biggest observation wheel in the world: the Singapore Flyer. At a height of 165 meters (as tall as a 42-story building), the Singapore Flyer gives its riders a 360-degree view of Singapore. 
 Cab drivers
 Cab drivers generally don’t make it on lists of reasons to visit a country. Singapore, however, is unique in that it has some of the most educated and opinionated cab drivers in the world. Take Cai Mingjie for example, he is a Singaporean cab driver with a Ph.D. from the prestigious Stanford University and former biology researcher. Although not all cab drivers in Singapore hold Ph.D.s from Ivy League schools, they are known to clean their cabs twice a day. A chance to ride in what is possibly the cleanest cab you may ever ride in might not be enough reason to visit a country, but it sure would be a perk. 
