Should English become an official language of Korea? 
Yes - In my opinion, English should become an official language of Korea because it has been a huge part of our lives until today. English is the official language of U.S. Many Koreans use English in daily life, and some people are very fluent in it.
 If English becomes an official language, our communication capabilities will be greatly enhanced, given the fact that it is a global language. Of course, it will be inconvenient when English becomes an official language to some people, especially the elderly or poorly educated, because English is difficult to learn and unfamiliar to them. 
 Some will also worry about the degrading of Korean. In my view, our own language is one of the most scientific languages. It means that Korean will have sufficient competitiveness even after we adopt English as an official language. 
We should remind ourselves, however, that making English an official language is quite different from using English. If we design the policy well, we can optimize the benefits of English as an official language while preventing problems. 
 Making English an official language will bring about various benefits: tourism, national-branding, education, and so on. So I think that now we should strongly consider making English an official language.
 No - Learning English is an important problem to solve for many people in Korea. Countless students and young people have put a lot of time and effort into studying English for their entrance exams and jobs from an early age. There’s even a general feeling that having a near-native command of English gets more recognition than speaking our mother tongue of Korean fluently and logically. On account of this social atmosphere, some people insist that English should become an official language of Korea. But I believe that using English in Korea should be a choice rather than something we are compelled to do.
 First of all, if we use English and Korean as official languages unrealistically, many students who find it difficult to speak both of them will lose interest in language itself. Many parents will send their children to private academies to stop them falling behind, and making English an official language will expand the use of private education.
Moreover, the language of the country is not only good for communication, but also has the soul and history of the people in that country. 
 Lastly, which language is most important changes according to the times. English is the most dominant language in the world at present, but it might not be in future. We can’t adopt a new official language every time this changes. 
 In this area of globalization, we cannot help but wonder; “Is English really important enough to become an official language of Korea?” 
Personally, I strongly oppose making English an official language in Korea.
