Mystery of missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
“Unfortunately, ladies and gentleman, we have not found anything that appears to be objects from the aircraft, let alone the aircraft itself,” Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, head of Malaysia’s Department of Civil Aviation, said on March 11.
 Since then, nothing has turned up to clarify what actually happened to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which vanished from the air on March 9.
 International efforts have poured in to search for the missing aircraft carrying 239 passengers. Singapore, China, the U.S. and Vietnam sent ships and planes but the joint efforts have been fruitless. Malaysia and the U.S. together dispatched helicopters and surveillance planes to the South China Sea, utilizing their long-range search, radar and communications capabilities to the fullest. But nothing has paid off.
 The Malaysian military said that radar suggested that the plane might have traveled as far as Kazakhstan or the southern Indian Ocean. Flight recorders, or “black boxes,” emit ultrasonic signals that can be detected underwater, but without knowing the trajectory of a plane it went down, searches are meaningless.
 The latest report by the New York Times says that there is evidence that the plane was deliberately diverted from its route and soared to as high as 45,000 feet above the 43,100 foot ceiling for the Boeing 777 which could be a sign of hijacking or that the plane was under the command of someone with good pilot experience. 
 With that, FBI has begun to investigate to see if anyone onboard could have deep pilot skills. Previously there were doubts that terrorism might have played a role. Two passengers of the MH 370 were reported to have used stolen passports to get onto the plane. But further investigations by Interpol showed that they had no connection with any terrorist force. “Quite a few people ... do fly, especially in that part of the world, with improper identification or false identification,” said John Magaw, former head of the U.S. air security agency.
 Malaysian police added that Pouria Nour Mohammad Mehrdad, 18, one of the two who used fake passports was probably seeking to travel to Germany illegally. 
 Khalid Abu Bakar, inspector general of the Malaysian police, also raised the possibility of poor weather or pilot error for the accident. Yet weather conditions for this flight are said to have been good and the pilot, 53, had logged more than 18,000 flying hours. Moreover, Malaysia Airlines has a good safety record and the jet, a Boeing 777-200ER, is said to be one of the safest modern planes.
 With no clear sign of the plane’s whereabouts, the mystery leaves people wondering: Can a jet vanish without a trace? It has happened before, experts noted. An Air France jet flying from Brazil to France vanished into the Atlantic Ocean on June 1, 2009, with all 228 people on board. It took nearly two years to locate the remains of the fuselage, deep on the ocean floor. 
 Let’s look at some of world’s deadliest air disasters
 1. In 1985, 520 people died after a Japan AirLines Boeing 747 suffered a mechanical failure and crashed into Mount Osutaka. To date, it is the worst single-aircraft disaster in history. 
 2. In 1996, 349 people perished after a mid-air collision in India between a Boeing 747 operated by Saudi Arabian Airlines and a Soviet-era Ilyushin-76 plane operated by Air Kazahkstan. 
 3. In 1983, 269 all aboard Korean Airlines Flight 007 died when the pilot misused the navigation systems and continued flying incorrectly toward the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union was a hostile enemy of the U.S. at the time, and the Soviets shot down the Korean flight as it crossed over the border, thinking that it was a U.S. spy plane.
 4. In April, 2010, the plane of Polish President Lech Kaczynski crashed outside the western Russian city of Smolensk, killing all 96 on board. 
