Korea Professional Baseball
This year marks the 30th season of the Korea Professional Baseball League. In its relatively short existence, Korean pro-baseball has blossomed into the most popular professional sport in the country, with legions of passionate fans fervently supporting their favorite teams and players. The league has produced many players of exceptional skills and abilities who are highly regarded by teams from Major League Baseball (MLB) and highly coveted by teams from Nippon Professional Baseball. Many of the league’s best players have represented Korea on the international stage and helped the nation excel in the World Baseball Classic (WBC) and win the Olympic gold medal in Beijing. 
 Korea Professional Baseball was founded in 1982 with six teams -- each named after the company or business conglomerate that owned the team. They were: Samsung Lions (based in Daegu), Haitai Tigers (based in Gwangju), Lotte Giants (based in Busan), MBC Blue Dragon (based in Seoul), OB Bears (based in Daejeon), and Sammi Superstars (based in Incheon). The league’s inaugural game was played in Dongdaemun Stadium between the Samsung Lions and the MBC Blue Dragon (now known as the LG Twins). Then-president Chun Doo-hwan threw out the ceremonial first pitch. The OB Bears claimed the league’s first championship by defeating the Samsung Lions in the Korean Series. 
 The league went through numerous changes over the years, most notably team names, team ownership, team sponsorship, and team locations until it reached the current eight-team format. They are: Doosan Bears (Seoul), Hanhwa Eagles (Daejeon), Kia Tigers (Gwangju), Lotte Giants (Busan), LG Twins (Seoul), Nexen Heroes (Seoul), Samsung Lions (Daegu), and SK Wyverns (Incheon). Haitai Tigers (now Kia Tigers) has been the most successful, winning 10 of 29 championships. It reached the championship series ten times and was victorious on each occasion – a feat few teams in any sport, anywhere in the world, can equal. 
The Korea Professional Baseball League currently plays a 133-game regular season schedule, with each team playing every other team 19 times during the course of the year. Each team is allowed to have two foreign players on the roster. The designated hitter rule is employed in the league, which means pitchers do not have to hit in a game. A 12-inning limit is imposed on both regular season and playoff games, with tied games counting as a loss for both teams for winning percentage calculations. On July 17th of each year, the league stages an All-Star game to showcase its best players. The fan-friendly event is a contest between the East (SK, Samsung, Doosan, Lotte) and West (Kia, Hanhwa, LG and Heroes) all-stars. 
Korea Professional Baseball season’s ultimate prize is the Korean Series championship. The top four teams with the best win/loss records in the regular season qualify for the post-season, and the team with the best overall record gains a direct entry into the Korean Series. The third and fourth placed teams play each other in the first round in a five-game format, with the winner advancing to the second round to face the second-placed team, also a five-game format. The second-round winner then meets the first place team in the seven-game Korean Series.
