Important foods for the most important meal of the day
Breakfast has long been referred to as “the most important meal of the day.” In fact, eating a healthy breakfast can help with weight maintenance, boosting short-term memory and lowering the risk of Type 2 diabetes.
While it is tempting to take this saying literally and use it as an excuse to eat all your favorite foods in the morning, it is important to know that certain so-called “breakfast foods” should be avoided while others are highly recommended. The key is to eat a healthy breakfast. 
Some popular breakfast foods, such as bacon, sausages and granola bars, may be delicious and highly convenient, but they tend to have high levels of sugar and saturated fats. This means that while it is ok to have them once in a while, eating such foods regularly for breakfast could lead to problems. 
Instead, consider including the following healthy and recommended foods to your daily morning diet, according to a recent Business Insider article.
Eggs - Numerous studies have supported what many breakfast-food-loving people have hoped was true: eggs are good for you. A universally-loved breakfast food, eggs were found to be loaded with vitamins, minerals, high quality proteins and good fats. 
Whole-grain bread or cereal - Cereal and toast are two popular choices for breakfast. Rather than picking one full of sugar, why not go for whole-grain?
“Fiber from whole grain cereal and oats can help lower blood pressure and cholesterol,” Lisa Moskovits, owner of Your New York Dietitians, told the Business Insider. 
To make your cereal breakfast sweeter, consider adding slices of fruit rather than choosing a sugar-filled brand. Not only will it add some color to your meal, there is essentially no such thing as an “unhealthy fruit.”
Peanut butter - If you’re worried about the taste of whole-grain bread, why not enjoy it with a layer of delicious peanut butter? Unlike butter or margarine spreads, peanut butter is full of “good” unsaturated fats. Just two tablespoons of it also has enough protein to make up around 20 percent of the daily recommended intake. 
Smoothies - For those too busy to sit down for a meal in the morning, smoothies are a perfect alternative. Just throw some fruit, vegetables and a little bit of milk or yogurt into a blender and you’re good to go. 
