Shim wins overall title
South Korean Olympic gold medalist Shim Suk-hee become overall champion at the World Track Speed Skating Championships in Canada on March 17.
Shim won three races to became the first overall champion since Cho Ha-ri accomplished the same feat in 2011. Shim won 102 points.
 Park Seung-hi, another Korean skater, finished second with 73 points.
 The 17-year-old Shim won three Olympic medals in Sochi in February, and this time she won the 1,000, 1,500 and 3,000-meter superfinal. Park Seung-hi finished second overall, followed by Canada’s Valerie Maltais.
 Meanwhile, Russia’s Viktor Ahn ruled the men’s events. He won in the 1,000 and 3,000 for a total of 63 points.
 In the Sochi Olympics, Shim Suk-hee led Korea’s 3,000-meter relay team to the gold medal, and added a silver and a bronze each in the 1,500 and the 1,000 meters.
 Park Seung-hi was a double gold medalist in the Sochi games in Russia.
 The Canada games have offered Viktor Ahn his first world overall title since 2007.
Noah’s mission to save creatures from flood
Disaster blockbuster “Noah” features the main character Noah’s exhausting fight to save animal species on Earth and his family from an apocalyptic deluge.
 Noah is ordered by God to save two of each kind of animal and his family from deluge. In order to carry out the mission, he must build a huge ship -- the famous Noah’s Ark from the Bible. 
 While watching the film, audiences will be overwhelmed by the sheer scale of the movie. The scenes where birds, reptiles and mammals form a stampede to enter the ark are simply spectacular. Also the sight of barren lands instantly turning into jungle-like forests that indicate God’s energy is just sensational. The ark itself -- no computer graphic but a real boat that was created to the size and the shape of the ark described in the Bible especially for the film -- was unbelievable. 
 The biblical epic is based on the narrative of Noah’s Ark in the Book of Genesis. Russell Crowe starred in the film as Noah and actors such as Anthony Hopkins, Emma Watson and Logan Lerman appear in the movie. 
 Noah opened in theaters in Korea on March 20. For more information about the film, visit www.noahmovie.co.kr.
 Time for history
Noah’s Ark is written in the Genesis flood narrative (Genesis chapters 6?9). God gives him detailed instructions for building the ark -- 300 cubits long (137 meters), 50 cubits wide (23 m), and 30 cubits high (14 m).
