Growing competition for product placement on TV shows: good or bad?
Good - In every single popular drama or movie, it is not difficult to see product placement everywhere. The actresses’ bags, actors’ shoes … and when people notice them. 
That’s where the real action begins. For example, the laptop that Jeon Ji-Hyun used in the drama “You Who Came From the Stars” became known as the “Jeon Ji-Hyun laptop.” I completely support the use of product placement in TV shows. 
Firstly, product placement allows people to get an idea of what products actually look like off the shelf. Although pictures are available on online shopping sites, there isn’t any movement of the products or the people using them. If the products are shown on the screen during actual use, people can get a much better picture of them.
Also, the financial value of both the products and the TV shows grows. Because people tend to buy the products after seeing them on the TV shows, the products tend to sell better. TV shows are then given compensation for the product placement, which is proof of interaction between the groups. 
Although some people say that the trend is not unique, I think that product placement could be a good chance for consumers to buy the best products.
 By JH Student Reporter Park Yeh-rim
 3rd Grade, Sunae Middle School
 Bad - The use of product placement in movies, TV shows and video games is not a new concept. This marketing tactic has been used ever since corporations realized the value of marketing and the advent of motion pictures. In Korea, product placement in TV shows and movies is becoming increasingly competitive. Although some people might say that product placement is an effective method of marketing, I believe that such tactics are problematic for several reasons.
One of the biggest problems with the increasing reliance on product placement is its effect on consumption. Our society is becoming increasingly focused on buying the latest products and services to feel happy and give ourselves a sense of self. 
By using product placement, companies are fueling this type of behavior by forcing people to associate their products with popular characters and shows. Unlike celebrity endorsements, product placement tends to blur the line between fantasy and reality more easily, something which can be seen by the way people react to their favorite dramas. 
Another problem with product placement is that it is unfair to not-so-famous brands and companies. The costs of having your product featured in a popular TV show or movie is undoubtedly exorbitant. While famous or high-end brands may not have a problem paying those fees, others are not so lucky. This means that only the brands or companies that have a lot of money will be able to afford product placement deals, further enabling their market monopoly. 
As such, even though product placement is indeed a great way to market a product or service, I believe that doing so is both unfair and exacerbates an increasingly problematic issue in today’s society. 
