UNESCO’s Memory of the World Program
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) established the Memory of the World Program in 1992 as an international initiative to safeguard the documentary heritage of humanity. The program was launched out of concerns that many of the world’s most important cultural and natural heritage documents could perish forever due to the ravages of time and weather conditions, willful destruction in times of war and social upheaval, and the lack of resources for proper protection and preservation. 
The goal of the Memory of the World Program was to preserve and promote documentary heritage deemed to be of such significance as to transcend the boundaries of time and culture. A 14-member policy-making body known as the International Advisory Committee (IAC) was created in 1993 to formulate major policies for the program. In its second meeting in 1995, the IAC created the most important component of the program -- the Memory of the World Register -- and with it, the first concrete action was taken toward improving conservation of documentary heritage.
 The Memory of the World Register is a compendium of documents, manuscripts, oral traditions, audio-visual materials, and library and archive holdings of universal value and significance. Any organization or individual can nominate a documentary item for inscription on the Register. The IAC utilizes a set of criteria to examine the item‘s description, origin, world significance and state of conservation. When an item is inscribed on the Register, its chance of preservation and dissemination improves significantly. The program provides a network of experts for advice and guidance, raises resources for preservation and digitization, and promotes accessibility and dissemination of the material. 
 There are 193 inscriptions as of 2010, representing 87 countries and organizations, on the Memory of the World Register. Europe and North America lead the list with 97 inscriptions, followed by Asia and the Pacific with 42, and Latin America and the Caribbean with 33. Korea has 9 inscriptions on the Register, including such treasures as Donguibogam: Principles and Practice of Eastern Medicine, The Annals of the Joseon Dynasty, Uigwe: The Royal Protocols of the Joseon Dynasty, and Jikji: the second volume of the “Anthology of Great Buddhist Priests’ Zen Teachings.”
 In April 2004, UNESCO/Jikji Memory of the World Prize was established, in cooperation with Korea, to promote the Memory of the World Program and commemorate the inscription of the Jikji, the oldest existing book made through movable metal print. The Prize consists of a biennial award of $30,000 to individuals or institutions that have made significant contributions to the preservation and accessibility of documentary heritage. Jikji Prize laureates include the National Library of the Czech Republic (2005), Phonogrammarchiv, the Austrian Academy of Sciences (2007), the National Archives of Malaysia (2009), and the National Archives of Australia (2011).
 In May, 2011, 45 new documents and documentary collections were approved for inscription, bringing to 238 the total number of items on the Memory of the World Register. The new entries included China’s “Ben Cao Gang Mu” (Compendium of Materia Medica), Leo Tolstoy’s personal manuscripts, the collections of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Germany’s patent issued to Carl Benz for a gas-fuelled engine in 1886, and Japan’s Sakubei Yamamoto Family Painting collection. 
