Avengers in Korea
Hollywood sets its sights on international market 
When the news broke that part of “Avengers: Age of Ultron” would be filmed in Korea, it quickly became the talk of the town. In light of the unprecedented success of the first “Avengers” film in Korea, many felt that this was Marvel Studios’ way of saying thanks to the franchise’s Korean fans. Add the fact that a Korean actress was cast as a villain, and you can bet that the film’s release in the summer of 2015 will break local records.
The memorandum of understanding (MOU) between Marvel Studios and Korean authorities was officially signed on March 18. The MOU was drafted and signed in regards to the filming dates and locations for “Avengers: Age of Ultron.” According to the MOU, there are six locations where the superhero blockbuster will be shot: Cheongdam Bridge, a northern road in Digital Media City in Sangam-dong, Gangnam Boulevard, Mapo Bridge, the Floating Island on the Hangang River and a road near Kaywon University of Art and Design in Uiwang, Gyeonggi Province.
The director Joss Whedon “was also excited to shoot the film in the country and show the world the beauty of Korea never seen before. Its cutting-edge technology, breath-taking landscapes and unique architecture make it an ideal place for Marvel and ‘The Avengers: Age of Ultron,’” Mitchell Bell, vice president of physical production at Marvel Studios, said at the MOU signing ceremony.
During filming, streets will be closed to traffic for 11 to 13 hours a day. Despite the potential problems caused by stopping traffic, officials related to the MOU have expressed optimism about the film’s potential.
“We will prep to minimize citizens’ inconvenience during the filming period,” said Park Dae-woo, the chief of a cultural industry department of the Seoul city government. 
“Filming the Avengers sequel in Korea will bring new opportunities to the Korean movie and tourism industries,” Cho Hyun-jae, the first vice minister of cultural affairs, said in a press release. 
“This filming shows that South Korea’s film industry has grown to get international attention. We hope this will serve as a chance to raise the world’s people’s awareness of Korea following Psy’s Gangnam Style,” he added. 
Although this will not be the first time a Hollywood film has been shot in Seoul, the amount of exposure Korea will get in “Avengers: Age of Ultron” is rather unprecedented. In fact, the 2012 film “Bourne Legacy” was the first Hollywood film to feature scenes shot in Seoul.
However, unlike “Bourne Legacy,” the Avengers sequel will involve a Korean actress and more than 120 Korean cinematography staff during its one-and-a-half-week shoot in Korea. 
Considering the long-standing popularity of Hollywood films in Korea, some may wonder about its sudden interest in incorporating the small East Asian country into its big, blockbuster films. While many might be inclined to point the finger at the popularity of "hallyu," or the Korean Wave, the truth is a little less cultural and a little more economic. 
Over the years, the American film industry has become increasingly influenced by the international box office. As with any other industry, the film industry is focused on making the most profit possible. While films make a decent return on investment in the U.S. box office, it is nothing compared to what certain films have grossed internationally. 
“Iron Man 3,” for example, earned a little over $409 million in the U.S. Although this may seem impressive, the film earned a whopping $806 million in the international market, almost double its domestic earnings; and among the highest-earning international markets, Korea stood at No. 2, earning a whopping $16.4 million on its opening weekend alone. 
In an effort to take advantage of the lucrative international market, film studios are beginning to pay more attention to the wants and needs of their foreign counterparts. This includes tailoring production plans around the tastes of the foreign markets through location shoots, hiring local talent to be part of the cast and sometimes even editing a film with plot changes based on the preferences of the foreign market. 
Given the extreme success of the first Avengers film in Korea, it is not too surprising that Hollywood executives have decided to include Korea in the sequel. In fact, with the Korean market playing an increasing role in the box office revenues of Hollywood films, it is likely that Seoul will soon be featured in more and more Hollywood films. 
What is an MOU? 
 A memorandum of understanding is similar to a contract. It is signed between two or more parties that agree to a particular project or line of action. Unlike a contract, however, MOUs are not necessarily legally binding ? that is, neither of the parties that signed the MOU are legally obligated to follow through with what they promised.
 “Captain America: Winter Soldier” 
Fans eagerly awaiting the release of “Avengers: Age of Ultron” have probably stood in line, waiting for tickets to “Iron Man 3” and “Thor: The Dark World,” eager to get caught up on the lives of our favorite superheroes. After finding out what happens to Tony Stark and Thor in the aftermath of the “New York incident” in 2012, make sure you catch what happens to Steven Rogers (Captain America) and Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow) in the last sequel before the Avengers reunite in 2015. 
 “Captain America: Winter Soldier” hit local theaters on March 26.
