Goodbye TV, hello smartphones 
Recent data shows that more and more Koreans are choosing to forgo having a TV set, using their smartphones and tablet PCs to watch television instead, Yonhap News reported recently.
According to the results of a survey conducted by the Korea Information Society Development Institute, 76.6 percent of households in Korea had one TV set at home in 2013. Although this number rises every year, the increases are slowly plateauing. According to the institute, this trend coincided with the end of analog broadcasts in December 2012. 
With the end of analog broadcasting, many people opted to view their favorite TV shows on mobile devices rather than replacing their outdated TV sets. As a result, the number of smartphone users has exponentially increased over the years, whereas TV set purchases have been plateauing. 
Not only are fewer people using TV sets to watch their favorite shows, Koreans are beginning to spend more and more time on their smartphones compared to watching TV or even using their computers.
A survey conducted by HS Ad, an LG Group-affiliated advertising agency, found that Koreans on average tend to spend 3 hours and 34 minutes a day on their smartphones, almost 4.5 times the amount of time they spend on computers. The survey results showed that those in their 20s tended to use their smartphones the most, at an average of 5 hours and 15 minutes a day. 
In addition, the same survey found that 53 percent of respondents used their smartphones for social networking whilst also watching TV. As such, the average Korean spends 30 minutes a day in front of two screens: the TV and smartphone. 
Mystery of Big Bang theory solved?
A group of U.S. scientists claimed that they’ve gathered the first direct evidence of the Big Bang ? an expansion of the cosmos thought to have started the universe. 
Scientists at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics said the images of the gravitational waves that rippled through space after the Big Bang were captured by the BICEP telescope at the South Pole.
 “The South Pole has been considered as the closest spot on Earth to observe space,” said John Kovac, leader of the BICEP2 collaboration at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. There is little dust or extra galactic material in the Southern Pole to interfere with the research, Kovac pointed out. 
 The discovery, if confirmed, would support the Big Bang theory of the universe. Some experts even suggest the work could be a contender for the Nobel Prize. The latest study is a definitely worthy of a Nobel Prize, according to theoretical physicist Alan Guth, who proposed the idea of space inflation in 1980.
 What is certain is that the observation gives scientists new clues about the conditions in the early universe; how the space inflated into today’s existence in an event known as the Big Bang 14 billion years ago. Moreover, it can finally provide the biggest missing piece of evidence for Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity.
 “Detecting this signal is one of the most important goals in cosmology today,” said John Kovac. 
 Harvard theorist Avi Loeb also noted that the findings provide new insights into some of our most basic questions: Why do we exist? How did the universe begin?
