Discovering the beauty of Southern France
Although a popular tourist destination, most people forget that France has more to offer than just the glitz and glamour of Paris. While the capital city of France may indeed have lots to offer in terms of entertainment and culture, why not check out Southern France? 
With some of the most exquisite beaches with sand as white as snow, Southern France is a must for anyone interested in experiencing a mix of history, culture, luxury and relaxation, not to mention the occasional celebrity sighting. Home to the world-famous Cannes International Film Festival, the area has been the source of a booming tourism industry for France since the 1920s. Over the next several decades, Southern France bloomed into the perfect tourist destination for people of all ages, backgrounds and interests.
Why visit the South of France? 
 Exquisite beaches 
The South of France is the perfect place to vacation for people who enjoy beaches. Whether you’re a fan of white sand beaches or the pebbled variety, the beaches in this region will give you a glorious view of the crystal-clear, turquoise waters of the Mediterranean Sea. 
 Modern art 
No one can doubt the influence of French artists on modern art. In fact, the romance and beauty of Southern France has been the source of inspiration of many artists and writers around the world, including U.S. writer, F. Scott Fitzgerald. As a result, this region is sometimes referred to as a modern art mecca, in part due to the dozens of museums located in the region, many of which are dedicated to the legacy of such artists as Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso.
 Celebrity spotting 
Celebrities are everywhere. They are on our TVs, in the movies we watch and in the magazines we read. Very few of us, however, have seen them in person. This would not be a problem during a trip to the South of France, however, where international celebrities and athletes like to vacation and party. Just spend a day hanging around places like Saint-Tropez and the Pampelonne beach and you are bound to run into dozens of A-list celebrities. 
