FOR or AGAINST: Girl idol groups using ‘sexiness’ to gain popularity 
For - In the entertainment business, various concepts are being generated and compete with one another. A few celebrities and idol groups are currently utilizing “sexiness” to market themselves and trying hard to take advantage of it to the fullest. In this situation, I definitely support idol girl groups who use their sex appeal to gain popularity.
 First, I strongly believe that in the entertainment world, there are lots of concepts ? which in K-pop refers to the style of the music, dance, clothes and other aspects of a performance -- that can gain popularity, but entertainers generally prefer “sexy concepts” less than other concepts. Because it is so hard to attract fans and popularity, it has to be more frequently adopted and used by idol groups to survive in the harsh, competitive industry.
 Secondly, not everyone likes the sexy concept, because of its lewdness, but it can also be some groups’ main identity. For example, girl group “Sistar” gained popularity by using their sex appeal.
 So, overall, I strongly insist that “sexy concepts” help girl groups gain popularity more effectively than avoiding them.
 Against - Nowadays, a lot of idol girl groups use “sexiness” to gain popularity. Their exposure of their bodies is getting so serious that it makes viewers embarrassed to watch them.
 Here is something that happened to me on New Year’s Day. I watched an SBS music program with my whole family. There were lots of K-pop singers on the program, but the program made me frown and my uncle changed the channel even though the show was PG-15. Frankly speaking, PG-15 in Korea means that all ages can watch the show if they want to. But the singers’ stage act was a little too raunchy for television. Not only their clothes but also their dancing and even songs’ lyrics were too raunchy. Some songs were like X-rated movies. 
 Sometimes, we try to understand that a “sexy concept” is a way to survive in the industry. But, we have to understand that idols are teenagers’ role models. Many children learn from them and they want to be like them. If they learn from people who show their almost naked bodies to earn fans, what will the young generation think? I think they should not consider their fans as a means of making money. They have to be good role models for teenagers.
