Michelle Obama’s China tour 
During her visit to China from March 20-26, U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama and her family were deeply immersed in the richness and depth of the China’s culture. She traveled this exotic Asian country along with her two daughters, Malia and Sasha, and her mother, Marian Robinson. The Obamas visited three Chinese cities -- Beijing, Xi’an and Chengdu -- and numerous tourist spots that represent the authentic Chinese culture.
 The Great Wall of China
 First, they visited one of China’s must-see tourist spots, the Great Wall. The Great Wall of China stretches out along a chain of mountains. They walked a long stretch of the towering stone wall that dates back to the Ming Dynasty. 
 Terra-Cotta warriors
 On the fourth day, Michelle Obama visited the former Imperial Palace in Beijing’s Forbidden City and moved on to Xi’an, Shaanxi Province and got an up-close look at the famous Terra-Cotta Warriors. These celebrated sculptures depict soldiers who protected the first Chinese emperor, Qin Shi Huang.
 Panda diplomacy
 Nearing the end of the trip, the Obama family visited the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding. Located in the capital of Sichuan province in southwest China, Chengdu has been home to giant pandas since ancient times. In the giant-panda research facility, Obama family had a rare chance to feed the country’s most cherished animal. The Chengdu panda facility is shut to the public for security, and houses 80 giant pandas as well as a colony of red pandas. It is one of the major panda breeding stations in the world. 
Universal topic: Education
 During her Chinese trip, Michelle Obama dealt with universal topics such as education and freedom of speech. On March 23, she met with educators, students and parents of China to discuss education at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. Together they talked about standardized testing which is the backbone of China’s education. “One of the reasons I have come to China is to learn more about education around the world,” Obama said at the meeting. “It’s personal, because I wouldn’t be where I am today without my parents investing and pushing me to get a good education.” 
 While visiting Peking University, Michelle Obama encouraged students to become citizen diplomats through student exchange programs and by studying abroad. “I’m here today because I know that our future depends on connections like these among young people like you across the globe,” the first lady told students at Peking University. “We believe that relationships between nations aren’t just about relationships between governments or leaders -- they’re about relationships between people, particularly young people.”
 In fact, China is the fifth most popular destination for Americans studying abroad, and Chinese make up the highest number of exchange students in the United States.
 Obama added that youngsters did not need to get on a plane to be citizen diplomats. “If you have an Internet connection in your home, school or library, within seconds you can be transported anywhere in the world and meet people on every continent.”
 Moreover, Michelle Obama got the opportunity to engage with President Xi Jinping’s wife, Peng Liyuan, who is also a popular folk singer. 
It was a down-to-earth trip which focused mainly on promoting education and studying abroad. On top of that, she spent valuable time with her two daughters and her own mother, taking lots of pictures and posting them on Istagram. The seven-day goodwill tour illustrated deep Chinese culture not only to the Obama family but to the whole world.
