Halloween Special: History’s Haunted Houses
Halloween is a time not just for trick-or-treating, but also a time to share your favorite scary stories with friends and family. Although Halloween has come and gone, here are three of the creepiest, scariest, and possibly most haunted places in history.
 The Catacombs of Paris, France
 The Catacombs of Paris refers to an extensive network of underground tunnels and caverns housing the bodies of about 6 million people. The Paris catacombs, whose official name is l’Ossuaire Municipal, is undoubtedly one of the scariest places in the world; somewhere you would not want to get lost.
 Since it was opened to visitors in the late 18th century, millions of tourists have dared to take a tour of the underground network of graves. The entrance to the catacombs is located at today’s Place Denfert-Rochereau, and begins with a narrow, winding stone stairwell which leads visitors down 19 meters of darkness and silence. At the ossuary entry, visitors are greeted with the inscription, Arrête, c’est içi l’Empire de la Mort (“Stop, this is the Empire of Death”). From this point on, visitors can walk down hallways and into caverns with walls made from the carefully arranged bones of the dead.
 With this décor, it is no surprise that many visitors claim to have felt the chilly presence of a ghost. In fact, a quick search on the internet will provide numerous pictures by visitors, attesting to the existence of ghosts in the Catacombs of Paris.
 Prypiat, Ukraine
 A town that used to house the workers of Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, Prypiat is now a desolate, uninhabited and downright eerie plot of land in Ukraine, commonly known as the “Lost City.” Littered with abandoned houses and buildings, it looks like a set for an elaborate set for a Hollywood apocalypse movie.
 This ghost town is located near the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in northern Ukraine, where the infamous Chernobyl nuclear disaster of 1986 took place. Prior to the disaster, Prypiat had a population of 49,400 that lived in 13,414 apartments and visited one hospital. There were 15 primary schools, 5 secondary schools and 1 professional school. Since the Chernobyl disaster, however, the city of Prypiat was declared a part of the Zone of Alienation by the Ministry of Emergencies of Ukraine. The citizens of Prypiat were asked to evacuate temporarily on April 27, 1986 after the explosion at Chernobyl, but no one has returned since. 
Much like Chernobyl, the town of Prypiat is now littered with deterioration and dilapidated, broken-down buildings; the sad and chilly remains of an abandoned city. 
Fortunately for Hollywood and makers of computer games, however, the abandoned town of Prypiat makes for a great backdrop for films (i.e. opening scene for Transformers: Dark of the Moon) and computer games (i.e. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare)
 Transylvania, Romania
 The inspiration for Bram Stoker’s Dracula, Transylvania is home of the notorious warlord, Vlad III Dracula (1431-1476), also known as Vlad the Impaler. 
Vlad III Dracula was notorious, even during his lifetime, for his excessive cruelty during his rule as Voivode (warlord) of Wallachia. During his reign, Vlad the Impaler is said to have killed 40,000-100,000 people. Although Vlad the Impaler was Voivode of Wallachia, he was born in Sighisoara, Transylvania in the winter of 1431.
 His inclination towards impaling his enemies and reputation for cruelty was the inspiration for Bram Stoker’s well-known 1897 novel, Dracula. The name “Dracula” is historically thought to be derived from a secret fraternal order of knights called the Order of the Dragon, which was founded to uphold Christianity and defend against the Ottoman Turks. In 1431, Vlad II Dracul (father of Vlad the Impaler) was admitted into the order. The name “Dracula” literally means “Son of Dracul.”
 One of the main tourist attractions of Transylvania today, is Bran Castle. Also known as “Dracula’s Castle,” this place is a popular destination for visitors thanks to it being marketed as the home of the iconic fictional vampire, Count Dracula, from Stoker’s Dracula. 
Though this town isn’t innately scary, being universally known as the home of Dracula does encourage taking a deep breath before entering. Not to mention, they probably throw the best Halloween parties and have the scariest haunted houses in the world. 
