My resolution for new semester
With the new school year, all students have entered a new school or gone up to a higher grade. I finished my three years of middle school and entered an academic high school and I’ve been attending it for a month.
 Before I went to school, I had a lot of concerns and anxiety. I worried about not only meeting new teachers and friends but also adapting to a new style of school and study, since many people emphasize the importance of school life and grades at high school. However, after the semester began, I realized that high school is an enjoyable place, not a dreary place where students only study. Of course, high schools finish much later than at middle schools, and I have more pressure to study. But high school life with good teachers and friends is much better than I thought.
 As I welcomed a new semester at a new school, I told myself that I would keep three promises. First of all, I will exercise regularly. There’s nothing more important than your health. If you study or major in music, your health is essential. As I go to high school, I have little time for exercise. But I decided to exercise frequently every day. I will make exercising a habit by taking the stairs rather than using the elevator and walking rather than sitting down. I will also try to keep stretching to maintain my health.
 Secondly, I will try to avoid stress. After I entered school, I found the number of students who study hard or who are good at studying is high. This makes me anxious. But my real rival is myself. Of course, a proper amount of tension is needed, but if I start to compare myself with others in a negative way, I will be very depressed. I want to go to school with a glad heart rather than be frustrated.
 Lastly, I will try to do my best in every situation. I will study hard whether it is my favorite subject or a less interesting subject. In addition, I want to make my high school life rewarding by participating in school events and club activities. 
