Will the ‘Avengers 2’ filming in Korea be good or bad for the country?
GOOD - In my opinion, “Avengers 2” will be certainly good for our country. For the most part, we have all heard about the Korean Wave within the global community. However, there are still lots of people - especially in the U.S. - who don’t know much about Korea, even as they listen to Psy’s “Gangnam Style.” This means that we need to make greater efforts to make the Korean Wave sustainable. 
The filming of “Avengers 2” in Korea will be a very good chance to introduce Korea and Seoul to the world. The 2012 release of the first “Avengers” film in North America grossed $623,357,910 - the highest takings in 2014. “Avengers 2” is expected to achieve a similar boom in the North America as well as the world. 
Through the filming of “Avengers 2” in Seoul, we can show the global audience that the attractiveness of Korea is not confined to K-pop or Korean movies. Seoul will be stamped onto the memories of the people who watch the film as one of the most-developed metropolitan cities in the world. 
We also get the great benefit of increasing tourists after the screening of “Avengers 2.” Moreover, global stars who participate in the filming in Seoul might fall in love with the city and introduce it to their fans. Some people worry that the filming will worsen the traffic in Seoul. But it can be sufficiently controlled if we can make a well-organized traffic plan during the filming period. 
In conclusion, I support the filming of “Avengers 2” in Seoul.
 By JH Student Reporter Cha Eu-gene
 1st Grade, Bongeun Middle School
 BAD - Recently, the fact that “Avengers 2” is scheduled to shoot in Korea has been big news. Korean actress Su-hyun has been cast in the movie. However, I am against the film’s shooting in Korea.
The first reason is because it causes traffic jams. From the shooting schedule, we can see that the filming is set to take place from March 30 to April 14. However, the shoots are to take place in the center of town, at the Mapo Bridge, Cheongdam Bridge, Sangam DMC World Cup Bridge and more. Traffic will be strictly regulated because of the filming, which will result in traffic jams and inconvenience. 
Secondly, it doesn’t show Seoul’s beautiful landscape because this movie is about destroying big buildings. After watching the film, people should think, “Oh, Korea is such a beautiful country, I want to visit” but there are too many scenes of destruction for that. 
Therefore, this doesn’t give us any benefits. But Korea paid a lot of money to get “Avengers 2” to film in the country. I don’t understand why we should give lots of money for something that is destructive and doesn’t offer any benefit to us. 
For these reasons I think that shooting “Avengers 2” in Korea is a loss for us.
