Will K-pop succeed in the U.S?
Pro- 
I believe that K-pop will succeed in the U.S. 
 Recently, the K-pop boom has hit Europe. Concerts that were held in Europe were very successful and K-pop lovers are increasing day by day. For example, the SM Town concert in Paris sold out. Also, JYJ has planned concerts in many countries. For these reasons, I believe that K-pop will succeed in the U.S. 
 To begin with, K-pop has a few resources that attract many people, such as cute choreography and catchy lyrics. For example, Wonder Girls’ hit song “Nobody,” contains the word “nobody” 64 times, and brought a revival of 70’s fashion in Korea. Super Junior’s “Sorry Sorry” topped the charts for more than 34 weeks in Taiwan. K-pop has already spread across the world, and K-pop lovers are rapidly increasing in number.
 Secondly, K-pop stars are very friendly to their fans, unlike Hollywood stars. Korean singers often communicate with their fans through mass media and SNS. They have their own Twitter accounts and sometimes chat with their fans. At least once a week, they appear on music programs, and they host their own radio programs, too. 
 In conclusion, I believe that there are several special factors that will help K-pop succeed in the U.S. Cultural differences won’t bother them in spreading their charm, and may even attract many people’s attention. 
 Con-
 I don’t think that K-pop will be successful in the United States.
 K-pop is similar to American music. It is composed of a variety of American genres such as R&B, hip-hop, jazz, rock and reggae.
 I think the success of K-pop depends on its similarity to American pop. Thinking that K-pop contains universal emotions that can break boundaries in many countries, and that it will do so in the United States as it has in many other countries including Asia and Europe is too optimistic in my opinion. 
 First of all, its similarity to American pop might get a negative reaction. Americans already know K-pop through Facebook, YouTube and other Internet sites. K-pop is not foreign to them. It is the same with other countries including Japan, China, France and Britain. 
 However, Americans have not gone crazy about K-pop. For example, famous singers like Rain and BoA failed in the United States. The United States is different from other countries. Why?
 In order to succeed in the U.S., K-pop ought to obtain not just similarity but differences and uniqueness. If not, Americans will soon tire of K-pop. 
 Does K-pop have special features? Appearance, age, and the size of the group alone are not enough. I am afraid that K-pop singers just mimic American pop. We need to develop our own music.
 Don’t act hastily, even if a lot of Americans watch K-pop videos on YouTube. We should be satisfied with the birth of Billboard’s K-pop Chart. Don’t expect Americans to go crazy about K-pop anytime soon. 
