New crown prince named in Saudi Arabia
The death of Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdul-Aziz on Oct. 21 brought the spotlight on the future of the aging monarchy of Saudi Arabia. 
Since Sultan’s death, Arab and Muslim leaders, as well as other high-ranking officials from around the world, have made their way to Dubai to offer their condolences. With the three-day mourning period for the death of Sultan coming to an end, all eyes are on Saudi Arabia as 87-year old King Abdullah named Interior Minister Prince Nayef as the new Crown Prince to be the heir of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Sultan, who was heir apparent prior to his death, is presumed to have died due to cancer at the ripe old age of 81. Though his death did not come as a surprise, the failing health of King Abdullah, who has been hospitalized several times in recent years, has brought to light the issue of Saudi Arabia‘s aging leadership. Prince Nayef, who is now the new crown prince and heir apparent, is also in his late 70s. 
Another point of contention is Nayef’s politics. According to the Times of India, Nayef is “Conservative even by Saudi Arabia’s austere standards.” Reuters reports that Nayef is “sometimes described by Saudi liberals as an anti-reform conservative who is likely to take a cautious approach to social and political change, while viewing foreign policy through the lens of national security.” In fact, Nayef had publicly rebuked a member of the Shura Council who had called for a revision of the ban on women driving in Saudi Arabia. 
“At stake is the stability of a ... [key] U.S. ally which wields great influence over Sunni Muslims,” the Times of India article states, not to mention the fact that Saudi Arabia is currently the world’s top exporter of oil. 
As Washington’s biggest and most important ally in the Arab world, the U.S. is wary of a deterioration in the once-close relationship between the two nations which has become more strained since the popular uprisings in the region this year. 
The Los Angeles Times writes, however, that “Although Sultan was thought to have been relatively pro-U.S., and Nayef somewhat more critical, experts do not attribute the shift in relations to Nayef‘s growing power.” 
In fact, according to the Times of India, some diplomats and analysts have said that Nayef, who has served as Interior Minister since 1975, “may show a more pragmatic side as crown prince - and eventually as king.” 
Nayef has already been running the kingdom on a daily basis for extended periods of time, presumably due to the failing health and absences of both King Abdullah and Sultan. 
