Park Won-soon, Seoul’s new mayor
The by-election for Seoul mayor was held on Oct. 26. The coveted Seoul mayor seat has been vacant since the former Mayor Oh Se-hoon stepped down after losing a referendum on the free school lunch program in late August.
 It was an unprecedentedly heated race as two top presidential candidates threw their weight behind the two candidates.
 Star IT entrepreneur Ahn Cheol-soo, who has no political experience, openly backed Park, a 55-year-old lawyer-turned-civic-activist, throughout the campaign including two days before the Election Day in a letter. Ahn encouraged people to vote for a fresh change, referring to the civil rights movement as a demonstration of people power. 
 Park’s rival Na was endorsed by the former GNP chairwoman, Park Geun-hye.
 On the by-elections, the GNP appealed to voters in their 50s or older whereas the Democratic Party won over young voters, who mostly lean to the left. The latter tried to engage the younger generation through the use of SNS and other “smart” devices.
 Celebrities such as Lee Hyo-ri and Kim Je-dong actively encouraged people to cast their votes. “Not giving up our right to vote is the only way to protect our rights. It is the day we proudly declare the country is ours,” Kim said.
 Despite critics’ concerns over his lack of political background, Park Won-soon won a landslide victory in the election. The final voter turnout for the race was 48.6 percent. Among the votes gathered, Park garnered 53.4 percent, defeating ruling Grand National Party candidate Na Kyung-won, who gained 46.2 percent.
 On the morning of the election, Park said he had stuck to his own principles and did his best to do so to the end. Following the confirmation of his victory early Thursday, Park declared that “Common sense and principle prevailed.” 
 The main opposition Democratic Party said Seoul citizens had regained the capital city. Na conceded defeat by saying she humbly accepted the citizens’ decision and that she hoped Park would be a good mayor for Seoul.
 Park’s victory will likely change the political landscape, making a significant impact on next year’s general and presidential elections.
Park has worked with organizations including the People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy. He also founded a charity foundation for donation projects.
 Park pledged to expand social welfare programs and build more affordable apartments to ease the housing shortage in Seoul. Unlike former Seoul mayor Oh, Park supported free lunches for all elementary and middle school students.
 The newly elected Seoul mayor will serve his term until 2014 and he will take in charge of the city’s budgeting, welfare and business. He also has the right to designate high-level public officers in the metropolitan area. 
