 Audition fever
Today’s Korean TV channels are inundated with audition programs and reality shows. People often talk about the latest episodes, vote and cheer for their favorite contestants and try to guess who will win. Almost all of these channels boast high ratings and popularity as they provide joy, excitement and touching drama all at the same time. Curiosity about how the next episode might play out added to a huge part of their successes. Every audition show has its unique features that can not be compared to others. Here are some of Korea’s most charming audition shows.
 “Superstar K” (슈퍼스타 K) is a South Korean television talent show. Since its debut in 2010, “Superstar K” has gained overwhelming popularity and is considered Korea’s “American Idol.” “Superstar K” seeks to find the next “superstar,” and each week after judges and viewers’ evaluation, one contender is eliminated. Traditionally, the winner of each season is given glitzy prizes along with career opportunities in the entertainment industry. 
 “Survival I Am A Singer” (서바이벌 나는 가수다) is a weekly singing competition in which seven veteran Korean musicians try to perform best. Each week, singers are judged by a panel of 500 people. The singer who comes last is kicked off the show and his or her spot is filled by a new artist. The show debuted on March 6, 2011.
 “Korea’s Next Top Model” (도전 슈퍼모델 코리아) In this reality show, Korea’s young women, all aspiring “wanna-be-models” compete with one another for the title of “Korea’s Next Top Model” along with the golden opportunity to blaze her trail in the modeling business. The winner gets prizes including a feature in W Magazine Korea and a contract with SK-II, a high-end cosmetic skin care brand. Taking a page from U.S. hit show “America’s Next Top Model,” Korean cable channel Onstyle announced on Jan. 6, 2010 that it would begin production of a Korean version of the model-search show. One of Korea’s most cherished models, model Jang Yoon-ju hosts and acts as the main judge of the program.
 “Project Runway Korea” (프로젝트 런웨이 코리아) is the Korean version of the American reality show, “Project Runway.” The show looks for up-and-coming fashion designers and it is the third “Project Runway” version in Asia after Malaysia and the Philippines. The winner of “Project Runway Korea” season one received 50 million won in prize money, a car and a fashion spread in Elle Korea. In the second season, the prize money was increased to a whopping 70 million won.
 According to Yonhap News, although reality singing competitions have been popular for more than 10 years in Western countries, they’re relatively new in Korea.
 Most of these reality shows are clones of British and American shows. For instance, SBS’s weight-loss competition program, “Diet Survival Victory” is based on the U.S. weight-loss show “The Biggest Loser.” Yet, Korean television networks have the talent and skills to produce their own original hit shows. 
 Not only MBC’s “Survival- I Am a Singer” but also SBS’ “Miracle Audition,” which searches for the next great actor are successful audition programs born in Korea. KBS, Korea’s biggest major network, also came up with its own audition program, “Top Band” which specialized in searches for diverse bands with talent. 
 According to Harris H. Kim, assistant professor of sociology at Ewha Womans University, the unexpected fame and success of these audition shows reflect a change in culture. 
“Once upon a time, working in the entertainment industry as actors or singers was looked down on,” he said. “In traditional Confucian-influenced Korean society, success was narrowly defined within the context of academic superiority and entry into the ‘mainstream’ labor market. The fact that singing shows for adolescents have become popular suggests that Korean parents have a different perspective when it comes to the definition of their children’s success.” 
 However, these audition programs are not just about rising to fame easily, argued Harris H. Kim, according to Yonhap News. 
 “The show’s producers stress that to succeed, the candidates need to learn many lessons and will need to demonstrate endurance, education and dedication. In fact, winning will only be the beginning of the real journey,” he added.
 So far, the reality-competition shows have attracted millions of young Koreans wanting to be Korea’s next biggest model, designer, singer or actor. According to the report, more than 1.3 million people turned out to audition for “Superstar K2,” and almost 2 million tried for its third season. 
