Korean TVs govern half of U.S. market
Television sets produced by Samsung and LG took up 50 percent of such U.S. market in sales in the July-September period, according to an industry report on Oct. 31.
 NPD Group Inc., a New York-based market research firm, said in its report that the combined sales of the world’s two largest TV makers had accounted for half of the U.S. TV market, largely due to a conspicuous demand for premium TVs.
 Samsung and LG accounted for 37 percent and 13 percent of the U.S. flat-screen TV sales, respectively.
 The two Korean conglomerates advanced in the market, outpacing their Japanese rivals Panasonic, Sony and Toshiba.
 3-D TVs made by the two Korean companies nabbed a combined 71 percent of the U.S. market in the third quarter. Their combined sales in the first and second quarter were 57 percent and 69 percent, respectively.
 Meanwhile, Japan’s Sony is considering whether to quit its joint LCD panel venture with Samsung Electronics as it feels heavy pressure from decreasing LCD panel prices, according to Japanese business daily Nikkei.
 Although Sony hopes to reach an agreement with Samsung, the negotiations could be complicated as the Korean company will be forced to secure a new buyer, said Nikkei.
 Sony and Samsung set up the joint venture, S-LCD group, in 2004 in efforts to ensure a stable supply of LCD panels.
 In another industrial finding by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, Samsung overtook Apple in the July-September period to claim top spot as the world’s number one smartphone vendor.
 The firm said that Samsung had shipped 28 million smartphones in the period and had overtaken Apple to become the world’s largest smartphone vendor by volume with a 24 percent market share.
 Samsung’s rise has been driven by a blend of elegant hardware designs, popular Android services, memorable sub-brands and extensive global distribution, said the firm.
 Apple captured a 15 percent share of the market, according to the firm, and the company’s growth rate in the global smartphone market slowed to 21 percent in the same period, the lowest level for two years.
 Neil Mawston, Director at Strategy Analytics, said that Apple’s growth in the third quarter had been affected by the economic conditions in key countries and tougher competition from Samsung’s Galaxy S2 model.
