NBA lockout
“Our games are cancelled through Nov. 30th … It’s not practical, possible, or prudent to have a full season now.” – David Stern, commissioner of the National Basketball Association
 On Oct. 29, David Stern, the commissioner of the National Basketball Association (NBA), made the above announcement after a marathon negotiation session between the NBA team owners and the NBA Players Association. The two sides failed to come to terms on a new Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) -- a contract between the Players Association and the NBA’s commissioner and 30 team owners that dictates the rules of player contracts, trades, revenue distribution and the salary cap. The NBA lockout, imposed by the owners since July 1, continues. 
 In general industry terms, a lockout is a work stoppage in which an employer prevents employees from working. It is designed to pressure the workers into accepting the terms of the company’s last offer. This is different from a strike, in which employees refuse to work. In the case of the NBA, the team owners imposed a lockout on their employees, the NBA players, effectively preventing them from playing basketball, until the two sides can come to a new contract agreement -- the CBA. There are many complex issues that divide the sides during negotiations, but at its heart, the dispute is about money.
 One of the main concerns is how to divide “basketball related income” (BRI). BRI includes regular season and playoff ticket sales, TV and radio broadcast rights, concession stand sales, team sponsorship and promotion proceeds, and arena beverage sales rights. NBA team owners offer a 50/50 split of BRI, claiming it is the best they can do since 22 of the 30 NBA teams are operating at a loss. The NBA Players Association questions the profit-loss calculation methods used by the owners and insists on getting no less than 52 percent of the BRI. The owners are also looking to reduce the amount and length of player contracts, but the player’s union is seeking an increase in average player salary from $5 million to $7 million per year. 
To NBA fans everywhere, the ongoing lockout is a major disappointment. Since Michael Jordan came onto the stage with his sublime skills, gravity-defying dunks and brilliant smiles, basketball has become one of the most popular sports in the world. The infusion of international players into the NBA greatly increases its global appeal. Foreign players who went on to achieve stardom in the NBA include Dirk Nowitzki of Germany, Steve Nash of Canada, Yao Ming of China, Tony Parker of France, and Pau Gasol of Spain. Ironically, the NBA lockout actually allows international fans more opportunities to get to know some NBA players up-close and personal.
 As the lockout drags on, many NBA players, including established stars, look overseas for opportunities to continue playing basketball. In some notable examples, Tony Parker of the San Antonio Spurs signed with Asvel of France, Deron Williams of the New Jersey Nets signed with Besiktas of Turkey, J. R. Smith and Wilson Chandler of the Denver Nuggets signed with ZheJiang of the China Basketball Association (CBA). Korean NBA fans are not left out in the “NBA players exodus world tour” -- Magnum Rolle of the Atlanta Hawks signed with LG Sakers of the Korean Basketball League.
