Koreas join hands to excavate palace in Gaesong
It is a sign of the possible easing of tensions on the Korean Peninsula -- historians and experts from the two Koreas are set for meetings to discuss the resumption of joint excavation of an ancient royal palace located in the North. Since 2007, Korea’s National Research Institute of Cultural Heritage, together with North Korea’s Cultural Heritage Administration Authority and Korean Central History Museum, have been conducting surveys and excavations in Gaeseong to uncover the remains of Manwoldae, the royal palace of the Goryeo Kingdom. In 2010, the Korean government halted the cooperative excavation effort as a part of its sanctions against Pyongyang for the sinking of the Korean warship Cheonan.
 According to a Unification Ministry spokesman, a five-member Korean delegation will cross the border into Gaeseong for preliminary talks on the resumption of excavations. It is expected that during the meetings, Korean representatives of the inter-Korean association of historians will discuss in detail about where and when to excavate the artifacts with their North Korean counterparts. If all goes well, it is possible that the joint excavation of Manwoldae could resume in early November so that operations can continue for about a month before the ground freezes in mid-December and making it difficult to unearth the remains. 
Manwoldae Palace was the official royal palace of the Goryeo Kingdom (918-1392). Construction on the palace began in 919 to the south of the Songak Mountain. The palace was divided into two major sections; the Gungseong (궁성), where the king and royal family resided, and the Hwangseong (황성), where affairs of state were conducted.  The palace complex contained a large throne room, various shrines and living quarters, and a royal astronomy tower.  The palace was burned to the ground in 1361 during the Red Turbans invasion of Korea. Initial excavations recovered numerous valuable relics, including ceramics, metal items, ancestral tablets, mirrors and roofing tiles. 
 Gaeseong, the Goryeo Kingdom’s capital city, where the Manwoldae Palace is located, is situated in the North Hwanghae Province of North Korea, close to the Demilitarized Zone that divides the two Koreas. It was actually part of Gyonggi Province when Korea was partitioned at the 38th parallel after World War II, but became the only city to change control from South to North Korea after the Korean War. Since the Goryeo period, Gaeseong has been a center of commerce for textiles and handcrafts such as Goryeo porcelain. Today, Gaeseong is North Korea’s light industry center with jewel processing, ginseng processing, and embroidery factories. More than 47,000 North Koreans work for South Korean firms in the Kaesong complex to produce clothes, utensils, watches and other goods. 
Political observers of inter-Korean relations have noted that the possible resumption of the suspended joint excavation project is a positive step toward calming heightened tensions on the Korean peninsula. It signals that the Korean government is ready to make good its recent pledge to show more flexibility in its North Korea policy -- a trend that started in September when a group of Buddhists was allowed to attend a religious ceremony in Pyongyang, and orchestras from both Koreas agreed to stage joint performances in the near future.
