Campus Travel presents… Pear blossoms vs. Bulls
Welcome back to the Campus Travel series. Our last issue compared rival schools Yonsei University and Korea University. This time, we will take a look at Ewha Womans University and Hong Ik University to see what they have to offer its students in terms of relaxation and blowing off steam. 
 Ewha Womans University
 Mascot: Pear blossoms
 Located in the middle of a shopping district, students from Ewha University are provided ample opportunities everyday to blow off steam through shopping. In fact, on an average day, it is difficult to distinguish between a tourist on a shopping spree and an Ewha University student trying to de-stress after a long day of studying. 
 In contrast to this busy, hustle-bustle environment surrounding the campus, however, Ewha Womans University students seem to have found awesome little places to relax and escape from reality, even if it is for just a moment.
 Despite being located right next to a Coffee Bean, Kopitiam Singapore Toast Café is the preferred choice amongst Ewha University students. Even though it seems like your average run-of-the-mill coffee house chain, it is a favorite amongst Ewha University students; not just for its cozy, woodsy interior, but also for its delicious toast sandwiches. When asked why it is called a “Singapore Toast Café”, the barista explained that the coffee is brewed and served in a unique, Singaporean style, as are the jams used on their toast.
 In terms of food, Ewha University students go against stereotypes of women by choosing a steak house as their restaurant of choice. The POPO Tree features an all-homemade menu that people of all ages can enjoy. This restaurant has also been featured in Ewha University’s English newspaper, the Ewha Voice. The cheap price attracts people of all ages, the healthy, homemade food attracts women, and the generosity of the owner, Kim Sung-hwan, attracts those involved in college activities. As of Oct. 31, Kim sponsors 150 Ewha University student clubs by contributing 2.5 percent of her sales to each of the various clubs. 
 For true relaxation, Ewha University students recommend the Milky Way. The Milky Way is not just your average tea shop. Their specialty is delicious and unique milk teas, which goes perfectly with their selection of scones and brownies. The interior of the store has a very cute atmosphere, filled with various ornaments, toys and cushions that make it perfect for studying, reading or just lounging about. In contrast to its atmosphere, however, finding this charming little tea house requires the use of a guide with knowledge of the shop, or at the very least, a GPS to help find the place. Like an exclusive club, only those who know of it‘s existence are able to benefit and enjoy what it has to offer. 
 Hong Ik University
 Mascot: Bull
 Known for its vibrant night-life, the area surrounding Hong Ik University is full of activity as the various stores, restaurants, coffee and tea shops, etc., try to catch the interest of those mingling around. It is fitting however, since Hong Ik University is most well known for its Fine Arts students. 
In true Hong Ik University fashion, only those places which provide unique opportunities to be inspired by creativity will make the cut. Here are three places near Hong Ik University that take the importance of inspiration and creativity to heart.
 At first glance, No Name Café gives off a somewhat anonymous and dark aura, especially considering its name. However, once you step inside, it becomes clear that this is the perfect place for those who are looking to be surrounded and inspired by the arts. In fact, the walls are adorned with paintings and various other works of art, specifically catering to those with a background in Fine Arts. It is a place where creative minds can come together to drink exotic coffee blends and be inspired by fellow artists and creative minds. Even the tables and chairs seem to be inspired by creativity; no two seating arrangements are the same.
 In true creative fashion, a first-year Hong Ik University student nominated Kamome as her restaurant of choice. A small Japanese-inspired restaurant tucked between furniture and design shops, Kamome is a favorite for those with busy schedules who are regularly finding themselves eating on the go. In fact, the bestselling items at Kamome are the onigiri, which come in various flavors, and are easy to eat while on the move.
 For chocolate lovers, Cacao Boom might just be heaven on earth. This chocolatier prides itself on the fact that all of the various chocolate products offered for sale are made right inside the actual store. Though it is a little pricey, the taste and authenticity of the chocolates are worth every penny. The decoration is inspired by all things chocolate, in a tasteful, minimalistic way, which is pleasing to the eye and generates a sense of calm and relaxation. Not only is this sweet-aroma-filled chocolatier delicious on the senses, it provides a chance to educate as well. In one corner, consumers are given the opportunity to buy books and be educated on the ins and outs of chocolate. 
