Introducing the winners of KBS 2’s ‘Top Band’, Toxic
The two-member band Toxic became the latest music sensation after their victory was announced during the season finale of KBS 2’s band survival show, Top Band.
 Fans were delighted to find that Toxic’s members, 24-year old Kim Jung-woo and 19-year old Kim Seul-ong, beat out rival band POE for the grand prize of 100 million won and a home theater audio set during the final live episode, aired on Oct. 15.
 The two band members had met several years ago, but only formed Toxic last October before going on to be crowned the winners of the KBS survival reality show, Top Band. 
While having only two members in a band undoubtedly poses some challenges, the two insist that they prefer it that way. Toxic still manages to create very rich and powerful music, despite the handicap of having only two members. 
The younger Kim explained during an interview with the Junior Herald that having only two members in the band “adds to its novelty and mystery. Having one person play multiple instruments has helped to enhance our appeal.”
 Kim Jung-woo plays the guitar and is the lead vocalist, while secondary vocalist Kim Seul-ong plays the drums. By using two amps each to produce a range of low- and medium-pitch sounds, the two members are able to create dynamic music without the help of additional members. 
The younger Kim explained that “As a band, having only two members means we are lacking in certain aspects. We don’t have a keyboard or bass. But we have it figured out. I think maybe using a splitter to solve our sound problem has allowed us to become the talk of the town.” 
When asked whether there were any plans of adding members to the band, the older Kim was quick to say. “It is more comfortable having two people. Even though we have used session musicians in the past, it was purely for showing variety in music,” rather than to create a fuller sound. 
So what can we expect in the future from the band Toxic? Kim Jung-woo stated without a moment of hesitation, “My goal is to be a musician forever. In order for that to happen, I’ve realized that there needs to be people willing and wanting to listen to our music.” 19-year old Kim Seul-ong was a little less specific but a lot more idealistic. “Without a doubt, it needs to be fun. If something isn’t fun, I don’t do it. In order to make it impossible to avoid us, we will always be running towards amorphia.” 
In terms of music, the older Kim explained, “Our goal is to make music that will be enjoyed by the people who happen to like us. We do not plan on sticking to just indie music.” 
The younger Kim gave his own take on what makes Toxic the band that it is. “The musical style of Jung-woo and Seul-ong are different. When you put them together, you get Toxic’s music.”
