Is nuclear power good or bad for the environment?
Pro -- Nuclear energy should be fully utilized
 I think we have to use nuclear energy. It is perfect for our future energy. 
First, if we want to use nuclear energy, we need uranium. We can get the uranium more safely than other energy sources like oil and coal. For example, in the places that have coal or oil there are many government problems. Countries that have uranium in the ground do not have so many problems. 
Second, oil and coal produce sulfur oxides when we use them but nuclear energy does not. Also, nuclear energy does not create nitrogen oxides or carbon dioxide. So it can protect the environment from pollution.
 Last, only a little bit of uranium can make a lot of energy. It’s a very efficient energy for this reason. So it’s a form of energy that can be used for a long time.
 I believe nuclear energy is the great energy of the future. I hope that in the future, we can live without worrying about energy.
 Con -- Nuclear energy is a luxury not necessity.
 Even though it is impossible for people to be fully prepared, a huge natural disaster such as the earthquake that swept Japan occurs all across the world. 
 When earthquakes break out, they may damage nuclear power plants and cause danger. After March’s earthquake in Japan, nuclear power plants started to collapse and harmful radiation also began to spread from them. This left people’s health in great danger. Japan has suffered from radiation in spite of people’s efforts to stop it spreading. This disaster alarmed nations everywhere about using nuclear power. 
 Moreover, nuclear power poses potential danger to the future of the whole world as it can be abused and misused to create nuclear weapons and bombs that could end thousands of lives in the blink of an eye.
 Lastly, building nuclear power plants cost tons of money. It would leave out developing countries- only developed countries would be able to invest in the development of atomic energy. This would bring about a gap between energy-rich and energy-poor countries. 
