Cuba’s move toward more freedom
Cuba’s official Gazette, a government publication that publishes new laws, announced a new property law, effective Nov. 10, that could change the lives of many Cubans. 
According to AP, Cubans are, for the first time in about 50 years, allowed to openly buy and sell real estate, inherit property from relatives without restrictions, and avoid losing their homes if they abandon the country. 
This new law follows October’s legalization of buying and selling cars, and is considered one of the most significant reform measures adopted by President Raul Castro since he took over for his brother in 2008. 
A modification of the General Housing Law of 1988, the new property law will eliminate the need for government approval for the sale or exchange of housing, as well as establish standards for the exchange of said property. In the past, governmental approval was required for transactions of various kinds, including sales, trades and gifts, which resulted in most people turning to unreliable and complicated underground bartering systems for exchanging property. 
In fact, some divorced Cuban couples were forced to live together for years while they worked out alternative housing options, while others would enter into sham marriages to make property exchanges easier. 
This law, however, only applies to Cuban citizens and permanent residents, allowing them to own a maximum of two properties - one home in the city and another in the suburbs. While foreigners and Cuban exiles are still restricted from owning property, they are presumably allowed to help relatives by sending them money. According to the New York Times, this limit to two homes and the fact that home owners are required to go through Cuba’s Central Bank for financing seems aimed at “controlling both speculation and the concentration of wealth.” A tax of 8 percent will also be applied to the sale, which will be split equally between buyer and seller. 
According to the Havana Times, while some people feel that this new law will increase class differences within the country, the newfound freedom by Cuban citizens to choose what to do with their property has been “widely demanded.” 
According to Ted Henken, a professor at Baruch College in New York who was quoted by AP, “This is a very positive step in the right direction toward greater economic freedom and individual and family rights of private property. It will immediately increase the personal wealth of millions of Cubans.” 
“This is the foundation, this is how you build capitalism, by allowing the free trade of property,” Pedro Freyre, an expert in Cuban-American legal relations was quoted as saying by the New York Times. 
Other recent reforms by Castro include an attempt to streamline the economy with the elimination of hundreds of thousands of state jobs end ending of generous subsidies that the state can no longer afford, as well as allowing citizens to rent out rooms and cars to start businesses in certain sectors (e.g. party clowns, food vendors and accountants). 
