Key figure behind Korea’s economic miracle: Chung Ju-yung
1) An industrial guru who laid the groundwork for the postwar Korean economy
 Editor’s Note - This Special Report on the former Hyundai Group Chairman Chung Ju-yung is part of the Junior Herald’s “business hero” series. Reading the stories of Korean business tycoons, readers will have a chance to think about their long-term goals as well as improve their knowledge of the national economy in English.
 Chung Ju-yung led Korea’s economic development by founding one of the foremost enterprises in the country, Hyundai. He was born at the time of Japanese colonial rule (1910-1945), and was a leading figure in the modern history of Korea, leaving his mark at crucial times including national liberation, territorial division into the two Koreas and the country’s industrialization.
 Chung was born to Chung Bong-sik and Han Seong-sil as their first son of 6-boys and 2-daughter family on Nov. 25, 1915 in Gangwon Province. After learning Chinese literature from his grandfather, Chung graduated from Songjon Primary School. Rather than accepting the long tradition of poverty, he left his home for Seoul at the age of 16 by selling family‘s only cow. He came back home when his father persuaded him to live an agricultural life, but he attempted twice to leave to explore his own destiny.
 In 1931, at the age of 18, he left his home to work as a laborer at Incheon Harbor, Boseong Professional School, and other construction sites and worked for Poongjeon Taffy plant. He finally settled with his first real work at a rice store in Gyeongseong (the old name for Seoul). The young Chung Ju-yung earned the trust of people, which eventually helped him set up his own grain store named Kyongil. He had fulfilled his dream to make his fortune through his own efforts for the first time.
 However, in 1939, Kyongil was forced to close due to the implementation of rice rationing system under a Japanese imperial military-control order. Chung then decided to operate an automobile repair plant. He established one, but it was merged into a Japanese company in 1943 after 4 years of operation.
 After one year from Korea’s liberation from Japan, in 1946, he founded Hyundai Motor Industrial Company. Soon after, he established Hyundai Civil Industries (currently, Hyundai Construction) in 1947. Hyundai Civil Industries participated in the recovery from the 1950-53 Korean War, and this brought the company come to the fore of the Korean economy thereafter.
 Outperforming others in building bridges, roads, ports and other things, Hyundai Construction became the number one company in the domestic construction field. Thereafter, Chung once again challenged himself to advance into the overseas construction market.
 Through the Jubail Industrial Port construction in the Middle East, the remarkable operation of Hyundai Shipbuilding, and the legendary story of the Pony Excel (a small rear-wheel drive automobile), Chung Ju-yung had helped Korea advance from a Third World country to the rank of emerging industrial economies. As one of the key figures behind “the Miracle of Han River,” Chung left his footprint as a world famous entrepreneur who represents 20th century Korea.
 In the history of Korean economy, chairman Chung’s weight is absolute. He created much of the frame of the Korean economy in the post-war recovery and led national industrialization and heavy chemical industry development.
 When Korea was trying to rebuild its land from the ashes of the Korean War, chairman Chung led the national recovery. Chung undertook almost all social overhead capital projects for Korea’s modernization starting from the 1960s. The large construction in Korea including Soyang River Multi-purpose Dam (1967), Gyeongbu Expressway (1970), Ulsan Shipbuilding (1973), the first nuclear power plants (1970) and others were unprecedented projects in Korea.
 When Korea was turning to exports, Chung began to undertake overseas construction projects including the Thailand Expressway Building Project in 1965, armed with its accumulated experience in the domestic market.
 In fact, Korea lacked the resources needed to develop the overseas market, and its technology, experience and equipment were simply not good enough for such projects. Chung nevertheless declared it would advance overseas, and in the 1970s Hyundai advanced to the Middle East after having accumulated relevant technology and knowledge through painstaking efforts.
 Hyundai successfully finished the Jubail Industrial Port in Saudi Arabia. It was called the largest construction project of the 20th century, and also brought the basis for Korea to become an export-driven economy. Chung earned a substantial amount of foreign currency when the Korean economy was in deep trouble.
 When the Korean economy was urgently promoting industrialization in the 1980s, Chung dreamt of producing cars using purely Korean technology. Chung went to a foreign financial institution to borrow money with only a 500 won bill with a Turtle Boat drawn on it and a map of Ulsan Mipo. Even though there was no shipbuilding plant in South Korea, he was able to receive the orders for ships from an Italian ship owner. With the creative, challenging spirit and aggressive will-power, he set up Hyundai Heavy Industries. And with the belief “we could do it,” the Pony Excel was manufactured using only Korean technology. The automobile successfully advanced into the U.S. market in 1986, another landmark event.
 Also, Chung boldly invested in the high-tech projects in the in late 1980s and early 1990s. Soon after, Hyundai produced futuristic and high value-added products including semiconductors, LNG vessels and magnetic levitation trains. Chung, however, was not content with what he earned, but proposed that Korean companies must accelerate the country’s economic development by tapping the industries of the future.
 Chung was inaugurated the chairman of the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) by a unanimous decision in 1977, and worked as the chairman of the group for the next 10 years. In 1978, when there were a series of industrial reorganizations in response to an oil shock, the world strengthened its trade barriers and diversified the international economic blocs. For the advancement of the Korean economy, he urged a conversion from a government-led economy to a civilian-led economy, which he promoted throughout the 1980s.
