Pancreatic transplant, a new diabetes treatment
South Korean researchers said on Oct. 31 that they had successfully transplanted parts of pig pancreases to monkeys, a procedure that could develop into a new way to help human diabetes patients.
 “The research is important because a pancreatic islet transplant is the only known way of treating diabetes that are actually working,” said Seoul National University professor Park Seong-hoe, who led the research team. He said that it is very rare for one animal species to accept an organ transplant from another without noticeable complications. 
Pancreatic islets, also called islets of Langerhans, are located inside the pancreas and secrete insulin, which helps control blood sugar levels, explained the report.
 According to the research team, the monkeys, which received transplants from specially modified gnotobiotic pigs, have survived for more than six months. Gnotobiotic animals are raised in a controlled environment that contained a limited number of organisms.
 Park, a medical school professor, stated that four out of eight monkeys that were given organ transplants, can now be classified as “disease-free.” He said the monkeys were fed with regular food and so far, had not shown any complications. 
Human diabetics get regular insulin shots as treatment, but not as a cure. In that sense, Park underscored, “the success of the latest experiment may lead to the development of a new immune response control antibody for patients suffering with diabetes.”
 The research has been published in the latest issue of the international Journal of Experimental Medicine. Researchers are now in the process of finding the methods to apply it to humans patients.
 Diabetes mellitus, often simply referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases that effects people with high blood sugar. The symptom arises either because the body of diabetes patient does not produce enough insulin, or because their cells do not appropriately respond to the insulin that has been produced. According to a medical journal, high blood sugar causes frequent urination, increased thirst, and unquenchable hunger.
