Man of boundless energy Park Ji-Sung
Park Ji-sung is a football hero and a household name in Korea. He is widely admired for his exceptional football skills and leadership-by-example, well respected for his tireless work ethics and consummate professionalism, and highly appreciated for his humble and unassuming demeanor. In his career as a member, and subsequently the captain, of the Korean national team, Park Ji-sung earned the nick name “Three Lung Park” for his boundless energy, incredible stamina and excellent movement off the ball. He scored 13 goals for Korea, including a sublime strike against Portugal during the 2002 World Cup that propelled Korea into the knockout stages for the very first time. He finished his national team career with 100 caps. 
 Park grew up in Suwon and started playing football while he was a fourth grader in the elementary school. Although relatively small in stature, he more than made up for it with his deft dribbling, pinpoint passing, and more importantly, excellent work-rate -- the three qualities that would define him throughout his career. In April, 2000, Park made his Korean national team debut in a 2000 AFC Asian Cup qualification match. In June of that same year, he was signed by the Japanese club Kyoto Purple Sanga after an impressive performance in a practice game in front of professional scouts. On Jan. 1, 2003, Park scored the equalizer and created the winning goal to help Sanga win the Emperor’s cup for the first time.
 The 2002 FIFA World Cup was a coming-out party for Park Ji-sung. On a team loaded with established stars and veteran players such as Hong Myung-bo, Hwang Sun-hong, Ahn Jung-hwan, Yoo Sang-chul, and Choi Yong-soo, it was Park Ji-sung who scored the goal that people still relish to this day. His goal against Portugal that paved the way for Korea’s historic march to the final-four was a thing of beauty -- Park Ji-Sung controlled the ball with his chest, eluded a defender, and blasted a left-footed volley through the legs of the goalkeeper. It was a shot heard around the world, and a star was born. 
After the World Cup, Park followed the Korean national team coach and mentor Guus Hiddink to PSV Eindhoven. After a brief period of struggle due largely to injuries, he became a top contributor of goals and assists and won the hearts of PSV fans. In 2005, Park was honored as one of the nominees for the UEFA Best Forward award, alongside such football luminaries as Andriy Shevchenko, Adriano, Samuel Eto‘o, and Ronaldinho. The best was yet to come.
 At the end of the 2004-2005 football season, Park was signed by Alex Ferguson’s Manchester United of the English Premier League -- the most successful team in the history of English football, and one of the most famous teams in the world. On a free-spending team with a roster that resembles the who’s who of football stars, Park Ji-sung once again established himself with his Dynamic, energetic, and fearless style of play. He became the first Asian player to be part of the Champions League trophy winning team, and the first Asian to have played in the finals of the UEFA Champions League. Amongst a group of star players known for over-the-top, and sometimes scandalous, behavior off the pitch, Park Ji-Sung remained a committed, professional, respectful and proud member of a high-caliber team. 
