2013 designated as Donguibogam Year
A United Nations education and cultural body has designated 2013 “Donguibogam Year” to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the Korean medical encyclopedia‘s publication. The decision was reached at the 36th general assembly meeting of the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Paris. Since 2004, UNESCO has designated every second year to commemorate persons or themes related to the U.N. cultural organization’s ideals. “Donguibogam” - the “Principles and Practice of Eastern Medicine,” became the first Korean text chosen for the designation. It marked the second high profile recognition received by Donguibogam – in July, 2009 it was listed in UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register as an item of world documentary heritage.  
“Donguibogam” was the work of Heo Jun (1546-1615) - the royal physician and medical scholar. He was appointed as a court physician at the age of 29 and worked extensively with the royal family. Despite his pedigree, a great deal of Heo Jun’s work focused on finding treatment methods that were accessible and comprehensible to common people. In his medical texts, he listed natural herbs with medicinal qualities that can easily be found throughout Korea. He wrote the names of the herbs using the simple “hangeul” (Korean alphabet) letters rather than using the more difficult “hanja” (Chinese characters), which most commoners did not understand. 
The work on “Donguibogam” started in 1596 during the reign of King Seonjo, but was interrupted due to the second Japanese invasion in 1597. It was completed 14 years later in 1610 during the reign of King Gwanghaegun. The book consists of 25 volumes divided into five chapters. It was a systematic compilation of recorded illnesses with their respective remedies, with references to existing Korean medical texts such as the Hyangyak jipseongbang (“Compilation of Native Korean Prescriptions”), and those of China.  “Donguibogam” proved to be a defining work of traditional Korean medicine and spread to other East Asian countries. The first Japanese edition was printed in 1724, and the first Chinese edition was printed in 1763. 
 “Donguibogam” is divided into five chapters: 
 Naegyeong (internal medicine) -- This chapter explains the worldview of Donguibogam and its model of the human body, including the elements of jeong (essence), gi (energy), shin (spirit), and hyeol (blood), together with the internal organs controlling mind and body.
 Oehyeong (external medicine) -- This chapter addresses the medical functions of visible parts in the human body and the related indicators and symptoms of diseases.
 Japbyeong (miscellaneous diseases) -- This chapter explains the causes and symptoms of human diseases according to various standards, and outlines the principles and methodologies of diagnosis and treatment.
 Tangaekbyeon (liquid medications) -- This chapter describes in general the substances that have medicinal effects, and the methods of collecting, processing, prescribing, and using them. Also found in this chapter are pharmaceutical theories and medications that correspond to the internal organs and to meridian pathways. 
 Chimgupyeon (acupuncture) -- This chapter discusses the meridian pathways and regions/acupuncture points through which gi (energy) flows; different types of medical needles and their applications; the theory and practice of acupuncture and moxibustion; and guidelines for maximizing the efficacy of treatment. 
