Release of Power Ranger online game
A press conference on the release of the new Power Ranger online game was held on Oct. 28. 
President of NtreeV Kim Joon-young, Ahn Hyun-dong, a representative of Daewon Media, Ironnos’s president Park Chan-gyu and the executive of Japanese Toei Company were at the event to celebrate the game’s first official launch. NtreeV, which is a Korean online game company established on December, 2003 made a joint investment with Daewon Media and jointly produced the game with Ironnos. Therefore, the final product, “Power Rangers Online game,” according to Kim Joon-young, is “an end result of trans-national collaborations among these four companies.”
 At the conference, contents and specific features of the game were introduced for the first time to the press. The Power Ranger online game is consisted of two acts, with each act made up of a total of seven stages. These stages go up to as high as level 20, said a related official from Ntreev.
 The game possesses three main characters -- Red, Pink and Yellow -- that fight against evil gangs to save the universe.
 The game itself is based on the Japanese “Power Ranger” animation series, which was made by Toei Company in Japan. The animation was first released in Korea in 2006. In that sense, the president Kim of Ntreev said that “the storyline of the game is in line with the cartoon.” 
According to an explanation from Daewon Media spokesman, the bad-guy character in the game is called the “Devilrick” and he indiscriminately clones bad guys so that he can conquer the world. The good-guys -- Magic White and Magic Shine -- pick brave citizens and provide them with “magic force” to bring about counterattacks and fight against evil. 
“What makes the Power Ranger online so special is that when a gamer begins the game, he or she starts out as an average, standard individual but with time, they transform into invincible Power Ranger characters,” said one of the presenters. On top of that, it is a dynamic online game which is easy to play and has lots of action. To strengthen the link between the original TV show and the new game, professional voice actors who participated in the production of the cartoon again took part in the creation of the game.
 Daewon Media which came up with the idea of developing the game in the first place, was founded in 1973 and is Korea’s first ever animation production and distribution company. It has publishing rights of a number of popular animations, including Crayon Shin Chan and Yu-Gi-Oh. The company also owns Ani-land, a character store, and an animation channel, Daewon Broadcasting.
 Japan’s Toei Company which was established in 1951 has recently celebrated its 60th anniversary. It produces and distributes films, television programs, and videos. The company is the inventor of the famous Super Power animation series that was introduced to the global animation market 18 years ago.
 According to the statement released by Ntreev, the Power Ranger online game will go on service through game portal site “Gametree (gametree.co.kr).”
