Greece
Despite its current financial troubles, Greece was once a thriving nation with a rich history. As the birthplace of the Olympic Games, democracy, Western philosophy and literature, political science, major scientific and mathematical principles, university education, Western drama, and more, the Greece of today is still considered one of the most beautiful and historically significant places of the world. 
 Places to see and things to do
 Looking to do some hiking? The Vikos Gorge is the place to go. Listed as the world’s deepest gorge by the Guinness Book of World Records, it is 20 km long with walls that range from 120 to 490 meters deep. The Vikos Gorge is located at the Vikos-Aoös National Park. The hiking trail provides breathtaking views of geological history as the walls of the gorge provide a deep cross section exposing a series of rocks from different ages. 
 For anyone who knows the story of Hercules - in fact, for anyone with knowledge of Greek mythology - a visit to Mount Olympus is a must. In the Odyssey, Greek poet Homer writes, “Olympus was not shaken by winds nor ever wet with rain, nor did snow fall upon it, but the air is outspread clear and cloudless, and over it hovered a radiant whiteness.” Mount Olympus was considered to be the home of the Twelve Olympian gods of Greek mythology - Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Hestia, Hades, Ares, Hermes, Hephaestus, Athena, Apollo and Artemis - and thus, the setting of many Greek mythical stories. With 52 peaks, the highest of which rises to 2,917 meters, it is one of the highest peaks in Europe. Classified as a non-technical hike, thousands of people climb Mount Olympus every year to witness the majesty and beauty that inspired the name, "home of the [Greek] gods." 
 In 2012, the Olympic Games will be held in London. According to ancient records, however, the first-ever Olympic festival was held in Olympia, Greece around 776 B.C., in honor of the "Father of Gods and men," Zeus. Remnants of the awe-inspiring original stadium where the Ancient Olympic Games were once held and the massive temple of Zeus still exist and are open to the public. According to the Visit Greece website (www.visitgreece.gr), “The best way to get the most out of your visit is to actually race in the stadium like the athletes used to and feel the vibes!”
 Ranked by Lonely Planet as the fifth-best party town in the world in 2010, Thessaloniki is the second largest city of Greece, and another great tourist site. It describes it as such: “Thessaloniki lets you indulge in fine food, sinful sweets, ultra-chic shopping, an energetic nightlife and more concerts, parties, art shows and events than you can keep track of. What really enhances Thessaloniki’s hip atmosphere, however, are the enduring symbols of its glorious history, from the White Tower on its café-lined waterfront all the way up to the Byzantine walls.” The city is full of historically significant and impressive monuments, including the 4th century Church of Agios Dimitrios (which is said to be the largest basilica in Greece and one of the most prominent Paleochristian monuments of the city) and Ano Poli (which literally means "Upper Town," and was declared a UNESCO heritage site during the 1980s). 
 For those who are looking for more of a peaceful and serene vacation spot, the isolated cove of Navagio Beach on the island of Zakynthos is considered one of the most famous beaches in Greece. Also known as "Smugglers Cove" (in reference to the shipwreck of the alleged smuggler ship Panagiotis), the Navagio beach is accessible only by boat, thanks to its massive limestone cliffs that enclose a small stretch of white sand and clear blue water. 
