Four secret girls
It has been only two years since the girl group “Secret” debuted Korean music industry in October 2009, yet they have already accomplished so much. The group has a number of hit songs, such as “Magic,” “Madonna,” and “Shy Boy.”
 Recently, the group added another song to the list with the release of their first official album last month. The title song of this newly released album, “Love is Move,” is fast gaining popularity in the domestic music chart. 
Starting next month, Secret is planning to promote their song “Shy Boy” in Japan. The group has already made it to the Japan’s Oricon Top 10 daily and weekly music charts.
 They visited Herald media on Oct. 25 for an interview with the Herald Biz and Junior Herald. 
So far, Secret’s songs have been known as “hook” songs, as they quickly hook people’s attentions, because they are so catchy. During the interview, the group thanked their songwriters, who always try to give them their best songs. Ji-eun told the Junior Herald that the writers even changed their music style just to produce songs that perfectly fit the style of Secret. They call those songs “tailor-made Secret songs.” The four members all agreed that they were blessed to meet such devoted songwriters.
 Hyo-Sung, the team leader shared an unusual episode at the time of their debut with the Junior Herald. She said that in an effort to grab people’s attention, she dyed her hair purple. “I sought to shock people by dying my hair such a dramatic color, but it turned out the color went well with the overall atmosphere of the song, Madonna.” 
When they were asked what made Secret so different and unique from other K-pop girl groups, they responded that their songs are different from other Korean boy and girl groups as Secret’s songs used less electric sounds and more heavily relied on each member’s voice sounds.
 Talking about the group’s frequent appearances on several entertainment programs, they responded that these shows helped them grow both personally and professionally. However, Ji-eun pointed out that her participation in “Immortal song 2” did not help her as a singer since she was extremely busy at that time with the group’s work in Japan. 
“We were in the middle of a hectic schedule,” she said, explaining that the show was all about preparing a new song each week, which meant thorough practice was a necessity. 
She had to leave the show because she could not afford the time to practice and was disappointed about being unable to show her true talent. She did not want to keep disappointing her fans. She said that if she gets more spare time and can fully devote herself to the program, she would very much like to try it again.
 Regarding the group’s name, exactly what “Secret,” implies, Hyo-sung explained that the name came from their hope of being musicians who have lots of secrets. Secret said that they always want to transform and make people keep wondering about their songs, dances and most importantly, about them. Therefore, they wished they could remain intriguing, like people with many secrets. 
According to Secret, their new song, “Love is Move,” contains unique and sometimes physically challenging choreography. Secret hoped that one day, everyone, young and old all could enjoy their songs. 
“Our songs are very real-sounding and bright, playful and fun songs that all people could enjoy. Ours are like typical Korean pop songs,” Sun-hwa noted. 
The song “Amazinger” made by Zinger is from start to finish a complete rap song and Zinger said the lyrics were based on her personal story, which made it more unique and special. 
At the end of the interview with Herald Biz and the Junior Herald, the team Secret also showed their passion for a variety of entertainment activities, including appearances in talk shows and real variety shows. 
