Is it ok to release the identities of criminal suspects?
Pro- I think it makes sense to release the identities of criminal suspects.
 In my opinion, the identities of criminal suspects should be released because the public deserves to know who is accused of a crime. For example, if my neighbor is suspected of being a robber, I think I should have the right to know about it. What if it turns out that he was planning on burgling my house? If I know he’s a robber, I would better prepare myself in terms of security. 　
 Another reason why I think suspects’ identities should be released is that I believe a criminal loses his or her right to privacy once he or she commits a crime. The suspect chooses to commit a crime, which negatively affects another person and society as a whole. When a person does something good for society, we have no problem sharing the story with other people. Why shouldn’t we do it for when a person does something bad? Why do we need to hide it, which inevitably helps protect the suspect? This leads me to my third point.　
 Hiding the identity of a criminal suspect means that we are protecting this person from the potential negative reactions from the people around them. I find this to be unfair. What about the victims of crime? Why should we protect the suspect, when he or she clearly does not care about the safety of others? 
By committing a crime, I believe that a criminal loses the right to privacy, especially because by committing a crime against someone else, the perpetrator stripped away the victim’s privacy and sense of security. Therefore, criminals should have a taste of what their victims are going through. 
Con- I don’t think it is ethical to release the identity of criminal suspects.
 Revealing the identity of criminal suspects seems highly unethical, especially given that they are only suspects. Being a suspect implies that he or she has not been convicted, or in other words, it hasn’t been proven that they have committed the crime they are accused of. Without this proof, the suspect should still be considered innocent of the crime, and therefore his or her privacy should be protected to prevent any potential backlash. 
Even if the suspect has been convicted, I still believe that releasing the identity -- and especially any personal information -- is extremely unethical. Depending on the severity of the crime, revealing the identity of the suspect could endanger both the lives of the suspect and his or her family. It is not surprising that people would want to get revenge for the pain caused by the suspect’s actions, but would it really be fair to put the suspect’s family in harm’s way? What if the people who are out to get revenge mistake someone else for being the suspect or the suspect’s family? Wouldn’t this create more problems and also more crimes?
 Another reason why I don’t think it is right to release the identity of criminal suspects is because it would do no good. While it is true that this person may have committed a criminal act, would we (the rest of society) truly benefit from knowing his or her identity? Releasing such information could lead to more fear and prejudice. 
Once you hear about a Bob from Seoul who committed a heinous crime, you would instinctively fear anybody named Bob who has lived in Seoul at some point. While this may be a good defense mechanism, wouldn’t this prejudice against Bobs cause you to be more afraid more of the time? Wouldn’t this also mean that people would become more cold and wary of each other, instead of warm and caring? Is this really what we want?
