Calls for university reform gain traction
The government seeks to curb ever-increasing university tuitions by 5 percent on average next year, says Education Minister Lee Joo-ho.
 Following the latest state audit, in which a long list of universities were found to have used creative accounting to raise their tuition fees, 150 university heads have agreed to make efforts to cut the average cost of education.
 “The ministry is discussing with the Korean Council for University Education how to cut college tuition by 5 percent and will soon announce the details of the plan,” Lee stated.
 At the height of the tuition controversy, the Korean government announced on Nov. 7. that it would shut down two nonviable colleges - Myunshin Unversity and Sunghwa College. 
 In early September, the education ministry revealed the names of 43 troubled private universities in an effort to restructure and stamp out bad practices in colleges. 
Myunshin Unversity and Sunghwa College were among the 43 notorious institutions and were ordered to correct their wrongdoings. However, the two failed in following the government’s demands and ended up facing permanent closure.
 These universities were allegedly involved in a wide range of corruption and irregularities, and were unable to provide quality education, the Education Ministry insisted. The problem is that 80 percent of universities in Korea are operated by private foundations, so they rely heavily on tuition fees for funds. 
Myungshin University is located in Suncheon, and the two-year vocational Sunghwa College is in Gangjin, South Jeolla Province. About 3,000 students who are attending the schools will be transferred to seven nearby universities, the report explained.
 Lee Ju-ho, Education Minister said in a briefing, that he would “regularly take measures in similar bad cases.”
 The government has already earmarked 1.5 trillion won for next year’s budget to help reduce college tuition and expand scholarships for underprivileged students.
 The number of colleges in Korea rose by more than 100 in the past two decades. The recent incidents call for self-reforms and close scrutiny of universities on top of searching for ways to elevate Korea’s national competitiveness in education.
