Italy’s debt crisis spiraling out of control
All eyes in the world’s financial markets are on Italy, with growing fear that Italy could default on its massive government debt, currently the fourth-largest in the world.
 Italy’s longest-serving Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has resigned amid a national debt crisis, while the senate voted on severe austerity measures in an effort to stave off a major financial meltdown. With yields on government bonds reaching an all time high on Nov. 9, financial markets worldwide are holding their breaths to see what will become of Italy and the $2.6 trillion in sovereign debt that is putting it in danger of defaulting. 
In an effort to deal with the debt, Italy has been raising the interest rate on its bonds “just to borrow enough money to get by,” according to news reports. On Nov. 9, the rate jumped to 7.2 percent, which economists are calling the point of no return. Greece, Portugal and Ireland have all sought bailouts shortly after reaching this same point.
 This recent financial crisis in Italy comes as no surprise, but is still a cause for alarm in the global financial market. 
According to the Bloomberg Businessweek, Italy could have “avoided this mess.” With good companies such as the oil group ENI, tiremakers Pirelli and car maker Fiat, it said Italy is a major exporter with the potential for growth due to a strong entrepreneurial culture. And despite Berlusconi’s “flamboyant, scandalous and erratic” behavior, which often leads to front page news in the tabloids, fiscal policy has been competently managed by the Finance Minister, Guilio Tremonti. 
Unfortunately, the major underlying problem which has played a major role in Italy’s current financial troubles is the lack of growth. Even with the implementation of austerity measures by the government – which includes an accelerated sale of up to $83 billion in state assets – the nation must address its average annual growth rate of only 0.9 percent. This is about half of the European Union average. The International Monetary Fund predicts that Italy’s growth rate this year will only be 0.6 percent. 
According to Corrado Passera, CEO of Italy’s No. 2 bank Intesa Sanpaolo, “We’ve done a better job than others controlling our deficits, but not regarding growth.” 
Economists blame the stifling of productivity in Italy on overregulation, rigid labor rules, widespread corruption and the government’s role in industries that have been privatized elsewhere - such as media and energy.
 With Berlusconi stepping down and the appointment of an emergency government, Mario Baldassarri, a member of the Senate Finance Committee asked one question, emphasizing the enormity of the task faced by whoever takes charge next: “Which government, with what wide majority, will be able to implement in a few days the structural reforms that we haven’t been able to implement in the last 10 years?” 
