‘Got Milk?’
On Aug. 2 Yonhap News reported that Korea’s livestock farmers and dairy companies are arguing over the supply price of raw milk, possibly fueling a national “milk crisis.” 
 The Korea Dairy & Beef Farmers Association (KDBFA), which represents dairy farmers, demanded the price increase of raw milk by 25 percent from the current level.
 According to Yonhap, the KDBFA is demanding an increase of 174 won from the current price of 704 won per liter ($2.53 per gallon). But still, businesses are staying firm on the maximum price rise of 81 won.
 Korea Dairy and Beef Farmers Association claimed that manufacturers’ average annual operating profit accounts for merely 4 to 5 percent of total sales and “some 400 dairy farmers went out of business” in the first half of this year alone. “The 173 won increase is the minimum level for the survival of dairy farmers,” one member insisted.
 Farmers argued that for the past three years, the price of milk has remained steady whereas the cost of feeding cows has risen by 30 percent.
 However, companies dismissed their demands, saying such a sharp increase would hit the sale of dairy products including milk, bread, cake, ice cream, and more. This will eventually lead to a consumption free-fall, they warned.
 Farmers protested in response; they said if KDBFA and dairy manufacturers do not reach a compromise by Aug. 3, they are going to suspend the supply of milk. A hint of “indefinite” supply halt also came out.
 Milk supplies have run low for awhile throughout the year due to the  foot-and-mouth disease outbreak. Almost 150,000 cows were buried in the epidemic and of them 36,000 were dairy cows. It led to nearly a 10 to 15 percent decrease in nation’s milk production already.
 “Supply suspension should not happen. A prolonged situation would be serious. Milk is a daily necessity for average Korean,” said an official of Seoul Milk, Korea’s No.1 milk manufacturer. 
Industry experts predicted that if the milk price hike takes effect, consumers will bear the brunt by paying 2,600 won to 2,700 won for a liter of milk, up from the current 2,100 to 2,300 won. 
