Global warming getting out of control
Recent reports by both the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have revealed startlingly high levels of global warming gases in our atmosphere. Scientists believe that this is the cause of the recent string of - and possible continuation of - extreme weather events all over the world. 
The recent string of weather catastrophes has led many to consider the role of man-made greenhouse gases in changes to the Earth’s climate. A draft of the Nobel Prize-winning IPCC report obtained by AP points to how extreme weather conditions that are caused by global warming - such as the recent flooding in Thailand, the prolonged drought in Texas and dangerous heat waves all across the globe - could eventually be so severe that some places would become “increasingly marginal places to live.” 
“The extremes are a really noticeable aspect of climate change,” Jerry Meehl, senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research tells AP. “I think people realize that the extremes are where we are going to see a lot of the impacts of climate change.” 
 Man-made greenhouse gases
 The IPCC report draft also points to at least a 2-in-3 probability that climate extremes have already worsened because of man-made greenhouse gases. 
In fact, the latest world data on carbon dioxide emissions by the DOE shows an unexpected jump of nearly 6 percent in emissions between 2009 and 2010, from 8.6 billion metric tons to 9.1 billion. Carbon dioxide emissions are considered to be one of the major causes of climate change. 
Tom Boden, director of the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center Environmental Sciences Division at the DOE tells AFP, “Our data go back to 1751, even before the Industrial Revolution. Never before have we seen a 500-million-metric-ton carbon increase in a single year.”
 In terms of the environment’s health, “This is very bad news,” John Abraham, associate professor at the University of St. Thomas School of Engineering in Minnesota tells AFP. “These results show that it will be harder to make tough cuts to emissions if we are to head off a climate crisis.” 
 Other man-made factors of global warming
 The IPCC report also points out the effects of man-made socio-economic issues on our ability to deal with climate changes. NASA climate scientist Gavin Schmidt points out that the recent flooding in Thailand was initially caused by heavy monsoon rains, but the problem has been exacerbated by population growth, urban development and river management.
 In fact, the report states that “for some climate extremes in many regions, the main driver for future increases in losses will be socio-economic” rather than as a result of greenhouse gas emissions. The ability of a nation to prepare for and bounce back from a disaster greatly affects the level of potentially devastating effects, as does the local infrastructure.
 The report also points out the role of geography and its affects on how disastrous weather conditions will be.
 What does all this mean?
 According to AP, the report from IPCC states that scientists are “virtually certain” that the world will have more extreme spells of heat and fewer spells of cold. 
The report also shows a change in climate science, AP reports, “from focusing on subtle shifts in average temperatures to concentrating on the harder-to-analyze freak events that grab headlines, hurt economies and kill people.” 
Unfortunately, studies have not yet specifically tied global warming to the recent string of extreme weather conditions because scientifically connecting a weather disaster with global warming is complicated and time consuming. Meehl, however, tells AP that the extreme weather conditions are “consistent with computer models that indicate current climate trends,” suggesting some truth to the widespread speculation of the increasing dangers of global warming.
 It is important to keep in mind that the IPCC draft summary report is just that - a draft. It still requires approval from diplomats during a meeting in Uganda later this month. 
Still, some of what the report states rings true. The U.S. for example, has seen the weirdest weather in the past few decades with an unexpected October snowstorm in the northeast and a searing heat wave in central and southern states. 
Even a renowned physicist and well-known skeptic of global warming, Richard Muller, was forced to agree, when after 2 years of research to prove the climate scientists wrong, he found that they were right. Temperatures really are, in fact, rising rapidly. 
