Google urges deregulation of Korean IT business
Google’s executive chairman Eric Schmidt said that Korea should be more open and innovative to become a world leader in IT sector, during his visit to Seoul on Nov. 8.
 The executive chairman said at a press conference that industrial regulations in Korea had already delayed the debut of iPhone in the country as much as three years. The press conference was held at the Google Korea building in southern Seoul.
 Schmidt, who visited Korea for the second time since 2007, said that Korea’s IT regulations were not “state-of-the-art” but were falling behind the times. He went on to express disappointment at Korea’s growing efforts to regulate the Internet market and online space.
 Schmidt did not forget to praise the country’s remarkable advance in the IT industry, though. He expressed amazement by pointing out that 97 percent of Korean households had a broadband connection and that a great number of people use smartphones.
 He also said that Korea’s IT industry, which has great human resources, would continue to develop if and when it was supported by government policies that encourage creativity and openness.
 He praised the technological superiority of Samsung and LG and emphasized that Korea should show again its superbness in digital businesses as it did in engineering and manufacturing sectors.
 The executive chairman also said that Google’s recent purchase of Motorola Mobility would not affect partnerships with other handset makers, including Samsung Electronics.
 The comment came when he was asked about the closed conversations with Samsung executives the previous night in Seoul.
 Google in August agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in its largest-ever acquisition.
 Regarding Steve Jobs’ claim that Google stole innovations from iPhone, Schmidt said “Most people would agree in general that Google is a great innovator. And Google’s Android efforts started before the iPhone efforts.”
 Meanwhile, the executive chairman also met on Nov. 7 with Korean President Lee Myung-bak and chairman of the Korea Communications Commission, where he pledged to support the globalization process of Korea‘s software industry.
 According to Schmidt, Google will help Korean software developers enhance their global competitiveness by providing them with development funds and mentoring services.
 Google will reportedly use its popular video sharing and uploading platform YouTube to spread Korea’s “hallyu” content. Korea’s presidential office Cheong Wa Dae said that creating a K-pop only channel on YouTube was among the discussion topics with Google.
