Landmark Leonardo da Vinci exhibition opens in London
Leonardo da Vinci: Painter at the Court of Milan, a “once-in-a-lifetime” exhibition of paintings and drawings by Renaissance master Leonardo da Vinci, opened in London on Nov. 9. The exhibition at Britain’s National Gallery in London has brought together an unprecedented showcase of nine of da Vinci’s 15 surviving paintings and drawings from museums all over Europe. The works are on loan from famed international galleries including the Louvre in Paris, the Hermitage in St. Petersburg, as well as from Krakow, Rome and Milan. The combined value of the works is estimated at $2 billion. 
The exhibition represents the first time that so many of da Vinci’s paintings can be seen together at the same place and at the same time. The show focuses on the period of da Vinci’s life in the 1480s and 1490s, when he was living and working at the Sforza Court in Milan as a painter and engineer for Duke Ludovico Sforza. According to Luke Syson, curator of Italian painting before 1500 for The National Gallery, the time spent in Milan was an important period for da Vinci - it was there that he developed his concept of painting as a science, where he equated seeing with perceiving. 
 Highlights of the exhibition include the recently rediscovered “Salvator Mundi” (1490-1519), or “Savior of the World” -- an oil on wood panel painting depicting Christ with his right hand raised in blessing and his left hand holding a globe. The painting was once auctioned for 45 pounds ( but is now worth a world-record 120 million pounds (about $200 million). The show also unites the first version of “The Virgin of the Rocks” (1483-1486), which has never before left the Louvre Museum, with another version of the painting (1495-1508) with identical compositions, which resides permanently in the National Gallery in London.
 The exhibition also features “Lady with an Ermine” (1489-1490) - a strikingly beautiful portrait of Cecilia Gallerani, the mistress of Lodovico Sforza, Duke of Milan. The painting was brought to the exhibition from the Czartoryski Museum in Kraków, Poland. The painting is one of only four female portraits painted by Leonardo, the others being the Mona Lisa, the portrait of Ginevra de’ Benci and La belle Ferronnière. “St Jerome in the Wilderness” (1480) came to the exhibition from the collection of the Vatican Museum, Rome. It is an unfinished painting depicting Saint Jerome during his retreat to the Syrian Desert, where he lived the life of a hermit. 
Two of Leonardo da Vinci greatest masterpieces could not be included in the exhibition for different reasons. “The Last Supper” (1495-1498), which depicts the scene the last meal Jesus had with his disciples before his crucifixion as told in the Gospel of John, measures 460 cm × 880 cm and is painted onto the wall of the Santa Maria delle Grazie church in Milan. However, a copy of “The Last Supper,” painted by da Vinci’s contemporary Giampietrino, is on display. The “Mona Lisa” (1503-1519), quite possibly the most famous painting in the world, depicts a seated woman -- Lisa del Giocondo. It could not be moved from the Louvre Museum to the National Gallery in London because it is deemed too fragile. 
Hundreds of thousands of people are expected to attend the exhibition by the time it closes in February, 2012. 
