The end of “The Master”
The last episode of the Gag Concert comedy sketch “The Master” was filmed in front of a live studio audience on Nov. 9 and aired on Nov. 13. 
According to AGB Nielsen Media Research, the viewer ratings for Gag Concert on Nov. 13 rose 1.2 percent from last week, to record an all-time high of 23.9 percent. The rising popularity of certain sketches has allowed Gag Concert to maintain a viewership in the 20 percent range. This puts Gag Concert in the number one slot for entertainment programs on Sunday, beating out rivals KBS’ Happy Sunday, MBC’s Our Sunday Nights and SBS’ Good Sunday for the 8th week in a row. 
Media analysts suggest that this most recent jump in ratings for Gag Concert was caused by the announcement that comedian Kim Byung-man’s “The Master,” will be discontinued after four years.
 “The Master”
 “The Master” is a comedy sketch starring comedians Kim Byung-man, Ryu Dam and Noh Woo-jin. The trio first performed the skit on the Dec. 16, 2007. With a nearly four-year run, it was the longest running comedy sketch on the show. “The Master” was also nominated in the 2011 International Emmy Awards in the “Non-scripted Entertainment” category. 
The sketch is based on “The Master” Kim claiming to be a master of various ridiculous skills, such as being the “master of farting,” the “master of numb feet” and his most recent, the “master of the unicycle.” Ryu then tests him on his skills as the Master performs various stunts to prove his skills. Noh acted as his loyal assistant, though often creating even more ridiculous situations by suggesting more and more excessive stunts that “the Master” has to perform. The skit ends when Ryu figures out that Kim is nothing more than a skilled exaggerator, and kicking him off the stage. 
 The end?
 The end of the beloved skit was announced shortly before the show was to be filmed on Nov. 9. The trio decided to end the run because they wanted a break and said coming up with fresh, new material after four years had become quite challenging. 
Fans were devastated to find that one of the most popular segments had been discontinued, and as expected, took to the show’s official website to express their sentiments. Comments included: “Please make a “The Master” special episode,” “Please don’t take too long to recharge before coming back,” and “The last four years of Gag Concert’s ‘The Master’ have made me happy.”
 With the end of “The Master,” Kim has chosen to take a break from the show and instead, has branched out to other programs. Having gained increasing popularity through his Master characters and as a finalist in Kim Yu-na’s ice-skating show “Kiss and Cry,” Kim Byung-man has guest-starred in various entertainment programs (such as SBS’ “Running Man”) and is currently starring in his own reality entertainment show on SBS, “Kim Byung-man’s Laws of the Jungle.” Joined by movie actor Ricky Kim, idol group ZE:A member Hwang Kwang-hee, and fellow comedian and co-star of “The Master” skits, Ryu Dam, Kim and his crew set out for the Crocodile Islands in Namibia to live in the jungle with only the supplies they brought and the skills they possess to help them survive. With pursuits such as this, Kim seems set out to prove that he is more than just the comical “Master” of random skills. Rather, it seems Kim is trying to become a more serious “Master of Life.”
