The emergence of ‘super mouse’
The BBC reported on Aug. 2 that European house mice from Germany and Spain have acquired a new poison-resistance genetic trait after breeding with an Algerian mouse. 
The researchers found out that this type of genetic exchange is such an unusual phenomenon that occurs extremely rarely in animal species. 
 Professor Michael Kohn from Rice University in Houston, Texas, believes that the discovery could be regarded as an example of what scientists call horizontal gene transfer, a process normally seen in plants but uncommon in animals. 
 This, he said, calls for the birth of an “entirely new species.” Professor Kohn and his team of scientists explained that this new mouse species may look the same as a regular household one, but possess unique genetic code which helps fight against strong chemicals like pesticide. 
 The process can turn mice resistant to almost any type of pest control chemicals, according to the report.
 The research published in Current Biology, a scientific journal, unveiled that these mice have been slowly evolving traits to resist warfarin. Warfarin has been widely used around the world to curb blood clotting. Since too much warfarin can bring about serious bleeding, this unique quality has been utilized to control rats and mice in the 1950s. 
 “Our study is so special because it involves hybridization between two species of mouse that are 1.5-3 million years apart from each other,” Professor Kohn emphasized. "A few fertile females might have provided a chance for genes to transfer from one species to the other,” he added.
 Scientists aren’t quite sure when the first genetic exchanges took place, yet experts predicted that more frequent human travel and population growth might have played a part in bringing these two separate species together, resulting in the emergence of a completely new creation that is almost impossible to control.
 Dr. Julie Dunning Hotopp from the Institute for Genome Science at the University of Maryland, US, underscored that “Anytime there is a strong pressure to the eco-system, for instance, a pesticide, an opportunity for any change always comes by.” 
 She concluded that humans are applying more pressure on environment these days, so we can observe more changes. 
