Key figure behind Korea’s economic miracle: Chung Ju-yung (2) His noble philosophy of life and human-centered entrepreneurship
Chung Ju-yung, who was born to an ordinary family in Gangwon Province, grew up to lead Korea’s industrialization after the 1950-53 Korean War. Behind this unusual individual success there was his distinguished philosophy of management and life, and people-centered entrepreneurship.
 To Chung, who was born as the first son of a needy family in a remote mountainous town, the only opportunity for learning was Chinese studies from his grandfather and primary school education. In fact, he wanted to become an elementary school teacher as a young boy.
 However, he sought to develop his own vision by leaving home for Seoul at the age of 18, in 1931. In the capital city, he worked as a construction worker and a rice store clerk. He also spared time to develop his own learning by reading lecture notes at night.
 Other assets he had included diligence, frugality and honesty, which he inherited from his poor parents. Chung knew that trust from people and a persistent fighting spirit were what he needed to move forward and achieve his dreams.
 After founding Hyundai Construction and jumping into the full corporate management, Chung went through quite a few difficulties. In particular, the Goryong Bridge recovery construction project in 1953 incurred such heavy losses that it almost drove him out of business. In addition, his first overseas construction project showed him his company’s lack of relevant technology and experience. However, a man of iron will, Chung finished every construction project on time to keep his credibility and that of his business intact.
 In business, Chung left no stone unturned to find a more efficient and economical alternative regardless of profitability. This was especially true during the construction of Soyang Dam in 1967. Faced with almost unbearable criticism, he pushed ahead with an alternative construction plan that he considered more appropriate than the one recommended by Korea’s Construction Ministry and a Japanese consultative body. Chung emphasized that his plan was more cost-effective and shock-resistant.
 This attitude came from Chung’s belief that an entrepreneur has to care about national welfare, which is often made light of in the business world. Rather than simply pursing profitability, Chung believed, a businessman should assist with national economic development in return for his earnings. With his aggressive but far-sighted leadership, Chung forged ahead with Hyundai’s technological experiments and could foster the company’s industrial expertise.
 With his philosophy, fighting spirit, and strong desire for national development, Chung became a self-made business magnate who represented Korea through his globally competitive business group. He began with Hyundai Civil Construction in 1947, expanding into the fields of automobile manufacturing, electronics, heavy industry, finance and services.
 Chung led the development of national key industries by investing in shipbuilding, automobiles, heavy industry and steelmaking. He divided them into two categories: industries that make the country strong and those make the country rich. With the strong belief that Korean businesses should not focus only on creating wealth alone, he led the country’s economic development with his progressive will and creative ideas by always putting more emphasis on the future than the present.
 Chung who enjoyed spending time with employees said, “I am not a successful entrepreneur, I am just a rich laborer.” In his remark, people can see how much he sympathized with his workers and how high he put human resources development on his priority, and this all came from his own experiences as a newcomer to Seoul.
 He had hungry days and was engaged in rough work, so he understood well the difficulties of labor workers. Chung liked the manual workers’ simplicity and honesty as well. In his earlier days as an entrepreneur, he loved to play Korean-style wrestling and volleyball with his employees, and he was never absent from new employee training sessions.
 Obviously, Hyundai’s businesses were mostly rough and tough in character, being centered on construction, heavy industry and automobiles, and there was much labor-management conflict, but Chung treated the employees as if they were family members, saying, “The labor and management shouldn’t be hostile to each other. They should work in a cordial working environment.”
 Chung often emphasized that human resources development was the most important element for technological innovation and industrial advancement. He frequently mentioned and believed that Korean people are the most diligent and brightest in the world and that the biggest weapon for the country, which has few natural resources, is its outstanding human resources and their diligence.
 It is said that Chung spent a lot of time when hiring new employees, just like when he chose sons-in-law for his daughters. But once the staff were finally selected, he granted them the highest possible authority and responsibility for them to prove their real worth.
