Is donation-based admission system socially okay?
Pro- 
In the United States, about 15 percent of university students entered schools by donation-based admission. This sounds absurd in a country where such a system is illegal. However universities have the rights to choose their students. I agree with the donation-based admission system for two reasons.
 Many students who are poor can’t pay for college tuition, and universities have limited slots for scholarships. Donation-based admission can solve some of this problem by making wealthy people donate to the university. This way, the university would have money to award more scholarships and many students would benefit.
 The second reason I agree with the donation-based admission system is because universities would use the donations to pay for facilities such as libraries and dormitories. For example, in countries where this is legal, such as the U.S., almost all school facilities are excellent. This means students study in a better environment and can study harder. 
 Some say that donation-based admission is not fair because wealthy students are able to attend and graduate first class universities without working for it. However, if they don’t study hard enough and have ability to compete with others, they won’t be able to graduate from those schools and will end up dropping out.
 In conclusion, I agree with the donation-based admission system because it will help universities to expand scholarships to underprivileged students and improve school facilities.
 Con-
 You can buy university diplomas legally in some countries. How? Through the donation-based admission system. If you donate money, you can enter the university. I am disagree with this system.
 First, it’s unfair. Rich people will not have to study, and many people with academic ability will not get into good universities. Consider this: A university selects 600 students and 100 students donate and being selected. This means that the 500-600 ranked students who would usually go to that university will have to go to other universities. Moreover, 100 students who donated and are ranked lower would take their place. It is bad for the students who lose the chance to study at good universities, and universities too lose students with better abilities.
 Second, students will panic. If donation-based admission worked in Korea, many parents would start to argue. Students and parents will think “Money solves everything and money can buy university diploma. Why should we study?” And rich people who can donate and enter university will think “Nice! I don’t need to study!” It will damage Korea’s educational competitiveness.
 Finally, donation-based admissions will evoke social conflict. There was system like this before, in which you had to take a test to enter good high schools. Many students and parents from good high schools disagree but this system worked and new students entered good high schools. But the seniors at those schools did not see the new students as juniors, and refused to get on well with them. With donation-based admission, the same situation will happen.
 I think donation-based admission is bad for students, for universities and for the country. So I believe donation-based admissions should not happen in Korea.
