World’s most mysterious nation embraces cellphone use
Barely four years after executing or throwing people in prison camps for owning a cellphone, North Korea is now expecting to hit 1 million users on its new 3G network by the end of the year, according to Reuters. 
The ban on cellphones ended in 2008, when North Korea signed a four-year deal with the Egyptian telecommunications company, Orascom Telecom, to build a 3G network in a partnership with the government. According to Orascom and Reuters, there were 800,000 cellphone users in North Korea at the end of September, compared to fewer than 70,000 just two years ago. 
Cellphone usage is limited to Pyongyang, however, as the costs of the device and data plan are well beyond the means of the average North Korean. In fact, according to North Koreans who have defected to the South, phones cost an average of $350, whereas the average monthly income is only about $15. 
“The possession of cellphones was not limited by class, but not many people have cellphones because they are just too expensive,” Kim Seong-hu, aged 40 who defected to South in April, told Reuters. “Most commoners are satisfied with [the] landlines we have.” 
Unfortunately, calling in or out of the country is not yet an option. Neither is connecting to the internet, as the government still “keeps a stranglehold on all news flows into the destitute state,” Reuters reports. 
Unlike Arab Spring Uprisings this past year, this lack of communication with the outside world has led analysts to warn against expecting a similar uprising in North Korea. Whilst cellphones and internet access played a crucial role in overthrowing the oppressive regimes of such dictators as Moammar Gadhafi in Libya and Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, analysts say that a similar revolt is unlikely to happen in the equally oppressive North Korea. 
“In the long run, the growth of interaction between people is a problem for the regime, but it might take years, or even decades, before the situation will be ripe for an outbreak of internal discontent,” said Andrei Lankov of Kookmin University in Seoul told Reuters. 
