Tinderbox of KORUS FTA: ISD settlement
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak made a rare appearance at the National Assembly on Nov. 15 to attempt a last-minute compromise with his fellow lawmakers over the deadlocked ratification of the Korea-U.S. free trade agreement.
 Korea’s main opposition Democratic Party has been reluctant to pass the agreement on the grounds that the clause on the investor-state dispute settlements unfairly favors the U.S. side.
 “The ISD (investor-state dispute) provisions in the FTA allow U.S. investors to settle disputes with the South Korean government at international courts,” claimed an opposition lawmaker. 
 Since the provision gives foreign investors the right to bring disputes that arose in Korea to the international justice system, “opposition parties are worried that it will put Korea’s small companies in a vulnerable position when dealing disputes with global conglomerates,” he said.
 However, Lee told the leaders of the ruling and opposition parties that the ISD provision is beneficial to the nation and promised to make amendments to the controversial clause. “I will renegotiate the contentious clause in the Korea-U.S. free trade agreement with Washington after the National Assembly ratifies it,” he said.
 The free trade agreement between South Korea and the U.S. is slated to take effect on Jan. 1, 2012, and the U.S. Congress approved it last month, so the ball is now in Korea’s court. Yet, South Korean National Assembly has been locked in dispute over whether to approve it.
 According to Yonhap news report, Washington is “open to talks over ISD settlement” and discuss the issue with South Korean government once the free trade agreement takes effect. The report added South Korean Trade Minister Kim Jong-hoon and U.S. Trade representative, Ron Kirk had agreed to address “any issues raised by any party” within 90 days after the FTA implementation. 
 Under the article 22.3 of section A of chapter 22 of the FTA, the two countries may address issues that arise after the pact takes effect.
