Jeju island, a wonder of the world
The southern volcanic resort of Jeju is the largest island and smallest province in Korea. It is known for its scenic mountains, waterfalls, forests, caves and beaches, and is a famous destination where sports-buffs can enjoy variety of outdoor leisure activities, such as golf, horse riding and mountain climbing. Tourism makes up a large fraction of the island’s economy and its temperate climate and spectacular scenery serve as great attractions to local and foreign travelers alike. 
Recently, Jeju island was announced as one of the new seven natural wonders of the world by the New7Wonders Foundation, a Switzerland-based organization. According to Yonhap News, there will be an official inauguration ceremonies for the confirmed winners early next year. 
The island south of the Korean Peninsula was selected along with other invaluable natural features, such as Brazil’s Amazon region, Halong Bay in Vietnam, Argentina’s Iguazu Falls, Indonesia’s Komodo, the Puerto Princesa Underground River in the Philippines and South Africa’s Table Mountain.
 A local organization called the National Committee for Jeju New7Wonders of Nature helped the island garner global recognition as one of the most stunning tourist destinations in the world. 
“The nomination will have long-term economic benefits for the island,” claimed the former Prime Minister and the head of the committee, Chung Un-chan. According to Chung, a good harmony between mankind and nature is Jeju Island’s main strength.
 The Jeju Development Institute, a local think tank, forecast the annual number of foreign tourists may rise as large as 73.6 percent, sharply increasing the tourism revenue of the region.
 “It will open a new chapter in the island’s tourism industry,” elated Jeju Governor Woo Geun-min said. The local government is excited to see the island’s brighter future and has set the vision of the island, dubbed as “Jeju Special Self-Governing Province.” The project is brought to make the island an international and ultra-modern city akin to Hong Kong or Singapore. The establishment of Global English Education City and Healthcare Town are among the projects that Jeju is pushing to achieve that goal. Jeju seeks to globalize and preserve its unique local culture at the same time in the development plans.
 Previously, Jeju has become the first place in the world to earn all three UNESCO honors; it was designated as a “biosphere reserve” by UNESCO in 2002, listed as a World Natural Heritage Site in 2007 and earned “geopark” status in 2010.
 The five biggest tourist spots in Jeju island are Seongsan Ilchulbong, Mount Halla, Cheonjeyeon Waterfall, Saebyeol oreum and Olle.
 Seongsan Ilchulbong, also called “Sunrise Peak,” is an archetypal tuff cone formed by hydrovolcanic eruptions about 5,000 years ago. 
Mount Halla is a shield volcano on Jeju Island. It is the tallest mountain in South Korea and a dormant volcano which rises 1,950 meters above sea level. The area around the mountain is a designated a national park, the Hallasan National Park. Mount Halla is home to Gwaneumsa, the country’s oldest Buddhist temple, which was built during the Goryeo Dynasty. 
Cheonjeyeon Waterfall is a three-tier waterfall. Its name means a pond of the emperor of heaven. It was designated as the Natural Monument No. 378 in 1993.
 Saebyeol oreum, which can be translated in Korean as “mound that brightens like a star” has a horseshoe shaped crater. 
Olle is a word in the local dialect that refers to a narrow pathway that connects a house to an open space. “Jeju Olle” is a popular hiking track for tourists.
 Other features that are unique to Jeju island are its public shamanic rituals. They include ceremonies to welcome the coming of spring, and to entreat the gods’ blessing for a bountiful growing season and community prosperity. 
Last but not least, the three most distinguished characteristics representing Jeju are; stones, wind and women. Jeju has more than 400 shamanic shrines. Scholars believe that the extremely rocky soil and the windy climate which brings frequent typhoons make up the region’s unique geographical and cultural elements. What’s more, Jeju is famous for its communal fishing custom which involves local women. Jeju island’s “haenyeo,” women who dive to make their livings, are powerful bread-winners in the local economy and there are specific rituals that are devoted to the goddess of “haenyeo,” as well.
