Economic effect of pro-baseball tops 1 trillion won
Samsung Lions players celebrated their victory as they clenched the 2011 Korean Series title at Jamsil Stadium in Seoul on the last day of October.
 The year 2011 marks the 30th anniversary of the Korea Professional Baseball (KPB), and the number of people who visited the stadiums this year to watch the games surpassed 6 million for the first time.
 Also, a ninth baseball team, “NC Dinos,” was created to add to the current eight clubs of the KPB league, which include Samsung Lions, Doosan Bears and Hanhwa Eagles. A tenth club is expected to be launched soon, and baseball officials predict that the era of annual 10 million spectators is near at hand.
 The high popularity of baseball in Korea is due not only to the pleasure of the sport but to the elaborate marketing of the eight professional teams.
 Sales of uniforms and baseball-related products have led to increased profits of the baseball business and also added to the popularity of the sport.
 Recently, the Korea Sports Promotion Foundation released a report on the “economic effect of Korea Professional Baseball games.” The research has been conducted by Hanyang University’s sport marketing division.
 The report said that the baseball games’ annual economic effect was 1.18 trillion won and a total of 12,156 new jobs were created each year thanks to the sport.
 The economic effect is calculated by the eight teams’ total expenditure, spectators’ total spending, the amount spent by corporate promotion, and other effects.
 The total expenditure of the eight clubs annually was recorded at 216 billion won. Aggregate spending of the spectators amounted to 233 billion won, which means that each person coming to a baseball game spends an average of about 36,500 won on travel expenses and eating. 
 From the more than 12,000 new jobs that the report estimated were created by baseball games, about 3,000 are in banking, 2,300 are in entertainment businesses, 1,300 are at retailers and wholesalers, and about 800 are in the transport industry.
