Pope John Paul II relics’ world tour
The late Pope John Paul II, widely considered the most popular pontiff, as well as one of the most influential leaders in the 20th century, was declared blessed, or beatified, at a ceremony at the Vatican on May 1. After his beatification, the Vatican was swamped with requests for the late Pope’s relics. 
 When the Pope passed away, all items used by him became known as memorabilia, and upon his beatification, all memorabilia became relics (scared objects used by the Pope). There are three classes of relics. First class relics are the bodies of saintly persons or any of their integrant parts, such as limbs, ashes, bones, hair and blood. Second class relics are objects that have come in physical contact with living Saints and are thereby sanctified. These would include clothing, tools, and personal items. Third class relics are swatches of cloth, holy card or medals that have been touched by a 1st or 2nd class relic. 
According to Catholic doctrine, sacred relics do not contain any magical or healing powers. They are simply mementos meant to be venerated by the faithful. Relics of the beatified or sainted individuals are used to simply recall to mind the example of that particular person and to remind the faithful of their nearness to God and their power to intercede on their behalf. In fact, St. Jerome, the Roman Christian priest and Doctor of the Church declared, with regard to relics, “We do not worship, we do not adore, for fear that we should bow down to the creature rather than to the creator, but we venerate the relics of the martyrs in order the better to adore him whose martyrs they are.” 
 The around the world journey of the relics of Pope John Paul II began soon after his beatification. In Poland, where Pope John Paul II was born, people flocked to the revered Shrine of Jasna Gora in Czestochowa several days before he was officially beatified to pay homage to his “relics.” On display was the bloodstained, bullet-pocked sash worn by the Pope during the failed 1981 attempt on his life. Poles already considered him their saint. In July, 2011, Stanislaw Dziwisz, a longtime aid to Pope John Paul II, sent two first-class relics to Korea: the late Pope’s hair and blood. The hair has been laid at the Divine Mercy Jesus Oasis house in Bundang, and the blood has been laid at the Divine Mercy Jesus Retreat House in Hongcheon.
 In Mexico, the nation with the second largest Catholic population in the world (behind Brazil), Pope John Paul II’s relics were transported to the Basilica of Guadalupe in August, 2011 to start the first leg of a scheduled four-month tour around the country. A sample of the Pope’s blood, drawn a day before he died and placed in a glass vial, a wax figure of the Pope and various personal objects were on display. In the Philippines, a display of relics and photographs was launched in October to commemorate the Oct. 22 feast day of Blessed John Paul II. The relics on display include the pope’s blood in a container called a “Theca,” his pectoral cross, Episcopal ring, chasuble, chair, rosary, papal medal, a piece of his papal cassock, and a piece of cloth taken from the sheet of his deathbed.
