Mountaineering: Adventure on frontiers of life and death
“The mountains have rules. They are harsh rules, but they are there, and if you keep to them you are safe. A mountain is not like men. A mountain is sincere. The weapons to conquer it exist inside you, inside your soul.” - Walter Bonatti
 Korean people have always had a love affair with mountains - not surprising when considering the fact that 70 percent of the land in Korea is mountainous. The majority of Korea’s national parks are mountains, and they are visited by tens of millions of people each year. While most people enjoy the leisurely-paced activity of mountain hiking, others enjoy the more “hardcore” challenge of high-altitude mountaineering. Over the years, Korean climbers have challenged and conquered the tallest and the most dangerous mountains in the world. They have left their footprints on treacherous trails, planted their national flag on the summits, and some even paid the ultimate price in their pursuit of adventure. 
On Friday, Nov. 11, Korean mountaineers Kim Hyung-il and Chang Ji-myeong lost their lives while trying to scale the 6,440-meter high Mount Cholatse in the Nepalese Himalayas. It was reported that they were trekking on the north face of the mountain when they fell to their deaths at an altitude of 5,100 meters. This tragedy occurred only weeks after another Korean team, led by the legendary adventurer Park Young-seok, went missing while climbing the 8,091-meter Annapurna. Ironically, Kim Hyung-il, the leader of the K2 Extreme team, actually took part in the search and rescue operations to look for Park Young-seok’s expedition before he met his own demise. 
The death of Park Young-seok is particularly shocking as he was considered one of the most accomplished mountaineers in the world. He climbed Mtount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, on three separate occasions. In 2005, he became the first person to accomplish the true adventurer’s Grand Slam - scaling the 14 “eight-thousanders,” climbing the “seven summits,” and reaching the North Pole and the South Pole. The “eight-thousanders” are the 14 peaks higher than 8,000 meters in the Himalaya and Karakoram ranges. Only 28 people have ever reached the summit of all 14, and Park Young-seok is one of five Koreans to have done so. The “seven summits” are the highest mountain peaks of each of the seven major continents. 
 Any discussion of great Korean mountaineering feats would be incomplete without mentioning the exploits of Oh Eun-sun. In April, 2010, she ascended to the summit of Annapurna, planted the Korean national flag, and laid claim to the title of “The First Woman to Scale the World’s 14 Highest Peaks.” It was a moment witnessed by a live, nation-wide television audience in Korea. The 44-year-old mountaineer, standing at a mere 155 cm and weighing only 50 kilograms, has accomplished something that only a handful of men have been able to manage throughout mountaineering history. Oh Eun-sun’s accomplishment is being disputed by her fierce rival - Edurne Pasaban of Spain - who claimed that Oh Eun-sun stopped short of the summit of Mount Kanchenjunga on the Nepal-Tibet border in the previous year. In spite of the accusation, there is no denying that Oh Eun-sun is an incredibly courageous, resolute and tenacious mountaineer. Nothing can diminish her standing as one of the world’s all-time great climbers. 
