The tragic end of the King of Pop
Dr. Conrad Murray, who was charged with the involuntary manslaughter of the King of Pop, was found guilty on Nov. 7 by the Superior Court of Los Angeles County in Los Angeles, California. The trial began on Sept. 27 when it was found that Michael Jackson’s cause of death was an overdose of propofol, a surgical anesthetic which is normally used in hospitals with constant monitoring. 
Pop icon Michael Jackson was the most successful entertainer of all time according to Guinness World Records, with hits like “Billie Jean,” “Thriller,” and “Black or White.” His death on June 25, 2009 came as a shock to music fans all over the world, especially since he had been working on his comeback with a series of 50 concerts called, “This is It.” 
The concerts were scheduled to begin in July 2009 and all tickets were already sold out when news of his untimely death (just three weeks before the first concert) was announced.
 Murray had been hired to be Jackson’s personal physician during the “This is It” comeback tour for a reported $150,000-a-month salary. Murray claimed that Jackson, whose battles with drug addiction were well documented throughout his career, was suffering from severe insomnia as a result of the physical and emotional stress of preparing for his comeback tour. 　
 According to his statement to the police, on the night of his death, Murray claims that Jackson had been complaining about being unable to sleep, despite already having taken a cocktail of powerful sedatives. 
He states that Jackson began begging for propofol, a powerful anesthetic that is usually reserved for patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) or procedure room of a hospital, after he had been unable to sleep for about 9 hours. Murray claims to have finally given in and administered a low dose, just so Jackson could get some sleep when it became clear to him that the other drugs were not working. 
Once he made sure Jackson was asleep, Murray told police that he went to the bathroom and was “gone for [only] two minutes” and that when he returned, Jackson was not breathing. 
Murray began performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and called out for Jackson’s bodyguard to help him move Jackson off the bed and call 911. Jackson was pronounced dead two hours after he arrived at the UCLA Medical Center.
 When asked why he did not call 911 directly, Murray claims that it was because he is a “trained” cardiologist, able to do the same things a paramedic could. 
During the trial, prosecutors argued that Murray was grossly negligent in using propofol, which is normally used for surgery, as a sleep aid for Jackson. The defense denied any negligence, arguing that Jackson administered the fatal dose himself. 
The jury deliberated for just two days before reaching a guilty verdict on the manslaughter charges against Murray on the afternoon of Nov. 7. Murray was immediately taken into custody and held without bail until the sentencing date, set for Nov. 29. 
Jackson leaves behind three children, Prince Michael, aged 14, Paris, aged 13, and Blanket (Prince Michael II), aged 9.
