Key figure behind Korea’s economic miracle: Chung Ju-yung (3) Asan Foundation and inter-Korean cooperation project
Throughout his life, chairman Chung Ju-yung devoted all his efforts to make his country strong and wealthy. With his pioneering spirit and tenacious drive, he made great strides in many areas other than just economic development. Above all, he visited North Korea in 1998 with herds of cattle, which attracted global attention, and he emerged as the leader who opened a new era of inter-Korean communication. Other than that, he was a man of sports who was instrumental in successfully attracting the 1988 Seoul Olympics. He also was a private diplomat who visited China and the old Soviet Union for the first time as a Korean entrepreneur. And he was a businessman who was active in social business with his Asan Foundation and left his mark in many aspects of Korean life.
 Return of corporate profits back to society - The Asan Foundation
 Chung founded the Asan Foundation in 1977 with aims to return corporate profits to society. He realized that a growing number of people were being left behind in the rapid economic growth and was convinced that there would be neither stability nor prosperity in Korea unless it looked after the underprivileged class.
 Chung set the initial goal to make the Asan Foundation as one comparable to the Rockfeller Foundation or the Ford Foundation of the U.S. He kicked off his business in four areas -- medical, social, research and development, and scholarship projects. He had a strong desire to take care of those who were denied access to medical care, so he established Ulsan Medical College, Asan Life Science Research Institute, and nine hospitals around the country.
 In addition to such medical projects, Chung provided support for a variety of social welfare organizations, offered scholarships to poor students, and tried to strengthen academic-industrial cooperation nationwide. He also established the Sinyoung Research Fund in order to help assist the development of Korean journalism. He is also well-known for his critical role in attracting and successfully hosting the 1988 Seoul Olympics. In five months of preparation, he made all-out efforts in winning the bid to host the international sports event. Acknowledging Chung’s active support and dedication, the International Olympic Committee conferred the IOC Medallion upon him in 1998.
 Lifetime projects - Mt. Geumgang tourism and Inter-Korean economic cooperation
 On June 16, 1998, Chung attracted worldwide attention by visiting North Korea with herds of cattle through Panmunjeom, the inter-Korean village where the 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement was signed.
 He opened the door of Panmunjeom that had been closed for half a century and crossed the border with the North. It was the biggest event of its kind, and turned the Joint Security Area of Panmunjeom into a place of reconciliation and peace. With a Dynasty, the make of black sedan that Chung was in, as the leading vehicle, tens of trucks full of “unification cows” approached the military demarcation line, to the surprise of many people around the world.
 Chung met with North Korean leader Kim Jong-il in October 1998 and agreed with the leader to carry on with the Geumgangsan tourism project. In October 1999, with the basis of trust already been built, Chung met Kim again to discuss various other inter-Korean economic cooperation projects, including the west coast industrial complex project.
 The inter-Korean cooperation between Hyundai and North Korea, which started from Chung’s “cow visit,” achieved much more than any other South-North Korean collaboration efforts that had been made, both in quality and quantity.
 In particular, in accordance with then government’s declaration of the principle of separating politics from economics, the Geumgangsan tourism project proceeded smoothly and brought hundreds of thousands of S. Korean tourists onto North Korean soil.
 Starting from the tourism project, the two Koreas worked together to develop the west cost industrial complex and carry out other cultural, sports and agricultural exchanges.
 Chung Ju-yung once said that inter-Korean economic collaboration was his lifetime project, and he really wanted the project to help bring prosperity on the Korean Peninsula. He asserted that the reunification of the two Koreas should come at the earliest possible date through cultural exchange and communication and that people of the two countries should hand over a united, strong and wealthy nation to their descendants.
 Just as he believed, the inter-Korean economic cooperation efforts, including the Geumgangsan tourism project, have contributed greatly to easing tension between the two Koreas and bringing reconciliation onto the Korean Peninsula.
 Evaluation of Chairman Chung Ju-yung at home and abroad
 In 1997 when Hyundai celebrated its 50th anniversary, domestic and overseas academic circles started to make evaluations of Chung’s economic contributions at home and abroad and looked into his management ideology and philosophy.
 In Korea, “Chung Ju-yung’s business start-up theory” was offered as a regular course at Soongsil University in 1997, which became a great sensation among students. In 1999, the Korea Academy of Business Historians held an academic forum titled “Study on Asan Chung Ju-yung.”
 Outside Korea, the illustrated books “Bridge-building of the Century” and “Constructor Chung Ju-yung” published in China in 1997 marked the start of the studies on Chung’s business management.
 In 1998, a professor at University of Oregon, Richard M. Steers, wrote a biography of Chung Ju-yung, focusing on his Hyundai management. The book, titled “Made in Korea: Chung Ju-yung and the Rise of Hyundai” said in its preface that Chung was worth studying because there was insufficient information about foreign enterpreneurs competing fiercely in the global market outside the U.S.
 In 1999, the U.S. Heritage Foundation established the Chung Ju-yung Fellowship program and even opened the Chung Ju-yung Laboratory, acknowledging his contribution to economic development and his value as a noteworthy Asian leader. It was the second time that the foundation established a fellowship under a person’s name after the Ronald Reagan Fellowship in 1992.
 Chung was also bestowed the IOC Medallion in 1992 for his contributions to sports as a vehicle of international understanding. In 1999, he was selected as one of the 10 greatest people in Asia in the 20th century by Hong Kong’s influential economic weekly Far Eastern Economic Review.
