Does an ideal job mean making a lot of money?
Pro- Money makes an ideal job
 Think about that you have a job that you really enjoy and that is rewarding. Yet it does not pay you well. The thing is, if the job doesn’t pay you well, it gets extremely hard to enjoy that job for a long period of time. Choosing rewarding jobs over well-paying ones is too idealistic. If your personal life is miserable with no money to pay for food, clothes and housing to sleep in during the cold winter, how can you focus on your “rewarding” work? It is simply unrealistic. 
Moreover, nowadays people’s definition of success varies. So the only objective way to decide whether a person has an ideal job and are professionally successful is through how much money they make. Several decades ago, people regarded show-business personalities as low-class workers and looked down on these jobs. But now, the perception has completely changed. Society as a whole views them as serious professionals. Since everyone has a subjective point of view when it comes to defining the ideal job, it would be much more convenient to evaluate their value through money that each profession generates.
 I think that an ideal job is the one that makes decent amount of money. This is because without money you cannot maintain a decent life. Everyone wants to be happy and have the basic needs of life fulfilled; people don’t have the luxury of caring about doing rewarding jobs. Also, as it is difficult to figure out what makes a successful job in today’s abundant job market, money should be the sole, objective criteria to decide whether they are worth doing. 
 Con- MONEY≠IDEAL JOB
 Ask any middle and high school student what they want to be in the future. Most of them would answer doctor, teacher, prosecutor, lawyer or diplomat. Why do you think they want that job? I disagree with the idea that the ideal job means making a lot of money for two reasons.
 For one, the ideal job has to be rewarding. If it is not worthwhile, the work would be no more than meaningless labor for sustenance. We can get a rewarding feeling from doing a job that we truly like. That’s why people try to find out what they like to do and what they are good at. Payment doesn’t mean everything. 
 Secondly, money itself shouldn’t be the purpose of work, but it should rather be the thing that naturally follows hard work. If payment is the only way to judge the value of a job, that means even the loan sharks and robbers would be doing a great job.
 Of course the criteria for what makes a "good job" differ from individual to individual. Money is just one of those criteria, but it shouldn’t be the top priority. Therefore I think the ideal job isn’t necesarily a high-earning job.
