Woods and ex-caddie, on the outs?
Just three weeks after Tiger Woods dumped his longtime caddie Steve Williams, the two are back in the news. 
On July 20, Woods announced the decision to split with Williams on his website, after 13 years of working together. 
“I want to express my deepest gratitude to Stevie for all his help, but I think it’s time for a change,” Woods wrote, mentioning that “Stevie is an outstanding caddie and a friend and has been instrumental in many of my accomplishments. I wish him great success in the future.” 
On his own website however, Williams expressed his disappointment over the timing of the firing, writing:
 “After 13 years of loyal service, needless to say this came as a shock. Given the circumstances of the past 18 months working through Tiger’s scandal, a new coach and with it a major swing change and Tiger battling through injuries, I am very disappointed to end our very successful partnership at this time.” 
Despite Woods’ claim during a press conference that the dismissal happened “face-to-face and man-to-man,” Williams fired back that the split had actually been done over the phone. 
After what seems like a bitter divorce between two parents, Williams is seemingly back on top while Woods is struggling to get back on his game after a series of injuries that has kept him off the green. 
As the new caddie for Australian golfer Adam Scott, Williams was able to celebrate as Scott scored the biggest victory of his career at the World Golf Championship-Bridgestone Invitational on Aug. 7. Woods finished tied for 37th place. 
Controversy was reignited when Williams, uncharacteristic of caddie behavior, went on national television to give a post-round interview with CBS Sports. His controversial comments caused an uproar in the golfing community, as most people condemned Williams for his arrogance and insensitivity. 
With comments such as “It’s the greatest week of my life caddying,” and “I’ve caddied for 33 years – 145 wins now – and that’s the best win I’ve ever had,” Williams made himself a target for criticism. Though he did not mention Woods by name, it seems clear that Williams was taking a shot at his former boss, with whom he had won 13 majors.
 In fact, former pro golfer Paul Azinger had this to tweet about the interview, “Steve Williams breaks the unwritten caddy rule, by talking to the press. Most don’t, a few do at times when appropriate. #notapopularguy.” 
During the PGA Championship news conference, Woods expressed his surprise over Williams’ comments but mentioned he was “happy to see Stevie [Williams] and Adam win.”
 For his part, Woods seems to be focused on his health and game; not to mention qualifying for the upcoming PGA playoffs. 
“In order to win, I had to be healthy. We have four times a year in which we play for [the playoffs],” Woods said, “And that’s all I’m concerned about.”
