Tensions run high between the West and Iran
The storming of a British embassy in Iran by protestors on Nov. 29 has led to rising tensions in the already strained diplomatic relationship between Iran and the West. 
Reminiscent of the 1979 seizure of the U.S. Embassy, this latest attack has led Britain to withdraw staff and dependents from its embassy in Tehran and on Nov. 30 ordered all Iranian diplomats out of the U.K within 48 hours. 
Angry mobs stormed the embassy, looting it and replacing the British flag with the name of a 7th century Shiite saint, Imam Hussein, amid growing protests against the mounting sanctions being imposed upon Iran by the West. 
The Hague claimed that those involved in the attack were members of a student group allied with the Iranian Revolutionary Guard’s paramilitary Basij organization.
 The attack on the British Embassy in Tehran has caused the Western nations to rally together and tighten sanctions against Iran. 
Sanctions against Iran have been imposed by both the European Union and the U.S. after a U.N. report offered new evidence that Iran may be developing nuclear weapons. Sanctions by the U.S. have, for the first time, targeted Iran’s oil industry, with France and Britain threatening to follow suit. As one of the world’s leading producers of oil, putting an embargo on oil purchases from Iran could seriously cripple the nation’s economy. 
The U.S. in particular, has passed a measure to “penalize any foreign bank that does business with Iran’s Central Bank, the conduit for Iran’s receipts from oil sales,” the New York Times reported. 
The New York Times continued, reporting that “The diplomatic fallout from the attack quickly spread to other Western countries with embassies in Iran. Norway announced it was temporarily closing its embassy as a precaution, and Germany, France and the Netherlands all recalled their ambassadors for consultations. Italy said it was considering such a recall.” 
Economists predict that the sanctions on oil could cause a major price hike to the tune of over $250 a barrel. Forbes Magazine reports that “it is indeed possible that stopping Iran from exporting it’s [sic] current 2-3 million barrels a day could lead to a doubling of the price of the world’s 80 million odd barrels a day.” 
