Busan hosts the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness
South Korea is famous for transforming itself from the ashes of the Korean War to a vibrant economy. Thus, it serves as a milestone of change and hope all around the world.
 Busan has become the world’s 5th largest port city and on Nov. 29, the city had an honor of hosting the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness (HLF4), the world’s largest and highest-level conference on development aid.
 Korea joined the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), a club of donor countries in the OECD in November 2009. It was the first time in the organization’s history that a former aid recipient had joined the donor list. This was partly because Korea realized early on the gap between the poor and the rich is an obstacle to sustainable prosperity and growth and worked hard to tackle the problem. 
 Developing countries can devise better growth strategies if they get help from countries with development experience and know-how, like South Korea. Thus, Korea is eager to be a role model for developing nations. 
The Busan forum is the fourth of its kind, with the three previous meetings held in Rome in 2003, Paris in 2005 and Accra, Ghana, in 2008. Some 2,500 delegates from 160 countries, including civil society leaders, experts from multilateral organizations and academics attended the conference to seek a new framework for effective global development cooperation. The three-day forum has a long list of dignitaries, including U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurria, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Chile’s former president, Under-Secretary-General for U.N. Women, Michelle Bachelet, and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
 “Shared growth and cooperation between aid donors and recipient countries will ultimately lead to a sustainable development around the world,” President Lee Myung-bak commented at the opening of the Busan HLF4 on Nov. 30. Lee proposed to share South Korea’s development experiences with developing nations and vowed to double the country’s Official Development Assistance (ODA) by 2015 to $3 billion. ODA was set up to help Asian, African and Latin American countries develop economic and industrial infrastructure. Government officials underscored Korea’s commitment to giving back to the international community after receiving help during the Korean War. 
 Hillary Clinton was also at the event and led a special session on gender equality and women’s empowerment, appealing for global cooperation in strengthening women’s economic and social participation. Calling for better implementation of aid, Clinton said that “Discriminating against women hurts the economy.” 
 “In Asia, statistics show that the economy loses about $89 billion every year because of discrimination against women within the labor force,” Michelle Bachelet added at the gender equality session.
 Ban Ki-moon also attended the event. “Governments must not let the global economic crisis keep them from supporting those in need,” he said. 
“Do not let this economic crisis; do not let short-term austerity deflect you from your long-term commitment to the world’s poorest people,” he said during the speech.
 The Busan forum bore a huge significance as it offered the opportunity to initiate and extend a new effective development partnership which ranges from not only aid donors but also to emerging nations.
 The emergence of newly industrialized economies such as China, Brazil, India, Russia and South Africa - in addition to Europe’s economic crisis - has reshaped the global development aid landscape. 
 “The global financial and economic crisis highlighted the critical importance of deeper, more inclusive global cooperation,” stated the Busan guideline.
 A focus in regards to international aid policy has moved from “aid effectiveness” to “development effectiveness,” at the forum. Also, an emphasis on so-called “south-south cooperation” was freshly brought up at the conference in an effort to engineer sustainable development and inclusive growth. South-south cooperation is about cooperation between developing nations, although these are not always in the southern part of the world.
 According to the Busan guideline, “countries need to make more efforts to build a new global monitoring framework to make aid more effective and transparent.” The importance of aid effectiveness cannot be overemphasized as only it can deliver “long-run returns on investments.” 
 This is all because development is a key pillar to global security, prosperity and democratic progress. 
 Here are key ideas that the global community shared during the HLF4 to improve development cooperation and bring out shared, sustainable growth:
 Ownership of Partner Countries: Partner countries should take the lead in the development processes
 Inclusive development partnerships: Emerging countries, civil society, and the private sector should work together, learn one another’s innovative ideas, and cooperate to yield more effective development results
 Results-oriented Development Cooperation: Implementing programs which focus on long-term perspectives in a growth-friendly environment
 Accountable Development Cooperation: Enhance accountability and transparency of development cooperation through monitoring and oversight activities.
