Samsung Lions Wins 2011 Asia Series
Samsung Lions defeated Japan’s SoftBank Hawks on Nov. 29 to capture the Asia Series crown. The Lions won 5-3 in the final game at the Taichung Intercontinental Baseball Stadium, Taiwan, in front of 10,000 spectators. The Lions’ 28-year-old starting pitcher Jang Won-sam was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the Asia Series. For the first time in this relatively young tournament, a non-Japanese team has won the title. 
 The Asia Series is an international baseball tournament in East Asia that was first held in 2005. It features the annual champions of the Nippon Professional Baseball’s (NPB) Japan Series, the Korea Professional Baseball’s (KPB) Korean Series, the Chinese Professional Baseball League’s (CPBL) Taiwan Series, and the China Baseball League’s (CBL) championship series. Prior to 2008, China Stars, an all-star team of the China Baseball League participated in the series instead of the league champions from the CBL. In the 2011 Asia Series, no team from the China Baseball League took part in the tournament; instead, Perth Heat, the champions of the Australian Baseball League’s (ABL) Championship Series, was invited to participate for the first time.
 The Asia Series was originally known as the Konami Cup, named after the tournament sponsor -- Konami Corporation. Japan hosted the Asia Series from 2005-2008, and in each year, a Japanese team won the championship. In 2009, the Asia Series was placed on hold due to sponsorship and financing issues following the withdrawal of Konami. In its place, a single Club Championship game was played between the Japanese Series and Korea Series champions at Nagasaki, with the Yomiuri Giants defeating the Kia Tigers, 9–4. In 2010, the Asia Series was canceled due to schedule conflicts with the 2010 Asian Games. 
 The Asia Series is played in a round-robin format -- with four teams playing each other once. The two teams with the best win-loss percentage face each other in a one-game final for the championship. If teams are tied after the round-robin stage, a series of tiebreakers are used to determine which teams will qualify for the final and in what order. The first tiebreaker is the head-to-head win-loss records amongst tied teams, and the second is based on the lowest team run average. The team with the better record/higher percentage is considered the “home team” and has the advantage of batting last. The designated hitter rule is in effect throughout the tournament.
 Samsung Lions got off to a fine start in the 2011 Asia Series against the Perth Heat. Starting pitcher Jang Won-sam gave up 2 runs and struck out 10 batters in six solid innings while the offense exploded for 10 runs. Second baseman Shin Myung-chul led the assault with 2 hits and 4 RBI’s in the 10-2 victory. The Lions were blown-out 9-0 by the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks in the second game. The Hawks’ starting pitcher Hiroki Yamada scattered 4 singles over 7 strong innings, and the potent lineup support him with 11 base hits and 7 stolen bases. The Lions closed out the round-robin stage with a 6-3 win over the Uni-President 7-Eleven Lions of Taiwan and advanced to the final game with the second best record behind Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks. In the championship game, Jang Won-sam pitched 6 stellar innings with precision control, and the offense erupted for 5 runs in the 5th inning to secure the Asia Series title.
 In 2012, the Asia Series will be played in Korea and likely expand to 6 teams. 
