UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage
“Intangible cultural heritage is an important factor in maintaining cultural diversity in the face of growing globalization. An understanding of the intangible cultural heritage of different communities helps with intercultural dialogue, and encourages mutual respect for other ways of life” – UNESCO
 Intangible Cultural Heritage is defined by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as traditions or living expressions inherited from our ancestors and passed on to our descendants, such as oral traditions, performing arts, social practices, rituals, festive events, knowledge and practices concerning nature and the universe or the knowledge and skills to produce traditional crafts. In 2011, UNESCO added 19 traditions to its Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Among the new entries are Korean martial art tekkyeon, Korean tightrope walking, Jultagi, and the weaving style of Hansan Mosi. Korea is well represented on the list with a total of 14 entries. 
 Taekkyeon, an elegant and graceful method of self-defense that incorporates dance-like movements with rhythmic foot motions and fluid arm movements, is the first traditional form of martial arts to be included in the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity list. Jultagi, a distinctive form of traditional Korean performing arts that features tightrope walking accompanied by music and witty dialogue, is noted for its “great complexity that integrates musical, choreographic and symbolic expressions of Korean culture to delight and entertain audiences.” Hansan mosi, an intricate weaving style handed down by middle-aged women in South Chungcheong Province, is cited for its family-oriented operations and community-binding traditions. 
The Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage took effect in 2008 with the establishment of the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. The list comprises cultural “practices and expressions that help demonstrate the diversity of this heritage and raise awareness about its importance.” There are 232 elements currently on this list. In 2009, a List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding was established. The list is composed of those cultural elements that concerned communities and countries consider require urgent measures to keep them alive. There are 27 elements on this list. 
 The Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity contains elements that are well-known throughout the world. The Argentinian and Uruguayan tango is a musical genre that includes dance, music, poetry and singing, and is considered one of the main manifestations of identity for the inhabitants of the Río de la Plata region. The Samba de Roda of Brazil, which involves music, dance and poetry, is a popular festive event that drew heavily on the dances and cultural traditions of the region’s African slaves, as well as elements of Portuguese culture. The Dragon Boat festival of China, comprising ceremonies, dances, boat races, performances, and the preparation of food and beverages, is a tradition carried out in an atmosphere of harmony that strengthens social cohesion. Kabuki, a form of Japanese traditional theater that originated in the Edo period and was popular among common people, is known for its elaborate costumes, make-up and stage devices. 
The List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding contains diverse elements such as the Moorish epic T’heydinn of Mauritania, the watertight-bulkhead technology of wooden junks of China, and the Ca trù singing of Vietnam. All 27 elements are judged to be in dire need of safeguarding because their viability is at risk despite the best efforts of the community, group, individuals and government. 
