Stars of Twilight
As fans around the world head to the theaters to catch a glimpse of the first part of the final Twilight movie, the question remains: Team Jacob or Team Edward?
 A story of love, the four-book vampire-themed romance series by Stephanie Meyer has become a global sensation. Undoubtedly reaching cult status, you would be hard-pressed to come across a teenage girl who hasn’t, at one point or another, pondered over whether Isabella “Bella” Swan should stay with the 104-year old vampire Edward Cullen or the ever-reliable werewolf Jacob Black. 
Meyer’s Twilight series was published between 2005 and 2008, during which time it gained immense popularity and commercial success worldwide. It wasn’t until the novels were adapted to the silver screen in 2008, however, that the series achieved cult status. 
It is not merely the mystery and fantasy of werewolves and vampires that as gained popularity through the Twilight series. The actors who portray the three main characters themselves have developed a huge fan base and an almost cult-like following. Prior to their roles as Bella Swan, Edward Cullen and Jacob Black, Kirsten Stewart, Robert Pattinson, and Taylor Lautner could hardly be considered A-list celebrities. 
 Kirsten Stewart, plays “Bella Swan”
 Date of Birth: April 9, 1990
 Born and raised in Los Angeles, California, Stewart began acting at the age of eight. Her first role was uncredited in the 1999 film, The Thirteenth Year. After several minor roles, it wasn’t until 2002 that her acting skills began attracting attention through her role as Sarah Altman (Jodie Foster’s diabetic daughter) in Panic Room.
 Robert Pattinson, plays “Edward Cullen”
 Date of Birth: May 13, 1986
 Born and raised in London, Pattinson’s path towards becoming the most sought-after vampire in the world began with a self-described “most unsuccessful modeling career.” Prior to Twilight, Pattinson did not appear very often on screen. His most notable, and also quite memorable, role had been that of Cedric Diggory in the equally famous novel-cum-film franchise, the Harry Potter series. 
Other than acting, Pattinson also likes to dabble in music. Playing the guitar and piano, Pattinson composes his own music, which he performs “in pubs and stuff.” According to a 2008 interview with the Los Angeles Times, Pattison explained that “Music is my back-up plan if acting fails.” 
 Taylor Lautner, plays “Jacob Black”
 Date of Birth: February 11, 1992
 Though born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Lautner was raised in Hudsonville, a suburb of Grand Rapids where he began a short career as an athlete. Specifically, Lautner had earned his black belt in Karate at just eight years old. 
Lautner’s acting career began in 2001 when he moved from Michigan to Los Angeles. His first appearance on TV was on the made-for-television film, Shadow Fury. After a series of small-time voice-over and acting gigs, Lautner’s path to stardom began after starring in the 2005 film, The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D.
