Creativity, Culture and Education
Paul Collard, CEO of the organization Creativity, Culture and Education (CCE), visited South Korea on Aug 8-13 as a guest of the Seoul Foundation for Arts and Culture. In addition to speaking at the Seoul International Symposium for Arts and Creativity he took the opportunity to meet with officials from Korea’s Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture, Korea Arts and Cultural Education Services, and other public bodies. The purpose of his visit was to discuss the significance and impact of CCE and its international program, Creative Partnerships, as well as the possibility of collaborating in the future to help develop the creativity of Korea’s youth.
 Creativity and education; what’s the link? 
According to Collard, in today’s developed world, the need to cultivate creative minds comes from the need for job creators rather than job seekers. What Collard calls the “industrial model of education” does not work in today’s post-industrial world. The reality is that the majority of today’s youth will have jobs that have not yet been created. 
It has become clear that today’s job market is not what it used to be. The traditional methods of work are no longer applicable in today’s fast-paced, technological and innovative environment. As today’s younger generation grows up in an era of Twitter and iPhones, and the need to learn hand-written cursive dies, it has become clear that the system of education around the world needs to be revised. 
In fact, Collard created CCE in response to the British government looking toward the future and the need to develop innovation. Collard believes that creativity is not something that can be taught in a lecture setting, but rather something that needs to be cultivated in today’s youth. 
Based in England, CCE is a government-funded “national organization created to generate transformational cultural and creative programs for children and young people.” The purpose and vision of this organization is based on the belief that all children should be given the opportunity to “experience and access the diverse range of cultural activity because … [it] can enhance their aspirations, achievements and skills.” 
Creativity; what is it and why is it so important?
 Synonymous to imaginative, creativity is a trait that cannot be taught, but rather needs to be nurtured in students through the opportunity to practice and implement their own ideas and thoughts. According to Collard, for students to become creative, they need to learn “not just to have an idea, but the skill to learn to turn it into reality - to make it happen.” 
The Creative Partnerships program, one of several programs operated by the CCE, does this by presenting their target students with real-life challenges to solve. The reality of these challenges creates more motivation for student involvement, rather than hypothetical challenges and word problems.
 The Creative Partnerships program has pioneered a unique approach to introducing creativity in schools by linking creative learning to all subjects in the curriculum. It has been examined by the U.K. Government’s Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted), which reported that the program was highly effective in engaging “even the most reluctant pupils.” 
Having witnessed a clear agreement between the Korean officials and politicians that more needs to be done to ensure the development of creativity in young Koreans, Mr. Collard expresses his desire to work collaboratively with Korea in the future. Ranked by the OECD as the “most unhappy” in the developed world, Korea’s youth seem to be perfect targets for a program that develops creativity and self-satisfaction in learning. 
