The great American novelist Mark Twain
Samuel Langhorne Clemens, better known as his pen name, Mark Twain was a great American novelist. 
Mark Twain was born in Nov. 30, 1835 and grew up in Hannibal, Missouri, which provided the setting for his celebrated pieces, “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer”(1876) and “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn”(1885). From his early days, writing was Twain’s calling. He worked as a typesetter and contributed articles to his older brother Orion’s newspaper. He also worked as a reporter and wrote a humorous story, such as “The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County.”
 Twain was well known for his wit and satire melted in his books, which helped him earn praise from both critics and fellow authors. His books were a combination of humor, hypocrisy and social criticism. The epitome of these was “Huckleberry Finn.” In the book, Twain rendered his brilliant colloquial speech and creating a distinctive American literature that was built on American themes and language. 
 Yet, many of his works have been suppressed at times. For instance, “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” has been restricted in high schools, especially for its frequent use of “nigger,” an offensive word used to refer black people.
 Throughout his writing career, he produced a large volume of pieces including those that were written by his several different pen names besides Mark Twain. The latest discovery of his material was made as recently as 1995.
 In “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,” Twain depicted his youth days in Hannibal. The main character of the piece, Tom Sawyer was modeled on Twain himself as a child. 
 In mid-1885, he published the sequel, “Huckleberry Finn,” a rather serious-toned, 400 page piece which showed a young boy’s emotional struggle in believing the right thing to do even when others believed it was wrong. This book solidified him as a noteworthy American writer and the book has become required reading in schools in the U.S. 
 Twain was lauded as the “greatest American humorist of his age,” by critics. William Faulkner, a Nobel Prize-winning novelist, called him “the father of American literature."
