Boy King of Egypt Part 2 - The significance
Tomb of King Tutankhamun
 The significance of King Tut’s reign and the subsequent find of his tomb can only be understood in their respective historical contexts. As the last descendant of the royal house of the 18th Dynasty, King Tut’s legacy marked the beginning of the New Kingdom era. Despite the significance of his role, King Tut was all-but forgotten shortly after his death at the age of 18, until the discovery of his tomb in the 1920s. 
Prior to the discovery of his tomb by Howard Carter, it was generally believed that the tomb of King Tut did not exist. By the 1920s, the Valley of the Kings was thought to already have been exhaustively excavated, and that no more "great finds" - such as tombs - could exist. The lack of any indication of King Tut’s short reign and tomb also led most archaeologists to assume that his tomb had long since been raided by tomb robbers.
 In fact, the location of his tomb had been lost because it was buried under stone chips from subsequent tombs, and was forgotten about by the time the 20th Dynasty conducted a systematic clearance of tombs in the area. The fact that the entrance of the tomb was buried under the debris left by constructions and excavations of other tombs (the burial of Ramses VI in particular) may have also helped save the cultural and historic artifacts from tomb robbing. 
It is therefore ironic to consider that Tutankhamun’s burial mask is considered the symbol of Ancient Egypt, since his existence was essentially forgotten until the discovery of his tomb. Incidentally, the discovery of the tomb of Tutankhamun sparked a renewed interest in the study and significance of Ancient Egypt. 
Much of King Tut’s life and circumstances of his death, however, remains a mystery, as there are no surviving records of the last few years of his life.
 TUTANKHAMUN: His Tomb and his Treasures
 The “TUTANKHAMUN – His Tomb and His Treasures” exhibition is unique in that it offers visitors the chance to experience the legendary treasures of King Tut’s tomb, just as it was first discovered by Howard Carter in 1922. 
The idea for this unique exhibition began with a conversation between German artist Wulf Kohl and project developer Paul Heinen from Hamburg. The exhibition incorporates the use of multimedia with the display of artifacts to help recreate the awe and magnificence Carter must have felt when he first walked into the tomb; the first to do so in thousands of years. 
The exhibition itself is truly unique in experience, as is its method of education. Each artifact is explained in the context of the discovery, as well as historical significance. By the end, there is no question about how the discovery of King Tut’s tomb revolutionized our understanding of Ancient Egypt. 
As you become immersed in the adventure and romance of archaeology, it is hard not to get caught up and imagine what it would have been like to live in Ancient Egyptian times. 
Anyone interested in the “TUTANKHAMUN: His Tomb and his Treasures” exhibition can visit the Gwacheon National Science Museum, where visitors can experience the adventure until Feb. 26, 2012. For more information, visit www.tutkorea.com.
