Should capital punishment be kept?　
Pro-
 I think that capital punishment should be kept. First of all, as long as there is capital punishment, it would be more convenient to maintain social stability. Without it, dangerous criminals can be released from prison and may commit another vicious crime. People would not be able to live normal, safe lives and always have to be conscious and nervous about these bad guys.
 Second, capital punishment has the power of preventing crime because criminals, like anyone else, are scared of death. If they are at least aware that the death sentence exists - even if nominally - more severe crimes can be somewhat reduced. Therefore, just the mere existence of the penalty would be an effective way to stop further crimes from happening.
 Last but not least, cruel criminals do not deserve human rights. They can no longer be considered human beings from the moment they commit disturbing crimes. So, a society is not responsible for protecting their rights. They sure are not a healthy part of the society.
 In summary, to keep our society more stable and safe, to prevent harsher crimes from further occurring and since criminals do not deserve to be treated as humans and with that, they do not get to posses the rights that come along with the status, I am for keeping capital punishment in our justice system. 
 Con-
 I believe that capital punishment should be scrapped for good. 
For starters, whether they have committed crimes or not, they are still human beings and thus possess human rights. It doesn’t seem right for one human being to give the death penalty to another human being. The decision of whether someone should live or die must be only be made by God. We should not violate criminals’ human rights.
 Secondly, criminals may be accused of crimes they did not commit; which means they may be falsely accused of things they have not done. Such cases where innocent people are wrongfully charged and imprisoned have existed and when the death sentence exists, there is no way to turn the unfair sentencing back. To keep every possibility alive, we need to eradicate this horrible penalty.
 Finally, I think people do make mistakes, since we are not perfect. Criminals may sincerely regret their wrongdoings and be desperate to make changes in their lives. Yet, with capital punishment, they do not get the opportunity to make improvements or lead a different life. Room for improvement and second chances should always be given, even to criminals. Not doing so is even more ruthless than the crime itself. 
 To sum up, criminals too have human rights. People might get falsely accused of crimes, and second chances should always be given to people who made mistakes. Because of these things, I am against capital punishment. 
