Korea’s adoption quota system
According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the number of children adopted by Korean families in 2011 rose 11 percent to more than 1,400 from 2009. However, the number of international adoptions fell to near 1,000.
This is due to the Korean government’s adoption quota system that the government introduced in 2007 to encourage domestic adoption. The system led the number of children adopted by foreign families to decrease.
Molly Holt, head of Holt International Children’s Services, an adoption agency, stated that as of July 2011, of 244 children who were adopted, 38 disabled children and 172 boys joined international families. Three years ago, the number was almost three times larger, she added. 
“The quota system has not boosted domestic adoption much,” said Stephen Morrison of Mission to Promote Adoption in Korea (MPAK).
The Holt International Children’s Services, which started its service in the 1950s in hopes of finding homes for abandoned war orphans, was founded by Ms. 
Holt’s parents, Harry and Bertha Holt. Today, the agency’s Ilsan center takes care of around 270 disabled residents, some of them abandoned children, says Yonhap News.
According to the report, more than 70 percent of domestic adoptions are girls, which means boys and disabled children have a slim chance of adoption domestically. They either find homes abroad, this is only when they are lucky, or if not, get transferred to other institutions.
A director from the Ilsan center insisted that “Korean people are rather picky in adoption with their own preferences for same blood type, pretty (looks) and health, and the education background of birth parents.” 
The government pays for all adoption expenses and health insurance until the adopted child turns 18 and it also gives child-care grants and psychological therapy fees for 13 years to the family with adopted children.
Still, Yonhap News noted that the government should work harder to provide more support to adoptive families with disabled children. May 11 is designated as the Adoption Day.
