70 years later, people still remember
On Dec. 7, thousands of people gathered all across the U.S. to commemorate the day 70 years ago, when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. 
As fewer and fewer veterans who survived the attack on Dec. 7, 1941 are alive to mark the anniversaries, then-President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s promise that the “date will live in infamy” is becoming nothing more than a fading memory. 
Survivors have gathered every year in Hawaii where two of the 12 destroyed vessels can still be found lying at the bottom of the harbor - the USS Arizona and the USS Utah. The Arizona and the Utah have been left at the bottom of Pearl Harbor to commemorate the events of that day and the 2,390 Americans who died in the attack. 
In fact, during the week commemorating the events of the day that the Japanese brought the U.S. into World War II, the cremated remains of five survivors were returned to Pearl Harbor after their deaths. According to AP, urns containing the ashes of Lee Soucy, who was aboard the USS Utah when it went down, and Vernon Olsen, who was on the Arizona, were returned to their respective ships on Dec. 6 and 7, respectively. The ashes of three other survivors were scattered in the water in separate ceremonies as well. 
President Barack Obama commended the veterans and survivors of Pearl Harbor in a statement announcing Dec. 7 as “National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.” 
“Their [the survivors’] tenacity helped define the Greatest Generation and heir valor fortified all who served during World War II,” he said. “As a nation, we look to December 7, 1941, to draw strength from the example set by these patriots and to honor all who have sacrificed for our freedoms.” 
Despite the significance of this day, the number of people who show up to commemorate the day has dwindled every year. With survivors now in their 90s and a younger generation that considers Pearl Harbor to be nothing but a moment in history to be read about in textbooks, the ceremonies themselves will most likely fade into history as well. 
According to AP, Mal Middlesworth, a Marine who was on the USS San Francisco during the attack, explained that the survivors association was formed to make sure that younger generations heard and know about what the survivors went through. 
“They wanted young America to understand that freedom isn’t free. Never has been and looks like it’s never going to be,” Middlesworth said in his keynote address during the Pearl Harbor commemoration. “Remember, he who forgets history will live it again.” 
