Happy Holidays!
Religious and cultural celebrations around the world
 December is undoubtedly one of the most eagerly awaited months for children of all ages. It is a time for opening presents and sitting by the window with a cup of hot chocolate and a warm blanket as the snow covers the world in white. For months leading up to Dec. 25, Christmas carols can be heard blaring from store speakers as people scramble to buy last-minute presents for loved ones. Families and friends spend weeks planning trips and get-togethers, spending time together, giving and receiving presents to show that they care. 
Christmas comes once a year, a time when people are warm and friendly to one another regardless of who they are and where they come from. Despite the cold and bleak temperatures of the winter season, the warmth of Christmas can be felt all around the world.
 In today’s ever global world, however, it is important to keep in mind that not everyone celebrates their holidays in the same manner. 
While Christmas is one of the most celebrated holidays in the world, it is important to remember that it is a cultural holiday rooted in the Christian religion. Since Christianity is the most popular religion of the world, it is not surprising that the majority of the world also celebrates Christmas. But as there are different religions being practiced by different people, there are also different holidays being celebrated as well.
 Let’s take a look at some of the different holidays from around the world ...
 Merry Christmas!
 Christmas is undoubtedly the most celebrated holiday around the world. As a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ, Dec. 25 has been designated as a national holiday in many countries around the world.
 Christmas was initially celebrated with a massive feast to commemorate the date of Jesus’ birth. For centuries Christian writers accepted that Dec. 25 was the actual date on which Jesus was born, based on the announcement of Jesus’ conception in Luke 1:26. This religious aspect of the holiday can be seen in the traditional display of the nativity scene as decoration.
 Despite its roots in religion, Christmas today is increasingly celebrated by Christians and non-Christians alike. Regardless of how different or diverse the people celebrating Christmas are, however, there are several elements which remain the same. The lighting of Christmas trees for example, not to mention eating candy canes, singing Christmas carols, meeting Santa Claus, sending Christmas cards, and of course, giving and receiving presents. 
Happy Hanukkah!
 Hanukkah, or Chanukkah, is an eight-day Jewish holiday celebrating the rededication of the Holy Temple in Jersualem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the 2nd century B.C. Also known as the “Festival of Lights,” Hanukkah lasts eight nights and days, beginning on the 25th day of Kislev according to the Hebrew calendar. 
Hanukkah is celebrated by the lighting of a unique, nine-branched candelabrum called the Menorah. One light is lit on each night of the holiday, resulting in all eight candles lit on the eighth and final day of Hanukkah. The additional raised branch in the middle is called a shamash, whose candle is used to light all other candles. Using the Hanukkah lights themselves is forbidden. 
The significance of this celebration comes from the successful rebellion of the Maccabees against King Antiochus IV Epiphanes of the Seleucid monarchy, who attacked Jerusalem and began persecuting the Jews after his failure to conquer Egypt. According to the Torah, the name given by Jews to the first five books of the Bible (Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy), the Temple was purified and the wicks of the menorah miraculously burned for eight days, even though there was only enough sacred oil for one day’s lighting. 
Modern celebrations of Hanukkah involve the lighting of the menorah candles each night, singing special songs (i.e. Ma’oz Tzur), reciting the Hallel prayer, eating dairy and special foods fried in oil, playing games (the dreidel game), and giving Hanukkah gelt (gelt is Yiddish for “money”). 
 Joyous Kwanzaa!
 Kwanzaa is a week-long celebration held in the U.S. in honor of the African-American culture and heritage. First celebrated in 1966-1967, Kwanzaa is observed from Dec. 26 to Jan 1. 
Kwanzaa was created by Maulana Karenga of the U.S. Organization, a rival Black nationalist group of the Black Panther Party in 1965. Karenga said the goal of the celebration was to “give Blacks an alternative to the existing holiday and give Blacks an opportunity to celebrate themselves and history, rather than simply imitate the practice of the dominant society.” In this respect, Kwanzaa is more of a cultural celebration than a religious one, to commemorate the deep and intricate history of African-Americans in the U.S. 
There are seven principles of Kwanzaa: Umoja (unity), Kujichagulia (self-determination), Ujima (collective work and responsibility), Ujamaa (cooperative economics), Nia (purpose), Kuumba (creativity) and Imani (faith). 
Families celebrating Kwanzaa decorate their houses with art reflecting the African-American culture. Often, women will wear kaftans, a colorful women’s wrap garment widely worn in West Africa. Fresh fruit is often consumed to represent African idealism. A kinara is used to celebrate Kwanzaa as well. It is a traditional candelabrum with seven candles; three red on the left, three green on the right and one black candle in the middle. The seven candles represent the seven principles of Kwanzaa while red, green and black are the symbolic colors of the holiday. 
Other religious holidays include Bodhi Day, Ramadan (Islamic tradition of fasting), Diwali, and the Winter Solstice to name a few. 
Regardless of what religion you practice or what cultural background you come from, we at the Junior Herald would like to wish you a Happy Holidays.
