President Lee invites science prodigies to Blue House
Over 200 talented science students visited the presidential office of Cheong Wa Dae on Dec. 7 at the invitation of President Lee Myung-bak.
 Lee said science and education were the foundation stones for the country’s development and promised that the government would do its best to support science education by strengthening related policies.
 “Korea has few natural resources and the country’s future depends on the development of science and technology,” he said to the students at a luncheon. “We can develop original technology only when we have a strong grounding in basic sciences. Basic science is not something we can choose, but a must that we should seek,” he added.
 Lee also said that the government was seeking ways to bring Korean scientists doing research abroad back to the country, and that the government has allocated a total of 3.5 trillion won of government funds to be solely used for development of an international science business belt.
 Scientists were different from ordinary salaried workers, Le said, because they had a vocation for the country’s development. “When a country nurtures a scientist, it is not for the growth of an individual. Scientists should spend their lives for the development of the humankind as well as that of his country.”
 Asked whether if Lee had made any particular preparations in order to one day become president, he said there was not a particular major at colleges devoted to becoming a president. He added that those who have enough experience and who always do their best in their own fields would get the chance to lead.
 Lee emphasized that any individual could become president if they become leaders in the upcoming “era of convergence.”
 Meanwhile, among the invitees at the Cheong Wa Dae event were the recipients of the 9th Presidential Science Scholarship Awards and representatives of The International Science Olympiad 2011 winners.
 Before the lunch with the president, the participants presented their determination and ambition for national science development during a “dialogue with the president” session.
 Rock singer Kim Tae-won also joined the Cheong Wa Dae event to celebrate the talented youths’ visit to the presidential office.
