Korea Football Association’s coaching carousel
“With the present coach, we judged that qualifying for the World Cup would be difficult so we decided to fire him.” - Cho Chung-yeon, Korean Football Association President
 The Korean Football Association(KFA) announced on Dec. 8 its decision to fire the national team manager, Cho Kwang-rae, over concerns that the national squad might fail to qualify for the 2014 World Cup. The dismissal created a great deal of controversy amid charges that the football governing body failed to take the proper step of holding a technical committee meeting beforehand. Cho Kwang-rae was the 32nd manager of the Korean National Football Team in the last 31 years. 
 The firing of the Korean National Team manager came at a critical juncture in World Cup qualification. Coach Cho had been under a great deal of pressure since his team suffered a stunning 2-1 defeat to Lebanon in a World Cup qualifier last month. The loss left the national squad level with Lebanon atop Group B with 10 points. Kuwait, Korea’s next opponent in February, is in third place with eight points and within striking distance of first place. A loss in the final group game against Kuwait in February, coupled with a win or draw by Lebanon over the United Arab Emirates (UAE) would cause the Korean side to miss the Football World Cup for the first time in since 1986. 
 Cho Kwang-rae was a member of the Korean National Team from 1975-1986, earning 80 caps and scoring 12 goals in the process. He served as the manager of the K-League Anyang LG Cheetahs from 1999 to 2003, and Gyeongnam FC from 2007 to 2010. His tenure as the national team manager lasted one year and five months (July 2010 to December 2011), during which he compiled a record of 12 wins, 3 losses, and 6 draws. His winning percentage of 60 percent as the head coach is the highest the 20 Korean National Team managers in the last 20 years, surpassing such prominent figures as Guus Hiddink (42.1 percent), Cha Bum-Kun (53.7 percent) and Huh Jung-moo (52.9 percent). 
 Cho Kwang-rae’s tenure as the national team manager is not a short one by Korean Football Association standards. In the last 20 years, only two managers stayed on the job for a longer period of time. Guus Hiddink, who guided the Korean Team to the last four in the 2002 World Cup, served one year and six months. He left on his own terms, having achieved god-like status in the minds of the adoring and grateful Korean football fans. Huh Jung-Moo, who served two stints as manager (October 1998 to November, 2000 and December 2007 to June 2010), is the champion of coaching longevity by default. Huh’s second turn at the helm of the national squad ended well, with the team advancing to the last 16 in the 2010 World Cup.
 With the dismissal of Cho Kwang-rae, the search is on, once again, to find the next manager of the Korean National Football Team. A possible candidate for the position is Afshin Ghotbi, an Iranian-American former assistant coach with the South Korean team and current head coach of the Japanese club Shimizu S-Pulse. KFA President Cho Chung-yeon was quoted as saying: “We will appoint a replacement with lots of experience and ability. If he is the right man for the job, it is not important if he is Korean or from overseas.” The new manager is expected to be named by the end of the month.
