International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement
“To inspire, encourage, facilitate and promote at all times all forms of humanitarian activities by National Societies, with a view to preventing and alleviating human suffering, and thereby contributing to the maintenance and promotion of human dignity and peace in the world.” – Red Cross Vision
 During holiday seasons, particularly around Christmas time, one of the most common sights on busy city streets and crowded shopping areas is that of scatterings of Red Cross volunteers with buckets in hand, imploring passersby to donate money to help the poor and the needy. Their presence, along with the cacophony of Christmas music and Santa’s laughter, is a welcome addition to the overall atmosphere of Christmas, reminding people that it is better to give than to receive. Anyone who drops money into the bucket, whether loose change or bills, is rewarded with a bright smile, words of gratitude, and a Red Cross sticker on the lapel for their act of generosity. The donation buckets are just a small part of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement’s worldwide efforts to assist those in need and save lives.
 The idea for Red Cross started in 1859 when Jean-Henri Dunant, a young Swiss man travelling on business, came upon the scene of 40,000 men laid dead or dying on the bloody battlefield in Solferino, Italy. The lack of medical attention to the wounded horrified him and prompted him to organized local people to attend to the soldiers’ wounds and to feed and comfort them. The Red Cross was born in 1863 when Dunant, together with four influential Geneva men, set up the International Committee for Relief to the Wounded, later known as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Its emblem was a red cross on a white background: the inverse of the Swiss flag. A year later, 12 governments adopted the first Geneva Convention. In 1901, Dunant was awarded the very first Nobel Peace Prize. 
 By the outbreak of World War I, the Red Cross Movement had spread from Europe to the rest of the world with 45 national Red Cross relief societies. During the war, the ICRC began working with the national Red Cross societies from other nations to cope with the enormous challenge of caring for massive numbers of wounded soldiers and civilians. Red Cross nurses from around the world went to support the medical services of the armed forces of the European countries involved in the war. The ICRC monitored warring parties’ compliance with the Geneva Conventions, assisted the civilian populations, and visited prisoner-of-war camps. In 1917, the ICRC received the Nobel Peace Prize for its outstanding wartime work. 
In 1919, the League of Red Cross Societies, later known as the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), was created to coordinate activities between the National Societies. One of the League’s largest missions occurred in 1923 after a massive earthquake in Japan killed more than 200,000 people. Due to the League’s coordination, the Red Cross Society of Japan received goods from fellow National Societies totaling about $100 million. The IFRC coordinated relief efforts during subsequent conflicts such as World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and civil wars in several African nations. 
Today, the IFRC consists of 187 National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and nearly 100 million volunteers, within the Red Cross Movement. It leads and organizes, in cooperation with world-wide National Societies, war-time and peace-time relief assistance missions responding to large-scale emergencies such as natural disasters, manmade disasters, epidemics, and mass refugee flights. In recent years, the IFRC played vital roles in bring help to victims of the Southeast Asian Tsunami, the Haitian earthquake, and the tsunami in Fukushima, Japan. 
