Santa Claus is coming to town!
Santa Claus is a legendary figure, who in many Western cultures is believed to bring gifts to the homes of the good children during the late evening and overnight hours of Christmas Eve. 
 Santa Claus is usually described as a chubby, white-bearded man wearing a red coat with red trousers and black leather belt and boots. This image was widely adopted in the United States and Canada in the 19th century due to caricaturist Thomas Nast and has been set through songs, radio and television programs, and children’s books and films over a long period of time. 
 According to the North American tradition, Santa Claus lives at the North Pole, with a large number of magical elves, and nine flying reindeers. There he creates the gifts he delivers to good children at Christmas with the aid of elves. 
 The 1934 song “Santa Claus Is Coming to Town” popularized the idea that Santa Claus makes a list of children all around the world and categorizes them by their behavior -- “naughty” or “nice.” Then he delivers presents, from toys to candies to all the nice boys and girls ... and brings coal to naughty children, all on Christmas Eve. He is thought to accomplish this work with the help of elves, who make toys in the workshop and the reindeers, which pull his sleigh.
 Santa’s entrance into homes through the chimney is a well-known tradition associated with Santa Claus’ journey on Christmas Eve. On the night before Christmas, children prepare snacks for Santa and hang stockings to be filled with gifts from him. They also track Santa’s sleigh through the night skies on Christmas Eve.
 In Canada, people think that Santa Claus lives inside the Canadian jurisdiction with the postal code H0H 0H0-a reference to “ho ho ho,” the sound of Santa’s laugh. In fact, Canada even offered a citizenship to Santa Claus on Dec. 23, 2008. Alaska also has a city named North Pole and inside the city, there is “Santa Claus House.” Norway, Denmark, Sweden, and Finland insist that Santa Claus lives in their countries, as well.
