A perfect Christmas movie for you: Alvin and The Chipmunks 3
Alvin and The Chipmunks 3, also known as, “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked!” was released on Dec. 15 in movie theaters all around the world, including Korea. The previous two Alvin and The Chipmunks movies were big hits, earning over $800 million. The new episode, Alvin and The Chipmunks 3, is a perfect Christmas movie, because it is a family film that everyone can enjoy and has adorable characters combined with joyful songs and dances. Watching the movie, people can fully embrace the true holiday spirit!
 The adventure of Alvin and the Chipmunks began as Chipmunks (Alvin, Simon, Theodore) and Chipettes (Britney, Janet, Elenor) take a luxurious cruise ship to attend an international music awards; this vacation turns into a chaos when Alvin toys with a kite onboard. Chipmunks (Alvin, Simon, Theodore) and Chipettes fall off the ship and are thrown into the ocean. They then ended up shipwrecked or rather, “chipwrecked” on the Isles of Scilly. On this deserted island, the six find a new castaway, named Joy. She is a mysterious survivor, introducing herself as a former staff-member of a delivery company. Like Tom Hanks from the movie, Castaway, she befriended lifeless items - a baseball, a football, a golf ball, and others.
 In the meantime, their owner/manager/father figure, Dave Seville looks for the lost chipmunks. He puts himself in danger in the process. 
 Now they are left all alone and have to live by themselves. On the island, the characters go through major personality changes. Simon, who was the thoughtful one dissatisfied with the fact that he has to take care of all the mess made by Alvin, is bitten by a spider and turns into a real macho man. It is hilarious when Simon grabs Janet’s hands and together they show off phenomenal salsa moves. Not to mention when chipmunks parody Destiny Child’s Survivor and when Elenor imitates Golum from the Lord of the Ring by crying out, “My precious,” while grabbing a nut. 
 Alvin, the troublemaker, becomes the more responsible, mature one on the island. He feels apologetic about all the troubles he has brought his family. Britney, who used to only care about her looks, focuses more on helping out Alvin on building a shelter for everyone. 
 The movie was filmed in Florida and Hawaii in the U.S., and Vancouver in Canada. Specifically, the casino scene was filmed in Canada, and Florida’s impeccable ocean added a beautiful background to the movie. The scenes from the deserted island, where all the survival adventures played out, were shot in Hawaii. 
