Should Korea be reunified?
Pro-
 I think that Korea should be reunified. Firstly, I think that Korean government has the responsibility to look after the sufferings of minorities in our society. It should not turn a blind eye to the sorrows of the separated families of the two Koreas. A majority of Korea’s separated families are senior, aged in their 80s and 90s. So, without a speedy reunification of the Korean Peninsula, these separated families will never get the chance to ever see their sons, daughters and siblings again in their life time. It is an extremely sad situation and we should feel compassion for these unfortunate people. 
 In addition, if Korea is to be reunified, the country can make use of its national budget more wisely. The South Korean government spends astronomical amount of money on defense, because technically Korea is still at war. There is always a possibility of war on the Korean Peninsula and until the country is reunified, that fear won’t go away. If we can utilize this defense money on other more important welfare or development programs, such as child care, elderly care, education, health care and so on, the quality of Koreans’ lives would be dramatically elevated. Along with that, Korea will be a better, more developed society. 
 Furthermore, the two Koreas will have a better economy in the long run. Reunification of Korea sure would put a lot of financial as well as societal pressure on the Southern part of the peninsula since South Korea is democratic society with a flourishing economy, whereas the North is a communist regime with dilapidated economy. It would also take time for the two Koreas to be truly united as one nation. However, through reunification, Korea will become much better off economy combining the North’s abundant natural resources with the South’s technology and human resources. Thus, looking at the bigger picture, reunification is a better option for Korea in economic terms. 
 All in all, to decrease the suffering of separated families in both Koreas, to be able to use our national budget more development-conscious way and to seek a long-term economic growth as a one unified country, I firmly believe that Korea should be reunified, and the sooner the better.
Con-
 Since Korea gained independence after World War II, our country has been separated. Our country has unfortunately stayed that way, because of the conflict between North and South Korea. 
 Today the citizens of South Korea are demanding a quick reunification, but I’m not sure if we should be reunified at all. Our country already has its own problems, and the problems will definitely intensify after reunification. Therefore I am against the idea of Korea being reunified. 
 First of all, there is a huge difference in terms of values between the two governments. Our country supports democracy, while the North supports dictatorship (Kim Jong-Il). Even if citizens of both countries want reunification, we have to choose between democracy and dictatorship and a critical decision like this will create massive conflicts, and the clashes may intensify. After that, reunification might be impossible. 
 Furthermore, there will be many downsides for our country because the economic gap is huge. The civilians of North Korea are starving because the nation’s economy is not doing well. The North is a developing country, and if we reunify, our country will have to spend huge amounts of money to reduce the economic gap. It is not an easy task, and the consequences are hard to predict. There are too many risks that come with the reunification process so I am skeptical about reunification between North and South Korea. 
 Finally, there will be problems for the citizens of North Korea, if the two Koreas are reunited. They have never experienced what it’s like to live in a global community because the government has shut down its contact from the outside world for more than 60 years. It will take an extremely long time for them to get used to the new environment, and citizens may experience side effects, such as extreme stress and pressure from the immense changes.
 In conclusion, I believe that reunification is something we should think carefully about before we make a final decision, because there will be disadvantages which can prevent our country from further developing. It might be safer if we just stay separated just as we have been for the past half a century.
Canada pulls out of Kyoto Protocol
A day after the 2011 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban, South Africa, Canada announced its decision to pull out from the Kyoto Protocol. 
The Kyoto Protocol was first established on Dec. 11, 1997 in Kyoto, Japan with the goal of fighting global warming through the stabilization of greenhouse gases. The environmental treaty requires industrialized nations to cut greenhouse gas emissions by imposing mandated emissions reduction targets. 
Canada’s target emissions reduction was 6 percent by 2012, but has instead seen a rise in emissions by over 30 percent. Based on the stipulations of the Kyoto Protocol, Canada’s options after having failed to reach the target emissions reductions was to either buy the necessary carbon credits, face Kyoto sanctions or withdraw from the treaty. 
Canada’s Environment Minister, Peter Kent, announced that “Kyoto, for Canada, is in the past, and as such we are invoking our legal right to withdraw from Kyoto.” 
According to Kent, meeting Canada’s obligations under the Kyoto Protocol would cost $13.6 billion (15.8 trillion won). “That’s $1,600 from every Canadian family - that’s the Kyoto cost to Canadians.”
 Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Christiana Figueres, expressed her surprise and disappointment over Canada’s decision.
 “Whether or not Canada is a Party to the Kyoto Protocol, it has a legal obligation to itself and future generations to lead in the global effort,” she said on Dec. 13. “Industrialized countries, whose emissions have risen significantly since 1990, as is the case for Canada, remain in a weaker position to call on developing countries to limit their emissions.” 
According to BBC News, Kent argued that regardless of the cost of cutting emissions, “greenhouse emissions would continue to rise as two of the world’s largest polluters - the U.S. and China - were not covered by the Kyoto agreement.” 
The U.S. never ratified the Kyoto Protocol, while the treaty recognizes China as a developing country and thus does not impose mandated emissions reduction targets. 
In light of the recent pull out by Canada, Figueres urged developed nations to honor their commitments to the UNFCCC under the Kyoto Protocol and “raise their ambition to cut emissions and provide the agreed adequate support to developing countries to build their own clean futures and adapt to climate change impacts they are already experiencing.”
 Many nations have expressed their worry that Canada’s decision to pull out of the Kyoto Protocol could jeopardize any future conferences. 
The low-lying island nation of Tuvalu in particular, has taken Canada’s withdrawal more personally. As the country most at-risk from rising sea levels, Ian Fry, Tuvalu’s lead negotiator told Reuters, “For a vulnerable country like Tuvalu, it’s an act of sabotage on our future. Withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol is a reckless and totally irresponsible act.” 
