Winter festivals around Korea
As the month of December winds down and the distinct late autumn chill gradually turns to a winter freeze, it is time to contemplate what lies ahead in the long cold months. There are festive holidays to look forward to, such as Christmas and the Lunar New Year. For those who embrace the great outdoors, excitement and adventure beckons on the ski slopes and hiking trails. However, to truly enjoy this winter, one must take advantage of the myriad of wonderful festivals that take place throughout the country.
 Busan Christmas Tree Festival (Dec. 1st–Jan. 9th) -– The 40-day festival was launched on Dec. 1, featuring 90 Christmas trees and illuminations along a 1.1-km section from the entrance of Gwangbok-ro to Chamseon Samgeori in downtown Busan. The centerpiece, a 12-meter-tall tree, is set up on the main square. Visitors can also head to the Tree of Hope and hang their wishes for the New Year on its branches. The facades of large buildings in the area are also adorned with Christmas decorations. Various performances including music, dance, plays, Taekwondo demonstrations, and magic shows will be held during the festival. 
 Boseong Green Tea Plantation and Light Festival -- South Jeolla Province (Dec. 9th–Jan. 29th) -- Boseong is one of the major tea production areas and a well-known tourist destination in Korea. At night, the vast Boseong Green Tea Fields are magically transformed into a sea of glimmering lights with Christmas-theme displays casting a cheery glow as far as the eye can see. Installations include large Christmas trees, illuminations, a “Milky Way Tunnel of Love” along the paths of the green tea plantations and a photo zone. Festival programs include a tree lighting ceremony, celebratory performances and fireworks display. 
 Seongsan Sunrise Festival –- Jeju Island (Dec. 31st–Jan. 1st) -- The Seongsan Sunrise Festival is held on top of Jeju Island’s Seongsan Ilchulbong or “Sunrise Peak.” The countdown to New Year is held around a performance stage starting at a few seconds before midnight. In every port, fishermen turn on their boat lights and sound their whistles in unison. The New Year celebration includes a torchlight show, a campfire and fireworks display. A traditional shamanic ritual called a “gut” is featured, along with performances by famous vocalists and entertainers. The festivities continue against the backdrop of the first sunrise of the New Year.
 Pyeongchang Trout Festival -- Gangwon Province (Dec. 22nd–Feb. 5th) -- The Pyeongchang Trout Festival takes place in the town of Jinbu-myeon in Pyeongchang-gun district. Visitors to the festival can camp out in a small tent, cut a hole in the ice, and enjoy ice-fishing for trout. Any fish caught can be brought to nearby restaurants where it can be grilled or prepared sashaimi-style for you right away. There are fun activities such as snow rafting, sleigh trains, sledding, skating, and biking on the ice. One of the most exciting things to do is driving a 4-wheel All Terrain Vehicle (ATV) around a slippery ice track. 
 Taebaeksan Mountain Snow Festival -- Gangwon Province (Jan. 27th–Feb. 5th) –- It is said that Taebaeksan is where snow comes first and remains till the last. This particular festival is popular among Koreans as well as people from neighboring Asian countries. The festival’s main venue, Danggol Square of Taebaeksan Provincial Park, holds a snow sculpture exhibition, a range of winter-themed artworks, and ice sculptures. There are amusement park-like facilities such as a snow tunnel, slides, sledding, dog sled rides and snow rafting. Secondary venues include Hwangji Pond, a source of the Nakdong River; and the O2 Ski Resort, famous for its natural slopes.
