Should school uniforms be mandatory?
Pro- I think students should wear school uniforms. 
 First, school uniforms serve as an effective disciplinary method at school. In the United States, only students from private schools wear uniforms and these private schools are known for their academic excellence and well-established discipline. These places are considered of better quality than public schools, where students can wear whatever they want. Without school uniforms, students may go overboard and dress inappropriately and things could get out of control. 
 Second, if students are allowed to wear plain clothes, it would be harder for them to concentrate more on their studies than on their looks. Deciding on what clothes to buy and put on every single day can be hard work, taking up a lot of energy and consideration. By wearing school uniforms, students can refrain themselves from this unnecessary and vain daily routine.
 Lastly, with uniforms, students can guard themselves from marginalization and isolation from their peers. That is, both students from wealthy family backgrounds and poor environments wear the standard uniform and they do not feel left-out from their friends by not wearing as expensive and as fancy clothes as others. They don’t have to worry about being criticized by peers for not wearing “good-enough” clothes.
 In conclusion, to discipline students more effectively and maintain order at schools, help students focus on studies better and to prevent gap from wealthy and poor students, school uniform is a better choice.
 Con- I don’t think students have to wear uniforms. 
 To start, uniforms are uncomfortable to wear, especially for girls. This is because female students wear skirts uniforms all-year-long, even during the piercing cold winter. Unless they get to wear pants like boys, wearing school uniform is too much to ask. Also, since students wear the same thing day after day, these clothes must be unsanitary.
 In addition, students need a gateway to express their personalities. Expressing themselves through what they wear is a good way to do so. Wearing the same old uniform is no fun, and makes students look alike, like emotionless robots. Being able to choose clothes which show one’s personal taste helps students spice up and bring more joy to their school life. Besides, schools have no right to take away students’ freedom of expression.
 Finally, unlike what most people think, school uniforms are surprisingly pricey and students who have low-end or generic uniforms may be ostracized by their peers who wear expensive brand-name uniforms. So they end up buying expensive uniforms they cannot afford and overspend senselessly just to fit in with other students.
 In summary, since school uniforms are uncomfortable, unsanitary, limit individual students’ uniqueness and force parents to spend too muich money, I believe students should not wear uniforms.
