Kim Jong-un heads North Korea after his father‘s death
Rodong Shinmun, the official newspaper of North Korea’s Workers‘ Party, declared Kim Jong-un’s rule on its first page on Dec. 22, five days after Kim Jong-il’s death.
 Kim Jong-un is the third and youngest son of Kim Jong-il. He had been regarded as heir apparent to the leadership of North Korea since late 2010. Right after Kim Jong-il’s death, Jong-un was announced as the “Great Successor” by North Korea‘s state media. He was also declared Supreme Commander of the Korean People’s Army on Dec. 24.
 Jong-un is said to have studied computer science privately in North Korea and obtained two degrees - one in Physics at Kim Il Sung University and another at the Kim Il Sung Military Academy.
 As a teenager, Jong-un attended the International School of Bern, Switzerland until 1998. He was described among his classmates as a shy boy who avoided communication with people, and was recognized for his competitive nature in sports. Kim was said to have been fascinated with the NBA and basketball sensation Michael Jordan.
 Meanwhile, Jong-un has two older brothers - Kim Jong-nam and Kim Jong-chol. Kim Jong-nam, the oldest son of Kim Jong-il, was born in 1971. In 1998 Jong-nam was appointed to a high post in the Ministry of Public security, and soon after he was again made the chairman of the Computer Committee of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). However, in 2001 he was arrested for traveling to Japan using a fake Dominican Passport, which angered his father Kim Jong-il and Jong-nam fell out of Jong-il’s favor. He is believed to live in Macau.
 Kim Jong-chol was reportedly also educated at an international school in Switzerland. It is said that while at the school Jong-chol wrote a poem calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons. The poem was featured in the book “Bipolar Orders: The Two Koreas Since 1989.” Jong Chol‘s succession to power was dismissed, according to news reports, due to his feminine personality. Jong-chol was last spotted in Singapore at an Eric Clapton concert in February 2011.
 Meanwhile, South Korean government is watching closely the security environment on the Korean Peninsula. Following the announcement of Kim Jong-il’s death, President Lee Myung-bak said on Dec. 22 that he might be more flexible in relations with North Korea in the future. South Korea‘s Unification Minister Yu Woo-ik said that the South Korean government was thoroughly monitoring the situation so that peace on the Korean Peninsula would not be shaken.
 Concerning Kim Jong-il’s death, Minister Yu said: “The South Korean government hopes North Korea will soon restore stability so that both Koreas will be able to work together for the sake of peace and prosperity on the Korean Peninsula.”
