Major powers approve of new leadership of N. Korea
Major interested parties surrounding the Korean Peninsula - China and the U.S. in particular - expressed indirect support for North Korea’s new leadership under Kim Jong-un, Kim’s Jong-il’s third son.
 China’s President Hu Jintao visited the North Korean Embassy in Beijing on Dec. 20 and expressed his condolences on the death of the North Korean leader. The key ally nation of North Korea also sent an official telegram to North Korea, saying that maintaining close ties between the two countries was a policy of the Chinese government.
 President Hu’s visit came after China’s Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi met North Korea‘s ranking official in Beijing on Dec. 19. Yang offered his condolences and expressed support for the new leader Kim Jong-un during his conversation with the North Korean official, according to China’s Xinhua News Agency.
 China’s Foreign Ministry also praised highly the past leader Kim Jong-il in its press briefing. “Comrade Kim Jong-il is a great leader of the DPRK people and a close friend of the Chinese people, making significant contribution to the DPRK‘s cause of socialism and the development of China-DPRK good-neighborly, friendly, and cooperative relations,” the statement said.
 The United States is willing to have a continued dialogue with North Korea on possible food aid and the resumption of the six-party nuclear talks.
 The White House’s Press Secretary Jay Carney said to journalists on Dec. 21, “Kim Jong-il had designated Kim Jong-un as his official successor, and at this time we have no indication that has changed.” It was the first time that a senior U.S. government official formally mentioned the name of the North Korea‘s new leader amid speculation over the North’s future leadership.
 U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called for a peaceful and stable transition in North Korea when she was speaking to journalists in Washington on Dec. 19. Clinton said she was deeply concerned about the well-being of the North Korean people while expressing hopes to see improved bilateral relations between the U.S. and North Korea.
 Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said on Dec. 19 that he hoped Kim’s death would not have a negative impact on peace and security on the Korean Peninsula. The Self Defense Forces of Japan were ordered to stay vigilant and watchful, according to news reports.
 The U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon extended his sympathy to the North Korean people at the time of their national mourning, according to Ban‘s secretary. The U.N. will continue to help the people of the DPRK, the secretary added.
 French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said that the people of North Korea would hopefully be able to find freedom. “The death of a man is never something to be cheered, but it is the sad suffering of a people that is important,” the minister was quoted as saying by BBC.
