Year 2011 in retrospect
National news top 3
 1. Korea-U.S. FTA ratification
 The Korea-U.S. free trade agreement was ratified after years of delays on Dec. 21. In the Assembly 151 members voted for the trade deal. Under the Korea-U.S. FTA, South Korea’s exports are forecast to grow by $1.3 billion, the trade surplus is forecast to jump to $140 million and 350,000 jobs are expected to be created over the next 15 years. Yet, flows of imported goods may also hurt domestic businesses.
 2. PyeongChang’s third Olympic bid ends in success
 PyeongChang in Gangwon Province won a majority vote in the International Olympic Committee’s general assembly in South Africa’s Durban, beating two rivals, Munich of Germany and Annecy of France. It was PyeongChang’s third bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics. Enthusiastic support from the citizens of PyeongChang and the Korean people made the victory possible. South Korea has become the sixth nation in the world to achieve the grand slam of global sports and the host of the four global sports events: the summer and winter Olympics, the soccer World Cup and the World Championships in Athletics. 
 3. K-pop concert in Paris
 The first major European concert by South Korean pop musicians was held on June 10 and 11 in Paris in an effort to promote South Korea’s “2012 Visit Korea Year.” European audiences showed fervid reaction toward the Korean pop music and with the Paris concert, Korean wave, also known as, the Korean pop culture phenomenon, earned the opportunity to solidify its strength not only in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, but in Europe, South America, the Middle East, and Africa. 
 International news top 3
 1. Death of Osama bin Laden
 Al-Qaida leader Osama bin laden was killed in a house outside the capital of Pakistan during a U.S. operation on May 2, in 2011. His body was buried at sea soon after his death. Bin Laden, the organizer of mass murders across the world, had gone into hiding in Afghanistan in late 2001, following the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington D.C. that killed nearly 3,000 people. 
 2. European financial crisis
 The Eurozone sovereign debt crisis that started in late 2009 intensified. The Eurozone stood on the brink of collapse in October, as European leaders agreed on another bailout package designed to prevent the breakup of the EU. To restore confidence, leaders of European nations suggested creating a common fiscal union with stricter yet more enforceable rules.
 3. Arab Spring
 Revolutionary demonstrations have spiraled out incessantly in the Arab world, calling for democracy and the ousting of endemic regimes. For instance, a revolution in Egypt and civil war in Libya overthrew their governments. Desperate protestors marched and rallied, using social media to organize demonstrations. These events truly showed the strength of people power.
