2012, Year of the Black Dragon
2012 is called the “Imjin” year in Korean with “Im” meaning black and “Jin” symbolizing the zodiac sign of the dragon. Thus in combination, it makes the year of the “black dragon.” Here are some things that make the year of the black dragon (2012) so special:
 Black dragon
 Dragons are imaginary creatures, meaning that they do not exist in real life, like unicorns and phoenixes. However, dragons symbolize courage, hope and ascension and they are considered to be auspicious animals. Black dragons are especially deified because of their rarity. Also, the year of the black dragon only comes every 60 years. People believe that they will imbibe “good energy” in the year of this revered animal. 
 Folklore belief
 Similar to the year 2007 (the Golden Pig) and 2010 (the White Tiger), people believe that the year of the black dragon will bring good fortune. So, many couples hurry to tie the knot and look forward to having babies. The demand in related industries -- those targeted at couples and newborns -- are therefore expected to see a huge growth. Already industry officials point out that reservations at wedding halls are almost full. For the record, in 2007, sales of infant goods jumped more than 20 percent.
 Leap month
 Year 2012 has a leap month. In the solar calendar, one year is 365 days and in the lunar calendar, one month is 30 days, so one year only has a total of 360 days. In order to fill up the missing days, a leap month occurs every three to four years in the lunar calculation, while the Gregorian calendar adds an extra day at the end of February.
 A superstition about leap months is that it bodes ill for weddings. Couples that marry during a leap month are more likely have marital troubles and will have difficulty having a baby. They are advised to avoid the leap month, which falls in mid-April to mid-May on the lunar calendar of 2012. On the other hand, a leap month bodes well for things related to death, such as grave sites, funerals and shrouds. The changing of grave sites is commonly done during leap months and it is Korean custom to buy a shroud for their elderly parents as a gift. Superstition says that if a shroud is purchased in a leap month, the parents will live for a long time. 
 Marketing strategies
 People who were born in year of the dragon are to get special offers and gifts from several stores nationwide as companies churn out fresh marketing strategies. Marketing strategies in regards to this special year have already begun. Wine decorated with dragon illustrations, black dragon silver and gold bars, dragon coin banks and dragon bills have already hit the market. 
