Teen Choice Awards 2011
The Teen Choice Awards is an annual teen awards show aired by Fox Broadcasting Company. Every year, teenagers vote to honor the achievements of stars in music, movies, sports, television, fashion and more. Winners are presented with authentic, full-sized surfboards designed with graphics of that year’s theme. The first awards were held in 1999, and this year, the ceremony was aired live on August 7 from the Gibson Amphitheater in Universal City, California. 
Hosted by actress Kaley Cuoco, this year’s Teen Choice Awards included musical performances by Jason Derülo, Will.i.Am, Selena Gomez & the Scene, and OneRepublic.
 This year’s big winners include …　
 … Ellen DeGeneres, who was named choice comedian, while singers Katy Perry and Bruno Mars were named choice musical artists of the summer.
 … Taylor Swift, who won the “Ultimate Choice Award”, “Choice Female Artist”, “Female Country Artist”, and of course, “Choice Red Carpet Icon - Female”. Swift also took home awards for “Choice Country Song” with Mean, and “Choice Break-up Song” for Back to December. 
 … CW’s Gossip Girl took home the surfboard for the “Choice TV – Drama” category, while Blake Lively took home the choice TV show actress award.
 … Selena Gomez & the Scene performed Love You Like a Love Song during the show, and was named choice music group by fans. Their single, Who Says also won choice music single, while Gomez herself was named choice actress and choice female hottie.
 … The Harry Potter franchise won a total of seven Teen Choice Awards: choice movie of the summer and choice movie sci-fi/fantasy for “Deathly Hallows: Part 2,” Emma Watson was named choice movie sci-fi/fantasy actress and choice summer movie actress, Daniel Radcliffe was named choice summer movie star, Tom Felton was named choice movie villain, and Radcliffe and Watson won the title for choice liplock. 
 … The Twilight Saga was able to secure a total of 5 Teen Choice Awards: Robert Pattinson won Choice Vampire and the choice drama movie actor awards, Taylor Lautner won the Choice Movie Actor for the Sci-fi/fantasy category, and Kellan Lutz and Ashley Greene each won the award for Choice Movie: Scene Stealer for the male and female categories, respectively. 
