Toyota aims to make comeback in 2012
After experiencing a dismal year in sales due to a series of natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, Japanese carmaker Toyota is aiming to record global sales of 8.48 million vehicles in 2012 to make up for output losses in 2011. 
According to Reuters, Toyota had was ranked as the world’s top-selling automaker in 2008 “but is set to lose that crown this year  as supply chain disruptions from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and deadly floods in Thailand hampered production around the world.” 
Toyota announced in a statement on Dec. 22 that global vehicle sales for this year totaled 7.9 million vehicles, down 6 percent from 2010. Due to this drop in sales, Toyota is likely to rank third in global sales, behind the American company General Motors, and German carmaker Volkswagen AG. 
The past two years has been rough on Toyota, with a quality crisis that began in 2009 that led to the recall of more than 10 million cars worldwide. Once the most envied company of the auto industry, Toyota’s image and reputation has since been tarnished, as consumers began questioning the quality of its products “amid speculation it had not been as forthright as it should have been about defects,” AP reported. Consequently, its global sales took a huge hit. 
Just when Toyota began to recover from the problems generated by the recall, the March 11 earthquake and tsunami forced it and other local automakers to suspend and reduce output for months. In October, the floods in Thailand did the same, as damage to suppliers caused more production problems for Toyota. 
Toyota said in a recent statement, however, that sales target for 2012 is based on achieving an impressive 20 percent growth from its global sales in 2011. If this sales target is achieved, it would be a record high for the company. Currently, its sales record is 8.43 million vehicles, which was achieved back in 2007. 
“It won’t be a surprise to me if Toyota reaches a new record in global sales,” Mamoru Katou, auto analyst at Tokai Tokyo Research tells AP, citing the popularity of hybrids in Japan and the Camry sedan in the U.S. 
Toyota’s focus on emerging markets such as China and India has also helped to make up for weak and declining sales elsewhere. According to Toyota, the possibility of the extension of the Japanese government’s incentives for green vehicles could prove to be a plus for the carmaker, which has been a major beneficiary of such incentives with its strong hybrid lineup. 
