Beethoven‘s hearing loss may have shaped his musical style
In the latest issue of the British Medical Journal, a team at the University of Amsterdam in the Netherlands published a study that suggests Ludwig van Beethoven’s hearing loss may have profoundly influenced the style of his music throughout his career. The research concentrated on Beethoven’s use of high notes in his compositions early in his career through the period his hearing loss was first mentioned in 1801, and to the point where he became completely deaf in 1825. The results of the study indicate that the great composer’s music evolved noticeably as his hearing loss became progressively worse.
 Beethoven (1770-1827) began to lose his hearing around 1796. He suffered from a severe form of tinnitus, a “ringing” in his ears that made it difficult for him to hear music. Although the exact cause of his deafness is unknown, it has variously been attributed to typhus, auto-immune disorders, and even his habit of immersing his head in cold water to stay awake. Beethoven first mentioned his hearing problems in 1801 in a letter to his friends Franz Wegeler and Karl Amenda. He wrote that in the theater, he had to get very close to the orchestra in order to understand the performers; and that from a distance, he could not hear the high notes of the instruments and the singers’ voices. 
 Researchers at the University of Amsterdam found that Beethoven’s works from the early period of his career, such as String quartets Opus 18 and 1st Symphony Opus 21 (1798-1800), used a variety of high notes. He began to suffer from hearing loss - unable to hear high-frequency sounds - during the middle period of his career. His compositions of that time, such as Opus 74 and 95 quartets (1810), contained more low-frequency notes – a range that he could hear. His late period works, composed after he became completely deaf in 1825, such as String Quartets Opus 127 to 135, featured the return of higher notes. Researchers concluded that “when he came to rely completely on his inner ear, he was no longer compelled to produce music he could actually hear when performed, and slowly returned to his inner musical world and early composing experiences.” 
 In 1802, as his hearing began to seriously affect his work, Beethoven retreated to the small Austrian town of Heiligenstadt, just outside Vienna, to try to come to terms with his predicament. He wrote a letter, known as the Heiligenstadt Testament, to his brothers Carl and Johann, reflecting both his thoughts of suicide due to his despair over deafness, and his desire to live on and fulfill his artistic destiny. In the last ten years of his life, Beethoven used conversation books to overcome his hearing loss. His friends wrote in these books so that he could know what they were saying, and he then responded either orally or in the book. The content of these books provide great insight into Beethoven’s views and perceptions of his relationship to music.
 Beethoven used a variety of hearing aids (some of which are on display at the Beethoven House Museum in Bonn, Germany) to overcome the effects of hearing loss. Carl Czerny, Beethoven’s student famous for his books of études for the piano, remarked that Beethoven could still hear speech and music normally until 1812 with the help of hearing aids such as the ear horn. By today’s medical standards, Beethoven’s hearing loss is considered a common form that can be corrected with digital hearing aids. 
