Michelle Kwan elected to the U.S. Figure Skating Hall of Fame
“I think that was the one moment I kind of found it, found the purity of it. It was so pure. It was the purity of loving what you do and loving figure skating.” - Michelle Kwan on her performance at the 1998 U.S. championships
 Michelle Kwan, the most decorated figure skater in American history, was recently elected to the U.S. Figure Skating Hall of Fame. She was the sole inductee for the class of 2012 - a fitting tribute for an amazing athlete who soared above the competition with grace, artistry and consistency. The induction ceremony will take place in conjunction with the U.S. National Championships on Friday, Jan. 27. 
 Michelle Kwan had an amazing career. She competed at a high level for more than a decade, winning an unprecedented 43 championships, including five world titles, eight consecutive (and nine overall) U.S. national titles, and a Grand Prix Finals title. She also won the silver medal at the 1998 Winter Olympics and bronze at the 2002 Winter Games. She earned 57 perfect 6.0 marks in major events under the old scoring system, the most of any skater. She maintained her status not only as America‘s most popular figure skater, but also as one of America’s most popular female athletes, even years after she retired from active competition.
 Michelle Kwan was born in 1980 in Torrance, California to immigrant parents from Hong Kong. She began serious training in figure skating at the age of 8 with her older sister Karen. When she was 10-years-old, the Kwan family received financial assistance which allowed her to attend the Ice Castle International Training Center in Lake Arrowhead, California under the tutelage of famous coaches such as Frank Carroll and Rafael Arutyunyan. In 1992, at the age of 12, Michelle Kwan passed the gold test to become a senior-level figure skater. A year later, she finished sixth at her first senior U.S. championships. 
 Michelle Kwan finished second at the U.S. National Championships in 1994 and went to the 1994 Olympic Games in Lillehammer, Norway as an alternate. In 1995, she started to make her mark in the figure skating world by placing second in the U.S. National Championships, and fourth in the World Championships. Michelle Kwan had a breakout year in 1996, winning the Nations Cup, Skate Canada, Skate America, the Grand Prix Finals, U.S. National Championships and World Championships. In 1998, Michelle Kwan reached a career high from both a technical and artistic standpoint at the U.S. National Championships. The performances of her Rachmaninoff short program and free skate set to William Alwyn’s “Lyra Angelica” earned her 15 perfect 6.0s out of a possible 18 and left one judge in tears.
 Despite winning multiple U.S. Championships and World Championships titles, the Olympic gold medal proved elusive for Michelle Kwan. As an alternate, she did not get a chance to compete in the 1994 Winter Olympics. In the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, she placed first in the Short Program portion of the competition but settled for the silver medal as fellow American Tara Lipinski won the gold. In the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, she once again led after the short program, only to be overtaken by Sarah Hughes and Irina Slutskaya in the Free Skate and ended up with the bronze medal. In the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, Michelle Kwan withdrew from competition due to a groin injury.
 Since retiring from competition, Michelle Kwan has served as a public diplomacy envoy for the U.S. government. During that time, she graduated from the University of Denver with a degree in international studies. She later received a master’s degree from Tufts University in international relations.
