Google under fire for failing to quash illegal downloads
The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which represents record labels across the world, has criticized the internet giant, Google, of failing to deliver on promises to stifle illegal file-sharing in a recent report. 　
 According the BBC News, the IFPI has said that guarantees made by Google about copyright infringement 12 months ago “remain unfulfilled,” though conceding that the search engine has made “modest steps” to curb illegal downloading. In response, Google has called accusations by IFPI a “press stunt,” declining to comment further. 
The IFPI accuses Google of profiting from “sites and applications that engage in piracy,” claiming that as the world’s biggest search engine, Google has a “special responsibility” to protect copyrighted music. 
“Google also needs to do more to ensure that it does not derive revenue from illegal activity and supports the digital marketplace in which it itself is a participant,” the IFPI report stated. It urges Google to take more action against piracy, such as spending money in prioritizing search results so that users are directed to legal music services. 
When asked for her opinion on this matter, 23-year-old Kim Jarrett told BBC News, “I don’t think it’s Google’s job to stop it. It’s a search engine for people trying to find information ... It’s not for them [Google] to censor it.” In fact, such acts of censorship could prove dangerous in the long run.
 “If record companies have a problem with illegal downloading of music,” Jarrett continues, “then they should speak to their lawyers and get in touch with the websites themselves.” 
On the other hand, 18-year-old Annie Lee felt that “Google has some stake and responsibility,” and as the world’s biggest search engine, “Google could stop having on their search results all these different download sites.” Lee admits that it could be difficult, however, because “people are just going to keep devising new ways to do it.” 
Google has pointed out that it has already taken several measures to fight against online piracy during the House of Representatives Judiciary hearing on the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) on Nov. 16. During this hearing, Google’s copyright counsel, Katherine Oyama pointed out that any further legislation, such as the controversial SOPA, is both unnecessary and dangerous. 
“The only long-term way to beat piracy online is to offer consumers more compelling legitimate alternatives,” Oyama said during her appearance before the House Judiciary Committee.
 Oyama highlighted how Google helped create revenue for record labels by selling advertisements on YouTube, She also pointed out the speed with which Google removed pirated material from search results and YouTube accounts -– in 75 percent of cases, the offending links were removed within six hours of receiving notice from the copyright holder. 
