Aung San Suu Kyi, guardian of Burma
Aung San Suu Kyi is a politician in Burma, a country mired in incessant civil wars and with myriad ethnic groups. She is the General Secretary of the National League for Democracy. 
 When introducing Aung San Suu Kyi, we cannot disregard her father, Aung San. Without him, Suu Kyi’s life might have been completely different. Aung San is taken as the father of modern-day Burma. He founded the modern Burmese army and negotiated Burma‘s independence from the British Empire in 1947. He was assassinated by his rivals in the same year.
 Aung San Aung San Suu Kyi was born in June 19, 1945, in Rangoon, the region now known as Yangon, as the third child and only daughter of Aung San. Her mother, Khin Kyi was Burmese ambassador to India and Nepal in 1960. Suu Kyi followed her and studied in New Delhi. She graduated from Lady Shri Ram College with a degree in politics in 1964. She continued her studies at St Hugh’s College, Oxford and in 1969 obtained a Bachelor of the Arts (B.A.) degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics.
 Suu Kyi returned to Burma in 1988, but by coincidence the country’s long-time military leader, General Ne Win, stepped down in that same year. A mass democratic demonstration was held in Burma and she helped found the National League for Democracy. 
 Suu Kyi addressed half a million people, calling for a democratic government. Unfortunately, in September, a new military junta took power and on July 20, 1989, she was put under house arrest. She remained under house arrest for almost 15 years and was not released until Nov. 13, 2010. 
 She was quite popular for choosing her country over her personal benefit. Her husband was very sick and Suu Kyi was offered to leave the country to go visit him. In fear of never being able to return, she refused the Burmese dictatorship’s suggestion to leave the country and she sacrificed her final days with her husband.
 She once said, “It is not power that corrupts but fear. Fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it and fear of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it.” 
 Suu Kyi received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 and recently reentered politics. She is ready to bring further changes in Burma, the country she dearly loves. 
