G’Day mate!
Australia is best known as being both a continent and a country, the home of kangaroos and koala bears. Also known as the "land down under" because it is located below the equator, Australia is the home to some of the most beautiful feats of both nature and mankind. The untouched beauty of the Australian outback, where kangaroos, emus and dingos can be seen roaming in their natural habitat, sits in stark contrast to the modern, cosmopolitan beauty of its dynamic cultural hub, the city of Sydney. There is no end to the number of new and exciting adventures you can experience in the country. Here are a couple of must-see places for your next trip to Australia:
 Sydney Opera House
 The Sydney Opera House has undoubtedly become the cultural and architectural landmark to represent Australia. It has helped establish Australia as a cultural and performance hub of the world. The building’s architect, Jørn Utzon, was awarded the Pritzker Prize in 2003. The highest honor awarded in the field of architecture, Pritzker Prize citation described the Sydney Opera House as “one of the great iconic buildings of the 20th century, an image of great beauty that has become known throughout the world – a symbol for not only a city, but a whole country and continent.” 
 Great Barrier Reef
 As mentioned before, Australia is home to some of the most unique and breathtaking natural wonders in the world, the most famous of which is the Great Barrier Reef. Found off the coast of Queensland, it is the world’s largest coral reef system, stretching an astonishing 2,600 km. As the home to a wide variety of life, including many vulnerable or endangered species, the Great Barrier Reef sees over 2 million visitors a year. While this has fueled the debate on the environmental impact of so many visitors, many cannot help but be awed by the sheer beauty of what can only be described as the most beautiful glimpse into life underwater. 
 Not only is the Great Barrier Reef the world’s biggest single structure made up of living organisms, it is also the only living structure visible from outer space. 
 Uluru, also known as Ayers Rock 
In another show of untamed, natural beauty, Australia is also the home of Uluru, also known as Ayers Rock. Considered sacred to the Aṉangu, the Aboriginal people of the area, it is a large sandstone rock formation that is home to a plethora of springs, waterholes, rock caves and ancient paintings. Aside from its natural beauty, the Uluru rock formation also acts as a symbol of the history of human civilization in the region. Archaeological findings suggest that humans settled in the area more than 10,000 years ago, documenting the arrival of Europeans in the 1870s. 
Guided walking tours are available for Uluru, which stands at 348 m high, and has a total circumference of 9.4 km. In spite of this size, Uluru is most notable for how it seemingly changes color at different times of year and when seen from different angles. 
