Do smartphones make people’s lives more complicated?
Pro-
Smartphones make people’s lives more complicated. 
First, with the flood of information that smartphones have developed, the average person’s life has been complicated rather than simplified. One example is the GPS (global positioning system) function. People could just ask others for directions on the street, but as long as they have smartphones and applications for finding directions; people no longer talk to and communicate with others. 
 Second, with the arrival of smartphones people don’t buy as many books and CDs, they don’t go to the movies as much and hang out with friends. This is because they can easily download contents with the touch of a button and in the blink of an eye. These devices make life more isolated and emotionless; this in turn creates greater social problems and further complicates our lives. 
 To sum up, smartphones limit direct communication and creates a more emotionless society that leads to tons of social problems. I think they make life more complicated. 
 Con-
Smartphones make people’s lives easier
 I think that smartphones make life more convenient. In the 20th century, people had a hard time carrying heavy computers with them and people who didn’t have computers couldn’t search for information online. Now it has completely changed. These days, people can easily and quickly go online to search for what they need and don’t have to bring computers wherever they go.
 Also, people once had a hard time pressing small key pads, but this problem is solved, too. We can easily press the right keys because the pads on the screens are now much bigger. Everywhere, people use smartphones to communicate, to send messages, and to find useful information on the Internet.
 All in all, today’s life is not complicated. It is rather simplified. Smartphones provide easily accessible information with speed and they are very functional devices that have brought about many positive changes in our society. Thus, people living in these days are happier than people in the past. You can never be let down by the device’s name; “Smart” phones are really smart!
