Korea’s controversial online identification law
South Korea is to reform its controversial online identification law this year to prevent cyber hacking.
 The Korea Communications Commission, the country’s telecommunications regulator, said it would go over the current telecommunications law that mandates that online sites verify users’ names and identification numbers. The verification of people’s identities has been conducted through users’ resident registration numbers and now the commission is looking into introducing a ban on this practice. 
 “We will phase out the practice of collecting resident registration numbers online in order to ease concerns about private data leakages,” the commission said in a statement.
 “We will review the online identity verification system, since it has become necessary to improve regulations with the changing communication environment.”
 The real-name verification system was introduced in 2007, aimed at rooting out anonymous and defamatory remarks online.
 There are a total of 146 websites in Korea -- including Naver and Daum portals -- that have adopted the system, which collects and stores users’ identification data. 
 However, successful hackings last year that were inflicted on some of these sites put the system under fire as they unintentionally compromised millions of Koreans’ private information. 
 People who support this controversial online identification law notice that ruthless and malicious comment can wreak havoc on the social stability.
 Opponents insist that the law stifles freedom of expression, especially those voices of critics in society, and limits local sites’ efforts to provide services for overseas users, which stymies the industry’s growth. 
Today, Korean users can register on global websites, such as Twitter, YouTube and Facebook, as these sites don’t ask for verification like big domestic sites. 
South Korea enjoys one of the fastest Internet connections in the world. More than 90 percent of Korean households have access to high-speed Internet connection. 
