Violence in Syria continues despite observer mission
The head of an Arab League observer mission, Lt. Gen. Muhammed al-Dabi, has come under fire recently for stating that the conditions in Syria were “a bit of a mess, but there was nothing frightening.” The criticisms have come in light of the continued rise in the death toll in Syria and the release of several amateur videos showing observers witnessing gunfire and meeting with victims of the violent crackdown against government protestors. 
Arab League observers have entered the violence-torn city of Homs in Syria beginning Dec. 27 in an attempt to quell the violence and monitor the withdrawal of government forces from the city. Syria consented to their month-long visit on Dec. 19 following the sanctions imposed by the league in condemnation of the government’s violent crackdown on protestors. Their presence, however, seems to have done little to stop the bloodshed.
 The New York Times reported that human rights advocates have “questioned whether the team [of observers] has the qualifications or enough independence from the government to help end a conflict that many fear is veering toward civil war as growing numbers of armed men join the opposition.” 
According to United Nations estimates, more than 5,000 people have already been killed since the popular uprisings and subsequent government retaliation began in March, 2011. 
“We thought the observers were coming and the security won’t open fire,” an antigovernment activist using the alias Manhal to avoid being targeted for retribution told the New York Times. “It was a massive crowd. We tried to take over the square [Aasi Square in Hama] but the army and security forces blocked the way. They used tear gas and live ammunition,” adding that an unofficial photographer for the demonstration had been killed.
 Doubts over the observer mission continue to grow after General Dabi downplayed the situation in Syria. Manhal told reporters that he was “afraid to meet with the observers because they are being monitored, and they are not coordinating with us.” 
Manhal seemed to be referencing reports from activists in Homs that observers were seen being escorted by a Syrian military officer while they toured the city on Dec. 28.
 In fact, as Syrian security forces killed eight more protestors by Jan. 2, the continued violence in the region has prompted an Arab League organization to urge its monitors to leave the nation. 
“For this to happen in the presence of Arab monitors has roused the anger of Arab people and negates the purpose of sending a fact-finding mission,” Ali al-Salem al-Dekbas, chairman of the Arab Parliament told Reuters in Cairo, where the Arab League has its headquarters. “This is giving the Syrian regime an Arab cover for continuing its inhumane actions under the eyes and ears of the Arab League.” 
