EU members put heads together to save euro
European leaders returned from Christmas holidays to work to save debt-ridden regional economies and their weakening euro currency.
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a New Year’s speech that the path to overcoming the European crisis won’t be without setbacks but that Europe would emerge stronger from the crisis than before. The speech was broadcast live on Dec. 31.
 Merkel added that her government would do everything to bring the euro out of the slump.
 The leaders pledged to make stricter rules on government spending and to join forces to save the weakening economies of Spain, Italy, Greece and more in the latest series of their meetings.
 This is in response to euro’s two recent consecutive annual losses against the U.S. dollar and its plunge to a record low against the yen.
 The leaders are currently struggling to hold the European Union together in the face of credit downgrades, emerging splits in the organization and a looming recession.
 The very latest crack of European economy appeared on Dec. 30 when Spain’s government announced an unprecedented budget deficit in recent years. Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy responded by unveiling a new package of spending cuts and tax increases.
 Italy, the third-largest economy in the EU, is still engulfed in its debt crisis. Rome has to pay back 53 billion euros in the first quarter, about a third of the euro area’s total amount for the period, according to Bloomberg.
 Italy passed an emegency budget package in order to curtail borrowing costs.
 France’s Sarkozy said that his government would turn from budget fighting to economic growth and unemployment in 2012, Bloomberg said. 
 Year 2012 will be the year of all risks and of all possibilities, Sarkozy said on Dec. 31 in his fifth New Year’s address, according to Bloomberg. The president is expected to run for re-election in May.
 Meanwhile, Prime Minister Lucas Papademos of Greece said to his citizens in a New Year’s message that his nation would confront a difficult 2012 and that the next three months would be particularly crucial.
