Short track star Ahn Hyun-soo to skate for Russia
“I had no choice but to apply for the citizenship in order to skate in Russia. Since I’ve attained the citizenship, now I will focus on training here. ... My aim is to compete at the 2014 Winter Olympics and win a gold medal again.” – Ahn Hyun-soo
 Korean short track speed skating star Ahn Hyun-soo has been granted Russian citizenship and will now be known as Viktor Ahn. The 26-year-old Ahn, one of the most decorated athletes in the sport of short track speed skating, was granted the order by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. He is set to make his debut as a Russian athlete at the European championships in the Czech Republic, starting on Jan. 27. 
 Ahn Hyun-soo is considered one of the most accomplished Short Track Speed Skaters of all time. He began skating in elementary school and trained under three-time Olympic gold medalist Kim-Ki-hoon. He had a breakout season in 2002 - winning the world junior short track championship, finishing second in his first senior-level world championship competition, and participating in the 2002 Winter Olympics at Salt Lake City. He won an unprecedented five consecutive Overall World Championship Titles from 2003 to 2007. It is a feat that even short track legends such as Korea’s Kim Dong-sung (two overall titles) and Canada’s Marc Gagnon (four overall titles) could not match. 
At the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, Ahn Hyun-soo reigned supreme. He won gold medals in the 1,000-meter and 1,500-meter events by employing the strategy of following the leaders, then using an outside passing lane to sprint ahead with only two or three laps to go. In the 1,000-meter event, Ahn set a new Olympic record of 1:26.739, finishing ahead of teammate Lee Ho-suk and Apollo Anton-Ohno. He won another gold medal in the 5,000-meter relay event with teammates Lee Ho-suk, Seo Ho-jin, and Song Suk-woo. He also won a bronze medal in the 500-meter event, making him the only short track skater in the world to win four medals in a single Winter Olympics. 
Ahn Hyun-soo’s decision to represent Russia in short track speed skating is most likely motivated by his desire to continue competing at the sport’s highest level. However, the events that led to his departure from Korea can be attributed to rifts within the Korean short track team and his personal struggles with leg injuries. As early as 2006, it was widely reported that Ahn’s father accused the Korean team coach of conspiring with other skaters to ostracize his son and prevent him from winning the overall championship title. Amid reports that tensions among skate team members were so high that they refused to associate with one another, Ahn ended up training with the Korean women’s team coach due to conflicts with the men’s coach. 
In 2008, Ahn Hyun-soo fractured his knee after colliding with a fence during national team training at the Korea Training Center in Taeneung. He had four surgeries in a 15-month span and was forced to miss the 2008 and 2009 World Championships. His inability to get back in form cost him the opportunity to qualify for the 2010 Winter Olympic Games in Vancouver, Canada, and prompted him to pursue the option of competing for Russia.
 Despite the controversy surrounding the need for Ahn to renounce his Korean citizenship in order to represent Russia in skating, some Korean fans are sympathetic and understanding of his situation. Some people have expressed the sentiment that Ahn has done his best and brought great honor to Korean sports, and that he has every right to pursue his dreams and extend his career elsewhere. 
