Fermented bean paste: The essence of home cooking
Fermented bean paste is a category of fermented foods typically made from ground soybeans, which are indigenous to East and Southeast Asia. Fermented bean pastes are usually salty and savory, but may also be hot and spicy. They are used as a condiment to flavor foods such as stews, soups, casseroles and stir-fries, or simply as a dipping sauce. The colors of bean pastes range from light tan to reddish brown and dark brown, depending on the different methods of production and the conditions of fermentation. Known by different names in various nations throughout Asia, fermented bean pastes are particularly important on the dining tables of Korea, Japan and China.
 In Korea, the most common form of fermented bean paste is known as doenjang. It is one of the most important condiments used in preparing Korea food. To produce doenjang, dried soybeans are boiled and stone-ground into coarse bits, formed into blocks called “meju”, and exposed to sunlight or warmth. After several more steps in a fermentation process that can take months to complete, the result is a thick paste that is salty, flavorful and rich in beneficial vitamins, minerals and plant hormones. Doenjang is widely used in Korean cooking, but the most popular dish is known as doenjang jjigae. It is a pot stew of piping hot doenjang broth containing chunks of tofu, slices of zucchini, bits of chili pepper, and slivers of onion. Optional ingredients include mushrooms, clams and meat. 
 In Japan, the most typical form of bean paste is known as miso. It is a culinary staple that is high in protein and rich in minerals. The ingredients used to produce miso may include any mix of soybeans and various grains. It takes an expert to properly classify the wide variety of Japanese miso because the taste, aroma, texture, appearance and usage of miso vary by region and season. Natural miso is a living food containing many beneficial microorganisms. Nutrients can be lost by over-cooking and therefore, it is common to add miso to soups or other foods just before they are removed from the heat. Miso soup, consisting of a stock, miso paste, silken tofu, seaweed and scallions, is not just a part of the daily meal in Japan, it has gained worldwide popularity as a healthy and tasty treat.
 In China, fermented bean paste is prominently featured in many regional cuisines. Dajiang, a variety of bean paste mainly used as a vegetable dip, is popular in Northeast China. It bears a great resemblance in texture, flavor and taste to the Korean doenjang. Doubanjiang is a spicy, salty paste made from fermented broad beans, soybeans, salt, rice and various spices. It is liberally used in Sichuan province and popularly regarded as the “soul of Sichuan cuisine”. The paste can be found in stir-fried dishes, noodles, soups and marinades. Doubanjiang is the main seasoning in Sichuan cuisine’s signature dish –- “Mapo Doufu”. Douchi is a dry fermented black bean with a sharp, pungent and spicy smell, and tastes salty and slightly sweet.
 Fermented bean pastes are common in other Asian nations as well. In Vietnam, Tuong is a salty paste made from fermented soybeans. It is mainly used as a dipping sauce for vegetarian dishes and Vietnamese summer rolls. In Indonesia, tauco is a fermented bean pastes used to flavor dishes such as” tahu tauco” (tofu in tauco sauce), “kakap tahu tausi” (red snapper with tofu in soybean sauce), or in soup such as “swikee oh” (frog legs in tauco soup) and “pie oh” (softshell turtle in tauco soup).
