Despite better technology, Hollywood struggles to draw in moviegoers
The technical quality of Hollywood films has skyrocketed in recent years thanks to the advancements in computer generated (CG) graphics, the advent of digital 3-D, and other such film tools. And yet, “as the images on screen get bigger and better, [U.S.] movie crowds keep shrinking -- down to a 16-year low as 2011’s film lineup fell well short of studios’ record expectations,” AP recently reported.
 According to the box-office tracker, Hollywood.com, U.S. revenues for 2011 were down 3.5 percent from the previous year, standing at $10.2 billion. Taking into account the surge in ticket prices, movie attendance was much lower than expected. Hollywood.com estimated the number of tickets sold in 2011 to be 1.28 billion, which is 4.4 percent lower than the previous year. It is also the lowest in movie attendance since 1995. 
“There were a lot of high-profile movies that just ended up being a little less than were hoped for,” Chris Aronson, head of distribution for 20th Century Fox told AP. “The fall was pretty dismal. There just weren’t any real breakaway, wide-appeal films.” 
Though ticket sales in the U.S. were down, the popularity of movies outside of the U.S. helped make up for declining domestic interest. The top-grossing film of 2011, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2," for example, raked in a measly $381 million in the U.S. while the total revenue elsewhere amounted to $1.3 billion. 
While the exact reasons for this 16-year low is unclear, it is safe to assume that the global financial crisis, rising ticket prices and the surge in portable gadgets have all played a part in the decreasing number of people willing to go to the movies. With the abundance of pirated movie download sites and proliferation of smartphones, it is unsurprising that fewer people are buying tickets. 
“It’s not any one thing. It’s a little bit of everything,” Jeff Goldstein, general sales manager at Warner Bros., told AP, “consumers are being more specific with their choices on how to spend their money. The options are a little greater than they were a few years ago with gaming and social-networking opportunities.” 
