Visiting Vietnam
A recent visit by Mark Zuckerberg to Vietnam for the Christmas holidays despite the Vietnamese government’s continued ban on his immensely successful social media creation, Facebook, has sparked renewed interest in the communist nation. 
Many have commented on the irony of Zuckerberg’s visit, considering the use of aggressive Internet censors by the communist nation to block access to Facebook and other websites. Fortunately enough, such censors are easily bypassed by young, internet-savvy Vietnamese citizens. 
As one of the latest Asian nations to show potential in economic growth, Vietnam has drawn much interest from the international community for its culture, history and beauty. Here are some places that have piqued the interest of many, including Zuckerberg. 
Muong Hoa valley
 Muong Hoa valley is located in the Sapa district of the Lao Cai province, 350 km from Hanoi. It is famous for its breathtaking landscape, diverse ethnic inhabitants and being the largest farmland for rice growing in the Sapa district.
 The valley begins with a small stream of water from the foot of Silver Waterfall, weaving its way between two mountain ranges. The valley itself is located between these two mountain ranges. Unsurprisingly, a popular activity for visitors to this beautiful area is trekking. The guided trek usually involves walking amongst the vast terraced rice paddies, meeting some tribal people from the three main ethnic groups and experiencing a home stay with locals. 
Zuckerberg stayed at an exclusive bungalow resort in the Muong Hoa valley. 
 Ha Long Bay
 Lonely Planet describes Ha Long Bay as “Majestic and mysterious, inspiring and impervious: words alone cannot do justice to ... its natural wonder. Imagine 3,000 or more incredible islands rising from the emerald waters ... and you have a vision of breathtaking beauty.” 
Designated a World Heritage site in 1994, the Ha Long Bay features thousands of limestone karsts and isles in various sizes and shapes, along with signs that point to the presence of prehistoric human beings in the area. Ha Long Bay is also a source of some Vietnamese myths. Ha Long translates to “where the dragon descends into the sea.” According to legend, the islands of Ha Long Bay were created when a great dragon that lived in the mountains charged toward the coast and plunged into the sea. 
Phu Quoc Island
 Phu Quoc Island is a well-known destination among travelers for its abundance of natural beauty. It offers not only beauty, with its mountainous forests, white sand beaches and quaint fishing villages, but adventure as well. 
Visitors to this peaceful tropic paradise can choose from a variety of different activities, to quench their thirst for excitement. Some available activities include discovering the empty dirt roads of the island on a motorbike, kayaking up and down the Gulf of Thailand to explore the island’s inlets, and scuba diving to witness the beauty of the coral reefs. For those who are looking for a more laid-back, relaxing vacation, sunbathing on the pristine beaches of Phu Quoc while gorging on some delicious, fresh seafood may be the way to go. 
