Should your Internet ID be your real name?
These days, many people use the Internet in their lives. Through it, our lives have definitely become much more convenient. We can do online shopping, homework and we can use various banking services. The Internet is a very important factor in our lives. However, some people are taking advantage of it to do bad things. So, many people maintain their position that we need to use our real names. I agree, and believe that someone’s Internet ID should be their real name.
 First of all, with the real name Internet ID system, we can make a peaceful and ordered Internet society. If we use our own names, we would be aware of others and become more careful. This would create a more courteous Internet society with a lot fewer people who write bad comments about others.
 Secondly, the credibility on the net has been increased by the real name Internet ID system. We can meet “real” people online, not a person from virtual reality. This means, as we meet real people with their real names on the Internet, it would be easier to catch when they trick you. It is because it is easier to find them since they use the real name. Also many people can have logical conversations online as less false information will come out.
 Finally, we can feel more responsibility by using our real names. Of course some people reject the idea, because they say we can’t be free enough. However, I don’t think it is true. The freedom of expression comes with responsibility and we can only have complete freedom when we keep our responsibilities. 
 In conclusion, I believe that through using our real names on the Internet, We can create the wonderful, beautiful Internet society that we have always dreamed of. 
 Have you thought of being a totally different person? Since we have the Internet, now we can be that totally different person that we have always dreamed of. You can be called any way you want to be, be the person you want to be, and live in the world you want to live in. However, it won’t be possible if you use your real name on the Internet. Therefore, I don’t agree with that idea of using one’s real name on the Internet.
 Firstly, everyone has the freedom to express themselves on the Internet. People create other ‘selves’ by making their own avatars, blogs and homepages. However, if they can only use their real names, what difference would there be between the Internet and reality? We will never be free from our real selves because everyone can find out who we are by looking at our real names. I believe that we all have right to make our own images on cyberspace.
 Secondly, a leakage of personal information would be easier with the real-name based system. Since most people use fake names as their IDs on the Internet, it is not as easy to know who internet users really are. However, when using real name as an ID reveals important clues for one’s personal information. Therefore, people’s identity may be disclosed. Ultimately, it will decrease the safety of our personal information on the Internet.
 Of course to accuse other people of things from behind the mask of anonymity is bad and using real names can help solve those problems. Still, I think it will make people reluctant and less free to speak their minds with the real-names in cyberspace. Thus, I don’t agree with using real names online. 
