Hollywood arsonist arrested
A suspect in a string of arson cases in Los Angeles recently has reportedly been captured by the police. Harry Burkhart, a citizen of Germany, was captured on security cameras leaving the scene of several fires in the Hollywood area. 
According to several news reports, Burkhart, aged 24, is suspected of orchestrating more than 50 incidences of arson during the New Year’s weekend. The fires caused an estimated $3 million in damages, leaving the residents of Los Angeles afraid for the safety of their property. 
Burkhart, who is reported to have set more than 50 fires over three days, is being charged with 37 felony counts of arson and ordered held on $2.85 million bail during a brief hearing in the Los Angeles Superior Court. 
“It is my opinion that the defendant’s criminal spree was motivated by his rage against Americans and that by setting these fires [the] defendant intended to harm and terrorize as many residents of the city and county of Los Angeles as possible,” police arson investigator Edward Nordskog wrote in court papers.
 Nordskog added that most of the fires were set late at night, accounting for the lack of fatalities. Apart from a woman who is being treated for smoke inhalation and a firefighter who is being treated for injuries after falling from a ladder, no other serious injuries were reported. 
Authorities believe that the three-night rampage began when Burkhart’s 53-year old mother was arrested the week before, on a provisional warrant issued by German authorities. A provisional warrant is issued when there are criminal charges pending against someone in a different country.
 Burkhart and his mother arrived in the U.S. in October on a non-immigrant visa, which is set to expire on Jan. 18. 
The elder Burkhart is now facing extradition back to Germany, where, according to court documents, she faces multiple charges of fraud and embezzlement. 
A state department spokeswoman told reporters that a tip from someone in the U.S. State Department’s Diplomatic Security field office helped lead to Harry Burkhart’s arrest. Burkhart was seen angrily shouting profanities against Americans during his mother’s extradition proceedings on Dec. 29, and was subsequently ejected from the courtroom. 
When surveillance camera footage showing a man with a ponytail leaving the scene of several fires was released by the media, a member of the U.S. State Department recognized him as the man who also got kicked out of a courtroom on Dec. 29. 
Burkhart’s arraignment hearing is set for Jan. 24. 
