Leadership changes in 2012
A series of presidential elections are scheduled to take place in countries around the world in 2012.
 Barack Obama of the U.S. and Nicolas Sarkozy of France will face presidential elections - which many experts say they could lose - and Russia’s Dmitry Medvedev has ceded the Russian presidency to Vladimir Putin.
 Chinese President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao are preparing to hand over the presidency and prime-ministership to Xi Jinping and Li Kequiang whereas Korean President Lee Myung-bak will greet his successor in December.
 Let’s take a closer look at who the current leaders are in those countries which will be holding elections this year.
 Nicolas Sarkozy of France (Presidential election due in April to May)
 Nicolas Sarkozy is the 23rd President of the French Republic. He assumed the office on May 16, 2007 after defeating a Socialist Party candidate 10 days earlier.
 Before his presidency, he was the leader of the Union for a Popular Movement. Under Jacques Chirac’s presidency, Sarkozy served as Minister of the Interior in two governments from 2002 to 2004, Minister of Finance from 2004 to 2005 and back again as Minister of the Interior from 2005 to 2007.
 Sarkozy is known for wanting to revitalize the economy. In foreign affairs, he promised to strengthen cooperation with the U.K. and the U.S. He married singer-songwriter Carla Bruni in February 2008 at a palace in Paris.
 France had special international power when Sarkozy held the rotating EU Presidency from July 2008 through December 2008. Sarkozy has publicly stated his intention to attain EU approval for a progressive energy package before the end of his presidency.
 Chinese President Hu Jintao (Communist Party Congress due in October)
 Hu Jintao is the current paramount leader of the People’s Republic of China. He succeeded Jiang Zemin as the chief of the fourth generation of leadership of the Communist Party of China.
 Hu has been involved in the Communist party bureaucracy for most of his life. Hu is the first leader of the Communist Party without any significant revolutionary credentials. As such, his rise to the presidency represented China’s transition of leadership from communists to younger, more pragmatic technocrats.
 During his term in office, Hu reintroduced state controls in the economy that were relaxed by the previous administration, and has been conservative with political reforms.
 Along with Premier Wen Jiabao, Hu presided over nearly a decade of consistent economic growth and development that cemented China as a major world power. He sought to improve socio-economic equality domestically to build a harmonious society that is prosperous and free of social conflict.
 Meanwhile, Hu kept a tight control over China politically, cracking down on social disturbances, ethnic minority protests, and dissident figures. In foreign policy, Hu advocated China’s peaceful development, pursuing soft power in international relations and a business-oriented approach to diplomacy. Through Hu’s tenure, China’s influence in Africa, Latin America, and other developing countries has increased. Due to term restrictions, Hu must step down as general secretary in 2012 and President in 2013.
 Vladimir Putin of Russia (Election due in March)
 Vladimir Putin is a Russian politician who served as the second president of the Russian Federation and is the current prime minister of Russia, as well as chairman of the United Russia Party.　
 He became acting president on Dec. 31, 1999, when president Boris Yeltsin resigned in a surprising move. Putin won the 2000 presidential election and in 2004 he was re-elected for a second term lasting until May 7, 2008.
 Because of constitutionally mandated term limits, Putin was ineligible to run for a third consecutive presidential term. After the victory of his successor, Dmitry Medvedev, in the 2008 presidential elections, Putin was nominated by Medvedev to be Russia’s Prime Minister; Putin took office on May 8, 2008. In September 2011, Putin officially announced that he would seek a third, non-consecutive term in the 2012 presidential election.
 It is said that Putin brought political stability to Russia. During Putin’s presidency, the Russian economy grew for nine straight years, seeing GDP increase by 72 percent, poverty decrease by more than 50 percent, and average monthly salaries increase from $80 to $640.
 These achievements were said to have followed a strong macroeconomic management and important fiscal policy reforms. His energy policy affirmed Russia’s position as an energy superpower.
 While the Putin presidency has been criticized by Western observers and domestic opposition as undemocratic, Putin’s overseeing of the return of order and stability has won him popularity in Russian society.
 A judoka and samboist, Putin has played a major role in development of sport in Russia, notably, helping the city of Sochi to win the bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics.
 Barack Obama of the U.S. (Election due in November)
 Barack Obama is the 44th President of the United States. He is the first African-American to hold the office. Obama previously served as a United States Senator from Illinois, from January 2005 until he resigned following his victory in the 2008 presidential election.
 Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was the president of the Harvard Law Review. He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law degree. He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
 In February 2007, Obama announced his candidacy for president of the U.S. in front of the Old State Capitol building in Springfield, Illinois. The place was viewed as symbolic because it was also where Abraham Lincoln delivered his historic speech in 1858. Obama emphasized the issues of rapidly ending the Iraq War, increasing energy independence, and providing universal health care, in a campaign that featured themes of “hope” and “change.”
 During his presidency, Obama proposed an expansion of health insurance coverage to cover the uninsured and to allow people to retain their coverage when they leave or change jobs. He also ended the U.S. troops’ presence in Iraq by withdrawing all combat troops. To help recover from the unprecedented economic crisis of his country in 2009, Obama intervened in the automotive industry by renewing loans for General Motors and Chrysler. On April 4, Obama announced his re-election campaign for 2012 in a video titled “It Begins with Us” that he posted on his website and filed election papers with the Federal Election Commission.
