Farms hit hard by falling beef prices
The nation’s cattle farms are being severely hit by the fall in beef cattle prices, due to oversupply of homebred cows and soaring animal feed prices. 
 A cattle breeder in Sunchang, North Jeolla Province, buried nine cows that starved to death early in January as he could no longer afford to feed them, according to the Korea Herald. 
 His debts snowballed to 150 million won ($130,000) as the price of cattle plummeted. 
 A great number of local farms jumped into cattle breeding after the mad cow disease in 2008 caused consumers to turn to hanwoo, or Korean beef.
 The number of hanwoo cattle soared from 1.4 million in 2001 to 2.92 million in 2009 and has now reached 3.3 million. 
 Consumption of hanwoo plunged as cheap imported beef poured in and the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease early in 2011 quelled demand. 
 To make matters worse, a hike in international grain prices raised animal feed prices by 16 percent, making cattle breeding a money-losing game. 
 Raising a calf for two years and selling it now translates into a loss of 1.15 million won.
 The price of beef in restaurants, however, has not gone down from the level it reached around Chuseok of 2010 thanks to a complicated distribution system. 
 In North Jeolla Province, a serving of hanwoo beef, 150 grams, is sold for between 22,000 and 40,000 won. 
 A survey in 2010 showed that a hanwoo cow sold at 7 million won in the cattle market was bought for 12 million won by consumers, meaning distribution costs account for about 40 percent of the beef price.
 All of this had been predicted. The Korean Rural Economic Institute forecast in early 2011 that the number of cattle bred would hit 2.95 million by the year-end, and prices would nosedive. The government, however, stressed market principles and did little more than recommend that farms kill female cows that have given birth.
 The Ministry of Agriculture said on Jan. 4, a day before cattle breeders’ protests with their cows, that it had agreed with the Defense Ministry to serve soldiers more hanwoo and less imported meat. The ministry also said it will provide incentives for farms that slaughter female cows. 
 Angry farmers rallied nationwide on Jan. 5, calling on the government to come up with measures to reduce the damages, especially after the removal of tariffs on U.S. beef over the next 15 years. 
 Members of the Hanwoo Association attempted to take their cows to Cheong Wa Dae for demonstrations on Jan. 5, but were blocked by police from entering the highways.
