Korean athletes to revive their glory in London
“We are under a great deal of pressure since Korea won a record number of medals in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, but we will do our best to live up to people’s expectations with results matching our strong performance in Beijing.” -- Park Yong-sung, President of the Korean Olympic Committee
 In an interview with the Yonhap News Agency, the president of the Korean Olympic Committee Park Yong-sung said that Korea was aiming for 10-12 gold medals in the 2012 Olympic Games in London. He also said that Korea would set up a training camp equipped with a gym, a dormitory and a cafeteria in London to help Korean athletes reach optimal condition in the Olympics. His prediction is somewhat modest considering the fact that Korea finished 7th among participating nations at the 2008 Beijing Olympics with 31 medals -- 13 of them gold. At the London Olympics, Korea is hoping to secure gold medals in taekwondo, archery, judo, wrestling, weight-lifting, swimming and fencing.
 Taekwondo, the traditional Korean martial art and sport, made its first appearance at the Olympic Games as a demonstration sport at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. It became a full medal sport at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, whereby each nation is allowed to enter athletes in only four weight divisions. Not surprisingly, Korea tops the all-time Olympic gold medal tally for taekwondo with nine, ahead of second-place China, which has four. Korea swept all four gold medals in the four weight divisions in which Korean athletes competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Taekwondo is expected to be a rich source of gold for Korea again at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London. 
 Archery became an official Olympic sport in 1972. Korea won an archery gold medal for the first time in the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California, USA. Since then, Korea has been the dominant nation in the sport, winning a world-leading 16 gold medals all-time and owning almost every single Olympic record in the sport. At the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, Korea won gold medals in both the Women’s and Men’s team events. With a deep pool of coaching and athletic talent to choose from, Korea is expected to excel in the archery events at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London.
 Judo, a traditional martial art and combat sport originating from Japan, became an Olympic sport in the 1964 Summer Games in Tokyo. Korea has won nine Olympic gold medals in judo, placed third in the all-time records behind Japan (35 gold medals) and France (10 gold medals). In recent years, selected Korean judo athletes such as Choi Min-ho and Kim Jae-Bum have successfully challenged Japanese athletes for supremacy in the sport. At the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, Korea won 1 gold medal, 2 silver medals and a bronze medal in judo. More judo glory is expected from Korean athletes at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London.
 Wrestling has been part of the Summer Olympics since the modern Olympic Games resumed in Athens, Greece in 1896. Korea has won five Olympic gold medals in Greco-Roman wrestling and four gold medals in Freestyle wrestling. Although Korea won only a bronze medal in Greco-Roman wrestling in the 2008 Games in Beijing, better results are expected at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London.
 Korean athletes are also expected to do well and contend for the Olympic gold in swimming, weight lifting, fencing, badminton and shooting competitions in London.
