Kang Je-gyu’s “My Way” invited to the Berlin Film Festival
“It’s an honor and privilege to be invited to the Berlin Film Festival. I hope that the movie will touch not just the Asian movie-watching population, but audiences worldwide”. - Kang Je-gyu
 The Korean World War II film “My Way” has been invited to this year’s Berlin International Film Festival (the Berlinale). The announcement was made by CJ Entertainment, the investor and distributor of the film. It will be presented in the Panorama section of the festival for films featuring both artistic and commercial values.  “My Way” is the work of prominent director Kang Je-gyu, who was also responsible for such box-office hits as “Swiri” (1999) and “Taegeukgi” (2004). This marks the third time that a Korean film has been invited by the Berlinale to screen in the Panorama section following “The Unjust” (2010) directed by Ryu Seung-wan, and “Woman on the Beach” (2006) by Hong Sang-soo.
 “My Way” is loosely based on a true story about a Korean marathon runner and his Japanese rival developing an unlikely friendship during World War II. The film is the first work by Kang Je-gyu in seven years and Korean actor Jang Dong-gun, along with Japanese actor Joe Odagiri and Chinese actress Fan Bingbing. The reported production cost of 28 billion won for “My Way” made it the highest budget to date for a Korean film. The film made its debut in Korea at the 2011 Busan International Film Festival. It opened in Korean theaters nationwide on Dec. 21, 2011 and will be released in Japan and China in January, 2012. The invitation to the Berlinale will undoubtedly raise the profile and international awareness of “My Way”.
 The Berlin International Film Festival is one of most prestigious film festivals and most reputable media events in the world. It was founded in West Berlin in 1951 and has been celebrated annually in February since 1978. Up to 400 films representing a comprehensive array of the cinematic world’s output are featured in several sections, including Competition, Berlinale Shorts, Panorama, Forum, Generation, Perspektive DeutschesKino, Retrospective, Homage, etc. The most important awards at the Berlinale are the Golden Bear and the Silver Bears. They are presented by the International Jury to films in the Competition section and are among the most renowned awards in the international film industry.
 The Golden Bear (Goldener Bär) is the highest prize awarded for the best film at the Berlin International Film Festival. Past winners of the top prize included cinematic classics such as: “Cinderella” (Wilfred Jackson, USA - 1951), “12 Angry Men” (Sidney Lumet, USA - 1957), “Wild Strawberries” (Ingmar Bergman, Sweden - 1958), “David” (Peter Lilienthal, West germany1979), “Hong gao liang” (Zhang Yimou, China – 1988), and “Sense and Sensibility” (Ang Lee, USA/UK - 1996). A Silver Bear (Silberner Bär) is an award for individual achievements in the categories of direction, acting, best screenplay, best film music, best short film, and special recognitions. 
 The Berlin International Film Festival also holds a Talent Campus during the Berlinale that features lectures and panel discussions with well-known professionals addressing diverse issues in filmmaking. It accepts about 350 applicants annually, representing all of the filmmaking professions from around the world. The program includes workshops, excursions, personal tutoring, coaching and training of participants from different fields of work. The Talent Campus has developed into one of the most exciting initiatives at the Berlinale and campus alumni have often gone on to make successful films.
