Movies released nationwide in the first week of 2012
As the fun-filled holidays of Christmas and New Year’s have come and gone, so have the end-of-the-year music, movie and entertainment awards ceremonies. With these end-of-year ceremonies, we were able to look back and relive some of the best and most entertaining moments of 2011. While the nostalgia of past moments begins to wrap around us, keep in mind that the end of 2011 means the beginning of 2012. 
 In the spirit of looking forward to new beginnings, let us take a look at the first movies released in Korea for 2012. 
 　Wonderful Radio (원더풀 라디오)
 　Drama / Korea / 120 minutes
 On the first day of its release, Wonderful Radio ranked number 2 at the Korean Box Office. According to the official box office association, the Korean Film Council (KOFIC), Wonderful Radio had 43,235 viewers on the first day alone, signaling a great start for Korean cinema in 2012. 
The story is about a girl named Gina, who used to be the leader of a popular girl group, “Purple,” and is now a DJ for a failing radio show called “Wonderful Radio.” In her heyday, she used to be called the "national fairy" of South Korea. The plot revolves around the conflicts between Gina and the producer of the radio show, Lee Jung-jin, who has been sent by the broadcasting company. Lee’s role is to help prevent the show from getting cancelled by trying to raise the popularity of the radio show. 
 　The Darkest Hour (다크아워)
 　Sci Fi, Action, Horror / U.S. / 89 minutes
 As of Jan. 9, 2012, The Darkest Hour grossed $27 million worldwide. 
The story is a Russian-American horror film about an alien invasion on Earth wherein the survival of the human race depends on the efforts of five young people. An alien race uses Earth’s power supply to attack and invade the planet. Five young Americans were traveling in Russia when the attack begins. The alien attack leaves them stranded in Russia, having to fight the aliens in order to get back home. As the five try to fight for their survival, they are faced with the responsibility of defeating the alien race to win back their planet and avoid being annihilated. 
 　By The Will of Genghis Khan (징기스칸) 
　Action, History/War / Mongolia, Russia, U.S. / 127 minutes
 By The Will of Genghis Khan is an action-packed historical film on the life and times of the great Genghis Khan. The film attempts to bring the complex life of the founder of the Mongol Empire to the big screen. The movie begins with the story of how Genghis Khan, born Temujin, rose to power and the battles he faced while uniting the Mongol Empire, which became the largest contiguous empire in history. 
