A chance to walk in the shoes of an adult: KidZania!
Ever wondered what it is like to be an adult? What it means to have a particular career? Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be a police officer? How about a doctor or designer? No matter how many books you read or how many people you talk to, you may never be able to fully grasp what it means to have a job. The only way to understand is to experience it yourself. 
Unfortunately, there aren’t very many places that will provide you with an opportunity to see what it is like to be an adult. There are even less places where you could try it out first-hand. This is where KidZania can help. 
 KidZania
 KidZania is a chain of family entertainment centers operating in different countries around the world. It provides children with the opportunity to learn what it means to be an adult. Consisting of a child-sized replica of a real city, including buildings, shops, theaters and a bank, KidZania is a world where kids can experience what it means to be a working adult. Complete with its own currency, KidZos, this experience allows kids to better comprehend what to expect when they grow up. 
 Activities
 KidZania offers a variety of different "jobs" or experiences for children looking to experience life as an adult. For example, a necessity for adults in today’s advanced world is the ability to drive. Visitors to KidZania are encouraged to attend a fun class on traffic safety wherein they can get a KidZania driver’s license. For those who are interested in more than just driving a car, the Auto Repair Shop provides an opportunity to learn how to take care of and fix a car, as well as a Car Dealership for those interested in buying or selling cars.
 For those interested in public service, you can choose to try out a variety of different jobs, such as working at the Fire Department, learning how to be a flight attendant or pilot at the Flight Crew Training Facility, caring for newborns at the Hospital Nursery or sorting mail at the Post Office. You can even try your hand with catching bad guys as a trained Crime Scene Investigator (like on C.S.I.)! 
Regardless of what you are interested in becoming as an adult, KidZania offers you a glimpse into adulthood and responsibility. It not only prepares you for what may come in the future, but also provides you with a chance to think about your future job more realistically. It is both a fun and educational way to begin your journey to finding a career and the path to your future. 
