Is 'shut-down’ policy necessary for online games?
Pro- “Shut down” policy of computer games is needed
 A large number of Korean children and teenagers are addicted to Internet games. Some of them often play games until late at night. Game addiction is a serious problem in Korean society. As a consequence, the Korean government has announced firmer measures to control and prevent online game addiction.
 The highlighting point of the measures which the government has proposed was a restriction on teenagers to prevent them from logging on to the certain online game sites past midnight.
 I think that the government’s shut-down policy on Internet games is a wise decision because, most importantly, the majority of these games are very violent even for adults. Playing computer games too much is not good for them in many ways. They may be harmful for children’s mental health. Also, playing them can lead to physical health problems. It could easily affect students’ performances at school. What’s more, Internet games can ruin social relationships, for example, with their family members and friends.
 The Internet game shutdown policy is really a necessary measure for both children and teenagers. It is extremely hard for them to control themselves, especially when it comes to games, playing and anything that is fun and I strongly believe that adults should do something to help them fix their Internet game addiction. I am confident that the Internet game shutdown policy is the answer to the call. I hope the government comes up with more realistic, effective and reliable measures to help solve this huge social problems in Korea: game addiction. 
Con- The ’Shut down’ policy is not effective.
 Recently, the most controversial issue in the games industry is the “shut down” policy. This policy was executed by the Ministry of Gender Equality on Nov. 8, and restricts students under the age of 16 from playing games between midnight and 6 a.m. When this policy began, there was much dispute. In my opinion, this policy doesn’t have a hope of preventing children’s game addiction.
 First, foreign-made games are excluded from the policy. 
 If I could not play Korean games in night time, I will play foreign games that I can play any time. Therefore, this policy may also make the Korean games industry go bankrupt. This law has been enforced for a month now, and games companies are already suffering. 
 Second, students could play games anytime by using other resident registration numbers. This policy restraint students playing games by checking their social security numbers, but students could use their parents’ numbers. Some students will hack other peoples’ IDs. In this way, this policy is not effective.
 Third, there are many ways to play games. Nowadays, most students have a Nintendo DS, Playstation or smartphone. How could they restrict games played through other media? 
 Now the law has taken effect for a month, but the rate of students playing games hasn’t greatly diminished. This policy is not effective at all and may damage the Korean games industry. To prevent student’s game addiction, providing “loveware” that limits the total game-playing time to all homes would be more effective. 
