Baby boomers rushing to rural areas
A record number of South Korean city dwellers are moving to rural communities, a local news agency noted.
 The estimates released by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries showed some 6,500 households moved to the countryside last year, a 60 percent increase from the year before.
 The surge is believed to be due to a series of retirement by baby boomers, people born between 1955 and 1963.
 The highest percentage of people heading to rural communities came from company retirees followed by the self-employed and retired professional military service members. In terms of age, people in their 50s accounted for 36 percent moving to the countryside.
 A 2010 data revealed that 74 percent of all households that have relocated to rural areas decided to settle in the country’s Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces, areas regarded to have advanced and flourishing agricultural industries. Relatively cheap land prices acted as an additional attraction for the newcomers. 
The Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries anticipates an increasing number of people will move to rural villages, bringing a continuous growth in the region’s population. The government estimates over 66 percent of baby boomers residing in metropolitan cities have been considering moving to farming and fishery areas in the next 5-10 years, with 14 percent of them actually having a concrete plan in mind.
 The recent flow of newcomers may help tackle the country’s low birth rate problem, according to the government forecast.
 The government is eager to establish joint management bodies in agricultural and fishery villages to oversee and promote collaborative farming, distribution and tourist programs. Dispatched experts will help educate, train and assist city people in seeking a successful new life in the region.
 One official at the Korea Rural Economic Institute said the central and provincial governments should provide appropriate assistance to “lead them into a successful transition.” 
