Fatal stampede as students vie for a spot at South African university
Thousands of students and parents lined up outside of the University of Johannesburg on Jan. 10, hoping to score one of the last few hundred spots open to students this year. When the gates opened up at 7:45 a.m., a woman was killed in a stampede caused by the desperate rush made by 5,000 or so students to register at the university.
 The university’s vice-chancellor, Ihron Rensburg, told reporters during a televised news conference that the tragedy occurred when “hopeful students and their parents pushed to get through the university’s main gates for the chance to secure late registration for the new academic year, which starts later this month.” 
“When we opened the gates this morning, we had this unfortunate, this very sad situation, where there was simply an unbearable crush on the front entrance.” 
Several others were badly injured during the struggle and are now fighting for their lives in the hospital. 
Students and parents begun gathering outside well before dawn, hoping that entrance to a university would provide them with “a chance to escape the indignity of joblessness that afflicts more than a third of the nation,” the New York Times reported. 
The stampede exemplifies the crisis that South Africa’s higher education system still faces despite the end of apartheid in 1994. The nation is still struggling to extend the same opportunities once reserved for white people to the general population of South Africa, and their slow pace of progress has caused a lot of people to be deeply frustrated. 
“The inability to [sic] institutions of higher learning to admit the entirety of learners who are eligible for higher education is reaching a crisis level,” the A.N.C. Youth League said in a statement regarding the recent tragedy. 
“There just aren’t enough places for everybody,” Karabo Dihba, a 22-year-old hoping to earn an engineering degree told the New York Times. “What are we supposed to do?” 
University officials informed reporters that about 85,000 students had applied for the roughly 11,000 spots available at the University of Johannesburg this academic year, almost 20,000 more than the year before. 
