Seollal, Celebration of a brand New Year
Korea’s Lunar New Year, or Seollal, is one of the country’s most celebrated national holidays. This year, in the year of black dragon (2012), Lunar New Year falls on Jan. 23 in the regular calendar. There are some people who celebrate Sinjeong or Solar New Year which is Jan. 1 every year instead of Seollal, but Lunar New Year is still more widely celebrated. 
 The day marks the official beginning of New Year and usually the celebration lasts for three days -- the day before Lunar New Year, the day of Lunar New Year, and the day after it. 
 During the Seollal holiday, Koreans mostly spend time with their families. This is why it is called Korea’s typical family holiday. People who live apart reunite with their parents and relatives on this joyful occasion, even though it involves crazy traffic jams and exhausting travel to the countryside. 
 On Seollal morning, people dress up in colorful traditional Korean clothing called hanbok and perform a customary ancestral ritual. In this way, Koreans pay respect to their ancestors. After the rites, they eat delicious Korean food with their family members. In the evening hours, they play folk games together.
 Here is how Koreans spend Seollal holiday more in depth.
 Travel
 To spend Seollal together with their parents and relatives, people usually travel a long distance to the countryside. The heavy traffic that people endure on the road is a common symbol of Korea’s Lunar New Year. Some people take trains, cars, buses or even planes to minimize the hassle. The average travel hours are often doubled or sometimes tripled due to the amount of traffic. It is important to reserve tickets in advance as they sell out quickly and some unlucky people do not even get the chance to travel. Despite all the stress and frustration that comes with the long journey, people can’t conceal their excitement on the way to see their families again. 
 Food
 Seollal is nothing without plenty of traditional food that people make, present and share with one another. It is the food of Seollal that makes the occasion all the more special. Families spend almost the entire day before Lunar New Year preparing food for their ancestors and family members. Of all the food that Koreans have during the holiday, tteokguk (rice cake soup) is the most representative dish. It is Korean tradition to regard having a bowl of tteokguk on Seollal morning as aging a year older. In that sense, Lunar New Year is similar to a birthday for every Korean. Other food people devour on Lunar New Year includes galbi (Korean ribs), hangwa (traditional cookies), and a slew of side dishes made with various kinds of vegetables, meat and fish. 
 However, the bountiful food which adds joy to the holiday can easily turn to an annoyance - especially to women as the preparation of the food is largely considered their job. There is a word to describe the stress women feel on Seollal, called the Holiday syndrome. Women cannot help but feel wiped-out, burned-out, and exhausted throughout the day. So, some people choose to order food from catering services rather them making it themselves. 
 Ancestral rites 
 The Ancestral rites of Lunar New Year held in the morning of Seollal are Korean people’s way of showing respect to their ancestors. To perform the ritual, Koreans prepare food in advance and family members dress in traditional clothes. Having gathered in front of the ritual table, family members make deep bows to ancestors to present their appreciation. Later, the younger generation of the family bows to their elders to wish them a healthy, happy New Year. In return, the older generation offers their blessings with sebaetdon (New Year’s money). They also offer words of wisdom, called deokdam to wish them a prosperous New Year. 
 Games
 Last but not least, Seollal consists of a variety of fun folk activities that family members play as a group. The list goes on and on including “yunnori,” a Korean board game that involves throwing four wooden sticks, “jegichagi” (hacky-sack), “neoltwiggi” (see-saw), “tuho” (arrow tossing), and “yeonnaligi” (kite flying). In the past, Koreans also performed “Jipshin Balpgi” to scare off evil spirits of the old year, while playing loud drums.
 Although these traditional games are not as often played today, people gather together with their family members, watch New Year specials on TV and play traditional card games.
 Other alternative activities Koreans do on Lunar New Year range from going on a family vacation abroad and skiing to going to spas and visiting tourist sites such as folk villages, royal palaces and national parks. The most commonly visited get-away destinations for young Koreans are amusement parks.
 Korea’s Lunar New Year brings rare peace and quietness in bustling city areas as local residents travel to the provinces to celebrate the holiday with their families. Vacant streets and closed restaurants and shops in cities are another facet of Korea’s Lunar New Year.
