Weird clothing styles of global politicians
In its latest edition, Time Magazine looks at the top 10 political fashion statements from around the world. The list delves into the sartorial tastes and influences of prominent political leaders, such as India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru (the Nehru Jacket), North Korean leader Kim Jong-il (the khaki safari suit), China’s Chairman Mao Zedong (the Mao suit), Libya’s Moammar Gaddafi (everything he wears), and more.  Let’s take a closer look at some of the famous political fashion statements on the list. 
 Jawaharlal Nehru’s Jacket - The Nehru jacket is a hip-length tailored coat for men or women, created in India in the 1940s. The jacket blends the collar of the “achkan,” the court dress of Indian nobles, with western practicality. Time magazine noted that the charismatic Indian Prime Minister helped popularized its style in public appearances during his tenure in government. The jacket took the “Nehru” title when it was marketed to Western audiences in the late 1960s and early 1970s as a result of the growing awareness of Eastern cultures. British rock band the Beatles famously wore Nehru jackets for their epic concert in Shea Stadium, New York City, in 1965. Mahathir Mohammad, the former prime minister of Malaysia, is also well known for his signature Nehru jackets. 
 Kim Jong-il’s khaki safari suit - The Time article minced no words ripping into Kim Jong-il’s style and fashion sense. It said that for a man who enjoyed the finer things in life, such as the best scotch, wine and delicacies, Kim should have asked for some new clothes. It noted that he “padded around in an unflattering khaki safari suit, 5-inch heels to boost his diminutive height and enormous glasses and sunglasses that were, quite literally, never in style”. However, it must be said that Kim Jong-il’s style and fashion sense are truly his own, as he did not favor the Western style suit and tie often worn by his father, Kim Il-sung, and he did not turn his khaki safari suit into a national dress.
 Mao Zedong’s Mao suit - The “Mao suit”, as it is known in the West, is a modern Chinese tunic suit called the Zhongshan suit in China. The suit was actually named after Dr. Sun Zhongshan (aka Sun Yat-sen), who introduced the style shortly after the founding of the Republic of China as a form of national dress. The name “Mao suit” comes from the founder of the modern People’s Republic of China, Mao Zedong, who had an affinity for wearing it in public during his 30-year reign. The Mao suit, usually in stale gray, green or blue color, was worn by almost everyone in China during the height of Mao’s rule. Because of this, the garment became closely linked by the rest of the world to him and Chinese communism. The Mao suit is no longer popular among Chinese people, who generally prefer western style suits as formal attire.
 Moammar Gaddafi’s wardrobe - The recently overturned and killed long-time leader of Libya made the Time’s list for his absurd outfits, including “military uniform with way too many medals, casual fatigues imprinted with the image of Egypt’s former President Gamal Abdel Nasser, outsize shades, leopard-print hat and gold scepter, and voluminous wizard robes”. In a hilarious photo layout/article titled “Gaddafi Fashion: The Emperor Had Some Crazy Clothes”, Time magazine displayed a collection of bizarre ensembles in mind-bending psychedelic colors and jaw-dropping combinations worn by him as he traveled the world on various official functions. Fashion-wise, there was never a dull moment when Gaddafi was present.
