North Korea gears up for London Olympics
Pyongyang’s state media, the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), announced that North Korea will compete in at least seven events at this year’s Summer Olympics in London. The announcement put an end to speculations that North Korean might miss the quadrennial sporting event as the nation mourns the passing of its leader Kim Jong-il. North Korean athletes will compete in women’s football, weightlifting, marathon, wrestling, table tennis, archery and shooting, with opportunities to qualify for boxing, judo and diving as well. 
North Korea’s Olympic Committee of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was created in 1953 and recognized in 1957. The nation first participated at the Summer Olympic Games in 1972 in Munich, West Germany. It has appeared in eight Summer Games overall and has won a total of 41 medals. North Korea was absent from two Summer Olympic Games - it joined the Soviet-led boycott of the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and it boycotted the 1988 Olympics in Seoul. 
 North Korea won its first ever Summer Olympics gold medal at the 1972 Olympics in Munich when Li Ho-Jun won the 50-meter rifle prone competition. It also won a silver medal and three bronze medals to finish in 22nd place in its Summer Olympics debut. North Korea achieved its best Olympics result at the 1992 Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain. It won nine total medals (4 Gold and 5 Bronze) to finish in 16th place. At the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, it won six medals (2 Gold, 1 Silver, 3 Bronze) to finish in 34th place.
 Historically, North Korean athletes performed well at combat sport events like wrestling, boxing and judo, which account for 24 out of the total of 41 Olympic medals it has won. North Korea has won 9 medals in wrestling (3 Gold, 2 Silver, 4 Bronze), 8 medals in boxing (2 Gold, 3 Silver, 3 Bronze), and 7 medals in judo (1 Gold, 2 silver, 4 Bronze). Weightlifting is also a rich source of Olympic medals for North Korean athletes. They have won 9 medals (1 Gold, 4 Silver, 4 Bronze), including Pak Hyon-suk’s scintillating win in the 63 kg category at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.　
 North Korea’s greatest Olympic glory was achieved by the 16-year-old female judoka Kye Sun-Hui at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia. She qualified for the 48kg category through the wild card system but went on to create the greatest upset of the Games. She fought her way to the finals to face a judo legend - Ryoko Tamura of Japan. The judoka from Japan, perhaps the greatest female athlete the sport has ever seen, was riding a four-year, 84-match winning streak entering the finals. She was a prohibitive favorite for the gold medal. The young upstart matched the wily master move-for-move in a hard fought encounter that went the distance. Kye Sun-hui secured the shock victory to become the youngest Olympic gold medalist in judo. 
 At the upcoming 2012 Olympic Games in London, North Korea will not be allowed to send any athletes to compete in Artistic Gymnastics as part of a two-year international suspension for age falsification. In October 2010, the International Federation of Gymnastics found evidence that the year of birth and age-eligibility for senior competition of North Korean artistic gymnast Hong Su-jong, the 2007 World silver medalist on the vault, was falsified. A decision was made to ban all North Korean gymnasts from national and international competitions until October 2012.
