Beyonce’s baby Blue Ivy and other celebrity babies of 2011
Twitter and Hollywood gossip sites were all abuzz on Jan. 7 as singer Beyonce gave birth to her daughter, Blue Ivy Carter at Lenox Hill hospital in New York. Beyonce and Jay-Z (whose real names are Beyonce Giselle Knowles and Shawn Corey Carter, respectively) are the latest celebrity couple to make the transition into parenthood. 
 Baby Blue Ivy
 The birth of Beyonce and Jay-Z’s baby was much anticipated by the entertainment industry, especially given all of the media attention the pregnancy has garnered since it was announced. In true diva fashion, Beyonce announced her pregnancy on stage during the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, much to everyone’s surprise. Of course, as it always does in Hollywood, the announcement had been followed by countless rumors, speculations and controversy. One rumor was that Beyonce was actually using a surrogate mother and has been using a pad to look pregnant herself. The latest controversy regarded increased security at Lenox Hospital during the hours she gave birth to Blue Ivy. Unfortunately, the couple’s happiest moments have been shrouded in conspiracy theories from beginning to end. 
 Moroccan and Monroe Cannon
 Legendary singer Mariah Carey and multi-entertainer Nick Cannon wed in 2008 after just six weeks of dating, to the surprise of many. In 2010, Cannon and Carey announced that they were expecting a baby. During this announcement, Carey revealed that she had been pregnant shortly after her wedding with Cannon, but sadly, had miscarried. On the day of their third anniversary, April 30, 2011, Carey gave birth to fraternal twins Moroccan Scott Cannon (son) and Monroe Cannon (daughter). 
 Leo Encinas Cruz
 Actors Penelope Cruz and Javier Bardem married in July 2010 in a small ceremony in the Bahamas. The two had been dating since 2007, maintaining a low public profile. In September 2010 a spokesperson for Cruz confirmed that the Spanish actress was four-and-a-half months pregnant with the couple’s first child. According to Hollywood Reporter, Bardem and Cruz’s baby boy was born on Jan. 22, 2011. His full name is reported to be Leo Encinas Cruz, abiding by the Spanish custom of using both the father and mother’s last names. Encinas is the last name of Bardem’s father. Bardem prefers to use his mother’s last name. 
 Aleph Portman-Millepied 
Actress Natalie Portman and ballet dancer Benjamin Millepied, who met while filming “Black Swan,” began dating in 2009 and got engaged the following year. Millepied is best known for his work as a choreographer for the award-winning “Black Swan,” in which Portman was the lead actress. In June 15, 2011, it was announced that Portman gave birth to a baby boy, whom she named Alef in homage to her Jewish background. Alef is the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet and also means “oneness of God.” 
