Fun things to try before the end of winter break
The excitement of the end of classes and the beginning of winter break has come and gone. You begin to miss your school friends, but dread the day that classes resume. The weather outside is too cold to play outside, but the thought of spending another mindless day sitting at home seems wasteful. The desire to do something new and interesting is overwhelming, but every idea you come up with does not seem quite exciting enough. Does this problem sound familiar to you? If so, here are some suggestions for fun things to try on the last few days of your vacation ... 
 Nanta 
The NANTA performance has been around since 1997, and is by far the most well-known Korean performance internationally. As the longest-running show in Korean history, the hit musical has been staged in more than 41 countries around the world. 
The performance starts with a simple story of three chefs starting their day in the kitchen. Suddenly, an unreasonable order from the ill-tempered manager comes in. He demands that the chefs prepare 10 different dishes for a wedding in just an hour. The kitchen is soon thrown into chaos as the chefs try their hardest to meet the deadline. Using the utensils found in a typical kitchen, the story turns into an entertaining musical performance that will have you laughing out loud and tapping your feet at the same time.
 For more information or to make reservations, check out www.nanta.co.kr
 Backstage tour at the Myeongdong Theater
 Ever wondered what goes on backstage during a play or musical? Wonder no more! The Myeongdong Theater provides backstage tours for people of all ages to gain insight on what it means to put on a play. 
It includes an introduction into the history of the Myeongdong Theater and its main productions as well as information on the stage and its facilities. You can also take a peek at the dressing rooms, rehearsal rooms, and lighting rooms, giving you a glimpse into the ins and outs of putting on a show. For even greater insight into what it means to put on a professional play, the tour includes a chance to try out some stage props and costumes -- the same props and costumes used by real actors on stage.
 For more information on this unbelievable opportunity, check out www.MDtheater.or.kr 
 Coex Aquarium
 The Coex Aquarium has drawn people of all ages and backgrounds since it first opened in May 2000. Incorporating its concept of edutainment (education plus entertainment) with state-of-the-art technology and the diversity of its animals on display, the Coex Aquarium is Korea’s biggest national indoor ocean theme park. 
To celebrate the New Year, the Coex Aquarium is putting on a special performance to commemorate the start of the Year of the Dragon. From Jan. 1 to Feb. 12, divers dressed up as dragons will carry out underwater missions and a sardine show three times a day. The dragon divers will carry out a total of 5 missions, which includes a quiz where the audience has to find the “Dragon diver with the Cintamani stone.”
 For more information, check out their homepage at www.coexaqua.com 
