Founding father of modern geology, Nicolas Steno
Nicolas Steno was a pioneer in multiple fields of science from anatomy and paleontology to geology. 
 Nicolas Steno was born in Copenhagen on New Year’s Day in 1638. He entered the University of Copenhagen at the age of 19 to pursue medical studies. After graduating from university, he traveled around Europe. In the Netherlands, France, Italy and Germany, he unexpectedly befriended prominent physicians and scientists. 
 The series of incidents eventually led him to abound significant scientific discoveries. His bold and brave character which helped him dismiss traditional doctrines and search for new solutions was what made him one of the founders of modern geology. 
 Steno became famous in the field of anatomy after he discovered an unknown structure in sheep, dogs and rabbits. He also earned respect for determining that the heart was an ordinary muscle.
 In paleontology, Steno investigated fossils and the formation of rocks. He questioned how fossils grew in the ground and how rocks were formed. After pinpointing a striking resemblance between a living shark’s teeth and stony objects which was found embedded within rock formations, he succeeded to identify fossils as being from living organisms. He firmly believed that the chemical composition of fossils could be altered without changing their form.
 Before Steno’s discoveries, ancient scientists thought fossils fell from the sky or naturally grew in the rocks as if they were an inherent characteristic of the earth.
 With his new ideas, scientists began to study how any solid object could be found inside another solid object, in such cases as rocks, minerals, crystals, encrustations, veins, and strata. 
 His contribution to geology and stratigraphy was also impressive. Steno defined principles of the science of stratigraphy. He was the first person to introduce the idea that all layers of rock start out horizontal, even if they are not today. He did this in his dissertation, explaining that when the bottom layers were formed, the top layers did not exist.
 Overall, Nicolas Steno‘s landmark theory allowed for a complete fossil record, which is a chronology of different living creatures in different eras. It later became a vital part of Darwin’s theory of natural selection.
