Is kimchi a global food?
Pro- Kimchi is hands down a global food.
 Nowadays the move to globalize Korean food is gaining traction in Korean society. At the center of that movement is kimchi, Korea’s most representative traditional dish. 
 With all the enthusiasm brought to the globalization of Korean food, I firmly believe that kimchi is a global food loved by people all around the world.
 First of all, now we can easily see through TV programs and news articles that an increased number of foreigners love to eat kimchi. This is not only limited to people from Korea’s neighboring countries, such as Japan and China, but the trend includes those who live on the opposite side of the globe.
 Moreover, kimchi was designated as one of the world’s top 5 healthiest foods by Health Magazine. Being recognized by the foreign press is proof that people around the world acknowledge the extraordinary taste and nutritional value of kimchi. 
 Finally, exports of kimchi reached $104.6 million in 2011, a 6.3 percent jump from a year earlier. This upbeat news shows that kimchi is well accepted and much craved by people outside its native country.
 All in all, I have no doubt that kimchi has become a global food.
 Con- Kimchi has a long way to go to become a global food.
 No matter how depressing and sad it is, the reality is that still not enough people outside Asia know what kimchi is. Even those who happen to know it often mistake it as Japanese food. In the same vein, many have no idea what Korea’s doenjang soup is but enjoy having Japanese miso soup.
 Another point that adds to the frustration that kimchi is not a global food is that finding and buying kimchi outside Asia is not easy. This prevents kimchi from becoming a truly global food.
 Finally, the move to globalize kimchi and Korean food in general has been meager. The thing that foreigners complain about the most about kimchi and other Korean dishes is that they are super spicy. The smell also tends to be too strong to some people. Yet Korean society was reluctant to make changes and develop kimchi with a more globalized taste. This ignorance and lack of consideration have pushed foreign people away. 
 Therefore, I don‘t think that kimchi is a global food yet, but with more efforts by the government and the people, it will surely mesmerize foreign gourmets in no time.
