Honoring the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr.
On the third Monday of January each year, Americans prepare to honor one of the most prominent activists in the American Civil Rights Movement, Martin Luther King Jr. 
As the chief spokesperson for nonviolent activism during the American civil rights movement in the 1950s and ’60s, Martin Luther King, Jr. has become a national icon in the history of modern American liberalism. 
King played a crucial role in the end of racial segregation and discrimination in the United States, becoming the youngest person to receive the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964 for leading the non-violent resistance to racial prejudice.
 Best known for his “I have a dream” speech, in which he called for racial equality and an end to discrimination, King is often referred to as a human rights icon due to his work of affecting change through civil disobedience and other nonviolent means. By the time of his assassination in 1968, he was focused on trying to end poverty and the Vietnam War. 
King was shot outside of his motel room on April 4, 1968, as he was getting ready for an event later that night. King was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1977 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2004. In 1986, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day was established as a U.S. federal holiday to honor the birth of the man with a dream. 
As thousands paid tribute to the slain civil rights activist this year on Jan. 16, many couldn’t help but consider how King would respond to the now-global Occupy movement.
 “What Occupy Wall Street is trying to do is exactly what [King] was trying to -- focus on economic injustice and to inform and educate the American public,” Norman Siegel, former director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, told Reuters. 
In what began as a protest against the growing wealth gap seemingly perpetuated by Wall Street, the Occupy movement itself has become an icon for the fight against economic inequality. 
“I think [King] would be very pleased because Occupy Wall Street is the children of Dr. King‘s dream,” Siegel added. 
Reuters reported that as the first King holiday since the movement began in September last year, it has “reignited [the] debate over inequality [and] drew hundreds of protestors to march in wintry temperatures in Manhattan, stopping at a Bank of America branch to shout, ‘The banks got bailed out, we got sold out.’”
