Koreans’ wage gap hits record high
Pinpointing the country’s increasing economic polarization, a labor research institute revealed that last year’s income gap between highest and lowest earners was the widest ever.
 Last year, people representing the top 20 percent of wage earners in Korea took home 5.4 times the amount received by those in the bottom 10 percent, the Korea Labor Institute said. 
 It is the highest in the history of the country’s statistical agency, which began in 2002 to collect and research data on the nation’s economically active population. The level also matches the 2009 gap, measured right after the global financial crisis.
 The gap between the lowest wage bracket and the average wage bracket has also been widening since 2001. The median wage earners took home 3.4 times what the bottom 10 percent earned in 2011, compared with 2.4 in 2010 and 2.3 for 2009. 
 The labor report explained the latest gap is a stark reminder of the Korean society’s ever growing income disparity. The wage gap in South Korea is one of the largest among 34 member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 According to the 2009 global data estimate, it is the third largest in the world, following Israel and the United States.
 Given the severity of the matter, Seoul is quick to implement higher quality welfare programs to the underprivileged and people in the lower part of the wage bracket.
 The Seoul Metropolitan Government announced on Jan. 9 it would offer subsidies to its 50,000 citizens who are desperately in need of government support.
 It plans to increase the welfare budget by 2 percent a year over the next three years and make it account for 30 percent of the city’s yearly budget. 
 The government argued the move is to guarantee a basic quality of life for every citizen. “Every citizen is supposed to enjoy a high quality life under safe circumstances with desirable a job,” said Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon. “Welfare is not charity, but the endowed right of citizens.” 
