London: The center of attention in 2012
In what can only be described as the most eagerly anticipated and viewed wedding of the decade, the 2011 nuptials between the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Prince William and Kate Middleton, has served to generate much-needed positive interest in Britain as a nation and as one of the world’s oldest lasting monarchies. 
Despite the bleak outlook of the global financial crisis, the increased public and international interest in Britain is especially welcome as 2012 seems destined to be an eventful year for the United Kingdom. The upcoming diamond jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II and London Olympic Games promises to provide ample distractions from -- and possibly a chance to boost -- the flailing local and global economy in 2012. This optimistic view is shared by British Prime Minister David Cameron. 
In fact, Cameron was quoted by local news reports as saying “This will be the year Britain sees the world and the world sees Britain. It must be the year we go for it,” in his New Year’s message. 
“The coming months will bring the global drama of the Olympics and the glory of the Diamond Jubilee. Cameras and TV channels around the planet will be recording these magnificent events,” he added. “It gives us an extraordinary incentive to look outward, look onwards and to look our best: to feel pride in who we are and what -- even in these trying times -- we can achieve.”
 Queen’s Diamond Jubilee
 The diamond jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II is an international celebration marking the 60th anniversary of her reign. Though the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II occurred on June 2, 1953, she ascended to the throne immediately upon the death of her father, King George VI, on Feb. 6 1952. 
Queen Elizabeth II is currently the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms. These include the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis. 
The celebration of a diamond jubilee is rather rare, with Queen Victoria in 1897 being the only other monarch in the history of Britain to have celebrated a Diamond Jubilee. The celebration will be marked by months-long celebrations and festivals in Britain and abroad, as the queen and other members of the Royal family embark on a world tour to commemorate this historical event.
 On Dec. 15, 2011, Buckingham Palace officially released the world tour schedule announcing which member of the royal family would be traveling to which countries. The jubilee celebrations will center on an extended weekend, from June 2-5, which is described as featuring various street parties, a huge flotilla, and a concert at the Buckingham Palace itself. 
For more information on celebrations and events for the queen’s diamond jubilee, check out the United Kingom’s official Department for Culture, Media and Sport website at www.direct.gov.uk/diamondjubilee
 2012 Olympic Games
 The Olympic Games is possibly the biggest and most famous international sporting event in the world. Occurring once every four years, athletes from all over the world gather to compete in a series of sporting events that range from the hurdles to synchronized swimming. 
The 2012 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in London from July 27 to Aug. 12 and Aug. 29 to Sept. 9, respectively. The country has been getting ready to host this monumental event since it won the bid against Moscow, Madrid, New York and Paris in 2005.
 The process of hosting the Olympic Games involves filling out an application, answering a series of questionnaires and passing an inspection before a vote. The decision-making body of the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for choosing the host city every four years. The host city itself is responsible for the organization and funding required for the event, ensuring the quality is consistent with the official Olympic Charter. 
For the 2012 Olympic Games, the entire process lasted two years. The deadline for applications to host the 2012 Olympic Games was July 15, 2003, with the final selection process, a series of votes by IOC members, taking place on July 5, 2005. 
Being able to host such a big international event such as the Olympic Games is considered an honor, not just for the glory associated with the event, but also the economic and cultural opportunities it presents. While it may be costly to host such an event, the media exposure that accompanies hosting the Olympic Games provides a chance for the country to showcase itself to the world. 
London last hosted the Olympic Games in 1948 after having hosted it first in 1908. It is the first city to host the Olympic games for a third time.
 Other major events to look forward to:
 World Pride 2012
 An event promoting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) issues on an international level, the first WorldPride event was held in Rome in 2000. The event will celebrate the LGBT community with a series of parades, festivals, performances and shows. The WorldPride 2012 will be held in London, just before the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
 Charles Dickens’ 200th birthday
 Generally considered the greatest author of the Victorian period, Charles Dickens, who was born on Feb. 7 1812, is an English novelist whose books and stories remain popular throughout the world. Responsible for some of English literature’s most iconic novels and characters, such as the grouchy Ebenezer Scrooge from “A Christmas Carol,” Dickens work has been highly praised for its realism, comedy, master of prose, unique personalities and social commentary. In fact, the continued popularity of his novels and short stories means that they have never gone out of print.
 In celebration of the 200th anniversary since his birth, the Museum of London is hosting the country’s first major exhibition on the author in about 40 years. The Dickens and London exhibition opened on Dec. 9, 2011 and will close on June 12.
 A royal birth?
 As mentioned before, the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton has helped cast the spotlight on England and its aging monarchy. The marriage between the duke and duchess of Cambridge has sparked renewed interest in the royal family, especially given its somewhat Cinderella-esque storyline and the youthful beauty of the two Middleton sisters, Kate and Pippa. Just as the whole world watched Kate’s induction into the royal family in a live online broadcast of the wedding ceremony, the world is now watching and wondering when the birth of the newest heir to the throne will be announced. Could 2012 be the year that the royal family welcomes a little baby prince and eventual successor into Windsor Castle? 
