Processed meat linked to pancreatic cancer
Eating processed meat, such as bacon or sausages may have a close connection with the development of pancreatic cancer, Swedish researchers suggested.
 The Swedish scientists confirmed that eating an extra 50g of processed meat, the amount equal to a sausage, in one’s daily diet would increase the risk of pancreatic cancer by 19 percent.
 The study, published in the British Journal of Cancer, analyzed data from 11 trials and 6,643 pancreatic cancer patients.
 The World Cancer Research Fund suggested the link may have to do with obesity.
 Dr. Rachel Thompson, the fund’s deputy head of science, said, that there is “strong evidence that being overweight or obese increases the risk of pancreatic cancer.”
 The risk of developing pancreatic cancer in one’s lifetime was “comparatively small” - one in 77 for men and one in 79 for women according to the Cancer Research UK. 
 Yet, an early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer is hard to come by and this delayed discovery causes notoriously poor survival rates. Last year, the IT genius Steve Jobs passed away from the disease.
 According to the BBC report, symptoms of pancreatic cancer include unexplained weight loss, weakness, nausea, loss of appetite, back pain, itching of the skin, diabetes, fever, shivering and abdominal pain (often described as a dull, gnawing ache that spreads to the back, which may become worse if the patient eats).
 In 2011, the U.K. government recommended people to avoid having more than 70g of red meat a day. The World Cancer Research Fund went even further and advised people to completely cut processed meat from their diet. At the very least, WCRF recommends, restrict one’s intake of red meat to 500g cooked weight a week to limit the possibility of developing other cancers, such as bowel cancer.
 Prof Susanna Larsson, who led the study at the Karolinska Institute, told during an interview with the BBC that the chance of developing other forms of cancer remains “controversial,” so larger studies are needed to decide whether meat is a definite risk factor for pancreatic cancer. “It’s important to understand what can increase the risk of this disease,” she stated.
 Researchers note that another great risk factor in terms of getting pancreatic cancer is smoking.
