KTO names six places to visit in January
The Korea Tourism Organization (KTO) has selected the top six places in Korea to visit during the first month of the year. The selected places are Seogwipo on Jeju Island; Goseong in Gangwon Province; Suncheon in South Jeolla; Hadong in South Gyeongsang; Taean in South Chungcheong and Paju in Gyeonggi Province. Let’s take a closer look at what each of these locations has to offer.
 Seogwipo on Jeju Island – Seogwipo is the second largest city on Jeju, and the main tourist attraction on the south side of the island. The city’s Jungmun Tourist Resort, the largest such complex in Korea, features luxurious facilities that blend in beautifully with its surrounding nature. Notable sites include the Yeomiji Arboretum with 2,000 kinds of rare plants in the greenhouse, and 1,700 varieties of flowers and trees outside; the Cheonjeyeon Waterfall, strikingly crossed by the red Seonimgyo Bridge carved with seven 20m wide white nymphs on each side; and the Jusangjeolli -- hexagonal pillars of volcanic rock on the cliffs of Jungmun Beach.
 Goseong in Gangwon Province - Goseong is located on the northernmost part of Korea’s east coast, in a seldom-traveled area notable for pristine beaches, clean water, fresh air and pure surroundings. Hwajinpo Beach, a 1.7-km long stretch of beautiful shoreline, features shallow, clear water and fine sand. Slightly inland from the beach is the serene and graceful Hwajinpoho Lagoon, surrounded by a forest of pine trees and a field of sweet briers. The Goseong Unification Observatory (700m), on clear days gives views of Geumgangsan. 
 Suncheon in South Jeolla Province -- Suncheon is a city of cultural significance in Korea. It is home to historical wonders such as Nakan Eupseong Folk Village, Songgwangsa, Seonamsa, and Goindol Park. It contains beautiful mountains such as Jogyesan and Bonghwasan. Suncheonman Bay is widely known for attracting a large number of rare birds passing along on their migratory routes. Species spotted include the hooded crane, white-nape crane, white stork, black-faced spoonbill, and the Eurasian Oystercatcher. 
 Hadong in South Gyeongsang Province -- Hadong is located between Jirisan National Park and Seomjing River, and is bordered on the south by Hallyeo Maritime National Park. It has many old temples such as Ssanggyesa and Chilbulsa. Jirisan is one of the most sacred mountains in Korea. The named “Jiri” implies that it is a place that turns the innocent into the wise. It is one of the five mountain peaks that surround the capital of old Shilla. The Hadong part of Jirisan National Park includes Ssanggyesa, Chilbulsa, Bulil Falls, Hwagye Valley, Cheonghak-dong Village and Doinchon Town. 
 Taean in South Chungcheong Province– Taean is situated in heavily indented coastlines and surrounded by more than 300 beaches and small islands. Sinduri Coastal Sand Dune is the only sand dune in Korea. It bears geometrically tiered wind marks often seen in larger deserts. It’s a sanctuary for wild birds and rare animals. Taean Coast National Marine Park consists of about 130 islands offering a picturesque landscape of beautiful beaches and fascinating rock formations. 
 Paju in Gyeonggi Province - Paju borders the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) to the north. Important tourist sites include Panmunjeom, Imjingak, Tongil Observatory, and the 3rd Underground Tunnel. From the Dora Observatory, visitors can look into North Korea and see Gaeseong, Songaksan, a Kim Il-sung statue, and Cooperation Farm (Geumamgol). The Tium Hangeul Museum, located in Paju’s Heyri Art Valley, is the first cultural space dedicated to Hangeul. 
