What U.S. credit rating downgrade means to world economy
AP reported on Aug. 6 that Standard & Poor’s (S&P), a global rating agency, downgraded the U.S. credit rating by one notch from “AAA” to “AA+.” Dropping this bombshell, S&P’s did not hide its disappointment in Washington, saying their efforts to tackle the country’s debt crisis had been perfunctory.
 This was the first time since 1917 that the United States lost its perfect credit rating of “AAA,” added the report.
 The news sent the global village into a whirlwind. China, which holds the largest U.S. debt in the world, amounting to $1.2 trillion, demanded that the U.S. take S & P’s downgrading decision seriously and work harder to shed its “addiction to debt.” 
 China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency said that the U.S. government must come to realize the fact which is that “the good old days of borrowing its way out of messes of its own making” is over. The Agency further commented that if the U.S. fails to learn from this mistake, global financial catastrophe may arise and so that the global economic power should cut back on its abnormal “military expenditure and social welfare costs.” 
Xinhua News Agency suggested the need for new global reserve currency which could replace the dollar, since the U.S. credibility is undoubtedly undermined.
 The news also sent a wakeup call to the G7 nations and forced their finance ministers to figure out methods to fight the global financial nightmare. The group later issued a joint statement that showed the nations’ commitment to ircumvent a world market meltdown. 
The news from Europe is indeed far from upbeat. Economic growth in the euro zone has been dull and scores of countries are struggling with their debt situation.
 Already in Europe, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain are exposed to their own debt problems. In particular, Spain and Italy, two of Europe’s biggest economies, are faced with an unrelenting debt crisis.
 According to the Reuters, as the news spread throughout the world, French President Nicolas Sarkozy, the head of the G20, did not hesitate to sit down with British Prime Minister David Cameron to discuss the economic situation. The French President announced a new initiative to slash France’s massive debt. France has been worried about its own credit downgrading, said Reuters.
 Experts warned that if France, Europe’s second-biggest economic powerhouse loses its “AAA” rating, the effects would stretch far beyond the eurozone and would spark another global recession.
 In the midst of the turbulence, Fitch, another credit rating agency, confirmed America’s “AAA” rating on Aug. 9, however, the agency alerted the U.S. it must keep the budget deficit under control as fast as it could to prevent future downgrading by their company.
 One official from Fitch commented that America “must confront tough choices on tax and spending against a weak economic backdrop.” 
The situation is pressuring the U.S. President Barack Obama as his job approval rating hit below 40 percent, the record low, the Gallup poll pointed out.
 Following the death of al-Qaida founder Osama bin Laden, Obama’s approval rating peaked at 53 percent, but disappointing economic figures have since been chipping away at it.
 The echo of the economic fear in the U.S. was heard on the other side of the globe as well. On Aug. 7, gulf stock markets tumbled vehemently as news of the historic U.S. downgrading seeped through the region’s stock markets. 
Asian stock markets have also experienced the devastating aftereffects. On Aug. 7, amid the first-ever downgrading of the U.S. credit rating, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng dropped 3.8 percent to 20,145.82 and South Korea’s KOSPI was down 3.8 percent to 1,869.45. Japan’s Nikkei 225 stock average fell 2.2 percent to 9,097.56. Australian and New Zealand markets too nose-dived.
 American people are nervous that this shock wave will give companies cold feet and pull them back from hiring again. Currently, the unemployment rate in the United States is hovering over 9 percent.
 Signs of another recession are aplenty, warn economic experts. The United States showed a dissatisfactory annual rate of 0.8 percent growth this year, the slowest since the Great Recession in 2009.
 Nowadays, investors are busy transferring their money to what they consider safe investments for example the U.S. Treasury. On top of that, the price of gold has set a new record by topping $1,800 an ounce and the oil price has continuously plummeted as demand is expected to slow with the economy.
 Within the U.S. Congress, Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney urged the White House to come up with solutions to reach a budgetary balance for the country.
