Experience the magic of the Garden of Morning Calm
The short days and long nights of winter can make it easy to feel sad or depressed. In fact, many studies have shown that the shortened days and longer nights of winter can cause some people to experience a serious change in mood, a disorder also known as Seasonal Affective Disorder. 　
 In order to prevent becoming afflicted with SAD, it is important to get as much sunlight as possible during the winter days. In times when this isn’t possible or is difficult because of dropping temperatures, finding something to do that makes you smile is equally important. One such example is to visit the Garden of Morning Calm.
 Garden of Morning Calm
 The Garden of Morning Calm is an outdoor garden with over 300,000 square meters of breathtaking beauty and serenity. The Garden of Morning Calm is not just an environmental beauty. In fact, it is a cultural masterpiece thanks to the hard work of one man. 
 History
 In the early 1990s Han Sang-kyung, a Professor at Sahmyook University and founder of the Garden of Morning Calm, set out to create a unique garden to represent the elegance Korean culture and tradition. What he came up with was the Garden of Morning Calm. 
Saddened by the lack of traditional Korean gardens, Han set out to build his own Korean Garden. Han worked hard to create a garden which would help reflect the beauty of Korea, moving each stone and planting each plant by hand. After years of hard work, there are now about 5,000 different species of plants growing in the various sections of the garden, including some native to the spiritual Baekdu Mountain. 
At this point, you may be asking yourself, “What would be so interesting about a garden during the winter season when the flowers and trees are all but bare branches?” The answer to that question is simple: the Garden of Morning Calm’s annual winter Lighting Festival. 
Winter Lighting Festival (Dec. 03, 2011~Mar. 01, 2012)
 Whether you’re interested in seeing the new blossoms of spring, the changing colors of fall or the plush greens of summer, nothing seems quite as magical as watching different parts of the garden light up after the sun sets during the winter Lighting Festival. 
The lights make the garden seem magical, as you suddenly notice an elephant that you hadn’t seen before, and the horse-drawn carriage you hadn’t known was there. Even the simple trees look more magical as they glow in different colors, and the once-plain looking garden explodes with color and light. 
As you watch the garden change from serene to magical, it is impossible not to smile and be happy, even if for just a moment. 
For more information, please visit www.morningcalm.co.kr
