Students learn more at hagwon than at school
Pro- We learn more at hagwon 
 Hagwon are the same as extracurricular work. Hagwon are where students study with those who have similar academic levels. The schools that I am talking about are not the special schools where only high achieving ones can attend but the common ordinary schools. 
 I have two reasons for suggesting this. First, we need standardized education. 
 This is because there are several different levels of students in a class, but teachers teach with a standard teaching method. So poor level students can’t understand, catch up with the rest and they will always be confused. On the other hand, high level students maybe very bored during the class. These days we have no time to develop our abilities to the fullest. So, if we don’t divide classes into high and low performing students then hagwon are better option for study than schools. 
 Secondly, school studies are not intensive. At school, teachers teach us with only books and images. During classes, if we don’t know about something, we can’t ask, because we worry that our friends will tease us. Furthermore, reading books and looking at images only picks out the important things and does not reveal finer details about the course. Also, with only 40-minute classes, we can’t give a lot of attention to the class. 
 In conclusion, we need studies that are tailored to individuals. If there is no pressure or challenge to develop our abilities at schools, we have no option but hagwon to flourish beyond school. 
 Because of above two reasons, I think we learn more at hagwon than school. 
 Con- I learn more at school than at hagwon.
 These days it’s hard to find someone who does not go to hagwon. Students study before they begin their studies at school. But this is harmful for students; it is because they might think that school is not as important as hagwon. 
 Some teachers don’t teach as well as they can because they think students already learned what they need to know at hagwon. Hagwon became one of the most important parts in students’ academic lives. But I think it is more important to learn at school than at hagwon. There are two reasons why I think like this.
 First, we learn various subjects at school. We usually learn only math or English at hagwon. Since the fees are so high so it is burdensome to go to numerous hagwons. Usually it costs 200,000 won to 300,000 won per subject. They need to pay more money to learn from good teachers who graduated from high-ranking universities such as SKY colleges (Seoul National University, Korea University and Yonsei University). But many other subjects are important, as well as English and math. So at school we learn many subjects, such as Korean, social studies, history, science, P.E., moral studies and art.
 Second, schools teach important things that are necessary for social life, unlike hagwon. At school we learn about human relationships. We learn how to form friendships and prevent bulling and school violence. Also we learn about various kinds of manners.
 In present days, people think going to hagwon is a matter of course. Of course Hagwon could be important in some ways because it teaches what you don’t know and help you to study more thoroughly. But I insist that you don’t rely too much on it. Different from what we think, students who are high achievers usually don’t depend on hagwon for their studies. Try to focus your time at school and find your own study methods. It’ll make you an outstanding student.
