New York police chief under fire for racist video
New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly has come under fire recently for mishandling the controversy over the repeated screening of an offensive video to police trainees. This blow comes amidst Kelly’s attempts to improve the strained relations between the New York Police Department (NYPD) and the Muslim minority since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York. 
According to Reuters, the video in question, entitled “The Third Jihad: Radical Islam’s Vision for America,” shows footage of suicide attacks while stating that “the true agenda of much of Muslim leadership here in America ... [is to] infiltrate and dominate America.” 
The video first came to light a year ago in an article in the Village Voice, at which time police told the public that it had only been screened a few times. The New York Times, however, reported on Jan. 24 that based on documents obtained thanks to the Freedom of Information Act, the offensive video had been shown to more than 1,400 officers over a period of several months.
 According to Reuters, Kelly’s spokesperson Paul Browne said that the film ran on continuous loop in a Brooklyn police location used by officers to fill out paperwork during the down time, insisting that the film was not used in training sessions or shown in the Police Academy. Other reports, however, state that the police department said the video was played in a sign-in area of counterterrorism training sessions between October and December 2010, and according to documents released under the state’s public records law, as many as 1,489 trainees may have seen the film during this time. 
The NYPD and Kelly are also under fire for previously lying about Kelly’s role in the “The Third Jihad.” The police department previously said that Kelly was in no way involved with the making of the film and that Kelly’s 30-second appearance in the film was taken from an archive. Now, police are admitting that a spokesperson had helped arrange a 90-minute interview back in 2007, 30 seconds of which was featured in “The Third Jihad.” 
U.S. Muslim civil rights groups are demanding that Kelly and Browne step down from their posts in the NYPD. 
“As leaders of the nation’s largest police department, Commissioner Kelly and Deputy Commissioner Browne’s actions set a tone for relations with law enforcement that impact American Muslims nationwide,” Nihad Awad, national director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) said in a statement. “It’s time for a change.” 
CAIR, the Muslim American Vicil Liberties Coalition and other civil liberties groups held a news conference on the steps of City Hall on Jan. 26, calling for Kelly’s resignation during an event celebrating the 100th episode of the popular TV show, “Gossip Girl,” as well as the contributions by the TV and film industry to the city’s economy. 
