Attracting 11 million tourists in 2012
South Korea is eager to attract 11 million foreign tourists this year, up 12.4 percent from last year, the country’s state-run tourism agency announced.
 The Korea Tourism Organization (KTO) adds if the target is reached, it would create $11.7 billion in tourism revenue for South Korea and be the fourth year in a row with double digit growth in tourist numbers.
 In 2011, 9.79 million foreign visitors came to the country, up 11.3 percent from 2010 when 8.79 million people visited. Those visits generated around $11.5 billion. 
 The KTO said it would concentrate more on bringing in visitors from neighboring countries like China and Japan. According to the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, thanks to the heightened preference by Chinese and Japanese tourists, Korea’s international air passenger traffic reached an all-time high last year. 
 Government data shows that 42.65 million people took international flights coming into and out of South Korea in 2011, up 6.5 percent from the previous year. Of the total airline users, 5.66 million people were transit travelers. The nation’s two major carriers, Korean Air and Asiana handled an astonishing 66 percent of all passengers.
 Given that the World Expo is scheduled to open in the port city of Yeosu, the government is confident that the international air traffic will grow in 2012, along with the tourism business, which is crucial for creating jobs and boosting the national economy.
 “Customized tourism packages will be created to meet demand for tourists who have already visited in the past, with greater emphasis placed on linking tourism with medical treatment,” the KTO said. 
 Additional data show that international traffic to Southeast Asia and Oceania rose 18.4 percent and 15.2 percent respectively last year, but the number of people headed to Europe during the same period increased by only 10.5 percent. 
 In Asia, only Japan experienced a decline in air traffic - by 7.3 percent - likely because of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
