Major economies on alert
Economic polarization in the U.S.
 U.S. President Obama denounced America’s economic inequality during his State of the Union address on Jan. 24.
 He drew a battle line with Republicans ahead of a tough fight for re-election, and the address put Obama back in the spotlight.
 At the core of the address was the United States’ staggering economy.
 He emphasized that an active government that ensures economic fairness is urgently needed.
 He called for higher taxes on millionaires and aid for the middle class. Restoring a fair shot for all is the “defining issue of our time,” he said.
 “We can either settle for a country where a shrinking number of people do really well, while a growing number of Americans barely get by. Or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules,” he said.
 President Obama also proposed more help for college students, relief for homeowners and eliminating tax incentives that make it more attractive for companies to ship jobs overseas.
 Though domestic issues dominated his speech, Obama talked about extending new ties and influence toward Asia, while claiming that old alliances in Europe and elsewhere were stronger than ever.
 Regarding Syria, where more than 5,000 people have been killed in a crackdown on protesters, he said the government of President Bashar Assad would soon discover that the forces of change can‘t be reversed, and that human dignity can’t be denied.
 The president also called for the creation of a new trade enforcement unit that would go after unfair trade practices around the world. Obama said the U.S. would provide financing to put its companies on even footing when the Chinese or other competitors use unfair export financing to help their businesses.
 Obama faces considerable challenges three years into his term. Polling shows Americans are divided about the president’s overall job performance but unsatisfied with his handling of the economy.
 The economy is improving, but unemployment still stands at the high rate of 8.5 percent. Government debt stands at a record $15.2 trillion.
 No more export crown for Japan
 Japan reported its first annual trade deficit since 1980 as it imported expensive energy to offset shortfalls caused by a devastating tsunami and manufacturers shifted production overseas to avoid the damage inflicted by the strong yen. 
The 2.49 trillion yen ($32 billion) deficit for 2011 reflects a 2.7 percent decline in the value of Japan‘s exports to 65.55 trillion yen. In December, the trade balance was a deficit of 205.1 billion yen. 
“It reflects fundamental changes in Japan’s economy, particularly among manufacturers,” said Hideki Matsumura, senior economist at Japan Research Institute. “Japan is losing its competitiveness to produce domestically.” 
“It’s gotten difficult for manufacturers to export, so they’ve moved production abroad so that products sold outside the country are made outside the country,” he said. 
The yen’s surge to record levels against the dollar has made Japanese exports more 
expensive and it also erodes the value of foreign earned income when brought home. Currency levels have forced manufacturers including Nissan Motor Co. and Panasonic Corp. to shift some of their output to factories overseas. 
At the same time, Japan is facing intense competition from Korea, Taiwan and Singapore, where labor and production costs are cheaper. 
Japanese manufacturers have been battered by a host of negatives in the past year. The tsunami temporarily disrupted the production of automobile makers and other manufacturers. Weakness in the U.S. economy, Europe’s debt problems and recent flooding in Thailand, where many Japanese automakers have assembly lines, also contributed to export declines. 
Another major factor behind the figures was the impact of the expensive energy imports Japan turned to after the March disaster touched off a nuclear crisis and led the country to shut down, or not restart, a large portion of its reactors, said Martin Schulz, senior economist with the Fujitsu Research Institute. 
He said pressure to import energy would continue to weigh heavily on Japan for the next year, but will subside as the country pursues greater efficiency measures. 
Schulz argued that Japan’s competitiveness globally remains strong, but that companies have had to change their strategies. 
“Japan’s exports are really focused on high value exports and this market is fairly strong,” he said. “Japan’s competitiveness is not going down, but it is producing overseas.” 
The turmoil in Europe and the U.S. has driven up the yen as global investors flock to the currency as a relative safe haven. The yen hit multiple historic highs against the dollar in 2011. 
The yen has weakened to around 77 to the dollar recently, but exporters say it is still too high. Five years ago, the dollar was trading above 120 yen. 
