National economic growth lowest in 2 years
Korea’s economy grew at 0.4 percent in the last quarter of 2011, the slowest rate in two years, the nation’s central bank said on Jan. 26.
 The GDP expansion of 0.4 percent in Q4 of 2011 was the lowest since the last quarter of 2009 when the number stood at 0.2 percent.
 The sluggish expansion is largely due to Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which led to lower exports, weaker private consumption and poorer capital spending by companies, the central bank explained.
 Meanwhile, the overall 2011 growth of Korea, Asia’s fourth-largest economy, was recorded at 3.6 percent, which is far weaker than 6.2 percent recorded in 2010.
 “Amid sluggish domestic demand, exports turned negative,” the director general of the central bank’s economic statistics division said. He added that the financial crisis in the eurozone had a larger-than-expected impact on facility investment and private consumption.
 The central bank and the Ministry of Strategy and Finance further stressed on Jan. 27 that Korea’s exports would likely grow at a much slower pace in 2012 than a year earlier.
 The two organizations held a meeting where they agreed that the government would need to push for measures to boost exports by diversifying export markets.
 “We both expected [our] exports growth will drop to a single digit due to a slowing global economic growth caused by the eurozone fiscal debt crisis,” said a statement released after the two organization’s meeting.
 On Jan. 30, three days after the statement was released, however, the Finance Ministry brought out measures to surmount the economic difficulties.
 The ministry suggested that a possible free trade agreement between Korea and China would give a boost to Korea’s labor market.
 A report released by the ministry said the bilateral trade agreement between the two countries would open up the Chinese market to Korean exporters with eased regulations and help Korean enterprises based in China return to Korea.
 The report pointed out that a removal of tariffs between the two nations would give Korean goods a more competitive edge in the Chinese market against products from Japan and Taiwan.
 Also, Korean Trade Minister Bark Tae-ho said that the Korea-China FTA could attract European and American companies to move their manufacturing base to Korea and create more job opportunities for Korean graduates in an interview with Yonhap News in late January.
