Tteokguk: A Lunar New Year treat
Tteokguk (rice cake soup) is a traditional Korean dish eaten during the celebration of the Lunar New Year. The dish consists of “guk” (a broth usually made from beef), and “tteok” (thinly sliced rice cakes). It is tradition for families to eat tteokguk on New Year’s Day because it is purported to bring luck for the forthcoming year and grant an additional year of life. Tteokguk is also served to all visitors during the Lunar New Year holiday.
 The precise origin of the custom of eating tteokguk on Lunar New Year’s Day is unclear. The earliest documented mention of tteokguk is in Dongguksesigi -- the 19th-century book of customs. In it, tteokguk is mentioned as being made with rice cake in beef or pheasant broth, with pepper added as seasoning. The book refers to an ancient tradition of eating a bowl of tteokguk on the morning of New Year’s Day to get a year older, as well as the custom of saying “How many bowls of tteokguk have you eaten?” to ask a person’s age.  
 The rice cake used to make tteokguk is made into an elongated tube shape and called “garaetteok.” Its long shape is symbolic of a wish for longevity. It is further cut into oval shape slices which resembles coins, in another expression of wishing for wealth and prosperity. The most common form of tteokguk is made with diagonally sliced rice cakes simmered in beef broth and seasoned with clear soy sauce, salt and pepper. It is usually garnished with shredded beef, julienned fried egg, strips of dried laver, and chopped scallions. There are several regional varieties of tteokguk throughout Korea, such as: saeng tteokguk from Chungcheong province, joraengi tteokguk from the Gaeseong region, and gon tteokguk from the island of Jeju. A heartier version is known as tteokmanduguk, meaning tteokguk with dumplings.
 The tradition of eating rice cake in celebration of Lunar New Year is not limited to Korea. In China, several versions of rice cake, known as “nian gao,” are widely consumed throughout the country. It is considered good luck to eat nian gao during this time because it is a homonym for “higher year” -- a symbolism of raising oneself higher in each coming year. A popular version of “nian gao” is made of glutinous rice and brown sugar. It is steamed and shaped in the form of a pie. It can be eaten as is, or can be pan-fried afterwards, often with egg batter. The Shanghai version of “nian gao” is similar in appearance to the Korean tteok, and is commonly served as a stir-fried dish with pork, cabbage and scallions.
 Japan also has a tradition of eating rice cakes on Japanese New Year Day, which is based on the the Gregorian calendar. “Zōni” is a Japanese soup containing “mochi” -- a rice cake made of glutinous sticky rice. The soup dish is an important part of the celebratory New Year feast known as Osechi-ryōri. There are many regional versions of “Zōni”, but in most cases it is either a clear soup flavored with dashi (stock usually made from flakes of dried bonito fish) and soy sauce, generally preferred in eastern parts of the country, or a miso soup, more common in the western parts. Ingredients include “Mochi” (which can be cut into rectangular or round shapes), chicken, meatballs, fish, leafy vegetables and spices. 
