Bienvenue en France!
Paris, the city of love. There is nothing quite as romantic as strolling down the streets of Paris, or lounging in a café at one of the most beautiful, culturally and historically significant places in the world. Every girl has, at one point or another, dreamt of running off to France to meet the man of her dreams and have the kind of beautiful romance that books and movies are made of. 
However, France isn’t just a place to live out storybook romances; it is also filled with rich history and culture, ripe for exploration. Here are some places to check out and things to experience while exploring one of the strongest economies of the world.
 If you believe what the movies show, France is full of life and love. The monuments and sites around Paris are all but proof of that ideal. First, there is the Eiffel Tower (La Tour Eiffel in French). Constructed in 1889 and nicknamed the "Iron Lady," or La Dame de Fer in French, the Eiffel Tower is one of the tallest structures in France today and one of the most recognized structures in the world. The illuminated Eiffel Tower at night is almost as beautiful as the breathtaking view of Paris at the top of the tower. The air of romance is so undeniable that even the famous Tom Cruise reportedly proposed to his wife Katie Holmes at the top of the Eiffel Tower in 2005.
 The Avenue des Champs-Élysées is another popular destination for tourists, which is no surprise given that it is often referred to as “the most beautiful avenue in the world.” The street is 1.91 km long, starting from the Place de la Concorde in the east, where the Obelisk of Luxor is found, to the Place Charles de Gaulle (formerly the Place de l’Etoile) where the Arc de Triomphe stands. In between, there are numerous cinemas, cafés and shops, which means that the street is always teeming with people. 
Aside from being the epicenter of romance and shopping, France is also known for being a center of cultural creation for centuries. Home of such painters as Claude Monet, Édouard Manet and Edgar Degas, France is a history of rich cultural tradition. It is therefore unsurprising that France houses some of the most envied collections of cultural and historical artifacts in some of the most well-guarded and visited museums in the world. There are about 1,200 museums in France, including the world-famous Louvre Museum (Musée du Louvre in French). Other museums to check out include the Musée d’Orsay, Musée Rodin, Musée National d’Art Moderne and of course, the Musée Picasso. 
If you find that being corralled with hundreds, if not thousands of tourists is not your style, then perhaps you should consider backpacking through France, making sure to stop by the southern coast, for a chance to become immersed in the natural beauty of France’s culture and lifestyle. 
