Hero of Mission Impossible: Tom Cruise
Tom Cruise is one of Hollywood’s most impressive and successful actors who seems to have a knack for constantly dazzling fans worldwide with his signature action movies. Of all, his most celebrated films would probably be his “Mission: Impossible” series. 
 Though some critics mock him for his unusual religious leaning toward the Church of Scientology, his unmatchable talent and charm as global movie star stands not to be questioned.
 Tom Cruise was born in Syracuse, New York, on July 3, 1967. He made a remarkable impression by starring in a gothic horror film “Interview with the Vampire” alongside Brad Pitt in 1994. In the following years, Tom Cruise starred in a variety of other successful films, including “Jerry Maguire” (1996), and the dystopian science fiction thriller “Minority Report” (2002), which he worked with legendary director Steven Spielberg. 
 Cruise’s second installment of Mission Impossible series raked in almost $547 million globally. The movie was directed by Hong Kong director John Woo. Audiences were enamored with the movie’s gun and martial arts action and that year Cruise received an MTV Movie Award for Best Male Performance.
 The latest and the fourth installment of the Mission: Impossible series, “Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol” was recently released worldwide.
 The storyline of “Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol” begins with Tom Cruise, or his character, Ethan Hunt, being held in a Moscow prison. Luckily, his fellow IMF (Impossible Mission Force) agents Jane Carter and Benji Dunn were able to extract him. Together they break into the Moscow Kremlin archives to obtain a secret code. Once again, Tom Cruise faces a vital, yet “not-so-impossible” mission. 
 Tom Cruise has been named among the 50 most beautiful people in the world by People magazine several times. In 1997, Empire magazine ranked him among the top 5 film stars in history. In Japan, people even declared “Tom Cruise Day” on Oct. 10, 2006. 
