Vampire Bats
Native to the Americas, vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) are most commonly known for their association with fictional vampires in books and movies. 
Much like their fictional counterparts, vampire bats are nocturnal and need to consume blood in order to survive. Unlike how they are depicted in fiction however, rather than sucking blood, vampire bats make small cuts with their teeth and then lap up the flowing blood using their tongues. A special substance in the saliva prevents the blood from clotting. As the only known mammals to survive solely on blood, the longest that a vampire bat can survive without blood is 2 days. In captivity however, vampire bats can live up to 20 years. 
Vampire bats generally fly only about one meter above the ground and have such good eyesight that they can see their prey from 130 meters away. Weighing only about 15 to 50 grams, vampire bats tend to feed on animals 10,000 times bigger than themselves, like cows. Though their wingspan is about 20 centimeters long, their body is only the size of an adult human thumb. Unlike other species of bats however, vampire bats are special in that they can walk, run and jump in addition to flying. 
Light and agile, vampire bats can usually feed on a sleeping animal for about 30 minutes without waking it up, since it doesn’t usually hurt the animal. They can drink about half their bodyweight’s worth of blood, and as such, they require the use of a special thumb which helps them take off after feeding. 
Vampire bats are also special in that they have the ability to detect heat using their noses. According to a study published in the journal, Nature, this ability allows the bats to pinpoint the areas on an animal’s body where the blood flows near the surface of their skin. 
Dr. David Julius, the lead author of the study, tells the New York Times that the development of this ability in vampire bats is a good example of how an animal evolves “to detect the things that are most salient to its survival.” 
