Special tax should be levied on fast foods
Pro- I agree with having a special tax on fast food
 Is it right to levy a special tax on fast food? I agree with having a special tax on fast food because we can save medical expenses by staying healthy when the special tax is implemented. 
 Also, this bill can improve the country’s finances and its quality of life. These two reasons show why we need a special tax on fast food.
 This bill can help improve the finances of our country. The size of the fast food market has increased to 1.4 trillion won in Korea. If the Korean government levies a 20 percent tax on the market like in Chile, it can raise an extra 280 billon won in tax revenue. With this money, the government could do lots of things to help its citizens.
 I also think this bill can help improve Korea’s quality of life. If the government levies a tax on fast food, people will refrain from eating fast food, and fewer people will get the health problems that fast food causes, such as high blood pressure. Furthermore, it can help improve the quality of life not only by helping us stay healthy but also by helping us reduce our medical expenses.
 Some say it is people’s right to eat whatever they want, but staying healthy is everyone’s right. It is also government’s duty to help people control themselves. All in all, I agree with the special tax levied on fast food because of the reasons I mentioned above. 
 Special tax should be levied on fast foods. 
 I disagree with having a fat tax 
 The idea of a "fat tax" -- one imposed on instant, unhealthy, fast foods that cause obesity -- has caused controversy around the world. 
Denmark introduced a fat tax last October, and other European countries are considering following suit. However, our government is determined not to enact the law because of some problems that it might cause. I also disagree with the fat tax, especially when it is levied on fast foods.
 Firstly, the low-income people would suffer the most from this law. Most of the fast foods that would face price rises because of the tax are consumed by low-income families a lot of the time because of their cheaper price. If the special tax is added to these foods, the law will hurt them immensely. 
 Secondly, fat tax would not have the same effect as most people expect here in Korea. It was originally brought up in Europe because of the region’s increasingly obese population. However, compared to European nations, Korea has a low obesity rate, and those people who are obese are mostly low-incomers. So I think an additional tax on fast food will not help the obese.
 Lastly, obesity comes from an individual’s eating and overall living habits. It is not solely dependent on what food they eat. There are those that eat fast food frequently yet stay slim and healthy. On the other hand, there are those who avoid eating unhealthy foods but are over-weight. The government shoud not impose tax on fast foods just because they contain more fat. 
