Possible Taliban resurgence in Afghanistan
A secret military report by the U.S. government states that the Taliban, backed by Pakistan, remains confident that it will retake control of Afghanistan once foreign forces withdraw. 
The classified report, The State of the Taliban 2012, was leaked to the BBC and the Times of London. It is the latest report compiled by a U.S. special operations taskforce based on information gained during the interrogations of 4,000 suspected Taliban and al-Qaida detainees. 
NATO spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jimmie Cummings downplayed the report as nothing more than a “compilation of Taliban detainee opinions,” stressing that “It’s not an analysis, nor is it meant to be considered an analysis.” Reuters, however, has stressed that it paints a “troubling picture of the Afghan war more than 10 years after the Taliban government was toppled.” 
According to the published excerpts by the Times and BBC, “Taliban commanders, along with rank and file members, increasingly believe their [future] control of Afghanistan is inevitable.” 
“Though the Taliban suffered severely in 2011, its strength, motivation, funding and tactical proficiency remains intact,” the report continued. “In the last year, there has been unprecedented interest, even from members [of the Afghan government], in joining the insurgent cause. Afghan civilians frequently prefer Taliban governance over [the Afghan government], usually as a result of government corruption, ethnic bias and lack of connection with local religious and tribal leaders.”
 Hours after the Times published its news report, the Afghan Taliban issued a statement stating that no peace negotiation process has been agreed to with the international community, “particularly the Americans.” This statement comes in light of recent rumors which suggest the possibility of opening peace talks between the Taliban and the unpopular Afghan President Hamid Karzai’s government in Saudi Arabia. 
The statement released by Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid, however, further stated that any negotiations between the Taliban and the international community will not happen unless there is “trust-building between the sides, which has not started yet.” In particular, the Taliban is demanding the release of five of its senior members from U.S. custody in Guantanamo Bay. 
“While they are weary of war, they see little hope for a negotiated peace,” the report states. “Despite numerous tactical setbacks, surrender is far from their collective mindset. For the moment, they believe that continuing the fight and expanding Taliban governance are their only viable courses of action.”
