N. Korean nuclear issue under renewed spotlight
South Korea’s top nuclear envoy will travel to Russia on Feb. 8 to chip to try to resume the deadlocked six-party talks and hopefully to put an effective brake on North Korea’s nuclear weapons ambitions, according to the Foreign Ministry. 
 On his visit, South Korea’s Lim Sung-nam will meet Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov, Moscow’s new chief delegate to the six-nation talks. 
 The ministry spokesman Cho Byung-jae told reporters that Lim and Morgulov “will assess and exchange views on the situation on the Korean Peninsula after Kim Jong-il’s death and consult the way forward regarding the North Korean nuclear issue, along with ways for the resumption of the six-party talks.” 
 The six-party talks, which involve six nations including two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the U.S. have been suspended since late 2008. Last year, North Korea decided to come back to the negotiating table at the 11th hour, but the sudden death of Kim Jong-il pushed the issue back to the starting point.
 The power change inside the hermit kingdom to late Kim’s youngest son Kim Jong-eun, also furthered Washington’s concern over North Korea’s clandestine nuclear activities. Kurt Campbell, Washington’s top diplomat on Asia, arrived in Seoul late last month to discuss the North Korean issue with Lim.
 The U.S. intelligence chief predicted that the North will not give up the country’s exports of weapons of massive destruction.
 James Clapper, director of national intelligence also pointed out that “North Korea’s exports of ballistic missiles and associated materials to several countries, including Iran and Syria, illustrates the reach of the North’s proliferation activities.“
 “We don’t expect Kim Jong-eun, North Korea’s new young leader, to change Pyongyang’s policy of attempting to export most of its weapons systems.”
 Shortly after Kim Jong-il’s demise in December 2011, Washington made it clear by stating that “there will be no major policy shift on Pyongyang after its power transfer.”
