Attempts to control piracy and the internet threaten free speech: ACTA
Internet and free speech activists have gathered worldwide in protest of the latest international copyright treaty, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA). 
This controversial treaty has caused increased panic amongst internet users around the world, especially because much of the signing was done behind closed doors. 
The idea for the treaty was born in October 2007 between the United States, the European Union, Switzerland and Japan. The public had been largely unaware of the treaty until earlier this year when the hacker group Anonymous brought it into the spotlight in a blog post on Jan. 23. 
ACTA – what is it?
 From the beginning, ACTA was meant to deal with both physical and digital counterfeit goods. According to the Guardian, it is an “international treaty that forces signatories to criminalize ‘commercial-scale’ copyright and trademark infringement.” This covers both physical counterfeit goods (i.e. knock-off designer brand bags and generic medicines) and online pirated goods (i.e. pirated songs and movies) as well. 
Most countries currently have similar laws in place; the U.K. for example, allows courts to block or take down websites infringing on copyright claims. Therefore, the core idea behind ACTA is to ensure that other countries to do the same. 
Unlike the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and Protect IP Act (PIPA) bills, which mainly targeted online piracy of U.S. content on overseas sites, ACTA is an international treaty which means it can “set up its own legal framework and independent governing body, rather than amending existing national laws in signatory countries,” Business Insider reported.
 Since news of ACTA was leaked to the public, its condemnation has been swift and broad. Many people have largely criticized not only its policies, but the secrecy with which the treaty has been developed and signed.
 In fact, the treaty was negotiated outside of international forums such as the World Trade Organization (WTO) and World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), with participants asked to sign confidentiality agreements to prevent the disclosure of any information by the U.S. trade representative office. It was signed during a largely well-kept secret ceremony in Tokyo, Japan, by the U.S., Australia, Canada, South Korea, Japan, New Zealand, Morocco, Singapore and 22 member states of the EU on Oct. 1, 2011. 
ACTA-what’s the problem?
 In a world where internet use, peer to peer file sharing and illegal downloads are rampant, many have struggled to find ways to enforce copyright laws and control the flow of information. The fundamentally vague wording of ACTA, however, threatens not only corporations accused of piracy, but the privacy of individual internet users as well.
 Opponents of ACTA have decried the treaty as a threat to the free speech and democratic rights of individuals. 
According to ACTA, criminal and civil enforcement procedures can be applied when copyright, or other such rights, are infringed upon, for the “means of widespread distribution for infringing purposes.” 
The Guardian argues that since widespread distribution is the main reason for internet usage, “this could be interpreted as a go-ahead for cracking down on small-scale infringers, or even people who post a copyrighted image or parody of it on their blogs.” 
Another reason why people are protesting ACTA is because of a controversial provision which could be interpreted as requiring Internet service providers (ISPs) to monitor their users’ online traffic for possible copyright violations. This would undoubtedly be a violation of individual privacy and could possibly lead to worldwide Internet censorship. 
According to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, ACTA would prevent the free flow of information online, which would slow down innovation and impede legitimate online businesses. Such a unilateral international agreement could also pose problems for developing countries that may not have enough resources to create and maintain ACTA safeguards. 
India, for example, would be greatly affected because a large portion of its population are dependent on generic medicines.
 “This agreement might have major consequences on citizens‘ lives, and still, everything is being done to prevent the European Parliament from having its say in this matter.” Kader Arif, the European Parliament’s rapporteur on ACTA said. 
“That is why today … I want to send a strong signal and alert the public opinion about this unacceptable situation. I will not take part in this masquerade.”
 While the European Commission has dismissed criticisms that the treaty was negotiated in secret, Arif directly contradicted this claim. Resigning his position as rapporteur on Jan. 26, Adif stated that he wanted to “denounce in the strongest manner the process that led to the signing of this agreement,” specifically pointing to the “lack of transparency from the beginning.”
 What now?
 According to The Sofia Echo, Bulgaria’s national English-language newspaper, online freedom groups and lawyers protest the treaty because they say it “opens the door for strict online policing of online space.”
 Protest rallies have gained momentum in Europe lately, because the treaty requires ratification by the EU parliament before it can come into effect. If passed, the impact of the treaty, however, will be felt worldwide. 
Anonymous has playing a key role in online protests and thousands have begun gathering on the streets of Europe to protest the treaty as the countdown to the vote begins. According to news reports, the European Parliament is expected to vote on ACTA some time in June.
