Koreans’ average height grew 12 cm from Joseon times
Koreans who lived in the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1910) were a lot shorter than today’s generation, a medical study by Seoul National University suggested.
 The study on how South Koreans’ average height has changed over time revealed that today’s Korean men are taller by 12.9 centimeters and women by 11.6 centimeters than their ancestors from the Joseon era.
 The study tells the average height of South Korean male during the Joseon Dynasty was 161.1 centimeters while average woman stood at 148.9 centimeters. The number surged to 174 centimeters for men and 160.5 centimeters for women in 2010.
 Scientists measured the size of thighbones extracted from the remains of 116 adults from the 15th through 19th centuries to predict ancestors’ average heights. This measurement is known to have been frequently used in Japan and regarded as the most precise way of identifying the height of remains, argued Hwang Young-il and Shin Dong-hun, anatomy professors of Seoul National University’s College of Medicine.
 The study notes that the average height from the early 15th century to the late 19th century showed no noticeable change, whereas beginning in the early 20th century, a steep rise was spotted, possibly resulted from Korea’s modernization and industrialization.
 “Nutritional conditions, diseases and other hygienic elements appear to be the main factors for the shorter average height of Koreans during the Joseon era,” Hwang explained. He said that insufficient caloric intake or disease while growing up could have hindered the natural physical development. 
 A previous study on finding the tallest nation in the world, Korea ranked 15th out of 19 nations, but beat Japan by 6 centimeters. North Korea was the shortest nation in the world, with the average height of 158 centimeters for men and 153 centimeters for women. The tallest nation was the Netherlands with men’s average height at 182.5 centimeters and women’s average height at 170.5 centimeters. 
 Scientists suggest that a nutritious diet including fruits, vegetables, dairy, cereals and meat, along with exercise and no stress are vital in boosting one’s natural growth. 　
