Ahn Jung-hwan retires from football
“I reached the World Cup three times, and I enjoyed everything a football player could have enjoyed. …Over my 14-year career, my family has made a lot of sacrifices. I want to spend more time with them and just be a normal dad.” – Ahn Jung-hwan
 At a recent press conference in Seoul, former Korean national team member Ahn Jung-hwan announced his retirement from football after a stellar career. Korea’s hero of the 2002 World Cup was emotional as he bid farewell to the sport he lived and loved for the past 14 years. The normally quiet and stoic Ahn broke down in tears as he talked about his achievements in football and his desire to spend more time with his family. The 36-year-old striker, much-admired for his superior technical skills and high level of professionalism, hangs up his cleats after earning 71 caps and scoring 17 goals for the national team. 
 Ahn Jung-hwan made his professional football debut in 1998 with K-League’s Busan Daewoo Royals. From 1998 to 2000, he played in 54 league games and scored 27 goals. He helped the team capture the K-League Cup championship in 1999 and was crowned the league MVP. In 2000, Ahn was loaned to Italian Serie-A’s AC Peruggia for one year, with an option for another year. He struggled to find his form, and as a result, spent most of his time on Perugia’s bench. He made 30 appearances and scored 5 goals in two seasons. 
 The turning point in Ahn Jung-hwan’s career came when Dutchman Guus Hiddink took over the reins of the Korean national team in December 2000. The wily coach shook up Ahn by mixing harsh criticism with words of encouragement. Ahn took Hiddink’s words to heart and started to apply himself. By the time the 2002 World Cup came around, he was ready to take center stage. In the crucial group-stage match against Italy, it was Ahn who soared above Paolo Maldini to nod in the golden goal in extra time that sent Korea to the round of 16 for the first time. 
 Ahn Jung-hwan’s World Cup heroics sent the nation into a joyful frenzy, but in Italy, Perugia’s president Luciano Guacci was beside himself. The controversial and eccentric club boss canceled Ahn’s contract and reportedly said Ahn would never set foot in Italy again. 
 “He was a phenomenon only against Italy and I have no intention of paying the salary of someone who has ruined Italian soccer,” he said. 
 Guacci later backtracked and offered to buy out Ahn’s contract, but the player rejected it, saying: “I will no longer discuss my transfer to Perugia, which attacked my character instead of congratulating me for a goal in the World Cup.”　
 After the World Cup campaign, Ahn Jung-hwan attempted to move back to Europe but failed to secure contract offers from English, Spanish and German clubs. In September 2002, he joined J League’s Shimuzu S-Pulse and scored 14 goals in 38 appearances. In the following season, he moved to defending J-League Champions Yokohama Marinos and tallied 16 goals in 34 games. Thereafter, Ahn played one-year stints with French club FC Metz, German club MSV Duisburg, the K League’s Suwon Bluewings and Busan I’Park. He rounded out his career playing for Dalian Shide of the Chinese Super League.
 Although blessed with movie-star good looks and adored by legions of fans, Ahn Jung-hwan is noted for his unassuming demeanor and humble nature. He does not court controversy and maintains a squeaky-clean image. He is a devout family man who never forgets to honor his wife by kissing his wedding ring after scoring a goal.
