Royal books returned from France available for viewing online
“We built a digital database of the Oegyujanggak books and made them available on our website to better preserve the original copies and improve users‘ accessibility.“ - The National Museum of Korea 
 Korea’s national museum announced that it has launched an online service where users can view some of the royal books that were retrieved from France early last year. The ancient texts, from a collection known as “Uigwe,” were the protocols of royal ceremonies during the Joseon Dynasty. They were seized by French troops from Korea in 1866 during an invasion. The museum plans to expand the online service to include the full collection of the returned books in the near future. 
 On Feb. 7, 2011, the Korean government announced that France would return 297 volumes of Oegyujanggak to Korea in a five-year renewable lease agreement. The collection records and describes major ceremonies and rites of the royal family through prose and vivid illustrations. It was added to the UNESCO Memory of the World register in 2007 for its rarity and historical significance. The return of these books was the culmination of years of diplomatic maneuvering, intense negotiations and legal action. The royal books are finally home where they belong and are currently housed in the Special Exhibition Gallery in the Permanent Exhibition Hall in the National Museum of Korea.
 The actual exhibition of Oegyujanggak books at the national museum is divided into six sections. Section 1, “The Quintessence of Joseon’s Record keeping Tradition,” details the procedures by which Oegyujanggak was established. Two versions of uigwe, one for kings and the other for distribution, are displayed side-by-side for comparison. One item of particular interest in this section is the four-fold map illustrating Oegyujanggak, the royal library on Ganghwa Island. Section 2, “Kingly Authority and Statecraft,” shows uigwe related to Jongmyo Jerye (a rite held for the worshipping of late kings and queens of the Joseon Dynasty at Jongmyo Shrine.) It contains “Uigwe for Rewarding the Bosa Meritorious Subjects,” one of only a few uigwe documents that contains Hangeul.
 Section 3, “Occasions for State Celebration,” displays uigwe related to ceremonies and rituals for royal weddings, coronations, and granting of a posthumous titles. These documents include the list of items produced and materials used during ceremonies, as well as illustrations in vibrant colors of the “Uigwe for Crown Prince Hyojang’s Investiture Ceremony.” Section 4, “Funerals for Royal Family Members,” presents elaborate, detailed procedures to be followed while the deceased is still on their deathbed, and the preparations for the funeral procession and final burial. It includes procedures for the construction of royal tombs and subsequent memorial services. 
 Section 5, “Memorial and Remembrance,” shows how late monarchs of the Joseon Dynasty are honored. It illustrates how the ancestral tablets of the kings are housed at Jongmyo Shrine after a three-year memorial service. It contains the procedure on how a posthumous name is granted to a deceased king or queen, and the drawing of a portrait of the deceased king. Section 6, “The Return of the Oegyujanggak Uigwe,” exhibits documents from the Byeongin Yangyo incident in 1866 when the French invaded Ganghwa Island, as well as documents related to the recent return of the Oegyujanggak Uigwe.
