Popular weight-loss program host battles pet obesity
Alison Sweeney, host of the popular U.S. weight loss TV series, “The Biggest Loser,” where she helps overweight contestants shed the pounds is now faced with a new challenge: helping obese pets lose weight. 　
 Sweeney has helped contestants on “The Biggest Loser” lead a healthier life through proper exercise and diet since 2007. According to an interview with Reuters, Sweeney was not aware of the issue of pet obesity until she took her pet Boston Terrier, Winky, to the vet and was told that the dog was overweight.
 “She was a little thick, but I thought it was kind of cute,” Sweeney explained. “The vet explained she was a good two pounds [1 kg] overweight … People don’t realize what a significant difference a pound or two can make on a small animal.” 
According to a recent survey by the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), approximately 53 percent of pet cats and 55 percent of pet dogs are overweight or obese in the U.S. In an effort to raise awareness about obesity in pets, Sweeney has teamed up with the dog food company, Hill’s Science Diet, for its second annual Million Pound Pledge. The Million Pound Pledge is a commitment between U.S. pet owners nationwide to help lose a combined 1 million pounds in their pets’ weight. 
When asked what the most common mistake pet owners make regarding feeding their pets, Sweeney said, “The number one mistake is giving pets table scraps.” 
According to Sweeney, giving your pet food and treats from your plate is very unhealthy. “I made the mistake thinking I was showing my dog love by giving her food and treats. You see a tiny 4 oz. piece [113.4 grams] of cheese, but for a Boston Terrier like mine, that’s like one and a half hamburgers.” 
To prevent pet obesity, Sweeney says to make sure your pets are “getting fed at the same time every day and getting the nutrition they need.” More importantly, “make sure they get a lot of love and attention you both need. That’s why you have them! [sic]” 
