Wonderful Indonesia
The developing Muslim nation of Indonesia has always seen a lot of international visitors, having been an important trade region since at least the 7th century. Recently, however, it has drawn increased attention as a haven for foreign investors due to strong domestic consumption. 
As the nation begins to take on a greater role in the international market, it is no surprise that tourists have begun to show a greater interest in the world’s largest archipelago nation.
 As with any Southeast Asian country, Indonesia holds some of the most beautiful beaches and breathtaking scenery in the entire world. Although best known for the island of Bali, there are numerous other islands and cultures to explore. 
Pulau Weh (Weh Island) 
The Lonely Planet travel guide describes Pulau Weh as having “undisturbed beaches, visiting whale sharks and sublime diving.” If this doesn’t convince you of what wonders behold this little island, nothing will. The beaches of Weh are pristine due to having fewer tourists than places like Bali. The underwater landscape, on the other hand, is full of life and adventure. So much so that going scuba diving will feel like an action-movie experience. 
 Danau Toba (Lake Toba)
 Danau Toba is often considered the prettiest volcanic lake in the Sumatra region of Indonesia. As the largest volcanic lake in the world, Toba is the site of a supervolcanic eruption estimated to have occurred around 70,000 years ago. 
The real appeal of it, however, is the hospitality of its inhabitants, the Batak people. Home to a very relaxed people who also enjoy a good party, Danau Toba is a great place to visit with family, friends or as a couple. 
Other beautiful volcanic lakes to check out are the ones located atop the Kelimutu volcano. Kelimutu contains three summit crater lakes, each reflecting a different color; usually blue, green and red. 
 Borobudur 
For those looking for a spiritual vacation, Borobudur is the place to go. Surrounded by tall, swaying palm trees and bright green rice fields, Borobudur is Indonesia’s most incredible monument to Buddha. Dating back to the 9th century, the monument is comprised of 60,000 cubic meters of stone and decorated with 2,672 relief panels and 504 Buddha statues. Having survived terrorist bombs, wear and tear of tourism, and even some major natural disasters, it remains as breathtaking as it must have been when it was first built. 
For truly spectacular scenery and relaxing vacation, visit the wonder that is Indonesia. 
By Park So-eun (spark@heraldm.com) 
Interesting fact:
 Indonesians do not generally use the practice of having a first and last name. Instead, they have one name, which is usually culturally and geographically specific. 
