Goddess of figure skating: Kim Yu-na
South Korean figure skating star Kim Yu-na’s unexpected appearance in an American mathematics textbook has taken Korea by surprise. 
 The book did not directly mention who she was, but a picture of Kim performing a jump appeared in a U.S. textbook called “Algebra and Trigonometry: A Graphic Approach,” the Herald Business reported on Jan. 31.
 Her picture was used for a chapter explaining the importance of studying trigonometry and how it is closely related to our lives. 
 Her agency All That Sports noted that even though the publisher was not permitted to use Kim’s picture arbitrarily, it won’t file a legal action against the publisher.
 Kim Yu-na, South Korea’s most celebrated figure skater was born on Sept. 5, 1990 in Bucheon, Gyeonggi province. She began skating at the age of 7 in her home country. 
 It didn’t take a while for her coach to notice her exceptional talent in skating. 
 In a 2011 interview, Kim thanked her childhood coach by saying, “My coaches have told me my muscles and body structure are perfect for skating…… I was lucky my coaches noticed early on and helped me develop that. A lot of people don’t know they are born that way.” 
 Kim Yu-na’s accomplishments as a figure skater are jaw-dropping, as she is the first female figure skater to win the grand-slam in figure skating by taking home all four major skating championship titles: the Olympic, World Championship, Four Continents and Grand Prix titles. 
The slew of awards she has garnered include titles as 2009 World champion, 2009 Four Continents champion, three Grand Prix Final championships (2006–2007, 2007–2008, 2009–2010), 2006 World Junior champion, 2005–2006 Junior Grand Prix Final champion, and South Korean national champion for four straight years (2002–2005). 
 Under the ISU Judging System, Kim is the first female skater to surpass the 200-point mark and is the ladies’ record holder in the short program, the free skate and combined score.
 Kim Yu-na, one of South Korea’s favorite sports stars and a media figure who ran her TV show with much acclaim, is currently training in Los Angeles, California.
