Entertainers should get paid more than athletes
Pro- I think that entertainers should get paid more than athletes. 
 Entertainers, through what they do, can give great joy and happiness to many people. People enjoy entertainers’ music, movies, and soap operas whenever they feel down and instantly get reinvigorated by them. 
 Their works of art help others feel better. Therefore, what entertainers do for a living is not strictly their own but it has much far-reaching influence on other people’s lives. Athletes can also delight fans with their performances, but their level of reach to the general public is more limited than that of entertainers. Considering the unfathomable value entertainers’ work has in people’s lives, I think that they deserve to earn even more than athletes.
 In addition, entertainers only work part time in their lives. Due to the nature of their profession -- with hectic schedules, project based work, fierce competition and physical strain – they are restricted to work year around. So entertainers have to secure money for rainy days. 
 In the entertainment industry, only those at the top make a fortune. Those on the middle and the bottom rungs of the ladder are not as well off as most people think. The chance of becoming big is incredibly slim for them, so their job is quite unstable, unlike ordinary professions. Of course, athletes also tend to play for part of the year, but they train and play off-season games and are commonly paid and shielded by a yearly contract, so I believe that entertainers need to be paid more than athletes. 
 For the two reasons, I think that entertainers should get paid more than athletes.
 Entertainers should get paid more than athletes
 Con- I believe that athletes should get paid more than entertainers
 Entertainers and athletes both entertain the public through their job. I believe that athletes should get paid more than entertainers because they spend more time preparing for games and have less chance of becoming famous.
 To start with, athletes have to practice and prepare for their games for a long time. For example, most athletes have to have talent in their fields or begin playing their games at an early age. Also it is a common thing for athletes to practice for 10 straight hours in a day before special games. 
On the other hand, I think that entertainers don’t prepare as much as athletes do. Of course there are exceptions such as legendary opera singers or great musicians, but most entertainers, for instance like idol-singers, it is not very common for them to spend just a year practicing before their debut.
 On top of that, it is harder to be a star player. The number of sporting events the general public knows about is limited. So when people name athletes, they only know about 30 on average. However, people can name as many entertainers as they would like because they come across them anytime they turn on a television. Also, entertainers can pursue several professions. Singers can act, comedians become MCs, and actors appear on musicals. 
 For the reasons I mentioned above, I disagree with idea that entertainers should get paid more than athletes. This is because athletes practice more than entertainers and it is harder for them to be famous. 
