Faced with rising shortage of skilled workers, schools turn to robotics
As the U.S. attempts to struggle with a shortage of skilled workers in the nation’s factories, teenage students at the Escuela Vieau School in Milwaukee spend their time building model wind turbines in a class designed to help spark an interest in engineering. 
Escuela Vieau’s focus on teaching its students to apply their learned skills - such as applying learned math to measuring, designing and assembly - is a “hopeful sign for manufacturers facing an unfamiliar problem as the country grapples with high unemployment,” Reuters reported.
 According to a survey by Deloitte and The Manufacturing Institute, despite high unemployment rates all across the country, there are still some 600,000 skilled manufacturing positions left unfilled in the United States. 
Unlike traditional factories of the 1950s and 60s which required hundreds of workers performing repetitive tasks, modern factories are mostly automated. This means that while traditional factory workers merely needed to be able to perform one task repetitively, today’s factory workers need to be familiar with how machines work, and thus able to monitor and fix them when they break down. 
Nick Goebel, who heads a Rockwell Automation Inc. unit where factory workers are trained, has explained to Reuters that he has found the problem of a shortage of skilled workers to be in the nation’s education system. 
“I went to school with engineers who could tell you all about the thermodynamics of an engine but couldn’t take a spark plug out of it,” Goebel explains. “In a technical college, generally they know how to take the engine apart and put it back together, but they don’t understand how it works.”
 The phasing out of shop classes in favor of computer classes has also led to a widening gap between unemployment and the need for skilled factory workers. 
Policy makers have taken notice, resulting in the launch of initiatives such as Project Lead The Way (PLTW). PLTW was launched by the White House and is being co-chaired by the heads of Dow Chemical Co. and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a possible solution to this gap.
 As part of PLTW, Escuela Vieau and 4,200 other middle and high schools have designed curricular programs aimed at teaching problem-solving and hands-on skills in science, technology, engineering and math. 
