IAAF
The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) is the international governing body for athletics. 
Founded in Stockholm, Sweden in 1912 the IAAF was initially called the International Amateur Athletics Federation. In 1993 the headquarters was moved to Monaco, and in 2001 the organization’s name was officially changed to its current form. 
The IAAF Council initially consisted of only seven members representing 17 nations in 1912, though today, it has grown to 27 members representing 213 different nations. Lamine Diack, who was a Senegalese long jumper in the late 1950s, has been IAAF President since he was elected by the IAAF Congress in 2001. 
The main purpose of the IAAF organization was to standardize technical equipment and world records, as well as enhance the quality of life for athletes. With the creation of a trust fund for athletes in 1985, a steady change in the field of athletics began to take place. Financial motivations changed the focus from talented, amateur athletes to professional and highly trained athletes. The introduction of the IAAF Competition Award in 1997 helped to further drive this change. The IAAF Competition Awards was the first time the organization gave prize money to successful athletes. 
As time went by, the development of applied sports sciences, improved equipment and new training and competition techniques brought even more changes to the sport. According to the official IAAF website, “sadly, performance-enhancing drugs became more prominent at this time as well, jeopardizing the moral fabric of sport as well as the health and lives of young people.” As a result, a worldwide movement was started by the IAAF in the “development and application of an extensive anti-doping program involving testing both in and out of competition” in the athletic community. 
As of today, the programs officially being governed by the IAAF includes World Championships, World Junior Championships, World Youth Championships, World Indoor Championships, World Cup, World Cross Country Championships, World Race Walking Cup, World Half Marathon Championships, World Road Relay Championships, the International Golden League/Grand Prix Circuit, the Diamond League, the International Cross Country Circuit, the Combined Events Challenge and Mountain Running.
