Meet Seo Ul, 16-year-old author of ‘Cherry Salmon’
16-year-old Seo Ul, who was a Junior Herald student reporter in 2009, recently published a book titled, ‘Cherry Salmon’ in Korean and English. She never went abroad for study but was still able to develop outstanding English skills. Seo Ul, who is also a honorary ambassador of Hwacheon Mountain Trout Festival, is currently doing home schooling. The unique path she has taken has put her in the media spotlight. The Junior Herald visited her on Feb. 7 at her home in Bucheon, Gyeonggi Province. 
 Q. You worked as a JH student reporter in 2009 when you were in 6th grade. What did you learn through the experience?
 A. To me, having been a JH student reporter holds significant meaning. At the Junior Herald, I could actively participate as a reporter and express my thoughts freely through writing articles on topics of my choice. JH articles helped me keep up with current issues and I used them for discussion. The JENIE page also helped me polish my English skills. 
 Q. Your book Cherry Salmon sheds light on socially neglected people in our society. How did you come up with the plot and what message did you want to convey?
 A. When I was a 6th grader, I went to the Hwacheon Mountain Trout Festival. I got to know about various kinds of trout and cherry salmon was among them. I really liked the name and the title of my book came from it. At the festival, I saw a county mayor who was having a really good time with the crowd. I took him as a model for the town mayor in my book. What’s more, I met a Thai boy there and since I was a JH reporter back then, I grabbed him and struck up a conversation with him. 
 Later he was modeled as the main character in my book, “Cherry Salmon.” From that day, I wrote a number of practice pieces and it was last Chuseok that I began writing it in earnest. It took me about two to three months to complete. The message I wanted to send through Cherry Salmon was that people should make the first move, reach out to the underprivileged in our society with genuine consideration. We must not turn a blind eye to them. I think that today’s bullying problem in school has also derived from a lack of genuine communication and consideration for others in our society.
 Q. It is also written in English. Why and how did you polish your English skill?
 A. I published an English version too because I wanted to prepare in advance for my future career as a professional writer. Conveying your message in English is very tricky and I wanted to develop the skill starting now. 
 Q. Why did you change your name from Seo Ye-lin to Seo Ul? Is it your pen name?
 A: My previous name, Ye-lin, was quite common and a Korean cartoonist has the same name as me, so I decided to change it. It is not just my pen name. Seo Ul is my name now. 
 Q. I heard you are currently home schooling. What made you decide to home school and when? Was it purely your choice?
 A: I thought about home schooling right after I graduated from elementary school. Then, I took the idea into action during the summer vacation of second grade middle school. I was top of the school and enjoyed playing with friends. So when I brought up the idea, everyone was all stunned and dissuaded me. But I was so firm with the decision. I thought home schooling was a more effective and efficient way of studying. Since I had a strong belief in myself and a firm determination to pursue my study through home schooling, they eventually supported my idea. 
 Q. What is your dream? 
A: Ultimately I want to be a writer. I love reading and this made me dream of becoming a professional writer. I was never forced to read or become a writer. It was entirely my decision. I want to write about socially unprivileged people in society and remind readers that “empathetic and considerate communication” with them is crucial for building a healthy society. I believe that the true meaning of communication involves sincere and genuine consideration for others. Today, many people communicate but they do it in a self-centered way. Strictly speaking, this is not real communication. I would like to carry out true communication through my writing. 
 Q. You mentioned that you enjoy reading a lot. What are you reading these days and who is your favorite author? 
A: Recently I read ‘Ancient Futures: Learning from Ladakh’ by Helena Norberg Hodge. I do not have a specific preference when it comes to the genre of book I choose to read. I like to read as many genres of books as possible. My favorite author is Bernard Werber. I like all of his books and I also enjoyed reading ‘Future Shock’ by Alvin Toffler. Unfortunately, I am studying for exams these days, so I don’t get as much time for reading as I would like to have.
 Q. What other hobbies besides reading and writing do you enjoy? 
A. I like watching movies every once in a while. I really enjoy watching movies that touch on social issues, such as “Silenced,” “Unbowed” and “The Client.” I also play instruments - piano and cello - and study Chinese and Japanese.
 Q. What are you up to these days? 
A: I am preparing for a high school qualification examination this April and university qualification examination in August. I also plan to take the national college entrance exam in November. For the time being, I need to focus on exam preparations, so I can’t fully devote time to writing. Hopefully I will be able to study English literature at Seoul National University. This is because I wish to write in English as flawlessly as in Korean. I hope that in the future, international readers can also enjoy my pieces. If possible I want to study at Harvard University, too. I just can’t wait to begin writing in earnest. 
 Q: Lastly, what do you want to say to the Junior Herald readers?
 A: I would like to recommend JH student reporters and readers to try to make JH articles on their own. This can be accomplished by writing down your thoughts after reading these articles. It will help you develop your power of thinking. There are many people who read a lot but few who thoroughly understand and grasp the message a book contains. Applying the lessons from books would serve you well for your self-development.
In a small town, a Thai boy named Cherry Salmon sells trout to support his sick father. Nobody buys his fish but only a warm-hearted town mayor who reaches out to him and buys all of his fish every single day. This is because the major sincerely wants to help Cherry Salmon. 
 With the money earned the boy buys food and medicine and for his father every night. Then one day Cherry Salmon becomes very sick and never recovers. After he dies, the mayor continues to support the boy’s father by opening a bakery for him. The store sells fish-shaped bread, in remembrance of Cherry Salmon. Thanks to the mayor’s compassionate and genuine consideration of the boy and his dad, the town is filled with warmth and love.
 Seo Ul has recently finished her second book and it is scheduled to hit bookstores around mid February and early March. Way to go, Seo Ul! 
