Korea, Saudi Arabia boost ties in energy and defense industry
Korea and Saudi Arabia agreed to expand their bilateral cooperation in the energy and defense industry to a more strategic level, the presidential office of Cheong Wa Dae said early February.
 Korean President Lee Myung-bak arrived in Saudi Arabia on Feb. 7 during his week-long trip to the Middle East from Feb. 4 to 11.
 Cheong Wa Dae said earlier that President Lee’s visit to Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates was expected to provide momentum for cooperative relations with the Middle East in line with Korea’s effort to diversify sources of crude oil imports and secure a more stable energy supply.
 Meeting with Ali Al-Naimi, the Saudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, President Lee said: “During economic downturns, an increasing oil price can bring an economic crisis. … We will seriously have to consider possibilities that diplomatic disputes may occur among oil-producing countries.”
 The meeting between President Lee and the Saudi minister was held to reinforce the cooperative channel with Saudi Arabia while the world’s oil market has been destabilizing since Iran cut off oil exports, the presidential office explained.
 On Feb. 8, the President met Saudi Defense Minister Prince Salam, and the two agreed to enhance their countries’ collaboration in the fields of defense industry.
 The agreement included export of munitions to Saudi Arabia and the two countries’ joint production of defense articles.
 President Lee and Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah bin Abdul-Aziz Al Saud also met on Feb. 8 at the grounds of the Janadriyah National Festival.
 President Lee who had been invited to a national festival of Saudi Arabia as a “guest of honor” expressed his gratitude to the King, and the two leaders agreed to take the occasion to promote the expansion of cultural exchange and deepening of friendship between the people of the two countries, Cheong Wa Dae said.
 Calling attention to the need for greater cooperation between Korea and Saudi Arabia in various sectors, President Lee requested continued efforts from Saudi Arabia to allow Korean companies to engage in businesses and offer services that will benefit the Saudi people. King Abdullah expressed his intention to take a greater interest in furthering such progress.
 President Lee and King Abdullah welcomed the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, and agreed that their relationship over the past years should serve as a foundation for expanded cooperation in a wider range of sectors, including health care, medical services, national defense and information technology.
