Protecting culture properties
“The Cultural Heritage Administration hopes to raise awareness on safety issues of our cultural properties through these events. We hope to continue developing solid measures to protect our heritage, while networking with more foreign experts on the matter.” - Cultural Heritage Administration of Korea
 The Cultural Heritage Administration of Korea is holding special events to examine better ways to protect Korea’s cultural properties from natural and man-made disasters. Local and foreign experts will gather at the National Palace Museum of Korea for a special session called the “International Symposium 2012 on Disaster Risk Management for Cultural Heritage: Cultural Heritage and Climate Change.” They will exchange opinions on current problems and possible measures to protect historic properties in Korea. A special fire-fighting demonstration session, to be conducted by Seoul’s major fire stations, is scheduled to be held at Changgyeong Palace in Seoul. Additionally, every municipal government in the country will also participate in a month of fire-fighting training and safety inspection sessions at about 170 major cultural heritage sites nationwide.
 These events are being held to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the arson attack that destroyed Korea’s national treasure No. 1 - the Namdaemun. The gate, officially called Sungnyemun, was the oldest wooden structure in Seoul before it burned down in 2008. The historic pagoda-style gateway was inadequately protected, which made it possible for a disgruntled elderly man to gain entry and set it on fire with liquid paint thinner. Although there were hundreds of firefighters and sufficient fire suppression equipment on site, fire-fighting efforts were severely hampered due to general confusion and concerns over causing further damage with the use of high-pressure fire hoses. The fire roared out of control and destroyed the historic gate. 
Korea has designated more than 300 artifacts, sites, and buildings as national treasures of exceptional artistic, cultural and historical value. Many of the national treasures are popular tourist destinations such as Jongmyo royal ancestral shrine, Bulguksa, Seokguram grotto, and Tripitaka Koreana at Haeinsa. With increasing foot traffic, there are higher risks of accidental damage or even intentional acts of vandalism. Therefore, effective security measures, rapid response protocols and disaster prevention procedures are needed to ensure proper protection of such historic treasures. Since most of Korea’s national treasures are made of either wood or stone, and thus susceptible to damage by insects, air pollution, and climate change, proper preventive and protective measures are needed to safeguard them.
 The Cultural Heritage Administration has invited Professor Diane Douglas, a climatologist with expertise in hazard risk reduction planning and cultural heritage management, to speak about how climate change can negatively affect cultural properties worldwide, and possible measures to minimize risks and damages. With 25 years of experience in climate impact assessments and international cultural heritage preservation, she is uniquely qualified to provide valuable insights and suggestions. Also invited is Dr. Takeshi Ishizaki, a professor at the department of conservation at Tokyo University of the Arts, who will share his research findings on the deterioration of stone monuments and brick buildings in many Asian heritage sites.
 Local experts who have been invited to speak at the special session include Professor Seo Jung-ho of Kongju University, who will talk about measures to protect stone-made cultural properties from possible disasters resulting from climate change; and Mr. Lee Dong-heup from Korea Forest Research Institute, who will speak about a number of cases where local wooden cultural properties have been damaged by insects.
