Lance Armstrong doping case dropped
“I am gratified to learn that the U.S. Attorney’s Office is closing its investigation. It is the right decision and I commend them for reaching it. I look forward to continuing my life as a father, a competitor, and an advocate in the fight against cancer without this distraction.” – Lance Armstrong
 Federal prosecutors recently dropped their investigation of cycling great Lance Armstrong, thereby ending a nearly two-year effort to determine if members and associates of the Rock Racing cycling team, partly owned by Lance Armstrong, participated in doping. U.S. Attorney for Southern California André Birotte Jr. made the announcement in a press release without disclosing the reason for the decision. However, the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) announced that it would continue its investigation into doping in the sport of cycling. Lance Armstrong has vehemently denied all doping charges against him throughout his illustrious career. 
The case against Lance Armstrong stemmed from multiple sources. It started when a U.S. federal agent was told about a cache of performance enhancing drugs found by a landlord in the vacated apartment of Kyle Leogrande, a disgraced cyclist who rode for Rock Racing. Floyd Landis, Armstrong’s former teammate who won the 2006 Tour de France but was stripped of the title in 2010 after admitting to doping, openly accused Armstrong of having a long-running doping system. Tyler Hamilton, also a disgraced cyclist and Armstrong’s teammate from 1999 to 2001, alleged on a TV interview that he saw Armstrong use Erythropoietin, a hormone that regulates red blood cell production, during the 1999 Tour de France and in preparation for the 2000 and 2001 races.  
Lance Armstrong has consistently maintained a high profile in defending himself against the multitude of doping accusations. He assembled a team of experts to handle his legal defense, hired a spokesman and created a website to address any of the allegations reported by the media. He cited more than 500 clean drug tests, administered by French, U.S. and various anti-doping agencies, dating back nearly 15 years, making him perhaps the world’s most drug-tested athlete. Armstrong’s camp repeatedly pointed out that his accusers, namely Landis and Hamilton, were not credible as both had lied about their drug use for years before being stripped of their racing titles due to failed doping tests.
 The termination of federal doping investigation is undoubtedly great news for Lance Armstrong. If criminal charges were brought against him, it would have severely damaged the legacy of the greatest athlete the sport of cycling has ever seen. He won the U.S. Amateur Cycling Championship in 1991, the U.S. National Cycling Championship in 1993, the UCI Road World Championship in 1993, the Clásica de San Sebastián in 1995, and La Flèche Wallonne and as well as the Tour DuPont in 1996. However, his greatest accomplishment came in the Tour de France, the most prestigious cycling race in the world, where he won from 1999 to 2005. 
Armstrong is much more than just the most accomplished cyclist in history. He is a cancer survivor, a symbol of courage and a source of inspiration for those who are affected by cancer. In 1997, Armstrong founded the Lance Armstrong Foundation to provide support for cancer research and cancer sufferers. The foundation has become one of the top 10 groups funding cancer research in the U.S. and has raised more than $325 million from the sale of yellow Livestrong bracelets. He remains active in various charitable causes that encourage athletes and non-athletes to volunteer and support local communities.
