Baseball legend’s wife hosts food show
World renowned baseball player Park Chan-ho made headlines recently when he signed a one-year deal with the Hanwha Eagles for the 2012 baseball season. This time, however, it is his wife, Park Rie, who is making headlines, for her role in a new food show for local cable TV channel, Olive TV. 
According to a press release by Olive TV, “Park will be hosting a [weekly] show titled, ‘Homemade cook by Park Rie.’” This show will be the first time Park has ever shared her recipes “as a solo MC.”
 “After I decided to host the cooking show, my husband promised me his full support,” Park was quoted as saying in the Chosun Ilbo. “I hope my homemade dishes will help viewers learn how to prepare healthy meals.” 
Her debut as a presenter has drawn the interest of foodies and sports fans nationwide. The interest comes not only because of her undeniable skills as a chef, but because of her promise to reveal the diet of her famous husband. 
Park’s skills in the kitchen have been well documented prior to this show. She is publicly known as a semi-professional cook and writer, having put out her first and best-selling cookbook, “Rie’s Kitchen,” in 2009. Proficient in French and Italian culinary techniques, Park studied at the prestigious Culinary Institute of America (CIA) in New York and completed internships at Michelin-starred Pierre Orsi in France and Chez Panisse in Berkley, California. As the daughter of businessman Park Choong-seo, ranked the 76th richest man in Japan by The Philadelphia Inquirer in 2009, Park became familiar with fine dining at a young age.
 “I really liked eating well-prepared foods in restaurants with my parents,” she was quoted as saying in The Philadelphia Inquirer. As a third-generation Korean-Japanese, Park built her culinary career by specializing in Japanese cuisine. It wasn’t until she met and married Park Chan-ho that she developed an interest in her native Korean culture and cuisine. Despite her lack of experience with traditional Korean cooking, her existing culinary skills allowed her to learn quickly.
 The show has also gotten a lot of attention because it provides a glimpse into the marriage between one of Korea’s most famous athletes and his beautiful socialite wife. Throughout the show, Park shares some anecdotes about her life, the recent move back to Korea and marriage to the first South Korea-born Major League Baseball Player in history. 
The show airs Tuesdays at 11 a.m. and again at 9 p.m. on Olive TV.
