Falling in love with comics
Bucheon, known as the “culture city” in Gyeonggi province, ushered children and adults alike to the world of cartoons through the 14th Bucheon International Comics Festival (Bicof) from Aug. 17 to 21.
 On Aug. 17, Korea Manhwa Contest Agency’s chairman Lee Hyun-sae, president of the festival’s steering committee Park Jae-ding, a number of cartoonists and minister of culture-sports, Mo chul-min, educational superintendent of Gyeonggi province, Kim Sang-gon and related industry officials attended the opening ceremony of the 14th Bucheon International Comics Festival. 
Around 2,000 Bucheon citizens also went to see the opening ceremony. Famous cartoonists and celebrities also paid a visit and gave stunning performances to celebrate the event. Singer Kim Tae-woo and actress Lee See-young, who herself is a cartoon fan dropped by and spiced up the festival.
 Korea’s hottest cartoonist Hur Young-man - who has a broad fan base in the domestic Korean cartoon industry with his ever-popular cartoon “Sik-gaek” - joined other cartoonists Shin Moon-soo, Lee Doo-ho, Hwang Mi-na Yoon Tae-ho, Park Hee-jung to welcome visitors.
 An exhibition about Korea’s first-generation cartoonist Kim Jong-rae called “life, art and legacy” was a huge hit. According to the Yonhap News, Kim’s family donated 40,000 pages of his hand-drawings, cartoon scripts and 474 books to the Korea Cartoon Museum in 2010. Inside this private exhibition area, pictures of him growing up, photos of him drawing comics as well as his early work were there to greet cartoon lovers. Kim rose to fame with his book “3000 Leagues in Search of Mother,” which was adapted into other formats including movies and theater. 
The main exhibition of the 14th Bucheon International Comics Festival dubbed “Smarttoon,” a word coined from “smart” and “cartoon” was on the first floor of the Cartoon museum. The exhibition introduced the footprints of digital cartoons from past, present to future within the “smart society.” Being exposed to the diversity and potential of cartoons in digital society and realizing the continuous development of digital platforms which gives birth to new digital creations, visitors were introduced to pioneering digital cartoons at the exhibition.
 Cartoonist Park Hee-jung, the queen of romance cartoons also had her special exhibition on the first floor with her books such as Hotel Africa, Martin & John and Piper on display. On the 4th floor of the museum, old comics that dated back to as early as the 1950s were on the showing. 
The festival included a cartoon OST concert, animation-dubbing concert by professional dubbing artists, business meetings between cartoonists and entrepreneurs, a variety of displays and conferences. There was also an international children‘s cartoonist contest, in which around 300 children from various countries showed off their drawing finesse.
 The event also featured a cartoonists’ night, children’s narration cartoon contest, comic book flea market and signing events by cartoonists. Fairs to promote investment in the cartoon industry also took place.
 Park Jae-dong, a professor at the Korea National University of Arts and the president of the festival’s steering committee was quoted as saying, “we are celebrating the cartoon festival in an effort to boost the regional economy and to seek the cartoon industry’s future development.” 
“This year, in particular, the festival will teach people how to truly enjoy comics in a digital age,” he said.
 “The Manhwa Agency prepared various activities to allow both young and old experience the real joy of cartoons,” Kim Byung-hun, president of Korea Manhwa Contests Agency said.　
 This year, cartoonist Choi Kyu-suk’s “울기엔 좀 애매한” won the grand prize at the 14th 2011 Bucheon International Comics Festival. For those who want to learn more about the event, further information is provided at the official website at www.bicof.com.
