The Netherlands: The land of windmills and wooden shoes
Simply put, the Netherlands is, geographically, the complete opposite of Korea. It is mostly flat and low-lying - with 50 percent of the land lying less than one meter above sea level.
 The country is famous for its windmills and wooden shoes, coffee shops, liberal policies, and of course, The Hague. Once you enter the Netherlands, there are an endless number of things to see and places to explore. Just hop on a train and check out these sites…
 Amsterdam 
The beautifully historic city of Amsterdam is full of canals, locks, bridges and canal houses that will leave you wanting more. Dating back to the 12th century, most of the original buildings and structures remain intact, beautifully preserved over the years. To better experience the wonders of Amsterdam, you can either rent bicycles or take the Hop-On Hop-Off canal bus which has 14 stops throughout the city, including the Anne Frank House, NEMO (a science museum on a green, ship-like building with interactive exhibits) and several other museums. The Anne Frank House is where the young Jewish girl made famous by her diary and her family hid from the Nazis during World War II. 
For a truly unique experience, the travel website TravelForKids.com suggests asking your hotel about a diamond “factory” tour. Having been the center of the diamond industry for centuries, there are several diamond ateliers where you can watch how diamonds are cut and polished into the shapes you see in jewelry stores. 
South Holland
 South Holland is home of the world’s largest flower garden, an archeological theme park and of course, the U.N. International Criminal Court (ICC). Anyone interested in international relations or government cannot miss out on the opportunity to visit the only principal organ of the United Nations located outside of New York City – the ICC. For those who are keen on spending a politics-free vacation, the Archeon may be more suited to your tastes. The Archeon is an archeological theme park with re-creations and reenactments of Dutch history, from the prehistoric Stone Age through to the Roman and Medieval periods. 
 North Brabant
 If an archeological theme park is not your cup of tea, how about a fairy-tale amusement park? The Efteling is one of the oldest amusement parks in Europe and looks like it came straight out of the Hansel and Gretel fairy tale. Built in 1952, it is twice as large as the original Disneyland in California and caters to both children and adults thanks to its cultural, romantic and nostalgic themes and amusement rides. 
