Nine angels of K-pop: Girls’ Generation
K-pop group Girls’ Generation made a historic appearance on a popular French talk show for the release of its first European album, S.M. Entertainment said.
 “Le Grand Journal” is a talk show program of the French pay-TV channel CANAL Plus. It is one of France’s most popular talk shows. Many of the world’s most famous stars have made appearances as its guests.
 On the show, which aired on Feb. 10, Girls’ Generation gave a live performance of the album’s title song. S.M. Entertainment noted that the Girls’ Generation are the first Korean pop stars to appear on the show and added that it was quite rare for Asian singers to release albums in Europe.
 The group also had an interview with French terrestrial TV channel France2, which was broadcast as part of the country’s main evening news program. During an interview, they introduced the new album and extended their heartfelt thanks to their devoted European fans.
 For the album’s local promotion of its special album titled “The Boys,” the K-pop girl group arrived in Paris on Feb. 7. The album is scheduled to be released in Europe through Polydor, a French music label belonging to Universal Music Group. 
 Previously, Girls’ Generation has made a charming impression on two popular U.S. talk shows -- CBS’s “Late Show with David Letterman” on Jan. 31 and ABC’s morning talk show “Live! With Kelly” on Feb. 1
Girls’ Generation debuted in 2007. In July 2007, the group performed their first single, “Into the New World.” Yet it was early 2009 with the release of “Gee” that the group really began to acquire their stellar popularity. 
 Girls’ Generation have released three full Korean albums, three Korean mini-albums, one Japanese full album and various singles. Their hit single “Gee,” which was released in 2009 holds a record for being the longest running No. 1 song on a Korean music chart, lasting nine consecutive weeks. 
 The leader of the group is Taeyeon. Other members include, Jessica, Sunny, Tiffany, Hyoyeon, Yuri, Sooyoung, Yoona and Seohyun. Seohyun is the youngest, born in 1991 and Yoona and Sooyoung are born in 1990. The rest of the members were all born in 1989.
