Corporal punishment at school is inevitable
Pro- Corporal punishment in schools should be allowed. 
 I think corporal punishment in school is a necessary evil. In today’s Korean schools, corporal punishment is adopted in the mildest way possible. This might have fueled problems at schools across the nation, including disrespecting teachers and bullying. 
 When teachers are strictly banned from using corporal punishment in school, they have trouble controlling aggressive, spoiled and short-tempered students. If teachers are bossed around by mischievous students, other students may lose respect for them and it may worsen the situation.
 No matter how ruthless and uncivilized it may sound, corporal punishment is an effective method in disciplining young and immature adolescents - more effective than verbal and other forms of punishment. So, teachers choose corporal punishment over other solutions not because they are merciless pedagogues who are blind to students’ rights but because corporal punishment serves its purpose - making students behave themselves.
 On the receiving party’s side, corporal punishment is an extremely unpleasant and hurtful experience, and therefore it should never be applied severely to young students. But there are a few students who just won’t listen or make changes to their ill behaviors unless they are warned by use of force. For teachers, sacrificing few troubled students for many well-behaved students is inevitable. So, if physical punishment is adopted not as the first but as the last resort to school-based troubles, it may help put schools in order. 
 Thus, I think restricting corporal punishment in schools completely is undesirable. The choice should be left up to individual teachers’ discretion.
 Con- Corporal punishment should not be allowed
 These days, the issue of corporal punishment in schools is being debated throughout Korea. I believe that corporal punishment is against human rights and should not be tolerated in any school.
 To begin with, the very act of hitting children is against human rights law and violates ethical rules. Just because students did something wrong doesn’t mean that they should be treated like criminals. Corporal punishment does not only hurt the student physically, but also leaves painful emotional injuries in the student’s mind forever.
 Furthermore, corporal punishment can result in very serious injuries. Last year, a student in China had to stay in a local hospital for three months because her teacher hit the student’s legs so hard for not doing her homework. Also, a child in Korea was sent to the hospital because the teacher kicked him for being late on a school trip. This is bullying, not punishment.
 Finally, there are many alternatives to corporal punishment. We can make students do push-ups, run around the playground many times, write detention papers, or just give them advice to help them make better choices in the future. Punishments like these are very effective and don’t hurt the children at the same time. They can create a more positive school environment.
 In conclusion, those three reasons are why I oppose corporal punishment in schools.
