Global poll shows partners are main source of happiness
According to a new global poll by Ipsos and Reuters released on Valentine’s Day, the main source of happiness of people today is having a partner. 
Of the participants of the survey, almost two-thirds of couples - either married or in a domestic partnership - say that the main source of happiness in their lives is their partner, while nearly half of single people stated that finding a partner would bring them the greatest happiness. The online survey was conducted in 24 countries, including Argentina, Belgium, China, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, South Korea and the United States. 
“What strikes us when we look at the data is that you have this majority of global citizens who are really looking at home for happiness,” Keren Gottfried, research manager at Ipsos Global Public Affairs, was quoted as saying by Reuters.
 The highest level of happiness at home was found in South Africa, where 82 percent of South Africans in committed relationships said that their partner was their greatest source of happiness. South Korea and Japan, on the other hand, ranked the lowest, with only 40 percent of couples saying that nothing could make them happier than their partner. 
This, however, does not mean that South Koreans and Japanese couples don’t consider their partners as a source of happiness, admitting that their partners are the source of at least some of their happiness. 
The sample of single people also gave some interesting results. In total, almost half - 45 percent – of people who are not currently married or in a domestic partnership stated that finding a partner would or could bring them the greatest happiness. 
Similar to the results of couples, however, single people from South Korea, Japan and Great Britain “reported a resilient independence” ranking lowest in considering partners as the greatest source of happiness. Japan was lowest with 27 percent of single people stating that finding a partner would bring them the greatest happiness, followed by South Korea and Britain with 33 percent each, and Italy at 34 percent. 
Single Indonesians were “most preoccupied with finding a mate,” Reuters reported, with 69 percent saying finding someone to settle down with was the most important step to being happy. 
The survey was conducted with an international sample of 21,248 adults (aged 18-64 in the U.S. and Canada, 16-64 in all other countries) where 59 percent were either married or living with their partner and 41 percent were not. 
