Life and death of legendary pop singer, Whitney Houston
On Feb. 11, legendary American singer, actress, producer and model, Whitney Houston was found dead in her guest room at the Beverly Hilton Hotel a day before the 2012 annual Grammy Awards was to take place. She was 48. 　
 Houston was getting ready for the Clive Davis pre-Grammy party at the same hotel when her life came to a tragic end. Celebrity news site, TMZ reported that Houston had entered the bathroom to take a bath where her bodyguard later found her submerged in the tub. Though cause of death is still undetermined pending the results of toxicology tests, it is widely believed that alcohol and prescription medication played a role in the tragedy. 
Houston’s body was laid to rest on Feb. 19 during a private ceremony in New Jersey. The legendary singer was buried next to her father, who died in 2003. The funeral took place the day before, and was an invitation-only event attended by friends and family. Though the event was closed to fans, who were not allowed within blocks of the church in Newark, thousands of fans still gathered to mourn the loss of a great music icon. 
 Houston’s rise to stardom
 Rather than mourn her death, however, many have chosen to celebrate her life and her accomplishments. At her peak, Houston was the definitive pop diva that all others were measured against. Her vocal range and beautiful looks made her a success across multiple genres and audiences, paving the way for other African-American female artists to achieve crossover fame. In fact, Houston was the most prominent international superstar to appeal to all demographics after Michael Jackson. 
To date, Houston is the only artist to have charted seven consecutive No. 1 Billboard Hot 100 hits, and only female artist to have two No. 1 Billboard 200 Album awards on the Billboard year-end charts. 
Following in her mother’s footsteps, Houston began her musical career at the age of 11 when she started performing as a soloist in the junior gospel choir at the New Hope Baptist Church in her hometown, Newark, New Jersey. The second child of Army serviceman and entertainment executive John Russell Houston, Jr. and gospel singer Cissy Houston, Whitney Houston was exposed to the world of gospel music at a very young age. Surrounded by cousins Dionne Warwick, Dee Dee Warwick, godmother Darlene Love and honorary aunt Aretha Franklin, Houston was coached and inspired by some of the most powerful voices of the 1960s and ’70s. 
Houston released her debut album, Whitney Houston, in 1985, about which Rolling Stone magazine praised the songstress as “one of the most exciting new voices in years.” The New York Times called the album "an impressive, musically conservative showcase for an exceptional vocal talent." The album was an instant international hit, topping charts all over Europe and the U.S. The final single from the album, “Greatest Love of All” became Houston’s biggest hit of all time, peaking at No. 1 for three weeks in 1986; a year after the album’s initial release. Houston’s initial album alone, sold more than 25 million copies worldwide, making it the best-selling debut album by a solo artist at the time. Since then, Houston was awarded with countless musical awards, including several Grammy Awards for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance and Record of the Year. 
Despite numerous accolades and awards for musical performances, her most memorable and best-selling achievement came from the 1992 romantic thriller “The Bodyguard.” Houston both starred in the film and recorded the soundtrack for the film, which went on to sell over 44 million copies worldwide. The soundtrack for “The Bodyguard” became one of the best selling albums of all time, earning a Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 1994.
 An uphill battle with personal struggles
 Like many great musicians with internationally successful careers, Whitney Houston too was entrenched in personal struggles. Battling drug addiction rumors and a tumultuous relationship with then-husband Bobby Brown at what many considered the height of her career, things began to go downhill for Houston during the late 1990s. 
Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston met at the 1989 Soul Train Music Awards, and after a three-year courtship, the two were married on July 18, 1992. It was not long after their marriage that rumors of drug use began to circulate, as Houston’s behavior began to change as well. Seen as a ‘good girl’ in the 1980s and early 1990s, Houston was suddenly showing up hours late for interviews, rehearsals and performances, and canceling concerts and appearances at the last minute. 
After a disastrous and turbulent 15 years of marriage as portrayed in the reality TV series, “Being Bobby Brown,” the couple finally divorced in 2007.
 In 1996, Houston appeared on Oprah Winfrey’s season premiere wherein she admitted to using drugs with ex-husband Bobby Brown. Doing drugs “was an everyday thing,” Houston admitted to Oprah, “I wasn’t happy by that point in time. I was losing myself.” 
 Her final days
 Since her divorce from Brown and in the days leading up to her untimely death, Houston had been on the track towards recovery. In May 2011, Houston enrolled in a rehabilitation center as an outpatient, citing drug and alcohol problems. In September, The Hollywood Reporter announced that Houston would produce and star in the remake of the 1976 film, Sparkle. The movie was filmed in the fall of 2011 and is set for release in August 2012. 
Houston’s final public performance occurred on Feb. 9, at the rehearsals for Clive Davis’ pre-Grammy Awards party where she joined Kelly Price on stage to sing “Jesus Loves Me.” According to TMZ, Houston was very spiritual in her final days, telling friends she “really wanted to see Jesus” in the days before her death, and claiming “she had a feeling the end was near for her.” 
Two days later, Houston was discovered dead in her bathroom suite at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California. Paramedics arrived at approximately 3:30 p.m. and pronounced the singer dead at 4:00 p.m. 
Houston is survived by a daughter, 18-year-old Bobbi Kristina Brown from her marriage to fellow singer, Bobby Brown. 
