Jeremy Lin Sweeps NBA
Jeremy Lin, the first Asian American player of Chinese or Taiwanese descent, has taken the NBA by storm. The fourth-string point guard of the New York Knicks, given a chance to play because of the team’s lack of production from the point position, has emerged from obscurity to become the savior of a moribund franchise. He united a group of under-achieving, dysfunctional players with his competitiveness, tenacity, and unselfish play, and led the team on an improbable 7-game winning streak. In a two-week span, Lin’s on-court heroics revitalized the Knicks, reenergized the team’s fan base, and sparked a media frenzy around the world. 
 Jeremy Lin was sitting at the end of the New York Knicks’ bench as the team was mired in a horrible slump. The Knicks, with highly paid star players such as Amar’e Stoudemire, Carmelo Anthony and Tyson Chandler, were an ugly mess. They had a win-loss record of 8-15, with little hope of making the playoffs, and angry fans were calling for head coach Mike D’Antoni to be fired. In a game against the lowly New Jersey Nets on February 4th, the Knicks once again got off to a poor start. With no one else to turn to, Coach D’Antoni inserted Jeremy Lin into the game. Lin broke down the defense with lightning-fast drives, executed the pick-and-roll expertly, and found his teammates with pin-point passes. He recorded 25 points, 7 assists and 5 rebounds in the much-needed win.
 Coach D’Antoni declared that he had finally found the point guard who can orchestrate his fast paced, run-and-gun, offensive schemes. Lin was made the starting point guard in the subsequent game against the Utah Jazz, and he responded with 28 points and 8 assists to carry the team to victory. The fans at Madison Square Garden (MSG) fell in love with the dynamic and charismatic underdog- he was serenaded with a chorus of “MVP” chants throughout the game. Lin followed it up with a “double-double” in a win against the Washington Wizards on the road, and returned to New York to face the L.A. Lakers. In one of the most memorable games the MSG crowd has ever witnessed, Lin out-dueled the Lakers’ super star Kobe Bryant with 38 points and 7 assists in a scintillating victory. 
 The Knicks’ winning streak is all the more incredible considering it was achieved without the team’s two star players- Amar’e Stoudemire and Carmelo Anthony. Lin galvanized a group of role players into a cohesive and motivated team - brimming with positive energy and confident attitude. As victories mount, Jeremy Lin’s status grew into a full-blown wave of “Linsanity”- a surreal worldwide phenomenon. His every move and every word, both on and off the basketball court, were closely scrutinized and reported in all forms of media. To his credit, Lin remains unpretentious and humble as he deals with the demands that come with sudden fame. He deflects attention from himself by crediting his teammates and coaches for the team’s recent success. As a devout Christian, Lin credits his meteoric rise to the grace and guidance of god. 
 The success of Jeremy Lin and the New York Knicks surprised everyone. Although he was a star player in high school, Lin received no basketball scholarship offers from any Division-1 universities. He enrolled in Harvard University, became a standout player in the Ivy League, and was a candidate for the prestigious John R. Wooden Award - an award given annually to the most outstanding men‘s and women’s college basketball players. Lin was not drafted by any NBA teams upon graduation. He was eventually signed by the Golden State Warriors to a partially guaranteed contract in 2010, but he was seldom used and was cut from the team in 2011. The Houston Rockets claimed Lin off waivers but cut him in only 2 weeks. A few days later, the Knicks picked up Lin, and the rest is history.
