Seoul’s multicultural neighborhoods
“Korea no longer has to decide whether it wants to become a multicultural society. It made that decision years ago – perhaps unconsciously – when it decided to be a full participant in the emerging global economy. It confirmed that decision when it decided to actively recruit foreign migrants to meet the economic and demographic needs of a fast-growing society.” - Stephen Castles, International Migration Institute
 When people speak of multicultural societies, western nations like the United States, Canada, France, England and Russia are the most often mentioned. In the East, nationals such as Australia, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, India, Mongolia and the Philippines are noted for their cultural diversity. Korea is seldom part of the conversation when it comes to multiculturalism because it is among the world’s most ethnically homogeneous nations. In recent years, however, Korea’s rapid economic development and globalization has seen the number of foreigners residing in the nation increasing almost on a daily basis. As a result, more ethnic enclaves have sprung up throughout Seoul and greatly enhanced the charm and allure of the capital city.
 Incheon Chinatown is the oldest ethnic enclave in Korea. It began with the opening of the Chinese Consulate in 1884, after the opening of Jemulpo. Chinatown flourished in the 1940’s by trading Chinese silk, oriental medicine herbs, and chinaware. At its height, there were hundreds of Chinese restaurants and more than 10,000 residents. The Chinatown area contracted significantly after the Korean War and subsequent restrictions against Chinese ownership of properties enforced by the Park Chung-hee government. Today, Chinese residents of Chinatown are mostly 2nd or 3rd generations of these earlier Chinese settlers, and most of the businesses are Chinese restaurants and grocery shops. 
 Itaewon is perhaps the most representative multicultural center of Korea –- a place where one can experience the flavors and colors of many different nations. It is popular with tourists, locals, expatriates and U.S. military personnel alike. It is one of the few places in Korea where English is understood in almost every establishment. The quaint neighborhood has numerous restaurants serving exotic foods from India, Pakistan, Egypt, Turkey, Malaysia, Thailand, Australia and Mexico. The Seoul Central Mosque, which attracts worshipers of Arab, Indian, Pakistani, and Turkish backgrounds, is located in the neighborhood. 
 Hyehwa, the theater district of Seoul known for live music venues, trendy shops, and throngs of college students, has been the gathering place for Filipino residents in Korea for the past 15 years. On weekends, the road between Hyehwa Catholic Church and Dongseong High School becomes a bustling street market crowded with vendors hawking Filipino goods ranging from canned beverages, frozen meats and tropical fruit to casual clothes, household knickknacks and cosmetics. Food vendors set up tables to serve all manners of Filipino specialties and delicacies at very reasonable prices. Customers can get a hearty lunch set featuring rice, stewed meat, ried food and vegetables for only 5,000 won, and eat at shared tables where they can mingle and socialize with total strangers. 
 Other ethnic enclaves in Seoul include “Little Russia” in a small area near the Dongdaemun History and Culture Park. Many shops, bars and restaurants display signs in Russian characters. Visitors can purchase Russian made goods, particularly vodka, and sample delicious fare such as kebabs and borsch. Hidden in alleys around Dongdaemun Station are a number of restaurants serving Indian cuisine. The number of native Indians in the area would indicate that the food being served is indeed authentic. Seorae Village, in the upscale neighborhood of Gangnam, is dotted with French restaurants, pricy boutiques and elegant wine bars. It is home to Seoul’s only French international school and many French families.
