54th annual Grammy Awards
In what was meant to be a night of celebrations and triumph, a dark cloud hung low. News of musical icon Whitney Houston’s death the night before brought along a somber mood to the 54th annual Grammy Awards on Feb. 12. 
With LL Cool J as host, 78 awards to present and performances by musical stars like Bruce Springsteen, Katy Perry, Taylor Swift and Jennifer Hudson, it was the biggest night of the year for the music industry. 
 Big Winners
 23-year-old British singing sensation Adele was undoubtedly the biggest winner of the 2012 Grammy Awards. Matching Beyonce’s 2011 record for most Grammy wins in a night by a female act, Adele took home all six awards she was nominated for, including Album of the Year, Record of the Year and Song of the Year. 
The Foo Fighters were a close second, having been nominated for six awards and taking home five, including Best Rock Album, Best Rock Performance and Best Rock Song. Kanye West, who led with seven nominations, won four including Best Rap Performance, Best Rap Song and Best Rap Album. 
Amy Winehouse was awarded the Best Pop Duo-Group Performance award posthumously. Winehouse died in July 2011 after a long and highly-publicized battle with drug addiction; her parents were invited on stage to accept the award on her behalf. 
 Noteworthy Performances
 Despite its obviously last-minute scheduling, Jennifer Hudson’s beautiful and heart wrenching performance of “I Will Always Love You” in tribute to the late Whitney Houston was one of the best performances of the night. Jennifer Grassman of the Washington Times wrote that “Hudson’s solemn grace lent her performance an ingenious quality, making it an absolutely unforgettable and stunning homage to the fallen icon.” 
Adele’s performance of her hit song, “Rolling in the Deep” also earned her a standing ovation from the crowd, especially since the song was awarded Song of the Year earlier in the evening. Her powerful performance was made even more moving given that it was her first performance since undergoing a recent throat surgery in November of last year. 
 Controversy at the Grammys
 Two particular performances at the Grammy Awards sparked debate and controversy when they aired on Feb. 12. Nicki Minaj’s bizarre religious-themed performance, which included dancing priests, fake exorcism and some levitation, was both confusing and offensive to Catholics, The Catholic League stated. 
Chris Brown’s appearance, performance and award for Best R&B Album at the 2012 Grammy Awards, on the other hand, drew criticism due to his much publicized assault on then-girlfriend Rihanna three years ago.
 A Washington Post op-ed pointed out that even though people should be give second chances, it doesn’t mean that “they deserve the chance to strut around the Grammy stage a few years after being convicted of felony assault.” 
