Food of the Gods: Chocolate
A gift for the gods. A symbol of wealth and luxury. An economic livelihood. Bonbons. Hot fudge. Candy bars. For thousands of years, humans have been fascinated with the delicious phenomenon that we call “chocolate.”
 - Chocolate, The Exhibition
 The sweet milky taste of white chocolate, creamy goodness of milk chocolate and bittersweet tang of dark chocolate has satisfied the cravings of those with a sweet tooth for thousands of years. The rich and delicious, sweet aroma of chocolate is enjoyed by people of all ages, races and cultures. It is one of the few things that unites people from all over the world. No matter what your differences are in culture, skin color, religion or socio-economic status, everyone likes chocolate. 
The sweet little treat is in fact, so popular that there is a word to describe someone who is addicted to, or excessively fond of, chocolate; a chocoholic. 
Many people would consider themselves lovers of chocolate, but few actually know the science and history behind one of the world’s favorite little treats. In an effort to educate chocolate lovers on the history and origins of our beloved chocolate, The Field Museum in Chicago, with support from the U.S. National Science Foundation, created "Chocolate, The Exhibition," a traveling exhibition on everything chocolate. Lucky for Korean chocoholics, the exhibition has made a stop in Seoul and will be available until March. 3.
 "Chocolate, The Exhibition" features several sections dedicated to educating the world on the evolution of chocolate. It begins with an introduction of the rainforest, where cacao trees can be found. Here, visitors can learn about the different and unusual characteristics of the plant responsible for all things chocolate. 
The next section takes visitors through the history of chocolate, including the first documented use of cacao for food in the ancient Mayan (the first to mix ground cacao seeds to make a frothy drink) and Aztec civilizations (where cacao beans were used like currency). 
The exhibition not only features educational videos and informational posters, but includes practical education in the form of creating your own chocolate as well. 
Fun and educational for both children and adults alike, "Chocolate, The Exhibition" provides an entertaining way of learning about the sweet treat that brings the world together.
 To learn more, head over to the Seoul Arts Center to check out the exhibition itself or go online at www.chocolate2012.com for more information. 
