Meet speech expert, Rah Seung-yun
The Junior Herald met former Arirang TV anchor and communications director of South Korea’s winter Olympic bid committee Rah Seung-yun on Feb. 17 at Seoul Olympic Parktel. Rah gave a lecture on the topic of “Global attitude-building trust” at the 4th Young Opinion Leaders’ Knowledge Forum sponsored by the Herald Biz and the Korea Herald. 
 Rah stated that she chose the topic, wanting to help Korea’s future leaders better brace for possible culture shock as they are about to embark on their life’s journey. 
 Rah’s impeccable presentation at Durban, South Africa, alongside with figure skating star Kim Yu-na helped South Korea win the 2018 Winter Olympic bid and pushed her into a swirl of media attention. 
 When asked how she polished her English and French, she answered that she was lucky to have the opportunity to live abroad for 12 years when she was young but that after she came back to Korea she tried hard to maintain the skill by listening to English news programs, reading books and most importantly, practice speaking out loud on a regular basis. 
 When asked if she ever feels nervous when making presentations, she replied, “yes” but added that, “I could overcome nervousness and tension through thorough preparations.” She believes that tension is “not all bad energy once you can rule over it.” 
 Here are 10 tips Rah introduced to future Korean leaders at the lecture:
 1.Trust your instincts
 : Listen to your gut feelings and make sacrifices to pursue that instinct. Don’t let your life-time opportunity slide by. 
 2.Be Yourself
 : Show your color to people. Pop out from the crowd! 
 3.Respect others’ differences
 : Acknowledge different culture and find commonality. Have an open mind. After all, humans are all same; “we love our families and want happiness in our lives.”
 4.Communicate effectively 
: Listen more, talk less. Move others’ hearts. It’s not done just by language but through gestures, eye-contact, smiles, etc. 
5.Look your best 
: Use your style to stand out from others. 
 6.Tap into your passion
 : Passion comes with hard work, dedication, perseverance. Passion is contagious and infectious.
 7.Ask for help
 : Asking questions is a way to show respect. Don’t strive to be perfect.
 8.Work hard
 : Team work is also crucial
 9.Play hard 
: “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” Develop your hobbies. 
 10.Be positive 
: Be confident but don’t be complacent
 Final words from Rah were that “You should dream big and today’s world needs creative minds.” She insisted that “we should work hard to develop creativity.”
 Rah Seung-yun graduated from Ewha Womans University, majoring in English and French literature. She has been serving as moderator and spokesperson for the Pyeongchang winter Olympic bid committee since 2010. Today, she owns a speech consulting business in Seoul.
