Is Galaxy phone better than iPhone?
Pro- Galaxy phone better than iPhone.
 There is a lot of debate whether Galaxy phones or iPhones are better. I think that Galaxy phones are better. 
 Galaxy phones are better than iPhone because Galaxy phones have DMB functions. Nowadays, people get a lot of stress from studying or working. Some people relieve their stress by watching TV, but many people don’t have time to comfortably sit in a sofa and watch television. Unlike the iPhone, which doesn’t have DMB function, a Galaxy phone will be able to relieve people’s stress with this fuction. 
 Also, Galaxy phones have detachable batteries. People don’t have enough time to charge one battery every single time. People would be able to save time if they have charged batteries with them all the time. 
 Some say that iPhones are better than Galaxy phones because they have a better application store, but a closer look reveals that this is not true. So I think that Galaxy phones are better than iPhones because they have DMB function, and detachable battery. 
 Con- iPhone is better 
 First of all, I think the iPhone is better than the Galaxy phones, because it has a more cool and hip design. Its minimalistic and timeless design makes iPhone so attractive to world-wide customers. Even with the additional LED flash- which the Galaxy phone doesn’t have- it manages to keep its signature slim design. 
 Second, the iPhone is more convenient than a Galaxy phone when it comes to listening to music. iPhone users can use iTunes to listen to music. So playing music, classifying them into different categories and controlling the volume while listening all come very easily with the iPhone. Also, the iPhone allows people to record good quality videos even in the darkness with its built-in LED flash. In addition, the preciseness of its touch screen and keyboard gives it the upper hand against Galaxy phones.
 Last but not least, I think iPhone is a better choice than Galaxy phone as it comes with various applications. There are hands down far more applications at Apple’s application store for iPhones than Galaxy’s. Up to date, there are around 225,000 applications. 
 In summary, I think cool design, top-notch functions and tons of useful applications all make an iPhone more attractive than a Galaxy phone. 
