Koran burning sparks protests, apology fails to appease
The burning of the Koran, the central religious text of Islam, at a U.S. army base in Afghanistan has sparked continued protests across the nation. Unfortunately, apologies made by the U.S. have done little to “quell [the] spiraling furor among Afghans” over the incident, Reuters reported. 
Violent demonstrations have spread across the nation, bringing the death toll to at least 14 as of Feb. 23. Both sides have suffered fatalities, including two soldiers of the U.S.-led NATO forces who were shot by an Afghan in an army uniform, according to a statement from the NATO headquarters in Afghanistan. 
Reports suggest that the incident began when U.S. personnel attempted to dispose of materials confiscated because Taliban prisoners were suspected of using them to send messages.
 “Fortunately for all of us, local workers recognized the type of material and intervened,” said Carsten Jacobson, a spokesman for the NATO-led international force in Afghanistan. “Actually the disposal process was stopped in time, but it led to protests over the day.”
 According to Sultan Shahin, an Indian analyst who runs a website on Muslim and interfaith affairs, Westerners often underestimate the reverence for the Koran by Muslims. 
President Barack Obama has issued an apology over the incident, writing to the Afghan President Hamid Karzai, “I wish to express my deep regret for the reported incident.” 
“We will take the appropriate steps to avoid any recurrence, to include holding accountable those responsible,” Obama added, according to a statement from Karzai’s office. 
While Karzai has appealed for calm on Feb. 22, Taliban leaders have responded otherwise. According to an e-mailed statement by a spokesman for the Taliban leadership to Bloomberg News, “The Muslim Afghan nation must not be deceived by their [the U.S.] superficial apologies and must continue seeking revenge.” 
“It is surprising that after all these years American and NATO forces have been here in Afghanistan and all the lessons they have learned about how important it is to treat Islamic material with due respect, this sort of thing is still happening,” a correspondent of Al Jazeera told the news network.
 “That is what causes so much offence here in Afghanistan and adds fuel to the anti-American and anti-foreigner feeling.”
 It has only been a month since U.S. officials had to put out fires caused by a controversial video showing U.S. forces urinating on the bodies of dead Taliban fighters in Afghanistan. 
Results of the investigation over the incident are still pending as of publication. 
