Global media watches Kim’s trip
International media outlets paid special attention to the North Korean leader’s first visit to Moscow in a decade.
 The Washington Post said that Kim Jong-il had arrived in Russia via armored train to discuss economic projects with his Russian counterpart.
 The newspaper explained that the trip had come at a time when the Stalinist dictatorship was pushing for aid and facing international pressure to resume nuclear talks.
 It added that Kim Jong-il, who has a fear of flying, had visited Russia twice by train since he had come to power.
 CNN said that Kim’s meeting with Medvedev was to be the main event on Kim’s tour to Russia. It also explained that North Korea had called for the resumption of the six-party talks without preconditions in early August.
 United Press International said that Russia is one of North Korea’s largest political allies and that the Russia has been “instrumental in deflecting international attempts at reining in its nuclear power and weapons development.”
 Reuters said that Kim’s visit had come as the “isolated state sought economic aid after heavy flooding exacerbated its chronic food shortages.”
 It explained that Russia and North Korea had been politically close but that the relations had cooled after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
 China’s Xinhua News quoted the Russian Foreign Ministry and said that Russia’s scheduled deliveries of food to North Korea were to be operated as “a contribution to the traditionally neighborly relations between people of the two countries.”
 Russia’s global news channel RT quoted Georgy Toloraya, director of Korean studies at the Russian Academy of Science, as saying that Kim and Medvedev were expected to discuss plans to build a gas pipeline from Russia’s Far East through North Korea to South Korea.
 Tolorays told RT that the Russian gas giant Gazprom had already been in talks with North Korean officials about the plans.
 Germany’s news agency Deutsche Welle said that Kim’s last visit to Russia had been in 2002 whereas he had visited China as many as three times in just over a year from 2010 to 2011.
