Maestro Chung to conduct N. Korean-French performance in Paris
South Korea‘s most prominent conductor Chung Myung-whun is scheduled to lead a joint performance of the North Korean and French orchestras in Paris on Mar. 14, Chung said at a press conference in Seoul on Feb. 21.
 The press conference was given to promote the “Royal Concertgebouw & Chung Myung-whun” concert on Feb. 21-22 hosted by Hyundai Card, and three others also talked to journalists along with Chung - South Korean pianist Kim Sun-wook, Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra’s artistic director Joel Ethan and the orchestra‘s director general Jan Raes.
 Chung said he would conduct a joint performance in March by North Korea’s Unhasu Orchestra and the Radio France Philharmonic Orchestra at the Salle Pleyel, a concert hall in Paris.
 Chung is musical director at the French orchestra, and Radio France, a French public service radio broadcaster, invited the North Korean orchestra to perform in France’s capital city.
 Chung said at the conference that the performance in Paris could be seen as a path toward two Koreas performing together in the near future.
 In fact, Chung met North Korean officials on Feb. 19 in Beijing to discuss a joint performance between South and North Korean orchestras in Pyongyang, but the two sides failed to reach an agreement. 
“The French-North Korea joint performance will work as the first step to realizing an inter-Korean orchestral performance,” Chung said referring to lingering political problems between the two Koreas.
 “What I wanted the most was to have musicians from North and South Korea perform together ... A joint performance by the two Koreas will not be staged this time because of the current political situation which North Korea labels as frozen,” Chung said.
 The French and North Korean musicians will perform Brahms’ Symphony No. 1 in Paris, and there are five South Korean orchestra members in the French orchestra. Chung called the scheduled March performance a “meeting of South Korea, North Korea and France.” 
In 2002, the two Koreas held joint philharmonic orchestra concerts in Seoul and Pyongyang. The events happened on the occasion of the historic inter-Korean summit in the same year.
 In September 2010, Chung, who is also a UNICEF “goodwill ambassador” traveled to the North where he agreed with North Korean musicians to push for regular performances of a joint symphony orchestra of the two countries. However, his latest attempt to hold the inter-Korean performances was shelved because of the sensitive political situation on the Korean Peninsula.
 North Korea urged the South to offer an apology over its response to the December death of former leader Kim. South Korea, after Kim’s passing, expressed sympathy to the people of North Korea over Kim’s death and approved of condolence trip by private delegations, but did not send an official delegation, which North Korea considered inappropriate.
 Meanwhile, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra’s representatives in Seoul said that Asia would become the center of classical music in the future, citing the growing number of younger fans compared to Europe.
 Artistic director of the orchestra Joel Ethan Fried said: “Audiences we have seen in Asia are considerably younger than those in Europe. Actually it makes us rather jealous because everyone wants to have a younger audience to make sure we still have audiences in 20-30 years. 
The orchestra’s director general Jan Raes added: ”We like it here ... good audience, good young people. I think the future of classical music is also in Asia.“
 Chung and the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra performed five times in Amsterdam before embarking on their Asian tour, and the Seoul concert this time is their 12th collaboration, according to Chung.
 On Feb. 22, the orchestra held a concert in Seoul, playing Beethoven‘s Piano Concerto No. 3 and Brahms’ Symphony No. 2 with Korean pianist Kim Sun-wook, the youngest to win the prestigious Leeds Competition in 2006.
 Chung Myung-whun
 This South Korean pianist and conductor was born in Seoul in 1953. He is the brother of the violinist Chung Kyung-wha and the cellist Chung Myung-wha, and the three once performed together as the Chung Trio. He studied conducting at the Mannes College of Music and the Julliard School. Myung-whun was an assistant conductor at the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra and the founder of the Asia Philharmonic Orchestra. Winners of a variety of the world’s most prestigious awards in conducting, such as “Victoire de la Musique” in conducting, Chung has also devoted himself to humanitarian and ecological projects around the world. He served as ambassador for the U.N. Drug Control Program. He was also named “Man of the Year” by UNESCO and Most Distinguished Personality by the Korean press in 1995. In September 2011, Chung made a cultural breakthrough visit to Pyongyang, returning with an agreement to form an orchestra of musicians from North and South Korea.
 Pianist Kim Sun-wook
 Kim was born in Seoul in 1988. He came into the international spotlight after winning the Leeds Competition. He was the competition’s youngest winner in 40 years. His performance of Brahms’ Concerto No. 1 in the finals earned worldwide praise from the press. In 2006, Kim was a student at the Korea National University of Arts. He is now studying at the Royal Academy of Music in London.
