Fat Tax debate in Korea
The World Health Organization gave out a recent projection that the world’s number of overweight people would surge by 50 percent within 10 years. It also warned that the number of obese people currently stands at 1 billion worldwide.
 Meanwhile, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development rated its member nations according to their people’s obesity rate from 2009 to 2011.
 The U.S. topped the list with overweight people accounting for 33.8 percent of the population, followed by Hungary (18.8 percent), Denmark (13.4 percent) and Sweden (11.2 percent). Korea’s obesity rate was 4.0 percent while that of Japan was 3.0 percent.
 The introduction of a so-called “Fat Tax” in Korea invited conflicts of opinions. Those who were for it argued that the new taxation would help people lead a healthy life by encouraging them to avoid junk foods. 
Meanwhile, those who were opposed to it said that such a move would not only inflate food prices but also aggravate the already worsening economy by hindering people’s consumption. 
The Korean government was on the opposing side. The Ministry of Strategy and Finance said late January that fat tax introduction in the country would not be desirable since it would invite overall inflation.
 The ministry explained that Korea has a relatively low level of obesity among its citizens and an additional tax on foods could hurt low-income earners more than others.
 The comments come as many Western countries are considering introducing fat taxes imposed on what is regarded as unhealthy foods. Denmark, for example, started to impose a tax on such foods as butter and oil for the first time in the world. Hungary is also levying a similar tax.
 The move is aimed not just at tackling obesity problems by discouraging consumption of junk foods but also helping raise revenue for many debt-ridden countries, but whether the move is desperately needed in Korea remains to be seen. 
 Fat tax in history
 In 1942 U.S. physiologist A. J. Carlson suggested levying a fee on each pound by which people were overweight, both to counter an “injurious luxury” and to make more food available for the war effort. The concept was reintroduced by Milton Merryweather and P. Franklin Alexander in the late seventies, but became well known in the early 1980s by Kelly D. Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale. Brownell proposed that revenue from junk-food taxes be used to subsidize more healthful foods and fund nutrition campaigns.
