Cirque du Soleil performs at the Oscars
The internationally renowned Canadian circus troupe Cirque du Soleil returned to the Academy Awards (otherwise known as the Oscars) on Feb. 26 with a three-minute performance featuring more than 50 of its top artists. The planned “wholly unique and exclusive performance” marked the 10th anniversary of the time the troupe wowed the Oscars audience with a spectacular show that won a standing ovation during the Academy Awards in 2002. Yasmine Khalil, Cirque du Soleil’s special events director, said the theme of this year’s show was very much in line with paying tribute to the movie-theater experience and would not be taken from any of the troupe‘s 22 productions playing around the world. 
 Cirque du Soleil (Circus of the Sun) is a Canadian entertainment company founded in Baie-Saint-Paul, Quebec Province, in 1984 by two former street performers, Guy Laliberté and Daniel Gauthier. The self-proclaimed “dramatic mix of circus arts and street entertainment” troupe is unique in its theatrical, character-driven approach and the absence of performing animals. Each show is set to continuous live music and incorporates circus styles and performers from around the world with its own central theme and storyline. Cirque’s 22 current worldwide productions have entertained nearly 100 million spectators and generated an estimated annual income of $1 billion. 
 Las Vegas, the gambling and entertainment hotspot n the United States, plays host to seven of Cirque’s worldwide productions in its various casino-hotels. They include the “Mystère” (Treasure Island), “O” (Bellagio), “Zumanity” (New York Hotel & Casino), “Kà” (MGM Grand), “Love” (The Mirage), “Criss Angel Believe” (Luxor), and “Viva Elvis” (Aria Resort and Casino). “Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour” is a theatrical production which uses the music and vision of Michael Jackson along with Cirque’s acrobatic performance style to create a realistic concert experience. “Iris,” a movie-themed show based in the Kodak Theater in Los Angeles (the venue for the 2012 Academy Awards), takes spectators on a voyage through the history of cinema.
 Cirque du Soleil troupes have traditionally been reluctant to perform on television in the past because they believed that many elements of their shows tend to get lost in translation. However, Yasmine Khalil believed that the rousing success of the troupe’s performance at the 2002 Oscars boosted the performers’ confidence, knowing that they could be comfortable in front of the camera. Her advice for the spectators and television viewers is to be attentive so that they don’t miss any of the action involving “people jumping around everywhere from the ceiling and from the ground and right and left and center”. More than 50 Cirque artists from around the world, the largest group of performers ever assembled for a single act, have been working on their routines since before Christmas.
Although Cirque du Soleil’s first foray in the Oscars presentation in 2002 was a rousing success, the preparation for the performance was anything but smooth and uneventful. The stage was set on fire during rehearsals when a spinning torch routine, designed to match the background screen footage of a glowing ring from “The Lord of the Rings,” was being rehearsed. While rehearsing for a stunt in which an aerialist was supposed to soar in an arc out over the audience, he repeatedly landed hard in the audience, near Nicole Kidman’s assigned seat. Another rehearsal mishap involved a performer who was supposed to spin hoops around her body and then fling them into the crowd to a waiting colleague, but one hoop crashed squarely on the seat assigned to Julia Roberts. Luckily for the two leading ladies of Hollywood, practice makes perfect.
