Broke superstar athletes
Superstar athletes can accumulate a great deal of wealth in a relatively short period during the height of their stardom and popularity. Money rolls in for them from all directions in the form of astronomical salaries, lucrative endorsement deals and business opportunities. However, more than a few of them have squandered their fortunes in record time through inadequate planning, careless investment, and extravagant spending. 
 No athlete can match Mike Tyson when it comes to blowing a vast fortune. The former undisputed heavyweight boxing champion of the world saw his estimated lifetime earnings of $300-$500 million dwindle to a net worth of less than $700 at one point as a result of alleged embezzlement by his former manager, a large divorce settlement, and lavish spending on mansions, sports cars and even pet tigers. In a spectacular career that saw him become the youngest man to ever win the WBC, WBA and IBF Heavyweight Titles, Tyson was constantly embroiled in controversy and scandal. His fall from grace included charges of domestic violence, drunk-driving offenses, felony possession of drugs, and a three-year jail sentence for rape. 
 It has been estimated that 60 percent of NBA players become financially insolvent within five years of quitting the league, and former superstar point guard Allen Iverson is a prime example. A judge in the state of Georgia has ordered that Iverson’s funds be garnished to pay an outstanding jewelry bill worth $860,000. Iverson, who earned about $154 million in salary alone over the course of his illustrious NBA career, found himself on the brink of bankruptcy due to poor financial planning, foolish spending and mounting lawsuits. Recognized as one of the greatest basketball players of all time for his explosive scoring abilities, mesmerizing moves, and warrior mentality, Iverson was also known for his gambling habit, extravagant living and constant run-ins with the law. 
 Statistics have shown that more than three-quarters of retired American National Football League (NFL) players go broke within two years. Michael Vick, the former star quarterback of the Atlanta Falcons, was once ranked as one of the ten richest athletes in the world with $130 million in career earnings. In 2007 he pleaded guilty to federal felony charges for operating an illegal interstate dog fighting ring and served 21 months in prison. With the loss of his NFL salary and product endorsement deals, combined with previous financial mismanagement, Vick filed for bankruptcy in July 2008. Vicks has since been reinstated in the NFL and has signed another contract for $100 million with the Philadelphia Eagles.
 American sprinter Marion Jones was the golden girl of track and field with five Olympic medals, three of them gold. Dubbed the “fastest woman in the world,” she was a media darling with product endorsement earnings exceeding $7 million per year. However, her personal wealth was drained primarily due to legal fees associated with allegations of performance-enhancing drug abuse, perjury against the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and a connection to a checking fraud case. It was reported that her bank account was down to $2,000 as a result of her legal troubles. She lost her multi-million dollar home due to bank foreclosure and was sentenced to six months in prison. 
 Athletes who lost their fortunes are not limited to those from the United States. George Best, the beloved former star and worldwide football hero of the English Premier League’s Manchester United club, wasted his estimated lifetime earnings of more than $100 million, by his own admission, on “booze, women, and fast cars.” After a stunning 21-year career, Best succumbed to alcoholism that eventually required a liver transplant. He served multiple prison terms for drunk driving and assaulting police officers.
