Kim Jong-il makes journey to Russia
North Korean leader Kim Jong-il arrived in Russia on Aug. 20 for a week-long tour, only three months after his visit to China.
 Kim visited China in May with aims to securing economic and political support.
 His Russian visit had also been planned to attract food aid and improve bilateral economic cooperation between the two countries, said Yang Moo-jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul, in an interview with AP.
 The visit this time was the result of several months of meetings between top officials from Russia and North Korea. Russia reportedly agreed to send tens of thousands of food aid to North Korea during the meetings.
 Kim’s first visit to Russia occurred in 2001 when he met then Russian President Vladimir Putin in Vladivostok. At the end of the meeting, the two sides signed the Moscow Declaration, which said the two would strengthen their bilateral trade and economic collaboration.
 North Korea’s Central News Agency (KCNA) said that Kim’s visit to Siberia and the Far East region came at the invitation of Russian President Dmitry Medvedev.
 KCNA is a state-owned news agency established in December 1946. It is located in the capital city of Pyongyang and offers daily reports to all the North Korean news organizations within the communist state.
 Many North Korea experts say that one of Kim’s primary purposes of the Russian visit is to secure food.
 The United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon recently asked the international society to offer food aid to North Korea by saying that hundreds of people are “at risk of dying amid growing fears of a worsening hunger crisis.”
 Meanwhile, Kim Jong-un, a designated successor to Kim Jong-il, was not on the KCNA’s list of those high-ranking officials visiting Russia.
 North Korea’s defense minister, vice premier, vice head of the National Defense Commission and many other government and military officials accompanied Kim Jong-il for the trip.
 According to AFP, the visit came at a sensitive time for the two countries, when Russia was heading into crucial presidential polls slated for 2012 and when North Korea was thinking about restarting the six-party talks.
 The impoverished country has relied on international aid to feed its 24 million people since natural disasters and mismanagement devastated its economy in the 1990s, AFP said.
