Big Bang makes big comeback
Big Bang is back with a bang, as their new song “Blue” got more than 4 million views on YouTube within days of its release. With an upcoming comeback performance at the Seoul Olympic Park Gymnastics Arena on March 2-4, interest in the group has skyrocketed. 
Although the head of YG Entertainment, Yang Hyun-suk, has expressed his excitement and confidence in Big Bang’s comeback after a controversial hiatus, not everyone seems to be as willing to let bygones be bygones. The Feb. 25 episode of KBS’ Entertainment Weekly, for example, aired a special segment dedicated to discussing Big Bang’s comeback under the headline, “Big Bang: A forgiven return?” 
The segment discussed the reasons behind Big Bang’s months-long break from domestic appearances stemming from scandals in 2011. 
In May 2011, 22-year-old Daesung found himself under public scrutiny when news his involvement in a fatal car accident was made public. According to police reports, Daesung ran over a motorcyclist before striking a taxi at Yanghwa Bridge on the morning of May 31. Although an investigation by the Seoul Prosecutor’s office dismissed any charges against Daesung over the death of the motorcyclist, many expressed anger toward the singer, accusing him of negligent driving. 
Following Daesung’s controversial accident in May, fellow member G-Dragon made headlines just five months later when he was taken into custody over allegations of drug use. On Oct. 5, a representative for the Seoul metropolitan police confirmed that the 23-year-old had been indicted on charges of smoking marijuana sometime in the middle of May while in Japan. However, investigators later admitted that due to the lack of prior offences and extremely low-levels of the drug itself found in his system, G-Dragon was let off with a warning. 
Entertainment Weekly discussed the scandals as well as the timing of Big Bang’s comeback. Some netizens have said that because less than a year has passed since Daesung and G-Dragon’s scandals, making a comeback now seems distasteful. In fact, the show proceeded to reveal that in a survey of 1071 Seoul citizens, 63.6 percent said that it was too early for Big Bang to make a comeback.
 Others, however, contend that the show’s portrayal of Big Bang’s comeback was merely the product of an ongoing battle between KBS and YG, and that the survey itself is biased and not representative of how the general public feels toward Big Bang. 
Though the question of the group’s public image remains unanswered, one thing is for certain; there is no question of Big Bang’s popularity. The group released one of the seven tracks from their fifth mini-album on Feb. 22, achieving an impressive 4 million viewers on YouTube in the first two days, not to mention dominating the No. 1 spot on various music charts such as MelOn, Nate and Naver. The album itself, “Alive,” was released on Feb. 29. 
