Bem-vindo ao Brasil!
Welcome to Brazil! Full of colors and life, Brazil is the home of the biggest Carnival celebration in the world. This Portuguese-speaking country is best known for being home to the largest tropical rainforest in the world, the Amazon Rainforest, as well as some of the world’s best football players in history. 
Located in South America and bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, Brazil is home to 60 percent of the Amazon Rainforest and at least 67 different lost tribes of indigenous people. As one of the fastest growing major economies today, Brazil is also considered a “mega-diverse” country; or a country that is considered extremely biodiverse. 
 As a nation predicated on diversity, it is no surprise that Brazil offers a wide variety of activities for anyone willing to venture into the land of football superstars.
 Relax by the beaches
 There are numerous beaches to pick and choose from in Brazil’s vast coastline, depending on what you are looking for. For a chance to witness one of the most beautiful sunsets in Brazil, check out the beaches at Jericoacoará. For a more quaint and romantic vacation, check out Canoa Quebrada, a small, old village built on cliffs. 
Much like the wildlife found within the Amazon Rainforest, there are a diverse set of beaches to check out in Brazil. Each one has its own unique culture and ambiance. No matter which beach you choose to visit, its natural beauty will not disappoint as you lie down on the white sand and listen to the relaxing crash of waves welcoming you to South America. 
 Take an adventure through the jungle
 For those who are looking for an adventure, an epic journey through the Amazon Rainforest is the answer. It will undoubtedly leave you in awe of nature as well as appease your inner-explorer. 
For a once-in-a-lifetime journey through the world’s biggest and most diverse rainforest, visit the city of Manaus. Manaus is the largest city in the Amazon, an “incongruous pocket of urbanity in the middle of the jungle,” according to Lonely Planet. 
Although the city itself offers visitors some “genuinely rewarding sights,” it is also where most of the Amazon Rainforest tour operators are based. Although it is not the only place to book a jungle tour in Brazil, it does offer you a chance to check out what the rainforest is like before you commit yourself to a particular tour. 
If nature isn’t your cup of tea, Brazil also offers a wide variety of cultural activities to try in its cities as well. Rio de Janeiro, for example, is considered “one of the most spectacular settings of any metropolis in the world,” by Lonely Planet. “Tack on one of the sexiest populations on the planet and you have an intoxicating tropical cocktail that leaves visitors punch-drunk on paradise.” 
As the sounds of samba fill the streets and residents practice the art of living for the moment, it is hard not to be enchanted by the magic of Brazil. 
Lost tribes 
 A lost tribe, also known as uncontacted people, refers to a community of people who live either by choice or circumstance without contact with the outside world. “Outside world” here refers to today’s globalized civilization.
 World-famous beaches such as Copacabana and Ipanema are great places to visit, but for more private and relaxing vacations, check out what other beaches Brazil has to offer.
