True Renaissance man: Leonardo da Vinci
Leonardo da Vinci, whose full name was Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci, was an Italian Renaissance polymath who was painter, sculptor, architect, musician, scientist, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, geologist, cartographer, botanist, and writer. He was an epitome of “unquenchable curiosity” and “feverishly inventive imagination,” which is essential for an ideal Renaissance man. 
 Frequently described as the archetype of the Renaissance man, da Vinci was widely considered as one of the greatest painters of his time. 
 Leonardo da Vinci was born on April 15, 1452 in the Tuscan hill town of Vinci. He was an out-of-wedlock son whose father was a wealthy Florentine legal notary. 
 In 1466, at the age of fourteen, da Vinci was apprenticed to the artist Andrea di Cione, known as Verrocchio, polishing both theoretical and technical skills as a professional painter. He learned about drafting, metal working, plaster casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry, drawing, painting, and sculpting. The workshop was in close association with a number of renowned painters at the time, including Domenico Ghirlandaio, Perugino, Botticelli, and Lorenzo di Credi. 
 Da Vinci also possessed outstanding technological ingenuity. He conceptualized a helicopter, a tank, concentrated solar power and a calculator. Yet, his achievement as a painter outshone his genius and talents as an inventor.
 His profound understanding of physiognomy, about human gestures and figurative composition and detailed knowledge of anatomy, light, botany and geology made da Vinci paintings so unique.
 His all-time-great masterpiece is a small portrait known as the Mona Lisa from the 16th century. It is arguably the most famous painting in the world. The mysterious quality the piece exudes through the woman’s elusive smile is what makes it so one-of-a-kind. 
 Recently, a copy of Mona Lisa, believed to have been painted at the same time as the original by a da Vinci assistant, has gone on display at Madrid’s Prado museum. The painting, which took two years of full restoration, moves to Paris’ Louvre museum in March for exhibition.
