Those who abandon pets shouldn't be allowed to raise another
Pro- 
Those who abandon pets shouldn‘t be allowed another
 I agree with the idea that those who abandon pets shouldn’t be allowed to own another one again.
 Many people want to raise their own pets. So do I. However, I’ve never had my own pet. This is because I am not ready to look after one. 
 If I had a dog, I would have to take care of its excrement. Whenever it got dirty, I would have to give it a bath. If it got sick, I would have to bring it to the hospital. Even if it were never sick, I would still have to bring it to the hospital to vaccinate it.
 In fact, I don’t have enough time to take care of myself. A few days ago, my feet got hurt. After four days, I managed to go to the hospital.
 If I want to keep a pet, I will have to spend my time, my energy, and my money on it. I have to be responsible for my pet. 
 Those who abandon their pets have no responsibility. I’ve seen a lot of homeless pets. Sometimes, I see cats eating food garbage in the street. I feel sorry for them.
 I think those who are not responsible for their old pets should not be allowed new ones.
 Con-
 I think that people should get a second chance
 Of course abandoning pets is a horrible act, but people should be given a second chance to raise another one. 
 This is because first, we do not know what kind of situation they were in when they made such an irresponsible decision. It might be the only option they had at the time, no matter how bad a choice it was.
 In addition, people can change and if they can prove that they sincerely regret what they had done and show that they are ready to take full responsibility, then I think they should get another chance. 
 However, I think this new chance should only come with strings attached. If first time pet abandoners are willing to sign a strict code of conduct before adopting a new pet, take an education session on raising animals or agree to a regular monitoring program by supervisors, then I think they should be given another chance.
 Therefore, instead of entirely banning them from having another pet ever again, I believe that letting them keep another one and giving them a chance to make up for their past wrong doings is more desirable. 
