Children run Gaza marathon for UN summer camps
Thousands of children gathered to take part in the second-ever marathon in the Gaza Strip on March 1. The marathon was organized by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) and ran the entire length of the Palestinian territory.
 According to the U.N. News Center, nearly 2,200 children and 500 adults took part in the marathon that “aims to raise money for [the UNRWA 2012 Summer Games], a United Nations-organized sporting event for Palestinian children.” 
Despite the wet and chilly weather, the participants maintained high spirits as they ran the 42 kilometer race, with children running shorter portions of the route. Palestinian Olympic runner Nader al-Masri came in first for the second time in a row, beating competitors from all over the world, BBC News reported. 
Deputy Director of UNRWA Christer Nordahl described the purpose of the 2012 UNRWA Gaza Marathon to Haaretz. 
“The marathon sends two messages,” Nordahl explained. 
“The first is that Gaza children are seeking to enjoy a normal life equal to other children in the world and the second is that UNRWA is in real need from Arab and international countries to keep providing services to the [Gaza] Strip’s people.” 
“We ran 3 kilometers. We were so happy to run, and of course we helped each other out, and we are tired now,” 13-year-old Sahia al-Hawajery told the U.N. News Center of the experience. 
“We ran and we are tired because our Palestinian people are poor and need money, and we are working for the Summer Games to have fun and enjoy our rights, like the rest of the children in the world.”
 “Today is a big day for the residents of the Gaza Strip, it is a message to the world that Gaza is like Jerusalem and Tel Aviv and Cairo, and it is possible to organize such a big and huge marathon here,” UNRWA spokesperson Adnan Abu Hasna said.
 “This is an important message, that here, in this place, despite the [Israeli] blockade, there is insistence on life, and insistence on playing. It is a message to the world that we grow hope here in Gaza,” he added.
 Gaza is a 360 square kilometer strip of coastal land bordering Egypt and Israel. With a history of violent conflict and humanitarian crises, it has been under the control of the Palestinian Sunni Islamist political party, Hamas, since their violent takeover in 2007.
