Chaebol oligopolize businesses of SMEs
South Korea’s large conglomerates, also known as chaebol, have been increasing in size and oligopolizing markets, strangling the businesses of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), says a report by the country’s corporate watchdog on Feb. 28.
 The report by the Fair Trade Commission (FTC) showed that 74 affiliates of 22 South Korean conglomerates have encroached on business areas suitable for small and medium enterprises, such as, retail, imports, distribution, and maintenance, repair and operations (MRO). Of the companies mentioned in the report, 17 were owned or managed by Samsung, Lotte and Shinsegae, the report mentioned.
 Noticing changes inside the country’s 35 largest conglomerates’ management and business-related policies, from the period of April 2007 through April of 2011, the FTC claimed that these companies violated fair trade laws by making cross-investments. 
 The FTC added that over the years, the conglomerates increased their number of affiliates by an average of about 2.8 companies every year. Surprising number of 652 companies were incorporated as chaebol group’s affiliates and 259 new firms were set up or merged with other firms. 
 The most notorious companies on this term were Samsung Group, the country’s largest conglomerate, and retail giants Shinsegae and Lotte. The reports show the three most frequently infringed in business areas that are appropriate for SMEs. Other companies following in their disgraceful footsteps were GS, CJ and Hyosung.
 According to the state regulator, “the companies had operations in the food and beverage areas, product imports, and education services,” as well as “in light emitting diode lamp production, publishing, and MRO areas.” Nearly 75.5 percent of them belonged to the service sector.
 The increase in affiliates helped the 35 conglomerates boost their combined assets and sales by 10.8 and 13.8 percent, respectively. Yet the hardships of smaller companies were heard the loudest ever this year. Many mom-and-pop enterprises faced a challenge due to their size and inability to compete with chaebol.
 Conglomerates now face fierce criticism for not doing enough to share their benefits in the society. 
