Secretary-generals of the United Nations
“We may have different religions, different languages, different colored skin, but we all belong to one human race.” -- Kofi Annan
 The Secretary-General of the United Nations is the head of the Secretariat of the United Nations, one of the five principal organs of the United Nations. The secretary-generals serve five-year terms that can be renewed indefinitely, although none so far has held office for more than 10 years. In practice, the secretary-general cannot be a national of any of the Permanent Members of the Security Council. An accepted practice of regional rotation has been adopted in the selection of successive candidates. The current U.N. secretary-general is Ban Ki-moon, a career diplomat and former Foreign Minister of Korea who was recently appointed to a second term in office. There have been seven secretary-generals of the United Nations before Ban Ki-moon. Let’s look at each of them in more details. 
Trygve Lie (Norway) -- Term of Office: 1946-1952 
Trygve Lie was a leader of the Labor Party, a member of the Norwegian parliament, and the head of various government ministries. In 1946, he was elected as the first secretary-general of the United Nations. As Secretary General, he supported the foundations of Israel and Indonesia and sought to have the People’s Republic of China recognized by the United Nations. His support for sending U.N. forces to help the Republic of Korea during the Korean War angered the former Soviet Union and led to the Soviet boycott of U.N. meetings.
 Dag Hammarskjöld (Sweden) -- Term of Office: 1953-1961
 Dag Hammarskjöld was an economist, a diplomat and an author. He served as secretary-general until his death in a plane crash while on a peace mission in the Congo. During his terms, he worked to smooth relations between Israel and the Arab States by continuing diplomatic activity in support of the Armistice Agreements. He visited China in 1955 and negotiated the release of 15 captured U.S. pilots who had served in the Korean War. He was responsible for the organization of the United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF) that helped to secure an end to the 1956 Suez Crisis. He has been widely regarded as one of the greatest statesmen of the 20th century, as well as the bench-mark against whom all other Secretary-Generals are judged. In 1961, he was awarded a posthumous Nobel Peace Prize.
 U Thant (Myanmar) -- Term of Office: 1961-1971 
In the process of replacing Hammarskjöld, the developing world insisted on a non-European and non-American. U Thant was appointed for the remainder of Hammarskjöld‘s term as the secretary-general, thus becoming the first Asian to serve on the post. At the time, he was the Permanent Representative of Burma to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. During this first term he was widely credited for his role in defusing the Cuban Missile Crisis and for ending the civil war in the Congo. He established many of the U.N.’s development and environmental agencies, funds and programs, including the U.N. Development Program (UNDP) and the U.N. Environmental Program (UNEP). 
Kurt Waldheim (Austria) -- Term of Office: 1972-1981 
 Kurt Waldheim was a career diplomat and politician. He was elected as the U.N. secretary-general a year after he was defeated in Austria’s presidential election. During his terms, he opened and addressed a number of major international conferences convened under United Nations auspices.  These included the third session of the U.N. Conference on Trade and Development, U.N. Conference on the Human Environment, the third U.N. Conference on the Law of the Sea, the World Population Conference, and the World Food Conference. He was the first secretary-general to visit North Korea in 1979. His bid for a third term was vetoed by China, a permanent member of the Security Council.  
Javier Perez de Cuellar (Peru) -- Term of Office: 1982-1991
 Javier Perez de Cuellar, a lawyer, a professor, and a career diplomat, was the first Secretary-General from Latin America. Prior to his appointment as the secretary-general, he served as United Nations under-secretary-general for special political affairs and acted as the Secretary-General’s personal representative on the situation relating to Afghanistan. During his two terms, he led mediations between Britain and Argentina in the aftermath of the Falklands War and promoted the efforts of the Contadora Group to bring peace and stability to Central America. He also interceded in the negotiations for the independence of Namibia, the conflict in Western Sahara between Morocco and the Polisario Front.
 Boutros Boutros-Ghali (Egypt) -- Term of Office: 1992-1996
 Boutros-Ghali had been deputy prime minister for foreign affairs of Egypt prior to becoming secretary-general of the U.N. His term was marked by controversy as the U.N. came under heavy criticism for failure to act during the 1994 Rwandan Genocide that left over 1 million people dead, lack of intervention in the ongoing Angolan Civil War, and inability to deal with the crisis of the Yugoslav War. His bid for a second term was veto by the United States, and remains the only secretary-general to serve only one term.
 Kofi A. Annan (Ghana) -- Term of Office: 1997-2006
 Prior to becoming the U.N. secretary-general, Kofi Annan served as the assistant secretary-general in three consecutive positions: human resources, management and security coordinator; program planning, budget and finance, and controller; and peacekeeping operations. During his terms, he proposed a Global AIDS and Health Fund to stimulate the increased international spending needed to help developing countries deal with the HIV/AIDS crisis -- for which he and the United Nations were jointly awarded the Nobel peace Prize. He came into conflict with the U.S. prior to the 2003 -- invasion of Iraq by calling on the United States and the United Kingdom not to invade without the support of the United Nations. In his farewell address at the U.N., he outlined three major problems of “an unjust world economy, world disorder, and widespread contempt for human rights and the rule of law”.
