"The Artist," Tribute to black and white silent movie era
“The Artist,” directed and written by French director Michel Hazanavicius and starring Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo, was the star of the evening on Feb. 27. at the 84th annual Academy Awards. At the awards, “The Artist” stunned the world by winning five awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Costume Design, and Best Original Score.
 With it, “The Artist” became the most awarded French film in Oscar history, and became the first silent film to win Best Picture since 1927’s “Wings.”
 The film has already taken home three Golden Globes, seven BAFTAs and six César Awards. It is undoubtedly the most celebrated movie of the year.
 This unique silent movie debuted on May 15, 2011 at the Cannes Film Festival. Evoking people’s nostalgia for black-and-white silent films, the movie has done nothing but steal critic’s hearts.
“The Artist” which pays homage to the magic of the silent cinema era from 1927 to 1932, captures a romance between a veteran silent movie star and a novice actress.
 George Valentin, played by award winning Jean Dujardin, is a household name in the movie industry during the silent film age. In 1927, however, things began changing. The popularity of silent movies began to die down, being replaced by the talkies.
 Yet, Valentin considers the talkies to be merely fad and shrugs off itsadvent. He loathes Hollywood films filled with action scenes and colorful pictures.
 Due to his stubbornness and ignorance, he loses everything; fame, money and family. His wife leaves him and in the end, he is only left with his long-time chauffer Clifton and his adorable, brilliant dog “Uggie.”
 During Valentin’s downfall from stardom, a young actress, Peppy Mi l l e r, pl ayed by Argentinian-born Bérénice Bejo, rises to the top, becoming Hollywood’s sweetheart. It seems as if the sky is the limit for her. Behind her success, however, stood Valentin. It was he who helped her pave the way in the business. As he struggles, she turns to him and begins taking care of him. She helps him make a comeback in her next film, a musical. Words are occasionally offered by inter-title cards throughout the film.
 Director Michel Hazanavicius said that he admires films of thesilent era and has been fantasizing about making one himself for many years. Thanks to the financial successes of his previous movies, his dream finally came true. Hazanavicius argues that in the old days, movies were glorious without the aid of sound.
 “The Artist” reminds people that the pleasure of watching movies comes from simply enjoying the message of the film. People today tend to forget to focus on the plot and instead become consumed by superficial features, such as sound effects, bright scenery, and actors’ looks. 
Watching “The Artist,” provides people a chance to concentrate more on the message the movie conveys and have a better appreciation for the piece itself.
 Regardless of the fact that it is a silent film, “The Artist” is clearly one of the most eloquent, articulate and expressive movies of all time.
Jean Dujardin 
Born in June 19, 1972, in Rueil-Malmaison, Hauts-de-Seine, France, Jean Dujardin became the fi rst French actor to win the Best Actor in a Leading Role Academy Award for his performance in The Artist (2011) on February 26, 2012.
He began his first one man show as comedian in 1995. In 1999, Dujardin played “Loulou” in “Un gars, une fille”(1999). Since then, he has appeared in many films.
 Here is a personal quote from Jean Dujardin: “I discovered that silent fi lm is almost an advantage. You just have to think of the feeling for it to show. No lines pollute it. It doesn‘t take much- a gaze, an eyelash fl utter - for the emotion to be vivid.”
