Theory of eight-hour sleep in question
Lying awake in the middle of the night could be a sign of good health, unlike common beliefs, a growing body of scientific evidence suggests.
 During the early 1990s, psychiatrist Thomas Wehr conducted an experiment in which a group of people were thrown into 14 hours’ darkness a night for a month. 
The experiment revealed people’s distinct sleeping patterns: people slept first for four hours and woke for one or two hours before falling into a second four-hour sleep. 
The general idea behind the healthy sleeping regimen has been that people must take a consolidated eight-hour sleep at night. Today, most people follow the eight-hour sleep theory. The majority of doctors are still unsure if an eight-hour sleep is the most optimal and natural amount of nightly rest for people.
 What doctors are sure of though is that human body’s natural preference for segmented sleep, for example, a condition called sleep maintenance insomnia, where people wake in the middle of a night and have trouble getting back to sleep, can be closely related to human health.
 Sleep psychologist Gregg Jacobs explains that during the waking period between sleeps, people can regulate their stress naturally by getting rest and relaxation.
 “It’s not a coincidence,” he says, “that in modern life, the number of people who report anxiety, stress, depression, alcoholism and drug abuse has gone up.” According to Jacobs, people today refuse to spend more time relaxing and getting rest because they are too engrossed in the eight-hour rule. 　
 According to Gregg Jacobs, there are 4 stages in sleep;
 Stage 1 
A drowsy, relaxed state between being awake and sleeping. Breathing gets slow, muscles get relaxed, heart rate drops.
 Stage 2
 A slightly deeper sleep.
 Stage 3 and Stage 4
 Deep sleep, and there is the lowest amount of activity in your body
 Back to Stage 2 for a few minutes and then REM (rapid eye movement) sleep
 REM sleep means you begin dreaming
 According to him, a person goes through all four stages in an orderly manner and each stage lasts about an hour. So waking up during the night is, in his sense, a natural part of sleep. 
