The global animation icon, Pororo
Pororo, the Korean animated cartoon series for pre-school children, is poised to join the ranks of beloved global cartoon icons such as Mickey Mouse, Hello Kitty, Winnie the Pooh, SpongeBob SquarePants and The Simpsons. “Pororo the Little Penguin” began airing on EBS-TV in 2003 and can now be seen in 120 countries. Its global market size has reached $460 million, with an additional $10 million a year from merchandise royalties. Amid increasing popularity and rapid expansion, the creator of Pororo expects that sales from international markets will likely make up half of its revenue within the next five years.  
Pororo is an adventurous 5-year-old penguin who lives on a snowy island with six other animal friends - all of them about the same age. Pororo, the leader of the group, wears aviator goggles and a helmet and dreams of flying. Crong is a mischievous baby dinosaur with an affinity for playing the trumpet. Eddy is an inventive little red fox whose creations sometimes go horribly wrong. Poby is a gentle polar bear who enjoys fishing and photography and does most of the village chores. Loopy is a shy and sensitive beaver that acts as the voice of reason in the group. Petty is a tomboyish female penguin - excelling in sports but horrible at cooking. Harry is a wayward hummingbird whose talent in singing is not always appreciated by the group.
 Pororo was the brainchild of Choi Jong-il, the chief executive of Iconix Entertainment. In his 17-year career, Choi was constantly looking for ways to find a foothold in the animation market long dominated by Japanese Anime and American cartoons. His decision to create a cartoon that targets 2- to 6-year-olds proved to be a wise one because it effectively exploits a weak spot, a demographic group not well-covered by the Japanese animation market. Choi, who writes all the scenes himself, claimed that he got the inspiration for the show from watching his then 1-year-old daughter at play with her 4-year-old brother. He made a conscious decision to give his characters the freedom to simply play and learn, just like his own children, rather than force moral instructions on his audience.  
A successful animated show usually means a financial bonanza in characters merchandising, and Pororo is no exception. Pororo and his cohorts appear in children’s products ranging from apparels, bags, diapers, utensils and toiletries to cell phones and lap tops. There are currently three Pororo theme parks in Korea, with seven more slated to open by the end of the year. Iconix announced that a Pororo-themed amusement park will open soon in Beijing as part of its plan for international expansion. 
As with any show that is popular with young children, Pororo is closely scrutinized by concerned parents with regard to content and message. The show is swamped with suggestions ranging from showing the characters eating healthier foods to dealing with real-life situations such as standing up to bullies. The creators go to great lengths to make sure that the show remains wholesome, playful and fun for the young viewers while paying special attention to details that may be sensitive and biased to certain cultures and historical contexts. They have been vigilant in maintaining a global perspective on how the show is presented, which means not over-emphasizing a particular culture so as not to alienate the broader international audience.
