Korea through to the next round of World Cup qualification
Korea’s National Football Team faced Kuwait on Feb. 29 in a home game with huge implications. At stake was the opportunity to advance to the 4th round of qualifications for a spot in the 2014 World cup in Brazil. Historically, the Korean side has done well against Kuwait, with 4 wins against 2 defeats in six previous head-to-head FIFA World Cup qualifying meetings. Sitting atop Group B with 10 points, Korea entered the game as the clear favorite and needed only a draw to progress. However, there was no room for error - a loss to Kuwait, coupled with a victory by Lebanon over the United Arab Emirates, would have ended Korea’s streak of seven straight appearances at the World Cup. 
 Despite the National Team’s home advantage and superior record against Kuwait in the past, there were nervous jitters among fans prior to the match. The memory of Korea’s surprise 2–1 defeat at the hands of Lebanon at the previous group encounter in Beirut was still fresh in the minds of many supporters. Adding to the uncertainty is the recent change of team leadership after the controversial dismissal of previous head coach Cho Kwang-rae.  Choi Kang-Hee, the former manager of K-League’s Jeonbuk Motors renowned for his offensive tactics, was put in charge of the national squad to guide the team through the qualification process.  He put together a team largely consists of K-League players rather than overseas-based players. 
 Both Korea and Kuwait played warm-up matches prior to their qualification clash. Korea was impressive in a 4-2 friendly win over Uzbekistan, while Kuwait played to a lackluster 1-1 draw against North Korea and a demoralizing 2-0 defeat to China. At the qualification match, it was Kuwait that got off to a better start. Needing a victory in order to advance, Kuwait pressed the attack early on by consistently breaking down the Korean defense with short, quick passes and penetrated deep into the opposing zone almost at will. At the 7-minute mark, Midfielder Waleed Ali launched a dangerous shot from the edge of the area, forcing Korean keeper Jung Sung-ryong to punch it away. Bader Al-Mutwa’s sizzling shot inside the box at the 30-minute mark also forced Jung to make another tough save. The first half ended 0-0.
 Korean fans let out a collective sigh of relief when the National Team finally got on the scoreboard in the second half courtesy of reigning K-League MVP Lee Dong-gook. The goal came in the 65th minute when Kuwait’s defenders failed to clear Lee Keun-ho’s cross from the right, and Lee Dong-gook slotted the loose ball from the penalty spot into the top left corner. Lee Dong-gook has been a “Kuwait-killer” - this was his fifth goal in four career games against Kuwait. Korea doubled the advantage 6 minutes later when defensive back Choi Hyo-jin stole Kuwait’s clearing attempt in midfield and found Lee Keun-ho just inside the box for the insurance. The 2-0 advantage proved insurmountable and Kuwait’s charge was quickly deflated. 
 With the victory, Korea lives to play another day. The five Round 3 group winners and five group runners-up will contest Round 4. They are: Iraq, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Uzbekistan, Japan, Australia, Oman, Iran and Qatar. The 10 teams will be put into two round-robin, home-and-away groups of five teams each. The matches will likely take place between 3 June 2012 and 18 June 2013. The two group winners and two group runners-up qualify for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The third-place teams from each group advance to Round 5. The teams will play one home-and-away play-off, with the winner advancing to the intercontinental play-off. Korea’s quest of appearing in its 8th straight, and 9th overall World Cup continues.
