Happy Birthday Justin Bieber!
Global pop sensation Justin Bieber has finally turned 18! The teen heartthrob has come a long way since his days as a YouTube celebrity back in 2007. On March 1, Bieber celebrated his 18th birthday like any teenage millionaire would – in style. 
According to celebrity gossip and news site TMZ, Bieber not only spent the day “parachuting in the afternoon, [having] a fancy dinner followed by a fun party,” he also had plans to spend millions on two mega-mansions as a birthday present for himself and his mother. Bieber has reportedly been looking at several mansions in L.A. for a while, and the cheapest combination of houses he’s been eyeing will cost a purported $14 million. 
In fact, Bieber personally called in during live chat program “TMZ Live” to discuss his estate choices. One of the homes, which Bieber described as “really dope,” is currently being rented by soon-to-be divorced Ashton Kutcher and is listed for a whopping $10 million. With an estimated net worth of $85 million in 2011, however, spending more than $14 million on homes for himself and his mother will probably do little damage to his bank balance. 
Bieber also appeared as a special guest on the March 1 episode of the popular talk show, “The Ellen Degeneres Show,” where he received a car valued at $100,000 as a present from his manager Scooter Braun, in front of a live studio audience.
 Justin Bieber is a Canadian singer, songwriter and actor who was discovered on YouTube at the tender age of 13. In 2007, Bieber’s mother began posting his musical performances online for friends and family to see, but soon the videos began gaining popularity and a fan base on YouTube was born. Shortly after Bieber became an internet sensation, he was discovered in 2008 by American talent manager Scooter Braun when he accidentally clicked on one of Bieber’s YouTube videos. 
Despite his young age, Bieber signed with Island Records in October 2008 and released his first single, “One Time,” in July 2009. The song was released while Bieber was still recording his debut album, and was part of his EP, “My World,” which was released in November 2009.
 In its first week of release, “One Time” reached number 12 on the Canadian Hot 100 and peaked at number 17 on the Billboard Hot 100. By Fall of 2009, “One Time” achieved success in international markets, going Platinum in Canada and the U.S. and Gold in Australia and New Zealand. The EP was eventually certified Platinum in the U.S. and Double Platinum in Canada and the U.K.
 In less than five years, Justin Bieber has gone from a popular internet singer to a multi-millionaire teen-aged global sensation. 
