Massachusetts: The Bay State (Part 1 - Eastern Massachusetts)
The state of Massachusetts is home to some of the most prestigious universities in the world, such as Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.), Boston University and Tufts University. 
This third most densely populated of the 50 states in the U.S. has played a significant role in the historical and cultural development of North America. Although it is one of the smaller states, there is no shortage of places to see and things to do. From the first colony established by the Pilgrims of the Mayflower and infamous Salem witch trials in the 1600s to the Boston Tea Party in 1773, which ultimately led to the American Revolution, Massachusetts has undoubtedly played a pivotal role in establishing the U.S. as it is today.
 Divided into Eastern, Central and Western Massachusetts, each section has a plethora of must-see sites to explore.
 Eastern Massachusetts
 The capital of Massachusetts, Boston, is located on the eastern coast of the state, where it is home to some of the nation’s most prestigious universities. In fact, Boston is known as the international center of higher education and medicine.
 Eastern Massachusetts as a whole houses numerous cultural and historical sites ripe for exploration. For a relaxing getaway, take a trip out to Cape Cod, Martha’s Vineyard or even Nantucket Island. Each offers beautiful beaches looking out into the Atlantic Ocean where you can lie back and enjoy life. Martha’s Vineyard offers picturesque towns full of quaint shops and natural sites while Nantucket Island is full of cobblestone streets, antique stores and charming lighthouses.　
 For a more historical experience, visit “America’s Hometown,” Plymouth. This city is the site where the Pilgrims of the Mayflower first colonized in 1620; the birth of New England. As the town where the First Thanksgiving feast was celebrated, visitors can partake in a variety of cultural and historical experiences. From whale-watching cruises to a tour of a living-history museum that recreates life in 1627, Plymouth has plenty to offer for people of all ages and interests. 
 Higher Education in Eastern Massachusetts 
 l Harvard University (Cambridge, MA)
 l Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Cambridge, MA)
 l Boston University (Boston, MA)
 l Boston College (Chestnut Hill, MA)
 l University of Massachusetts Boston (Boston, MA)
 l Tufts University (Medford/Somerville, MA)
 l Suffolk University (Boston, MA)
