Xi Jinping, first in line to lead China
Xi Jinping is a high-ranking politician in China who is first in line to serve the country’s presidency after the current leader Hu Jintao. Xi, an heir-apparent, is Vice President and top-ranking member of the Central Secretariat of the Communist Party of China, the nation’s top power organization. 
 On Oct. 18, 2010, Xi was officially appointed to the vice-chairmanship, the same position which was held by Hu Jintao in 1999 before he took over the secretaryship and later presidency of the country. 
 Xi Jinping was born in June 1953 in Beijing as the youngest son of Xi Zhongxun, former Vice-Premier. When he was 10, his father was purged and sent to a factory in Luoyang. In 1968, during the Cultural Revolution, his father was jailed. Xi was only 15 years old by then. From 1975 to 1979, Xi studied chemical engineering at Beijing’s prestigious Tsinghua University. 
 Xi, who is a member of the Crown Prince Party, an organization made up of descendants of early Chinese revolutionaries, is married to a famous Chinese folk singer Peng Liyuan in 1987. Peng Liyuan is a household name in China’s entertainment business, so before Xi’s political elevation, she enjoyed more popularity than Xi. Today, they make China’s emerging star political couple. They have a daughter who attends Harvard University. 
 Throughout his career, he has built up a broad portfolio as the country’s next paramount leader.
 Since March 2008 after being elected as Vice President of the People’s Republic of China, he has done nothing but solidified his candidacy and polished his image as the country’s top man.
 Xi took charge of the comprehensive preparations for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, served as the central government’s leading figure in Hong Kong and Macau affairs and made remarkable impressions to the public by visiting disaster areas in Shaanxi and Gansu in the wake of the 2008 Sichuan Earthquake.
 Those who know Xi describe him as “pragmatic, serious, cautious, hard-working, down to earth and low-key. His openness to serious dialogue in regards to deep-seated market economic reforms and even political reform along with pragmatism made him popular among many foreign dignitaries.
 In 2009 and 2011, Time listed Xi as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Xi is expected to serve the Communist Party of China’s fifth generation of leadership, suceeding Hu as General Secretary and President in 2012 and 2013, respectively.
