Schools should not sell sodas and snacks to teenage students
Pro- Soda and snacks should not be sold to teenagers at schools.
 In many middle school and high school, we can see many snack bars to students. They are selling snacks, soda, even hamburger for students. But these things hold various problems.
 First, Many students are using their time to buy food in the store so they can’t have much time for studying and rest. Then, they can’t study well because they have no time for review and preview. I think students must focus more on studying, not on playing and spending time for snacks.
 Secondly, students can become fat easily with the snack eating. Foods in the snack bar have too much calories so they make students fat. Also, they have many harmful things so the students’ health will be compromised. Then, they can’t live the normal life if they become too fat. It will be hard to exercise in P.E class.
 Lastly, The students’ money will be spend in wrong ways. They will use most of their pocket money for eating snacks if they can buy them easily. Then, they can‘t use their pocket money in wise ways. Also, some students who are bullying weak students will make them buy snacks for them from the snack bar. It will aggravate the bullying problem.
 I don’t say that we have to get rid of all snack bars. I think making students not to go to snack bars too frequently will solve this problem. 
Con- Soda and snacks should be sold to teenagers at schools
 Today, obesity in teenagers is a hot topic. Unhealthy foods such as snacks and sodas are seen a cause of childhood obesity. Schools are pushing ahead with a move to ban snacks, but I believe that schools should sell sodas and snacks for teenagers. 
 First of all, snacking offers students the opportunity to take a break from tedious studies. It helps students release stress and build bonds with their classmates. The experience creates great memories of school days. The joy of such irreplaceable experience should not be taken away.
 Also, schools should stock up healthy snacks and drinks - for example, apples, nuts, milk, baby carrots and fruit juice - instead of getting rid of them altogether. Those healthy snacks fill up students’ empty stomachs and provide quality nutrition. Students cannot focus on studies and may turn short-tempered toward teachers and friends when they are hungry. Therefore, for the sake of a positive and friendly school environment, schools should keep selling snacks.
 What’s more, if schools can implement a health-conscious policy that stops students buying too many snacks and sodas; that is, if they can buy them only in moderation - two to three times a week at most-I don’t see why they need to ban these foods from schools.
 All in all, since snacking provides cherishable memories to students, helps them release stress and build bonds, I think snacks and sodas should remain in schools. Especially when schools can provide students with healthier snacking choices. 
