Changes in education for creative leaders
On Aug. 2, the Cheong-Shim Education Forum was held at the COEX center in Samsung-dong. The topic of this forum was “Initiating changes in education for global leaders.”
 Choe Jae-chun, a chair-professor of Division of Eco-Science at Ewha Women’s University said that we need global leaders to unite knowledge.
 For example, Apple’s legendary CEO Steve Jobs combined liberal arts with technology. As a result, the iPhone series and iPad have overtaken Korean IT technology.
 Another example is James Cameron, the director of the movie Avatar. Avatar is a mixture of mythology, ecology, technology, and so on. Many Koreans participated in making the movie. However, we did contract work. We couldn’t design the whole thing.
 “Dig wide if you wish to dig deep!” said Choe. He insisted that creative education for global leaders has to unite science and humanities.
 This forum also introduced classes taught at the Cheong-Shim International Academy. These classes aren’t limited; they combine one subject with other subjects. They include non-curricular activities and the real world outside the classroom.
 It reminds me of my classes at the Education Center for the Gifted (sponsored by the education office), where it is hard to draw lines between students and teachers. We cooperate with each other to perform creative tasks. We are able to debate and think freely. I am very happy to have such an interesting class.
 On the other hand, in normal school, I should listen to teachers for 40 minutes and take notes. Teachers don’t like many questions and don’t like students who have different opinions from their own.
 Unfortunately, every student in Korea can’t enjoy special classes because creativity education needs a big budget to operate. Some panelists at the forum talked about quality of teachers, while others talked about money.
 Jeong Woo-tag, an official from the Korean National Commission for UNESCO, said that UNESCO targets "education for all." Therefore, creative education is actually impossible except in advanced countries.
 Hopefully, every student in Korea and around the world will one day have the chance to enjoy special classes for creativity.
