Korean pop culture good for domestic business
The popularity of South Korea’s popular culture in Asia and other parts of the world is beneficial to local businesses seeking to expand overseas, Yonhap News reported on March 7, citing a poll.
 The survey conducted by Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) of 300 South Korean companies showed that 51.9 percent of the respondents believed that the Korean Wave had a positive effect on their international businesses. 
 The Korean Wave, which refers to the success of South Korean dramas and music in Asia, Europe and the Americas, has made a huge impact on mostly the country’s cultural content, tourism and retail sectors, says the report.
 According to the survey, 86.7 percent of cultural content businesses had enjoyed better sales thanks to this powerful cultural phenomenon. Also 85.7 percent in tourism and 75.0 percent in retail industry acknowledged its positive influence in the poll. 
Manufacturers in food, cosmetics, clothing, consumer electronics and autos also agreed that they benefited from the friendly public sentiment toward South Korean products, buttressing hallyu’s prevalence across the world. 
 KCCI stated that 82.8 percent of the companies from the survey agreed with the idea that Korean Wave contributed to their business in the global markets. More specifically, 43.5 percent of the local businesses responded that they experienced an improved perception when entering new overseas markets. To take advantage of the trend, one out of five companies reportedly used K-pop entertainers in their advertisements. 
 The organization added that Korean Wave has helped boost the local economy by attracting tourists. In 2011, 9.79 million foreign visitors came to South Korea. It is an 11.3 percent increase from a year before. This year, country expects the number will increase to 11 million.
 With an estimated 3.3 million hallyu fans around the world, the popularity of K-pop culture is felt most vividly in Japan and China, followed by Southeast Asia.
