Celebrating 2012 International Women’s Day: Empowering rural women
March 8 marked International Women’s Day, aimed at celebrating the economic, political and social achievements of women, as well as bringing to light the continuing fight for equality. This year’s theme, “Empowering Rural Women - End Hunger and Poverty.”
 IWD has been celebrated every year by the United Nations (U.N.) since 1975 when it observed International Women’s Year. 
In his traditional IWD message, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon praised the gains made by women in business, politics and education, but warned that, “Despite this momentum, there is a long way to go before women and girls can be said to enjoy the [same] fundamental rights, freedom and dignity” as men. 
According to the U.N., although they make up one quarter of the global population, women who work as small farmers or landless workers repeatedly rank at the bottom of every economic, social and political indicator. Simply put, these rural women rank lowest in terms of income and education levels, access to medical services and decision-making. 
With the health of women in rural areas the theme for this year’s IWD celebrations, public health officials have called on policy makers and global donors to support health and wellness programs, specifically targeting the treatment of tropical infections and improving women’s access to reproductive health services. 
The World Health Organization supports this idea, saying that the economic empowerment of rural women can only happen when women are given better access to basic medical treatment, including access to necessary medication and birth control. 
Dr. Julie Jacobson, senior program officer at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation told Voice of America that fighting tropical diseases was tantamount to helping rural women. In particular, Jacobson discusses the link between women suffering from trachoma and the associated risk of HIV infection. By simply treating trachoma with one tablet, the risk factor of developing HIV by rural women is reduced three- to fourfold. 
The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, has also urged governments to do more for women’s rights. 
“Only by capitalizing on the potential of women to effect change can we ever expect to realize the global aspiration for more just societies, where the human rights and dignity of every woman, child and man are respected,” she said in her statement on IWD. 
