Putin re-elected as Russian President
Russian people yearning for a stronger and more stable state chose Vladimir Putin to become their new President on March 4.
 Standing in front of the crowd outside the Kremlin, the presidential-elect said he and Dmitry Medvedev had won in an “open and honest battle.” Putin also called his victory a turning point that had prevented the country from falling into the hands of enemies.
 Putin is said to have collected over 63 percent of the votes, and his closest rival Gennady Zyuganov of the Communist Party garnered only around 17 percent. The three others - nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and left-leaning Sergei Mironov - stopped at single digits.
 Supporters and opponents
 But a good many voters refused to recognize the results, calling them the product of ballot-rigging. They said on March 5 that they would press ahead with the biggest protests since Putin rose to power in 2000. Many political experts predict that massive protests are expected to go on for a long time, even after Putin takes over the presidency in May.
 Before the election, Putin’s win was never in doubt. Russians consider him the leader who will guarantee a stronger Russia against so-called a “hostile world,” AP news explained.
 When just a quarter of the votes had been counted on the election this time, Putin declared victory and said to the crowd near the Kremlin walls: “I promised that we would win and we have won!” He also said that his people could distinguish a desire for revival from political provocations aimed at destroying Russia’s statehood and power.
 “Putin is a brave and persistent man who can resist the U.S. and EU pressure,” a 20-year-old student Anastasia Lushnikova who voted for Putin said during an interview with AP.
 Putin could drum up support mostly from lower income brackets by promising to push ahead with economic reforms and build a much stronger Russia.
 Many Russian people praise Putin’s influence on the international stage after the financial collapse of the country in the 1990s following the end of the Soviet Union. Under his rule from 2000 to 2008, the Russian economy made real gains of an average 7 percent per year.
 But just as many Russians and others accuse Putin of authoritarian tendencies, and argue that he failed to root out pervasive corruption while he was in power. On top of that, what is considered by many as “election fraud” is expected to give the Putin administration hard time for months and years to come.
 Korea-Russia relationship under Putin
 Through the Putin and Medvedev administrations, Moscow showed growing interest in cooperating with South Korea for the development of Siberia and Far East Russia. Right before passing, former North Korean leader Kim Jong-il agreed with Russia on the cross-peninsular pipeline project, and accordingly Russia began railway repair work between the border cities of Hasan and Rajin of North Korea.
 Russia is ready to host the 2012 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum in September, which will have great implications for Putin who consider his country’s economic development as one of the top political goals. Russia under Putin is also expected to try to make the best out of the six-party talks, which aim to denuclearize North Korea. 
 The Nuclear Security Summit scheduled for late March would be the first international forum where Putin will represent Russia. Through top-level diplomacy on the multilateral and bilateral levels, both Seoul and Moscow would try to expand security and economic cooperation with their respective partners, experts say. South Korea and Russia share vast and boundless areas of cooperation, including commerce, science and technology, under the leadership of Putin and President Lee Myung-bak. 
 Putin’s past career
 Born to an ordinary family in Leningrad (of the Russian Federation) in 1952, the young Putin was very much into martial arts, including sambo and judo. He also admired many intelligence officer characters in Soviet movies.
 Putin graduated from the Law Department of the Leningrad State University in 1975, writing his final thesis on international law. While at university he became a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and remained a member until the party was dissolved in December 1991.
 He joined the KGB in 1975 upon graduation from university, and worked for the national intelligence organization for 17 years until 1992.
 In 1997, Putin was appointed deputy chief of presidential staff by President Boris Yeltsin. A year later, he became a permanent member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation.
 In December 1999, Putin became acting President of the Russian Federation, and within five months he was inaugurated as Russian President for the first time.
 During his first term in office (2000-2004), he succeeded in the codification of land law and tax law, and also introduced new codes on labor, administrative, criminal, commercial and civil procedural law.
 In March 2004, Putin was re-elected to the presidency for a second term, receiving 71 percent of the vote. His second term lasted until 2008.
 In May 2008, shortly after handing the presidency to Medvedev, Putin was appointed Prime Minister of Russia, maintaining his dominance and power.
