POSCO fares well in difficult economic times
The global steel maker POSCO completed a new stainless steel mill in Vietnam on March 7. The completion is expected to raise the company’s annual steel production in Vietnam to 235,000 tons, the company said.
 The completion ceremony was attended by top officials including POSCO CEO Chung Joon-yang and Vietnamese Vice Minister of Industry and Trade Le Duong Quang.
 Previously, POSCO’s production capacity in Vietnam stood at 150,000 tons a year, and the steelmaker made local investment worth $130 million to meet the fast growing demand for stainless steel in the region.
 The new factory built within Nhon Trach Industrial Complex near the city of Ho Chi Minh was completed in 13 months after starting construction in Dec. 2010.
 POSCO CEO Chung said in his congratulatory speech, “The newly completed cold-rolled factory features the most up-to-date equipment, and is expected to not only manufacture quality products but also contribute to Vietnam’s economy.”
 The steelmaker made headlines once again when it announced on March 9 its successful development of a steel body frame for electric cars in Incheon.
 The Body Concept-Electric Vehicle developed by POSCO meets international safety standards for 2015 and reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent, according to news reports.
 “POSCO will combine our cutting-edge steel materials and technologies to contribute toward commercialization of electric cars,” CEO Chung told domestic carmakers at POSCO’s Global R&D Center in Songdo.
 Sales of electric cars reached 1 million units worldwide in 2011, and are forecast to increase by more than 30 percent on annual average to 6.78 million units in 2015 and 10 million units in 2020, according to industrial experts.
 POSCO also had a ground-breaking ceremony on March 9 for an environmentally-friendly “green building” on the Songdo campus of Yonsei University.
 The company will spend 20 billion won to construct this modular building with Yonsei University as a test bed to develop energy-saving office and apartment models. Energy required to run the green building will be secured from sunlight, geothermal heat, rain water and other eco-friendly sources, and earthquake-proof steel materials will be used, POSCO explained.
 Once the POSCO Green Building is completed, it is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by about 100 tons annually, the amount absorbed by some 9,400 trees, said the company.
