Apple unveils ‘new iPad’
Apple introduced the new model of iPad on March 7 in San Francisco, California, the United States. 
 “Everyone’s been wondering who will come out with a product that’s more amazing than the iPad 2. Stop wondering: We are,” Tim Cook, chief executive of Apple said during the company’s product launch. 
 After debuting the voice-enabled iPhone 4S in 2011, it was Cook’s second major launch. 
 Despite the industry’s ongoing speculation over the name of the new high-tech gizmo, Apple unveiled its latest iPad addition by simply calling it “the new iPad.” There were no numbers or descriptive words. 
 The cutting-edge gadget boasts a sharper screen and a faster processing. Apple said that “the new iPad” uses Verizon Wireless’ and AT&T Inc.’s LTE wireless broadband networks, which are faster than the 3G networks used by previous iPads and current iPhones. Apple saw a better screen resolution as a must, as tablets are increasingly being used for personal media consumption. 
 What is disappointing is that the new iPad is slightly thicker and heavier than the previous version, because it needs a larger battery to realize the high-resolution screen. Still the new model added a higher-resolution camera on the back. The company says that it plans to provide the iCloud remote storage service, so that its users can store big documents, such as movies, photos, and music.
 In announcing the new iPad, Apple CEO Tim Cook, spoke about a “post-PC world,” in which users increasingly move away from traditional desktop and laptop computers and toward portable devices. And at the center of the revolution, he implied, was Apple. 
 Cook noted that Apple sold 172 million iPods, iPhones and iPads - so-called “post-PC” devices - last year. Last year alone, 40.5 million iPads were sold. Apple also mentioned it sold more traditional PCs than any other company in the last three months of 2011. 
 The company makes up 62 percent of the worldwide tablet market. South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co., is second in line with 9 percent thanks to its Galaxy tablet line. It is again followed by Amazon.com Inc., maker of the Kindle Fire, with 6 percent.
 The third version of iPad will hit store shelves from March 16 in North Americas and 10 other countries. The starting price will be $499 and other versions capable of accessing cellular networks will cost $629 to $829. Apple says that it will keep its basic model, iPad 2 in production but drop the price by $100 to $399. 
 In the wake of Apple’s move, Samsung Electronics and other makers in the global tablet market have pulled down prices to below $500. “We are taking it to a whole new level and are redefining the category that Apple created with the original iPad,” emphasized Cook at the launch event.
 The number of tablet users in the world has grown to 67 million last year, according to researcher Strategy Analytics. Analysts expect double-digit growth in tablet market in coming years.
