The most expensive paintings
The world’s most famous paintings, the magnum opus of legendary artists, are often considered priceless works of art. They are usually held at prestigious museums for viewing by patrons, or owned by super-wealthy private collectors for their own purposes. In reality, many “priceless” paintings do have prices -- astronomical prices -- attached to them. The list of the highest prices ever paid for paintings at auctions or private sales include 12 that sold for more than $100 million each. 
 The works of Vincent van Gogh are well represented in the list of top 20 most expensive paintings ever sold. They include: “Portrait of Dr. Gachet” ($144.1 million), “Portrait of Joseph Roulin” ($107 million), “Irises” ($105.4 million), “Portrait de l’Artiste sans Barbe” ($98.4 million), and “A Wheatfield with Cypresses” ($89.2 million). The sale of van Gogh’s “Vase with Fifteen Sunflowers,” though not among the top 20 highest amount ever paid for a painting, helped to usher in the era of sky-rocketing prices for significant paintings. In 1987, it was sold at a Christie’s, London auction to Japan’s Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company for a record $39.7 million ($79.9 million at today’s price), a price that more than tripled the previous record amount. The sale sent shock waves around the art world. The message was clear: For top paintings, sky’s the limit. 
The honor for the highest-priced painting ever sold belongs to “The Card Players” by Paul Cézanne. It was purchased in 2011 for $250 million by the Qatar Royal Family at a sale from the private collection of Greek shipping tycoon George Embiricos. The “Card Players” is a series of five paintings painted during the French post-impressionist artist’s final period in the early 1890s. The versions vary in size and in the number of players depicted. The record-breaking version of the series was once part of a high-profile theft of eight Cézanne paintings from a traveling show at Aix in August 1961. Fortunately, all paintings were recovered after a ransom was paid several months later.
 Not surprisingly, the top 20 list includes five works by Pablo Picasso, whose paintings have long been coveted by museums and collectors. Picasso, widely known for co-founding the Cubist movement, is considered one of the greatest and most influential artists of the 20th century. In 2004, his “Garçon à la Pipe”, with a pre-sale estimate of $70 million, was sold for $124.3 million by the Whitney family to an unknown buyer. John Jay Whitney, publisher and philanthropist, originally bought the painting in 1950 for $50,000. The painting was painted in 1905 when Picasso was just 24 years old, during his Rose Period, soon after he settled in the Montmartre section of Paris, France. The oil on canvas painting depicts an unknown Parisian boy holding a pipe in his left hand and wearing a garland or wreath of flowers. 
The second-highest price ever paid for a painting was the “No. 5, 1948”, a painting by Jackson Pollock, an American painter known for his contributions to the abstract expressionist movement. The painting was done on an 2.4 meter by 1.2 meter sheet of fiberboard, with thick amounts of brown and yellow paint drizzled on top of it, forming a nest-like appearance. It was sold for $156.8 million in 2006 by David Geffen, founder of Geffen Records and co-founder of Dreamworks SKG. The third-most expensive painting, “Woman III” by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning, was sold in 2006 for $154 million, also by David Geffen, who originally acquired it from Thomas Ammann Fine Art in 1994 in a trade for the remainder of the 16th century Persian manuscript, Tahmasbi Shahnameh. 
 - All amounts are inflation-adjusted to reflect the current value of the amounts paid.
