Watch your head - sports concussion
In the United States, March is designated as the Brain Injury Awareness Month. It is a nationwide education and advocacy campaign aimed at preventing brain injuries caused by sports concussions. March is a busy month in America’s sports calendar; Major League Baseball (MLB) teams begin spring training, National Basketball Association (NBA) and National Hockey League (NHL) teams fight for favorable positions in the playoffs, and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) basketball tournament gets under way. It is the perfect time to educate athletes and coaches on the importance of preventing concussions. 
A sports concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury (TBI) caused by a direct blow or jolt to the head while a person is playing sports. It is typically caused by a severe head trauma during which the brain moves violently within the skull. A concussion may result when a suddenly induced turning movement twists the head, like a boxing punch or a taekwondo kick to the side of the face. It can happen when a moving object strikes the head, such as from a baseball pitch or a powerfully struck soccer ball. It can also occur from a fall in which the head strikes against a hard surface, as in the case of someone falling hard on a basketball court, or landing on the icy surface of a skating rink. 
 Boxers are at greater risk of concussion than other athletes because they are subjected to repeated and violent blows to the head in every fight. The form of concussion that boxers suffer even has its own name -- Dementia pugilistica. Its symptoms include declining mental ability, problems with memory, Parkinsonism, tremors and lack of coordination. It can also cause speech problems and an unsteady gait. Boxing legend Muhammad Ali, who has suffered from Parkinson’s disease for years after countless head blows, is the prime example of what repeated concussions can do to a person. 
Baseball players can suffer concussions in many different ways. Collisions occur frequently when base runners plow into catchers while attempting to score, or when fielders converging on a fly ball collide at full speed. The worst case scenario is when a pitcher hits a batter in the head with a fastball. Even with the protection of a batting helmet, a concussion is almost inevitable. In 1998, Mike Piazza, the star catcher of the Los Angeles Dodgers, was hit in the head by a batter’s backswing, knocked unconscious and suffered a concussion. While playing for the New York Mets in 2005, Piazza suffered a concussion again when he took a pitch to his head that shattered his helmet.
 Soccer players are also at risk of getting concussions. Taylor Twellman of Major League soccer’s New England Revolution was accidentally punched in the jaw by a goalkeeper while scoring on a header. He sustained a concussion so severe that it forced him to quit the sport within a year. Aside from instances of players occasionally knocking heads while leaping for a ball, or an inadvertent kick to the head, of more serious concern is the frequent “heading” of soccer balls.  Studies of neurological images of players with the highest volume of headers showed abnormalities in five areas of the brain responsible for attention, memory, physical mobility and high-level visual functions. 
Ice hockey is a physical, fast-paced, and high-impact sport in which a certain level of rough play and violent behavior is tolerated. It is not surprising that the National Hockey League has seen some of its greatest hockey players have their careers shortened by concussions. Sydney Crosby, the captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins and the best player in the NHL, suffered a serious concussion from a blindside hit to the head at the 2011 Winter Classic. The injury nearly ended the career of the one of the biggest stars the league has ever seen.
