Infinite Challenge, infinite reruns?
With the popular MBC entertainment show “Infinite Challenge” going onto its seventh week of reruns, many have begun to get restless and question the effectiveness of the MBC labor union strike. Although fans initially supported the decision of staff members to join the strike, many have begun to show their frustration with the continued standoff within MBC. 
The strike began on Jan. 30 because staff felt that MBC President Kim Jae-chul was turning the public broadcasting network into a puppet station for Korean President Lee Myung-bak’s administration. A similar strike took place in 2010, lasting 39 days before the labor union called a temporary halt to the strike. 
Discontent with Kim’s administration has since escalated, ultimately leading to the current strike. Once again, the labor union is demanding that Kim resign, accusing his administration of promoting censorship of the press by restricting news reporting to pro-government policies and news stories. 
With the failure of the 2010 MBC labor union strike, many see the lack of progress in this year’s strike as a bad sign. As the deadlock continues, fans of MBC shows have grown weary of waiting and begun expressing their frustrations about the strike. 
Fans of “Infinite Challenge,” in particular have gotten increasingly restless, especially given the cliffhanger of the last episode aired. In the much-awaited ‘HaHa vs. Noh Hong-chul’ special, fans were left hanging as the finale episode was canceled due to the strike. The show’s ratings have taken a huge hit, dropping into single digits, according to AGB Nielsen Media Research. 
The drop in ratings is a huge blow to both MBC and Saturday night TV viewers, as “Infinite Challenge” had consistently ranked number 1 for the Saturday night timeslot. Netizens have expressed their disappointment with the ongoing strike, posting such comments as “My Saturdays are now becoming dull,” and “This is really sad, I’m starting to have withdrawal symptoms of the show [Infinite Challenge]” on social networking sites and online forums. 
The last episode of “Infinite Challenge” aired on Jan. 28. 
