Marilyn Monroe, eternal pop icon
Marilyn Monroe was an American actress, singer, model who was a pop and a cultural icon in Hollywood during the 1950s.
 She was born on June 1, 1926, in Los Angeles as Norma Jeane Mortenson.
 With “The Prince and the Showgirl, (1957)”, by Marilyn Monroe Productions, the film production company Marilyn Monroe owned, she earned her first BAFTA Award nomination. Monroe received a Golden Globe Award for her performance in “Some Like It Hot (1959).” 
 Throughout the celebrated movie career, she struggled with severe stage fright. She relied heavily on alcohol and prescription medications and this began to take a toll on her health. Tragically, at the age of 36 she was found dead at her home in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California. The cause of her death was believed to be either accidental and deliberate overdose of barbiturates. Her death flamed a huge post-mortem controversy.
 The final years of her life were marked by illness, and her wretched reputation as an actress who was unreliable and difficult to work with. The last film before her sudden death was “The Misfits,” co-starring Clark Gable with the screenplay written by her then-husband, Arthur Miller.
 In her last interview, Marilyn Monroe said: “What the world really needs is a real feeling of kinship. Everybody: stars, laborers, Negroes, Jews, Arabs. We are all brothers.”
 A biographical film about Marilyn Monroe, “My Week with Marilyn,” was released in a local movie theater on Feb. 29. The British movie which was directed by Simon Curtis and written by Adrian Hodges depicts Marilyn Monroe of starring in the 1957 film “The Prince and the Showgirl.” The film focuses on the week in which Monroe spends with an assistant at the movie set, Clark in and around England. The same studio where Monroe shot the very film in 1956 was reported to be reused for this 2011 replica film. 
 Her role was played by an American actress Michelle Williams. Williams was awarded the Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy Motion Picture for her impeccable portrayal of Monroe.
 According to the Rotten Tomatoes, the movie rating site, “Michelle Williams shines in My Week with Marilyn, capturing the magnetism and vulnerability of Marilyn Monroe.”
 In 1999, Monroe was ranked as the sixth greatest female star of all time by the American Film Institute. 
