Massachusetts: The Bay State (Part 2 - Central Massachusetts)
Most people consider Boston to be the only place to visit in Massachusetts, in particular because it is one of the most well-known cities in the U.S. However, despite its comparatively small size, Massachusetts offers many more sights and adventures than just those in Eastern Massachusetts, for those daring enough to venture away from the cultural mecca that is Boston. 
Central Massachusetts
 Though Eastern Massachusetts may be the home to the state’s largest city, Boston, Central Massachusetts has the second-largest city, Worcester, and the popular winter destination Wachusett Mountain. The Worcester Art Museum, one of the leading small art museums in the U.S., attracts art enthusiasts from around the state with its small but diverse collection.
 While Eastern Massachusetts offers visitors a chance to explore the birth and heart of New England in the early 17th century, Central Massachusetts offers an equally diverse set of experiences and recreations of rural New England. 
The largest living museum in New England, Old Sturbridge Village can be found in Central Massachusetts. Presenting life in rural New England during the 1790s through to the 1830s, Old Sturbridge Village features 59 antique buildings where visitors can interact with costumed interpreters as they relive history. 
New England is best known for its beautiful fall foliage, and what better to experience this breathtaking beauty than against the backdrop of the Quabbin Reservoir? The Quabbin Reservoir is in the middle of Massachusetts. There are countless biking and hiking trails surrounding the reservoir, not to mention abandoned roads and stone walls reminiscent of a time past. If you take a boat out onto the water on a sunny day, remnants of old buildings and foundations can be seen at the bottom of the reservoir, giving visitors an eerie glimpse of history. 
For those looking for a less haunted, more physical adventure, check out the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor. Dedicated to preserving the history of mill towns and the early American Industrial Revolution, the national historic park stretches across 24 cities and towns from Central Massachusetts to Providence, Rhode Island. Although the Blackstone River Valley is dedicated to preserving history, it is also a place where visitors can hike, take canal boat rides and simply enjoy nature as well. 
 Higher Education in Central Massachusetts
 l Worcester State University (Worcester, MA)
 l Clark University (Worcester, MA)
 l Worcester Polytechnic Institute (Worcester, MA)
 l College of the Holy Cross (Worcester, MA)
 l Framingham University (Framingham, MA)
 l University of Massachusetts Medical School (Worcester, MA)
 New England
 New England refers to the northeastern region of the U.S., consisting of six states: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut. The name comes from the first English settlers in the early 1600s, and it is where the first movements of American literature, philosophy and education originated from. It is the only non-geographic regional name recognized by the federal government. 
