Dogs are better pets than cats
Pro- I think that dogs are better pets than cats
 Dogs are more loyal to their owners than cats. Cats regard their owners as counterparts, not as someone they should respect and obey. They think that they have equal status as their owners. Thus, cats are not as emotionally attached and loyal to their owners as dogs. 
 They are only nice and listen to people when they need or want something, such as food or affection. I think that cats are masters of playing with emotions and when it comes to showing their affection, they can be more calculating than dogs. 
 What’s more, dogs tend to be more playful and active than cats. Cats are more reserved and indifferent to others than themselves. They are not as much fun to be around and play with as dogs. Cats make young and active owners frustrated by their reluctance to play and have fun together. Also they are overly sensitive, and sometimes high-maintenance, so it takes much energy to look after.
 Lastly, I believe that dogs make better companions than cats. What you see is what you get in regards to dogs. We can read dogs minds easily but when it comes to cats, they are too mysterious, secretive and sometimes sneaky. It’s hard to figure out what cats have in their minds. Dogs are more emotionally available and always there for you when you need them. 
Since dogs are more loyal, more fun to be around and make good friends and family members, I think that dogs are better pets than cats.   
 Con- Cats are Superior
 Dogs and cats are the most popular pets in the world, and there have been scores of arguments over whether dogs are better pets than cats. I side with the people who think that cats are better.
 First of all, a cat’s lifestyle is unique. Many people who keep cats will understand that cats never beg or pester their masters for food or entertainment. Unlike dogs, which always bark and whimper whenever they want to do something, cats always keep quiet and almost never ask for anything. This is very convenient for pet owners, especially those who are busy all the time.
 Furthermore, cats can go to places that dogs can’t by using their strong legs. They can jump to high places and are able to move very quickly. For people taking care of small dogs like Chihuahuas, allowing them to roam free on high places like desks is perilous, because there is a risk of them falling and breaking their legs. This is not a problem for cats, since they can both jump high and leap off high places with ease. Their owners don’t have to worry about that.
 Finally, cats are pretty smart and can learn things fast. For example, my cat has learned how to open doors by watching people. Also, they know how to urinate in the toilet after training, so the owners don’t have to take care of urine on floors or carpets. So cats are pretty good pets to keep.
 For these three reasons, I believe that cats are better animals to look after than dogs.
