North Korea to launch satellite next month
In response to North Korea’s decision to launch a satellite in April, the U.S. State Department made clear that the scheduled food aid to the communist regime will be “hard to imagine” if the North pushes ahead with the plan. 
 North Korea announced on March 16 that it would launch an Earth-observation satellite aboard a rocket next month to mark the centenary of the birth of the country’s founder Kim Il-sung.
 The news came just weeks after the isolated nation agreed to suspend its missile and nuclear tests and freeze its uranium-enrichment facilities in exchange for 240,000 tons of food aid from Washington. 
 The North’s Korean Committee for Space Technology said the Unha-3 rocket carrying Kwangmyongsong-3 will blast off from its satellite launching station in North Pyongan Province between April 12 and 16, around April 15, the late founder’s birthday. It is one of North Korea’s most important holidays. 
 The committee emphasized that it would "strictly abide by relevant international regulations and usage concerning the launch of scientific and technological satellites for peaceful purposes and ensure maximum transparency.” Through the launch, the committee seeks to encourage the public in the building of a prosperous nation and will offer an important occasion of putting the country’s technology of space use for peaceful purposes on a higher stage," Yonhap News said.
 Upon hearing the announcement, Seoul called on the North to stop such provocative acts immediately and follow international obligations. The Foreign Ministy said in a statement that the launch would be "a grave provocative act against peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia.”
 Washington sees North’s recent move as a disguised missile test. The U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland also forecast that the situation would make the implementation of any kind of a nutritional agreement quite difficult. 
 “It’s very hard to imagine how we would be able to move forward with a regime whose word we have no confidence in and who has egregiously violated its international commitments,” she argued. 
At the Pentagon, spokesman Navy Capt. John Kirby interpreted the launch as “destabilizing behavior” and pressed Pyongyang to obey the U.N. resolutions. The United Nations Security Council resolutions ban countries from developing its ballistic missile program.
 The recent nuclear deal between Pyongyang and Washington raised hopes that the six nation nuclear disarmament talks could be resumed. However, the latest provocation by the North has once again erased that hope. 
