Nurses in Kenya end mass strike
Tens of thousands of nurses in Kenya agreed to end a two-week strike on March 14 after talks with Prime Minister Raila Odinga, who decided to rescind their mass dismissal earlier in the week. 
The strike began on March 1 in protest of the government’s “failure to raise wages as agreed last year,” when they also demanded improved services in the nation’s mostly ill-equipped public hospitals, AFP reported. 
The strike crippled hospitals, with some patients being sent home untreated while others died for lack of medical care. 
Government spokesman Alfred Mutua had announced March 8 that all 25,000 nurses participating in the strike had been fired. In his statement, Mutua said the country could “no longer sit and watch as Kenyans suffer in hospitals without medical attention because nurses and other medical staff are on strike.” 
The situation has divided citizens, many expressing anger about how the conflict was being handled.
 “The government should face the reality and handle the nurses’ strike seriously. It is worsening the situation even more by announcing the sackings,” Kenya Health Professionals Society coordinator Fred Omiya said in an interview with AFP in reference to Mutua’s announcement. 
Many protested the government’s decision, including the chairman of the National Nurses Association of Kenya, Luke K’Odambo, who stated it did “not make sense in any way.” 
An editorial in the Daily Nation newspaper warned of “brewing disaster,” stating “The government has continued to bury its head in the sand, routinely denying that the strike has claimed lives.”
 “The row has raged on for too long, the whole matter has been badly handled by both the government and the workers.” 　
 In an effort to find a better resolution to the situation, a meeting was held between the nurses on strike and Prime Minister Raila Odinga. 
Secretary General of the Union of Civil Servants Tom Ondege told AFP, “We have held talks and we have agreed health workers will resume duties, and all their grievances will be looked into by a special task force.”
 “None of them will be sacked,” he added. “Letters which had been sent to some of them, we have been assured, will be withdrawn.”
