Record-breaking downpour all over Korea
The scale of the monsoon season of Korea is increasing by a shocking amount. The precipitation of July and August has reached 1285.3mm which is similar to the annual rainfall.
 For these reasons, there are many assumptions based on the dramatic rainfall that lasted more than 50 days. The reason that gained the most support is that the downpour is a side effect of climate change. Since the climate change has caused problems all over the world, there are many questions as to whether the rain is also caused by it.
 In Daejeon, the damage made by the rain wasn’t significant. It seemed like an ordinary monsoon season and I never felt it was severe. However, the news showed that the downpour devastated a lot of other regions. For example, in Seoul Gangnam station was flooded and people called it the Gangnam water park. Also, the rainfall severely damaged farms and greenhouses, which caused huge problems for the agricultural industry.
 Another problem that hit the peninsula was landslides. As time passed, more and more accidents were reported in the paper and the intensity of the effect increased. 
Every day I heard new stories in the media and it made me feel so sorry for those who suffered. The formidable rainfall continued and it made me ask myself a question. “How come the damage is getting severe even though our knowledge of science and technology is increasing rapidly?” I thought about the answer deeply, and I came to a solution that natural disasters cannot be controlled by human power.
 Also, I thought that natural disasters are a punishment to people who damaged nature. It is because even a one-degree increase in the earth’s temperature can cause chaos in the environment. Since the earth became hotter because of excessive use of underground resources, the responsibility of the damage is to the people. I think that even though human industry has developed astonishingly, the power of humans will always be far behind nature.
 I order to decrease the natural problem and to safe future, we should take more care securing the environment. If the fundamental cause is solved, the side effect will naturally vanish.
