Coming soon: April Fools’ Day!
As the end of March draws near, children and adults alike find themselves both dreading and eagerly awaiting the month of April. Not only does April bring fresh spring showers and beautiful blossoms, it also brings a day of chaos and mayhem as people celebrate April Fools’ Day.
 Every year on the first day of April, both children and adult alike come together in a spirit of playfulness to play tricks on as many people as possible. In some instances, corporations, news outlets, and even government officials have participated in creating confusion and panic with false advertisements and news reports. 
Despite its widespread popularity and celebration, the tradition of April Fools’ Day has puzzled cultural historians for centuries. Detailed references to it began in the 18th century, but by that time, playing practical jokes on April 1st was already well-established throughout northern Europe and regarded as tradition. The question of how the tradition had been adopted by so many different cultures without the existence of a written record of its spread continues to plague cultural historians today. 
There are several references to April Fools’ Day prior to the 18th century, but unfortunately, they are rather ambiguous, making it difficult to determine their significance. The oldest possible reference, for example, was found in one of Chaucer’s poems, the Nun’s Priest’s Tale, which was written around 1392. Unfortunately, the passage in question has caused enormous confusion amongst Chaucer scholars due to the language. It was written in a self-contradictory manner, as a parody of the confusing language of medieval philosophy.
 The first concrete references to the practice of playing practical jokes on April 1st can be found in a poem written in 1539 by the Flemish writer, Eduard De Dene. The poem is about a nobleman who decides to send his servant back and forth on ridiculous errands on April 1st. The servant, however, recognizes that it is a trick, saying “I am afraid ... that you are trying to make me run a fool’s errand,” in the last line of each stanza. 
Though no one knows for sure the true origins of April Fools’ Day celebrations, the 1539 poem by De Dene confirms that April Fools’ Day celebrations date back to at least the 16th century. 
Regardless of how and when the tradition of April Fools’ Day began, it is undoubtedly one of the most amusing days of the year. Dedicated to help bring out the playfulness of a child in all of us, it is the only day of the year when you are expected to lie and play tricks on other people without getting in trouble. 
 Some classic pranks you can try…
 Two Black Eyes – Using some dark makeup (preferably eye-shadow), put it around the eyepiece of a pair of binoculars. As you hand them to your victim, point something out in the distance and tell them to look at it through the binoculars. If done properly, the victim should now have two dark circles around his or her eyes. 
 Door Ambush – Simple and classic. Balance a small disposable paper cup of water on top of a partly open door. Be careful that neither you nor the cup falls as you do this. Then, just wait until someone comes through the door and laugh.
 Document Panic – This works best if your victim has an important project or homework due the next day. First, carefully hide the document containing your victim’s important project or homework. Next, create a fake document with the same name. Fill the document with text using gibberish or a weird font. Watch as they begin to freak out, trying to figure out what happened. WARNING: You may want to tell them the truth as soon as they discover the fake document. If you wait too long, they might get very angry and you will get in trouble. 
 Spare Change – Another classic practical joke is to superglue some coins on the sidewalk or any place that has a lot of people walking around. Once you superglue the coins to the ground, watch from a distance as people try their hardest to pick them up. 
 Some (In)famous Pranks:
 Taco Liberty Bell
 In 1996, the fast food chain Taco Bell took out full-page advertisements in six major American newspapers, announcing that they had purchased the Liberty Bell, an iconic symbol of American independence, to “reduce the country’s debt.” Taco Bell then claimed to have renamed it the “Taco Liberty Bell.” 
The advertisement created panic amongst worried citizens, who then began calling both the Taco Bell headquarters and the National Park Service in Philadelphia to find out if Taco Bell had really bought the Liberty Bell. 
The White House got in on the joke as well, with press secretary Mike McCurry telling reporters that as part of the government’s ongoing privatization efforts, the Lincoln Memorial had also been sold to the automobile giant, Ford Motor Co.
 Bill Gates Assassination
 In 2003, a false news article reporting the assassination of Microsoft chairman Bill Gates was posted on a spoof of the CNN website. The story of Gates being reportedly shot by a lone gunman at a charity event in Los Angeles was, unfortunately, reported as true by three local news channels in Korea, YTN, MBC and SBS. The prank itself is a classic, but the news caused embarrassment to Koreans when it caused the nation’s stock market to drop by 1.5 percent. The Korean media was not the only one to be embarrassed. The Chinese media fell for the joke as well when the English-language newspaper, China Daily, picked up the story. 
 Koreans have celebrated April Fools’ Day since the Joseon Dynasty. Although it is now celebrated on the first day of April, under the Joseon Dynasty, royal family members and courtiers were allowed to lie to each other, pull pranks and generally have fun on the first snowy day of the year. 
A popular prank was to send a bowl full of snow to a victim. The victim who received a bowl full of snow would then have to grant the sender one wish. 
