World Water Forum in France
South Korean Prime Minister Kim Hwang-sik headed to France to attend the World Water Forum. 
 The World Water Forum, the biggest international event on global water issues, has been held every three years since 1997 by the World Water Council, an international non-government organization.
 The 6th World Water Forum was held in Marseille, France, from March 12-17 with goals to address global water challenges and raise awareness for political agendas. 
 During his four-day trip, Prime Minister Kim attended the opening ceremony and delivered a keynote speech, stressing the significance of global joint efforts to tackle diverse water problems. 
 According to the Prime Minister‘s Office (PMO), Kim also advocated the water-relevant industries as future growth engines for the international community. 
 “Kim’s visit to France will serve as an important opportunity for Seoul to express its strong willingness for the successful hosting of the next forum and to support the relevant companies here to make inroads into the global market,” an official from the PMO said.
 At the forum, Kim talked with foreign counterparts as well as key figures, including the director-general of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 Kim also sat down for talks with Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno to pursue mutual interests in the related area. During a meeting with Nigerian President Mahamadou Issoufou, Kim pledged to promote bilateral cooperation with Nigeria in resources and infrastructure. During the talk, Issoufou expressed his hope for 
“As the next host of the World Water Forum, South Korea has a slew of experiences in managing and developing water resources. I will positively review the request by the Chadian government,” Kim firmly stated. 
 South Korea vowed to seek ways to help Africa with water shortages. 
“Due to the aggravated desertification over the past five years, Lake Chad, one of the world‘s six major lakes, is rapidly shrinking. It has caused extreme poverty among the 3,500 residents around the lake," the PMO added. South Korea’s elevated role in tackling Africa’s water problems.
 The next water forum is set to be held in 2015 in Daegu and North Gyeongsang Province.
