Gridiron warrior Hines Ward
“I want to thank the organization, my teammates and coaches and everyone who made my run as a Steeler the best years of my life. …To my fans and in particular, Steeler Nation, thank you for your support and all the great memories. …I still have more football left in me and I am looking forward to playing in the NFL, again, this upcoming season.” – Hines Ward
 Hines Ward, one of the greatest wide receivers in the history of the National Football League (NFL), was recently released by the Pittsburg Steelers -- the only team he has played for in his illustrious 14-year career. He departs the Steelers as the team’s all-time leader in receptions, receiving yardage and touchdown receptions. A talented, versatile and hard-nosed player throughout his career, Ward was a four-time Pro Bowl selection, three-time team MVP, two-time Super Bowl champion, and one-time Super Bowl MVP. It is widely believed that when Ward eventually retires from the game, he will be inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
 Hines Ward was born in Seoul in 1976 to a Korean mother and an African-American father. His family moved to Atlanta, Georgia when he was 1-year-old. He possessed exceptional athletic abilities growing up and was an award-winning quarterback in high school. He attended the University of Georgia from 1994 to 1997 and was a standout football player on offense. He demonstrated amazing versatility by not only playing, but excelling, in three different positions – wide receiver, tailback and quarterback. He placed second in school history in receptions, receiving yards and all-purpose yards. In addition to his accomplishments on the football field, Ward also received a bachelor’s degree in consumer economics. 
 Hines Ward was selected by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the third round of the 1998 NFL Draft. He immediately endeared himself to Steelers fans and teammates with his skills, toughness, positive demeanor and effervescent smile. He is one of the very few top-notch wide receivers in the league who is willing and able to put his body and health on the line by throwing blocks for his teammates. He is known and feared throughout the NFL for his devastating and bone-crunching blocks – a reputation widely cherished by teammates and fans but disdained by opponents. Ward has always been great at interacting with fans during the game. After each touchdown reception, whether at home or away, he would seek out someone in the stands wearing his No. 86 jersey and hand him the ball. 
 Ward stands at 183 cm and weighs 93 kg -- relatively small for a receiver by NFL standards - which makes his career accomplishments even more impressive. He is one of eight NFL players in history to reach 1,000 career receptions. His team record 12,083 receiving yards and 85 touchdowns eclipsed the marks set by former Steeler greats such as Franco Harris, Lynn Swann and John Stallworth - all of whom are in the Hall of Fame. Ward’s career-defining performance came in Super Bowl XL on February 5th, 2006. He had five receptions for 123 yards, one touchdown, and one rush for 18 yards in the 21–10 victory over the Seattle Seahawks. He was named the game’s Most Valuable Player (MVP).
 Hines Ward, the tough-guy football warrior, has a soft side too. He capitalized on his fame after his Super Bowl MVP performance by visiting his native Korea. He donated $1 million to create a foundation to help bi-racial people -- those, like him, who were children of mostly Korean women and U.S. African-American servicemen. His “Hines Ward Helping Hands Foundation” helps arrange “hope-sharing” meetings with multiracial Korean children and to encourage social and political reform. Hines Ward the rugged athlete also has a graceful side -- he and his dance partner won season 12 of the American TV dance competition “Dancing with the Stars.” 
