Pierre Gagnaire - Iconoclastic French chef of fusion cuisine
“My aim is to reveal in my cuisine both emotion and also intelligence. We all need poetry, tenderness and also things well done.” – From Pierre Gagnaire’s spirit
 Pierre Gagnaire is an acclaimed French chef renowned for the pivotal role he plays in the fusion cuisine movement. He was one of the first chefs responsible for breaking free of the conventions of classic French cooking with his dazzling combination of flavors, surprising textures, and new ingredients. His eponymous restaurants throughout Europe, North America, the Far East and the Middle East have received universal praise, garnered numerous accolades and won prestigious Michelin Stars. On his website, Gagnaire sums up his philosophy for cooking in the mission statement: “facing tomorrow but respectful of yesterday.” 
 Pierre Gagnaire was born into a family of restaurateurs in Apinac, France, in 1950. He began his career as an apprentice chef learning the fundamentals of traditional cuisine in Lyon. He discovered the world of creative cuisine while working with one of the founders of Nouvelle Cuisine, Chef Alain Sendernes, at Lucas Carton in Paris in 1974. Gagnaire credited that experience with building up his personal sensory world, which enabled him to “take produce into a completely new world, amazing myself by the infinite variety of flavors that were there to be revealed.” In 1976, Gagnaire returned to take over his family restaurant, Le Clos Fleury, and earned his very first Michelin Star.
 Gagnaire opened his own restaurant in Saint Etienne in 1981 and won two Michelin Stars. He opened another restaurant in Saint Etienne in 1992 and won three stars the following year, but he was soon bankrupt. Thereafter, he left for Paris to explore further opportunities. In 1996, he opened Pierre Gagnaire in Paris with help from his friends, and within two years, the restaurant achieved three-star status. His flair for artistic presentation, innovative juxtaposition of ingredients, and ever-evolving cooking techniques made him the darling of the culinary world. His Paris restaurant was voted number three on the S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants by industry magazine Restaurant. 
 Gagnaire started the international expansion of his restaurant with the opening of Sketch in London in 2002. The restaurant, located in a classic 18th-century building set among the fashion houses and gentlemen’s tailors of Conduit Street in London’s West End, was an instant success. Sketch earned Gagnaire another Michelin Star and a place on the 50 Best Restaurants list. In 2005, Gagnaire’s expansion reached the Far East with the opening of Pierre Gagnaire Tokyo. He found an instant connection between his artistic food presentation and Japanese aesthetic food arrangement -- describing it as “a shock because you see the beauty that’s on the plate. I found that there could be such tenderness. It goes beyond art, it goes beyond craft.” The two-star restaurant closed its doors in 2008 due to problems with financial backers, but a second Pierre Gagnaire restaurant opened in Tokyo in 2010.
 The Gagnaire restaurant empire expanded quickly with the opening of “Gaya rive gauche par Pierre Gagnaire” in Paris (2005), “Pierre” in Hong Kong (2006), “Courchevel, Pierre Gagnaire pour les Airelles” in the French Alps (2007), “Reflets par Pierre Gagnaire” in Dubai (2008), “Pierre Gagnaire à Seoul” (2008), “Twist” in Las Vegas (2009), “Colette” in Saint-Tropez, French Riviera (2010), and “Les Menus par Pierre Gagnaire” in Moscow (2010). At each of his international restaurants, Pierre Gagnaire always puts special emphasis on incorporating locally available ingredients in the menu as a sign of respect for the native culture. Much to the delight of gastronomes everywhere, the globe-trotting chef continues to work tirelessly to bring his brand of artistic cuisine to the rest of the world.
