1 Night, 2 Days ? As one door closes, a second opens
On Feb. 26, the tear-filled final episode of 1 Night, 2 Days Season 1 aired as both fans and members said goodbye to almost 5 years of memories together. Of the five original members, only three would go on to 1 Night, 2 Days Season 2; Lee Soo-geun, Kim Jong-min and Uhm Tae-woong. 
The episode was especially poignant because several members of the 1 Night 2 Days team would not be returning. Not only did members Lee Seung-gi and Eun Ji-won shed tears as they wrapped up the show, but the notorious yet lovable "Na PD" (Na Young-suk) was seen breaking down as well. 
As a special parting gift, the staff of 1 Night 2 Days held a surprise fan meeting for the beloved members of the show in an old movie theater in the city of Jeongeup. It was here that fans of the show were able to witness the emotional side of Na Young-suk as he thanked and said goodbye to both members and fans. 
The show first aired on Aug. 5, 2007 to relatively mediocre ratings. As the years have passed, however, it quickly became one of the most beloved weekend reality entertainment shows for all ages. Despite the many controversies and changes in members it has faced, fans tuned in time and time again to watch as members traveled all over the nation to show the beauty of Korea. With the latest allegations of tax evasion and subsequent retirement of the "nation’s MC," Kang Ho-dong, however, it seemed it was time for a change. 
With a change in some cast and crew, the first episode of 1 Night 2 Days Season 2 aired on March 4. New members include Kim Seung-woo, Cha Tae-hyun, Sung Si-kyung and Joo Won. 
Although there was some disappointment over the change in members, many were nonetheless interested to see what the new members would bring to the table. Unfortunately, the first episode started off with some mistakes by the rookie production crew and awkwardness between new and old members. From the beginning, the new producer, Choi Jae-hyung, struggled with being compared by the old members to the wildly popular "Na PD." 
By the March 18th episode of 1 Night 2 Days, however, the show found its footing, once again ranking No. 1 for Sunday night entertainment. 
