Massachusetts: The Bay State (Part 3 - Western Massachusetts)
Although it is the least-known area of Massachusetts, Western Massachusetts has made a variety of cultural and historic contributions to American society. Western Massachusetts covers more than half of the land in the state, consisting of 103 towns and 11 cities. It is unsurprising then, that the region has a multitude of exciting tourism sites ripe for exploration.
 Western Massachusetts
 In honor of James Naismith (1861-1939), the Basketball Hall of Fame is located in Springfield, the city widely considered to be the economic, historic and cultural capital of Western Massachusetts. Naismith invented basketball in 1891 while enrolled at the International YMCA Training School in Springfield.
 Other famous people linked to Western Massachusetts include Emily Dickinson (1830-1886), Noah Webster (1758-1843) and Theodor Seuss Geisel (1904-1991). Renowned American poet Emily Dickinson was born in Amherst, where she wrote nearly all her poems and lived her entire life. Noah Webster, responsible for the production of the first American dictionary in 1806, was also a long-time resident of Amherst. In fact, the headquarters of the Merriam Webster dictionary is located in Springfield. 
Theodor Seuss Geisel, a famous writer, poet and cartoonist who wrote some of the best-selling children’s books of all time under the penname Dr. Seuss, was also born and raised in Springfield. His works include such classics as “Green Eggs and Ham,” “How the Grinch Stole Christmas” and “Horton Hears a Who!” 
Other exciting places to visit include the Springfield Armory, Yankee Candle Village and Six Flags New England (SFNE). 
The Yankee Candle Village, located in South Deerfield, is the largest U.S. manufacturer of scented candles. It is not only the one of the world’s largest candle stores but also features a unique, entertaining world of New England charm where you can experience hands-on, interactive candle-making. 
The Springfield Armory was the main center for the invention and manufacture of U.S. military firearms until its controversial shutdown in 1968. Today, it is a museum run by the National Park Service where you can take guided tours through the nation’s military and industrial history. 
For those looking for an adventure in the land of amusement parks, there is Six Flags New England. Part of the world’s largest amusement park corporation, SFNE features some mild and moderate rides as Cannonball Falls and Daffy’s Hollywood Tours to the more thrilling Catapult and Mind Eraser rides. As the biggest amusement park in New England, it has about 57 rides in total, including a water park. 
 By Park So-eun (spark@heraldm.com) 
 contribution 기여 multitude 다수 penname 필명 armory 무기고 interactive 상호적인 invention 발명 manufacture 제조 firearm 화기 
 Higher Education in Western Massachusetts 
l Amherst College (Amherst, MA)
 l American International College (Springfield, MA)
 l Holyoke Community College (Holyoke, MA)
 l University of Massachusetts Amherst (Amherst, MA) 
l Williams College (Williamstown, MA)
 l Smith College (Northampton, MA)
 l Clarke School for the Deaf (Northampton, MA) 
 An interesting fact about Western Massachusetts is that its residents harbor a critical attitude towards Boston, despite the fact that it is the state’s capital and largest city. This is mostly due to the perception and belief that the state’s legislature and executive branch are indifferent towards the needs and desires of Western Massachusetts. 
