Akira Yoshizawa, master of origami
Akira Yoshizawa was a Japanese origamist who was respected and revered by many as the grandmaster of origami.
 He is credited with his accomplishment of raising origami into a living art. In his life, Yoshizawa created over 50,000 origami models and published 18 origami books. 
He served as a civilian cultural ambassador for his country in his life. 
 Akira Yoshizawa was born on March 14, 1911, in Kaminokawa, to the family of a dairy farmer. From a young age, he found pleasure in creating origami. For a short period of time, he worked as a factory worker in Tokyo. His new job required him to study geometry. The knowledge in geometry later served him well with his origami work. In 1937, he began to pursue origami full-time. 
 During World War II, Yoshizawa served in the army medical corps in Hong Kong and used his talents to cheer patients up. 
 Recognized for its exceptional genius, his origami work was included in the 1944 book Origami Shuko by Isao Honda and in the 1951 issue of the magazine Asahi Graph. In 1954, he first proposed a system of diagramming in Atarashi Origami Geijutsu (New Origami Art). It was his first published monograph. In the book, he brought in dotted and dashed lines to represent mountain and valley folds, and other symbols such as, “inflate” and “round” symbols. The publication of this book led to the establishment of the famous Yoshizawa–Randlett system. 
 The Yoshizawa–Randlett system, which is a system of symbols, arrows and diagrams that demonstrates steps of origami folding, has been used as the standard for most paper folding. 
Of many origami techniques he developed, wet-folding would proboably be the most significant one. Unlike normal origami folding, which uses thin paper, the technique required a thicker sheet. It involves slightly dampening the paper before making a fold to allow the paper to change its form easily. This gives a more lively and realistic look to the final piece. When Yoshizawa was 43, in 1954, he opened the International Origami Center in Tokyo.
 The following year, he opened his first overseas exhibition in the Stedelijk Museum.
 Yoshizawa would never sell his origami work, but rather give them as gifts or lend them for exhibitions. In March 1998, Yoshizawa was invited to exhibit his origami in the Louvre Museum in France. In 1983, Yoshizawa was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, one of the highest honors possible for a Japanese citizen, from Japanese emperor Hirohito.
 Akira Yoshizawa died on March 14, 2005 on his 94th birthday in a hospital in Itabashi Ward of complications of pneumonia.
