Video games contribute to child violence
Pro- 
I believe that video games contribute to youth violence
 This is because, firstly, youngsters are easily affected by what they see.
 They look for their ideal world or their role models through TV dramas, movies and video games. 
Yet, many video games are about war and violence. Playing video games, they may develop the idea that violence is a good way to live.
 Second, video games may keep us from other people. In the past, children used to play together outside. They learnt to cooperate and respect other people while playing together. 
 In contrast, nowadays our break time is so short that we only have time to play video games to relieve stress. We don’t get enough opportunity to play with others.
 Third, many scientific studies have shown the association between videogames and child violence.
 Scientists say that playing video games for hours can stimulate a specific part of our brain that controls our emotions. I remember seeing a mouse getting anxious when it is exposed to sound and light from video games for a long time.
 In conclusion, I think video games contribute to youth violence to some extent.
 Con- 
I believe that video games help relieve youth violence
 There are many educational video games that offer interactive courses in math, science, and foreign languages. They are effective study materials which help arouse students’ interest in learning. These video games let young students learn while having fun. Therefore, we cannot ignore the fact that there are some positive sides to video games for school-aged children. This is why I think considering video games as equal to youth violence is unfair.
 Moreover, video games when enjoyed in moderation can actually help students with their studies. This is because they allow students to release stress. “All work and no fun” is not an efficient way of learning. Also, when students are stressed out, they become more violent and aggressive. In that sense, instead of increasing child violence, video games help reduce it by helping children relieve stress. 
 In summary, since video games may be effective study tools that can make students enjoy learning, I believe that they do not aggravate but rather decrease violence in a child. In addition, video games played moderately can be an effective way for students to reduce stress. Therefore, I don’t agree with the idea that video games contribute to child violence. 
