U.N. condemns Syrian government attacks on people
The United Nations Security Council raised its voice and condemned Syrian President Bashar Assad for attacking civilians.
 The condemnation came after the Syrian military launched attack on Hama, a northern city that is considered a Syrian symbol of the democratic movement.
 The Syrian government mobilized tanks and snipers, which killed at least 100 people.
 The Security Council requested the Syrian authorities to immediately end all violence and launch a political process that will allow all the Syrian people to exercise freedoms.
 It also stated that those responsible for the violence should be held accountable.
 Meanwhile, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said the statement pointed out the clear message of the international community to the Syrian President.
 “The world has watched the deteriorating situation in Syria with the most profound concern. But the events of the past few days have been brutally shocking,” he said.
 According to human rights activists, the assaults by the Syrian government on Aug. 8 to 9 had killed at least 27 civilians, including 13 in Hama.
 Hama is where thousands of civilians lost lives in 1982 when security forces crushed an anti-government uprising, according to AFP.
 This year, many Syrians staged solidarity marches starting from Ramadan, a fasting period for Muslims that started on Aug. 1.
 AFP said the current Syrian President’s tough response suggests that he would resist calls for democratic change that have swept Syria for the past five months.
 The U.S. government demanded that President Bashar Assad halt his crackdown on civilians.
 U.S. Republican Mark Kirk said in an interview with AFP that his nation should impose sanctions in response to the murder of civilians by troops.
 The U.S. government imposed sanctions on Syrian authorities and is weighing new sanctions including on Syria’s oil and gas industry, according to news sources.
 Meanwhile, the demands of Syrian protesters include for President Bashar al-Assad to step down, for the ruling Baath Party to allow other political parties and to end killings and torture.
 They also ask for equal rights for Syria’s ethnic and religious groups and broad political freedoms, such as freedom of the press and speech.
