Extinction - an impending crisis
There are about 2 million identified species of animals. Unfortunately, many of them are close to becoming extinct. The extinction rates are increasing every day, and I believe that in 20 years it will become one of the worst catastrophes our generation will face. Centuries ago, the causes of extinction were natural, but nowadays, human causes like deforestation and pollution are receiving more attention.
 Deforestation is one of the leading factors of extinction. Tropical forests, which contain half of the Earth’s species, are being devastated by it. Experts have predicted that in 25 years, the majority of the animals living in rainforests will lose their homes if deforestation continues. Another cause is the pollution of habitats. All the waste being dumped into the water by factories is toxic to the sea creatures like turtles and whales. Consequently, the life cycle will be extremely unbalanced, since the predators and prey are vanishing. That would mean major changes in the ecosystem. How can our generation solve this crisis?
 One way to solve extinction is preventing it. There are about 1700 endangered species on Earth, and my generation will see many more in the future. Fortunately, organizations like the Worldwide Fund for Nature are creating breeding programs and policies to stop extinction, while planting trees to make new environments. Our generation should strengthen those organizations with donations and help from various countries. Together, they can create powerful laws to end activities like deforestation and pollution, and also generate new habitats.　
 Another solution is cloning. The positive thing about it is that extinct animals can be made again with their genes. Sure, many attempts have failed, and the cloning techniques are still uncertain, but in 20 years, I’m certain that cloning will be done more easily, as long as the government keeps supporting it. In the future, there is a possibility that many extinct animals, like the dodo, the Bali tiger, and the passenger pigeon may be seen again in our lives.
 In conclusion, aiding environmentally friendly associations can prevent negative human activities, and I believe that cloning will be an excellent solution when it becomes possible. The Earth is a place where all the living things coexist, so humans have no right to disrupt the ecosystem by ruining habitats. Our duty is to keep the Earth healthy and beautiful for generations to come, and I hope they will follow that responsibility too.
