Severe drought in Mexico to have lasting consequences
A severe drought in Mexico is threatening Latin America’s second largest economy, which has already set aside 34 billion pesos ($2.65 billion) in emergency aid. Reuters warns that with more than $1 billion in crop losses alone, the latest natural disaster is just a foretaste of a drier future to hit the nation. 
According to Reuters, the water shortage has, to date, wiped out “millions of acres of farmland this winter, caused 15 billion pesos ($1.18 billion) in lost harvests, killed 60,000 head of cattle and weakened 2 million more livestock.” 
Although the effects of the worst drought to be recorded in the nation’s history have eased in the past few months, its effects are expected to have lasting consequences. 
The effects of the most recent drought are still being measured, but the government warns that Mexico’s “drought-stung winter has been evolving for years and is expected to worsen as the effect of global climate change takes hold,” Reuters reported. 
Not only will food prices remain high, but the recent drought has already set back the national cattle herd for years to come. Specifically, as livestock wither from malnutrition, sick cows will have trouble reproducing; causing losses that could take decades to recover from. 
The ramifications of the drought on human life have also been harsh. Mexico’s National Water Commission, Conagua, was cited by Reuters as saying that “more than 400,000 residents in the six driest states were without water at the end of December ... with reservoirs in two states half-empty and another two less than a quarter full.”
 Deforestation has worsened conditions for indigenous people.
 “This year the Tarahumaras [indigenous people of northern Mexico] have not been able to harvest corn or beans, which is the basis of their livelihood,” local priest Becerra told Reuters. “And the worst is yet to come - April, May, June, July are the driest, hottest months ... [making] the situation much more serious and complex.”
 Despite the millions of liters of milk and tons of food delivered by the government to the particularly hard-hit Tarahumaras people, the situation is still dire. 
According to Reuters, summer rains typically break the dry spell during the winter, but Conagua expects this year’s rainfall in March to be half of the average rainfall recorded, with no break in the crisis until July.
