Price fixing closely monitored after FTA
The Korean government has vowed to crackdown on unfair tinkering of product prices in the nation’s distribution sector, top economic policymakers affirmed on March 21.
 “Price-fixing undermines free trade pacts with Korea’s trading partners,” officials, including Finance Minister Bahk Jae-wan stated in a weekly economic review meeting.
 Free trade pacts with the United States and the European Union have significantly dropped import prices in the domestic market but excessive profit margins by importers and retailers have maintained the high prices of some products.
 Government officials agreed to closely monitor the consumer prices of products and take harsh measures to unfair acts when a noticeable difference between the prices of import and consumer products is spotted- which is a sign of excessive profit taking. 
“The government is planning on releasing the import prices for products that are closely linked to consumers so people can compare these with the actual sale prices,” an official noted.
 High consumer prices put shackles on the government’s efforts to tackle inflation. South Korea’s inflation soared to 4 percent in 2010, hitting the upper ceiling of the Bank of Korea’s 2-4 percent target band. According to Yonhap News, the government aims to bring prices down to around 3.2 percent in 2012.
 Finance Minister Bahk suggested that South Korea should instead make use of its free trade agreements with other countries to maximize the country’s economic growth. 
 “It can be accomplished,” he noted, “by Korea strengthening its exports and industrial competitiveness.” Korea has to use the FTAs in changing the country’s economic paradigm for the better, he said.
 The top economic policymaker also stressed that the government should brace itself for a possible uncertainties in the Middle East, and seek to minimize its impact on local economy and the nation’s energy reserve situation. 
 Currently Seoul holds 185 days’ worth of crude oil reserves, 28 days’ worth of iron ore, 33 days’ worth of bituminous coal, as well as a narrow amount of liquefied petroleum gas, nonferrous and rare metals. The government is also ready to provide 250 billion won ($221.5 million) in management assistance funds to small and medium enterprises in times of emergency, Yonhap News reported.
