Beyond security, towards peace: 2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit
The 2012 Nuclear Security Summit, a crucial global gathering to deal with global nuclear safety and security was held in the Convention and Exhibition Center (COEX) in southern Seoul on March 26-27. Local media hailed the country’s elevated international status, brought by the hosting of the Nuclear Security Summit and the G20 Seoul Summit in 2010.
 At the two-day Seoul Nuclear Security Summit, countries around the world sought to bolster international safeguards against nuclear terrorism. South Korea played a leading role in coordinating views on key security issues.
 “Currently, radioactive materials that can be used to make as many as 130,000 nuclear weapons are scattered around the globe. The objective of the Nuclear Security Summit is to prevent such nuclear materials from falling into the hands of terrorist groups,” said South Korean President Lee Myung-bak in a radio report before the summit. “Countries participating in the summit need to make specific commitments in reducing fissile material stockpiles and to help realize a more peaceful world without nuclear weapons.”
 Participants of the Seoul NSS included heads of 53 states and three international organizations- the U.N., IAEA and EU - who had participated in the first Washington Nuclear Security Summit. They were joined by a rare participant, Interpol (International Police). Except for North Korea, the leaders of all countries involved in the six-party talks, including U.S. President Barack Obama, Chinese President Hu Jintao, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, and U.N. secretary-general Ban Ki-moon took part at the summit. 
 The three major security topics discussed during the 2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit:
 　-Cooperative measures to combat the threat of nuclear terrorism
 　-Protection of nuclear materials and related facilities
 　-Prevention of illicit trafficking of nuclear materials
 The 2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit offered the host country a valuable platform to secure enhanced stability on the Korean peninsula by drawing awareness of the region and cooperative measures against its northern counterpart’s nuclear activities. Since the North’s missile launch in 2008, the six-party talks, multilateral talks on dissuading the North’s nuclear activities have come to a standstill. 
 Foreign Minister Kim Sung-hwan stated, “North Korea’s nuclear issue is not on the agenda of the Seoul summit, but the issue can be discussed bilaterally outside the summit.” 
 Another important agenda raised at the meeting was the safety of nuclear energy. Japan’s Fukushima nuclear accident, which was caused by a terrible earthquake and tsunami, has put the safety of nuclear power plants under a global spotlight. Marked as the world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25 years, the accident prompted countries to reconsider the use of nuclear power. Germany decided to shut down all of its nuclear plants by 2022 and a number of countries are about to follow its suit. 
 The Seoul Communiqué, which consists of a comprehensive action plan to prevent nuclear terrorism, was also drafted at the global gathering. Nations accepting the communiqué are expected to enhance their global cooperation to combat nuclear trafficking and prevent the world-wide proliferation of weapons-grade atomic materials. “The Seoul summit is hoped to produce more advanced and concrete action plans through a Seoul communiqué,” emphasized Lee.
 The five underlying principles of the Seoul Communiqué: 
▲ securing high-risk nuclear materials such as highly enriched uranium and plutonium; ▲ enhancing the protection of nuclear facilities; ▲ preventing the illicit trafficking of nuclear materials; ▲ bolstering the global nuclear security architecture, such as the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism ▲ expanding support for the IAEA’s nuclear security activities. 
 Prior to the summit
 Obama arrived in South Korea on March 25 to attend the Second Nuclear Security summit. He made his first visit to the Demilitarized Zone, the heavily fortified border between the two Koreas. It was his third visit to the nation since his inauguration. South Korean President Lee and the U.S. president talked about heightened tensions on the Korean Peninsula following the North’s announcement that it would launch a satellite next month. 
 After the bilateral meeting with Obama, Lee firmly stated at the press conference that the international community would not allow North Korea’s provocation, which clearly violates a U.N. resolution. He said that such measure would only further the nation’s isolation from the rest of the world. 
 On the day of the summit, on March, 26, Lee met with Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev and the two heads agreed to continue cooperation through various economic projects. In a meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II, they discussed ways to enhance the two countries’ economic cooperation. During the meeting with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the two nations agreed to seek greater defense and space cooperation. Korea and Thailand also agreed in a joint statement to upgrade their relations to a "strategic partnership." 　
 Other heads of state Lee had bilateral meetings with included, Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, and Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung. According to the presidential office, Lee had approximately 25 bilateral meetings with global leaders, the biggest-ever number of bilateral summits on a single occasion. The leaders discussed a wide range of global issues, ranging from economy, defense, energy to infrastructure sectors, climate change and green growth.
 At the venue of the summit, International Media Center was set up and provided foreign journalists with high-tech facilities for their smooth reporting. On-site translation serviced in 11 languages, including English, Japanese, Chinese, Russian, German, French and Arabic as well as traffic, tourist information, and technical services were offered, according to the organizers.
 History behind the NSS
 The establishment of the Nuclear Security Summit can be traced back to the Sept. 11 terrorist attack in 2001. The international community realized that the misuse of nuclear materials could have lasting consequences.
 Recognizing nuclear terrorism as a serious threat to international security, Obama devised his vision of making "a world free of nuclear weapons" in Prague in 2009. With that vision, Washington hosted the first Nuclear Security Summit in 2010. 
 Since the 2010 Washington summit, urgent security issues- such as North Korea’s possible proliferation and Iran’s nuclear development- interrupted the mission and drove it off track. However thanks to participating countries’ exemplary efforts and commitment to maintaining nuclear security, progress has piled up. According to the summit’s organizing committee, Australia and Argentina got rid of some 400 kilograms of highly enriched uranium- enough to make about 16 nuclear weapons. The U.S. eliminated 7 tons of HEU and Russia got rid of 48 tons. The list goes on; Chile has eliminated its entire stockpile of HEU, Ukraine got rid of two-thirds of its HEU, estimated to be more than 100 kilograms, and is expected to clean out its remaining stockpile by the time of the Seoul summit. 
 The third Nuclear Security Summit is expected to be held in the Netherlands in 2014.
