OECD points to global economy’s recovery
The OECD hinted at a possible recovery of the world economy at its March forecast.
 According to the forecast, the U.S. and Japan were leading improving growth prospects, meanwhile figures for China and Brazil were comparatively low.
 The report pointed to a positive change in momentum in the OECD as a whole, referring to data from 33 member states.
 The economic report is based upon the OECD’s composite leading indicators or CLIs, which are intended to give an early sign of turning points in economic activity.
 The report said that India and Russia were also heading to positive change in terms of growth and that most ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) economies showed weak growth momentum.
 Meanwhile, Korea’s business confidence for the April-June period surged, raising hopes that the national economy may improve in the coming months, according to the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI).
 “Signs of recovery in the United States and more stable conditions in the eurozone have caused businesses to be more optimistic,” said KCCI.
 Also, Korea’s foreign exchange (FX) reserves reached a fresh high of $315 billion in February, up about $4.5 billion from January, according to the Bank of Korea. At the end of January, Korea was the world‘s seventh-largest FX holder following China, Japan, Russia, Taiwan, Brazil and Switzerland.
 Another piece of good news for the Korean economy is its recent free trade agreement with Turkey.
 The governments of Korea and Turkey provisionally signed a bilateral free trade agreement on March 26, completing three years of negotiations.
 “Turkey is an emerging economy with high market potential and promising export market that is showing stable growth,” the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in a statement.
 “With a geopolitically important location connecting Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa, Turkey will serve as a bridgehead for Korean businesses’ entrance to neighboring markets,” it added.
 Tariffs on all industrial products traded between the two countries will be eliminated within seven years after the FTA takes effect. Korean exporters of automobiles, auto parts, petrochemicals, steel and textiles are expected to benefit most in the long term, the Korea Herald explained.
