 Ashton Kutcher becomes space travel’s 500th client
The 500th customer of British billionaire Richard Branson’s space tourism project has been revealed: Ashton Kutcher!
 On his blog, Branson announced the news, congratulating the actor. “Kutcher is as thrilled as we are at the prospect of being among the first to cross the final frontier (and back!) with us and to experience the magic of space for himself,” he wrote. “Ashton is joining a fast expanding group of true pioneers who are on their way to a life changing experience and a place in the history books.”
 Kutcher is one of a batch of privileged people, including Hollywood actors, international entrepreneurs, scientists and space buffs, who made deposits to become the first group of people to participate in the space tour. 
According to Virgin Galactic, the company is reportedly in the final stages of the test flight, with the first commercial flight planned to begin next year. The entrepreneur himself is planning to join this ride with his children.
 The spacecraft will be launched from Spaceport America, in a remote desert area in southern New Mexico, where terminal and runway were specially designed for the historic launch. Customers will be riding in a six-seat spacecraft that looks like a small plane, and each seat features two large windows. 
“Once the craft and its mother ship reach a certain altitude in space, the smaller craft is released, sending passengers to galaxy,” company officials said. The tour will last for about 2 1/2-hours. Tourists will get to experience 5 minutes of weightlessness and the opportunity to have a marvelous view of Earth out in space; a privilege restricted to astronauts for the history of universe.
 “I wish to make traveling to space safe and affordable for ordinary people, not just to those who can afford $200,000,” Brandson pointed out.
 “Virgin Galactic space program looks forward to the beginning of the commercial passenger space industry,” stated Christine Anderson, executive director of the New Mexico Spaceport Authority. 
