Optimal lodgings for cultural experience in Korea
The number of foreign visitors to Korea has been growing steadily in recent years, making the nation one of the top tourist destinations in Asia. In response, the local tourism industry offers diverse and innovative lodging options to meet the needs of the ever-increasing number of tourists. Visitors to Korea can select from a variety of lodging options that suit their budgets and preferences, ranging from deluxe hotels to inexpensive inns, and serene Buddhist temples to quaint traditional Korean houses.  
For visitors who are accustomed to luxury and high living, Korea has a number of Western-style hotels, including several internationally renowned chains that offer first-class services, luxurious amenities, state-of-the-art facilities and exceptional cuisines. The majority of the top-class hotels are concentrated in Seoul and the tourist island of Jeju-do; however, the hotel industry has more room for development outside the capital city. There are currently 794 hotels throughout Korea, most of them in the 2-4 star range, with only 14 of them listed by the Five Star Alliance as luxury hotels. 
Budget-conscious travelers can find affordable and comfortable accommodation at hundreds of Goodstay establishments throughout the country. The Goodstay logo is granted by the Korea Tourism Organization to youth hostels, motels, inns or guest houses whose facilities and operations meet high service and hygiene standards. Korean youth hostels are slightly different from those in the West as they cater more for groups of businessmen rather than young backpackers and have restaurants and meeting halls on the premises. 
One of the most interesting traveling experiences in Korea is to stay at a Buddhist temple where visitors can get a firsthand experience to live like monks. Many of the temples are situated deep in the mountains in tranquil surroundings with breathtaking natural beauty. Visitors are expected to sleep early and get up early with the monks (or the nuns) and participate in meditation and Buddhist rituals. Meals consist of vegetarian dishes and rice and are served in traditional wooden bowls. Visitors can participate in activities such as tea ceremony, lotus lantern making and hiking.
 For visitors who wish to experience a more traditional Korean style of living, Hanok Stay is the perfect solution. Hanok Stay refers to staying in traditional Korean houses that may be decades or hundreds of years old. The houses are traditional in style – built of wood and stone, with tiled roofs, paper-pasted windows and old furniture, but contain modern amenities such as electricity and western style toilets. Some of the houses have beautiful gardens with views of streams in the front and mountains in the back. Many of the Hanok Stay places offer culture-related activities such as kimchi-making and pottery-making classes, tea ceremonies and traditional games. 
For tourists, particularly students, who want to immerse themselves in the day-to-day experience of living in modern day Korea, Homestay is the way to go. It allows a visitor to stay with a local Korean family for a short time or for an extended period. A Homestay visitor becomes a de facto member of the host family – living, eating, shopping, and sight-seeing together. It is a wonderful opportunity to get to know Korean people, learn about Korean culture and tradition, and foster long-lasting friendships. Homestay is normally done for non-commercial purposes, with a nominal fee paid to the host family to cover their expenses of supporting the visitor. It is considerably cheaper than most other forms of accommodation. 
Minbaks, often located near national parks or other tourist areas, are part of a family‘s house, although sometimes detached from the main building. They are inexpensive lodgings offering minimal amenities, and guests usually have limited use of the kitchen and must share bathroom facilities. Dozens of people can cram into one room if necessary. They mainly cater to small groups of students or backpackers on tight budgets.
