The place where Asia and Europe meets
You might be wondering what country connects Asia and Europe, because when you look at the map, those two continents are right beside each other. The answer is Turkey. Thus, Turkey has a mix of cultures. When I went to Turkey this summer, I could see many aspects of this. The Turkish land was ruled by several countries with different cultural backgrounds such as Roman Empire and Osman Muslims. 
One of the Turkey‘s representative mixed cultural architecture is Ayasofya museum, former church and then mosque. In this monumental architecture, you can see many mosaics of Jesus and the Virgin Mary on the walls and ceiling. Also on top of the mosaics, you can see Arabesque patterns because Muslims covered the mosaics with their paintings when they exercised sovereign power. In 1934, the building was closed for worship and became a museum and the original mosaics were partially restored, 
It is said that 99 percent of Turkish people are Muslim. When I got there in August, it was the month of Ramadan, which lasts between 29 and 30 days each year. During Ramadan, Muslims fast, which means they do not eat or drink from dawn to sunset. The reason they fast is to respect the god “Allah.” 
But not all Muslims observe the Ramadan fast in Turkey. In our tour bus, I gave my snack to the old bus driver and he refused to eat it, but when I gave it to the local tour guide and she accepted it gladly and ate it. The tour guide said that her parents fast strictly during Ramadan. 
This episode shows that Turkey is a secular country, where belief in Islam is a choice. And also, it illustrates that these days most of young people don’t keep Ramadan and old people do. In my opinion, Islam in Turkey is not really strict compared to other Islamic countries since Turkey is placed between Europe and Asia and therefore was also influenced by Western culture. 
I noticed a very interesting custom in Turkey. Turkish carry the evil eye talisman as a bracelet, brooch, necklace, key chain and even as an accessory in their cars. An evil eye stone, or nazar, is an amulet that protects against the evil eye. You can see the evil eye even on bus windows. 
If you have time during vacation, don’t just kill time, have a precious holiday with your family. I’d recommend you to travel to Turkey for a cultural experience. 
