National football team manager Choi Kang-hee
Choi Kang-hee was chosen by the Korean Football Association to take over the helm of the national squad in December, 2011 after the controversial dismissal of the previous manager Cho Kwang-rae. His appointment came at a critical stage in Korea’s bid to qualify for the 2014 World Cup. In his first three months on the job, Coach Choi assembled a national side made up of mostly domestic K-League players, guided the team to a 2 -0 victory over Kuwait, and led the team safely through to the next round of qualification. Coach Choi’s next challenge is to make sure that the national team punches one of the 4.5 World Cup tickets allotted to Asia in the final round of qualifications in June, 2012. 
Choi Kang-hee has accumulated a wealth of experience both as a player and as a club coach is his 25-year football career. He started his professional career playing for the POSCO Dolphins in 1983. He played for Hyundai Horang-i from 1984 to 1992 and recorded 10 goals and 22 assists in 205 appearances. He was also a member of the Korean National Team from 1988 to 1992. While he had a lackluster playing career, Choi Kang-hee distinguished himself as a football coach. After serving as an assistant for the Suwon Samsung Bluewings, the Korean Under-23 Team, and the Korean National Team, he became the manager of Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors in 2005. In 2011, he led Jeonbuk to a K-League championship and the Asian Football Confederation Champions League finals. He was named the 2011 K-League Manager of the Year. 
The Korean Football Association’s appointment of Choi to the manager post was puzzling to many people because he had previously turned down the job offer on several occasions. It was widely anticipated that a foreign coach would be chosen to lead the national team. Some of the potential candidates included former Korean National Team coach Guus Hiddink, ex-England coach Sven Goran Eriksson, 2002 World Cup winning coach Luiz Felipe Scolari, and former Sunderland coach Steve Bruce. However, Choi was a popular choice among many Korean fans who admire his tactical style of football that features free-flowing attacks. 
The Korean National Team under Choi is a very different outfit compared to the one managed by his predecessor Cho Kwang-rae. Choi’s selections seemed to indicate that he favors players he is more familiar with - six national team players were chosen from his former club Jeonbuk Motors. He passed up on Augsburg’s Koo Ja-cheol, Sunderland’s Ji Dong-won and Celtic’s Cha Du-ri, as well as talented young players such as Yoon Bit-garam, Seo Jung-jin and Nam Tae-hee. He reasoned that since most of the foreign-club players were riding the bench for their respective clubs and saw limited action, was inevitable that their match fitness or feel for the game would have declined substantially.
 Although many observers and Korean fans now believe that Choi Kang-hee is the right man for the job, the Korean National Team’s coaching situation is anything but stable. Coach Choi all but attached an “interim” status to his own job title when he announced that he would not be taking the national team to Brazil for the 2014 World Cup. Immediately after the game against Kuwait, he reiterated his desire to leave his post as soon as he guides the team to qualify for the nation’s eighth straight appearance at the world Cup. He indicated that he would only lead the national team until June 2013 and believed that a foreign coach should take over the team from there. Barring any unforeseen developments, it looks like the Korean National Team’s coaching carousel will continue to spin.
