Space dogs, first animals to explore space
Space Dogs also known as Star Dogs, is a Russian computer-animated film originally released in 2010. The film is inspired by the true story of Soviet dogs’ trip to space in 1957.
 The story begins when a gift is delivered to U.S. President Kennedy’s wife Caroline from the Soviet Union. It is a puppy named Pushok. Pushok meets the Kennedys’ pets and talks about her mother, Belka’s real-life story.
 In Moscow, she says, there is a strange man who catches street dogs and takes them away. He tries to catch a street dog named Strelka, but with her friend, the rat Venya, she runs away. At a local circus, a pig named Vova is supposed to perform a rocket-flying show but he is too fat to fly. Instead the part is given to a dog named Belka. Unfortunately, Belka loses control of the rocket and flies away from the circus. 
 Her rocket crashes into a phone booth and she makes her first encounter with Venya the Rat, who is looking for coins. Just like that, Venya, Strelka and Belka become acquainted.
 The street where they live in has three bullies: a bulldog named Bula, a pug named Mula and a mutt named Pirate. They pick on Belka, Strelka and Venya, asking for money and harassing them. While running from these street gangsters, the three are caught by the strange man.
 The dogs are put on a train to Baikonur and they arrive at a Soviet space program training center. There they meet their trainer, Kazbek. 
 Kazbek says that only the two best dogs will be selected from the group and be sent to space. Bula, Mula and Pirate joined the crew and the six of them, along with many other candidates, compete for the top two spots. A month before launch, Belka and Strelka are chosen to carry out the historic space mission. 
 The flight was not as smooth as everyone hoped for. Flying meteorites hit the spaceship and a fire breaks out. But with luck, out of nowhere, Kazbek, the trainer, appears and helps the crew contain the fire. Eventually they survive and the animals enjoy a memorable moment of their own in space. Strelka’s mother always told her that her father, Sirius, lives in space. Kazbek confesses his love for Belka. Then spaceship makes a safe comeback to Earth.
 Strelka, Belka and Venya receive a heroes’ welcome, while Kazbek’s stowing away on the flight is kept secret.
 After returning, Strelka lives with her mother. Venya tells his story to enthusiastic audiences at conferences. Belka returns to her circus as the main star and she and Kazbek together live happily ever after.
 At the White House, the Kennedy pets listen to Pushok’s mesmerizing story. Influenced by a cat, the Kennedy dogs don’t believe her story. But one French dog who sees the Cosmonaut Patch on Pushok’s cushion finds her story authentic. 　
 At the end of the film, footage of real Soviet space dogs is shown, adding authenticity to the story of the first space mission accomplished by animals.
