Understanding education from the perspective of Headmaster Chandler Hardwick
For those who don’t know, April is a month that brings excitement and dread to students applying to school abroad, particularly the U.S. It is a time when school acceptances are sent out, when many high-school seniors anxiously wait for the postman to deliver the letter that will help forever shape a students’ identity. 
While not all of our readers are in that position, Headmaster Chandler Hardwick from the prestigious Blair Academy in Blairstown, New Jersey, provides some keen insight for anyone planning on pursuing their education abroad, as well as sound advice on understanding the general role that education plays in growing up. 
 Education and growth
 Though high school is considered the time when children become young adults, college has long been thought of as the place where the transition into adulthood occurs. It is a time when you begin to find yourself and develop your own personality and identity. The experiences of your past and the possibilities of your future come together to mold the person you become and the achievements you will accomplish. In this way, it is possibly one of the most important moments in a person’s life.
 In today’s Facebook- and Twitter-filled world, however, the challenges adolescents face are much more complex than those of the past. While the underlying moral and cultural challenges remain the same, the prevalence of technology and the Internet have dramatically changed our social experiences. 
The influence on our sense of self has expanded from the traditional circle of family and friends to the rest of the world, thanks to the unlimited reach of the Internet. In the past, the main source of our identity and lessons learned were from parents, teachers and friends. Today, however, the Internet has bombarded us with the opinions of others and thus students are easily influenced by these random strangers; as evidenced by the abundance of blogs, forums and social networking sites available online. 
As a result, the educational environment in which students surround themselves with as they face, as Hardwick describes it, “the challenges of growing up in an increasingly complex adolescent culture,” has become even more important in becoming a healthy and successful adult.
 In order to find the best possible environment for growth, each student must find the school that best allows for such development. This, and many others, is the reason why preparing for college is so important.
 Preparing for College
 Hardwick discusses the focus on the “whole individual” at Blair Academy and American education in general, including the “number of issues that a young person has to learn to deal with, not just in school [but] in the later world [as well].”
 “Obviously it is important to have a strong academic record and good SATs to present to a college,” Hardwick says. “But the most important thing really is the uniqueness of the individual and what that individual will bring to his or her college campus.”
 The goal, according to Hardwick, is to develop into a person that will have a college admissions officer say, “this is a person I want at our school not just because they’re intelligent and have high scores but because of the unique and impressive person that we see here.“
 With developments in technology has come a change in society. Innovation has become the focal point of technological advancements as of late, and as such, the value of one’s uniqueness has undoubtedly grown more and more significant. This is especially true in the celebrity-obsessed and hyper-commercialized world of today. 
The Korean education system, however, is different from what Hardwick suggests, in that it focuses almost entirely on academic performance. 
“While there’s nothing wrong with focusing on academic performance – and I certainly wouldn’t want to be critical of the Korean education for that reason – I do think that at least in our school [Blair Academy] and some aspects of American education, we’re focusing on the whole individual.” 
Hardwick specifically discusses how Blair Academy “focuses on the development of the entire person as he or she grows up in our school.” 
A special message to our readers
 For our readers, Hardwick offers some good news. In particular, he mentioned the ways in which the Junior Herald helps students in what he considers “the most important way to learn” English. 
“Yes, it’s nice to be able to have conversations in English, but reading - constantly seeing the words and having to figure them out in your mind and see the importance, the nuances of language - is critical to truly understanding any language,” Hardwick explains. “Certainly the Junior Herald does a good job of presenting the world to its young readers,” by teaching students about global events through English.
 When asked about specific tips for students wishing to study abroad, Hardwick suggests to first research as much as you can about a particular school before applying, including going through the school website. Using social networking sites such as Facebook, it is very easy to look up current and past students of the school and ask for some advice about applying, not to mention gain a better understanding of what life would be like once you enroll. Hardwick also suggests checking to see if perhaps there are some current or past students in your area that you could talk to. Using these research tools wisely will provide better insight into the school and ease your fears about entering a new environment. 
 Blair Academy 
 Blair Academy is a private, co-educational boarding high school located in New Jersey. It follows the traditional four-year college-preparatory academic program, with a strong extracurricular focus. Average class size is 11, with a student to faculty ratio of 7:1. 
 What distinguishes Blair Academy from other similar prep schools is that it “has been able to establish itself as a student-centered school which also has high academic standards and an excellent college acceptance list.” Hardwick described this as a “rare feat for most American schools. 
According to Hardwick, another distinguishing feature of Blair Academy is that “we come to Korea periodically and meet with all of our parents and students and talk about the students’ life at the school as opposed to simply assume that the Korean parents understand what’s going on.” This is especially significant given the vast differences in education and culture between the two countries.
