Planes are better than trains for traveling
Pro- I think traveling by plane is better
 Traveling by plane is better than traveling by train for three reasons.
 First, traveling by plane is quicker than the train. Even when we ride the KTX -- one of the fastest trains in the world -- it takes three hours to get to Busan. This is very tiring. Most trains are slower than the KTX which means they take more time. However, it takes only 50 minutes to fly to Busan. That way, you can enjoy your travel without being exhausted.
 Also, we can travel further by plane. If we use a train, the places we can go to are limited to Korea. However we can go to Jeju Island or other countries by plane. If you want to go to Jeju Island by train, you have to ride a ship after getting off the train. So it will be for more complex than traveling by plane.
 Finally, it is more special when we travel by plane. Most children will think traveling by plane is more interesting. So going by plane can make traveling fun. 
For these three reasons, traveling by plane can make a better trip than traveling by train. So try hopping on a plane the next time you are planning on going somewhere.
 Con- I think traveling by train is better
 It is almost spring time, the perfect time for both domestic and overseas trips. Personally I prefer to travel by train than by plane. 
 This is because traveling by train rarely brings about delays. Unlike airplanes, which get delayed quite, trains are known for their top-notch punctuality. Traveling by train is probably the most punctual way of traveling. Even when a train is behind schedule, it is only late by a couple of minutes. This is not the case for planes, which can be delayed for hours and sometimes several days depending on weather conditions.
 Also traveling by train is economical. Traveling by plane is far more expensive than the train. It does, however, take longer to travel by train and sometimes it can be quite boring as trains don’t offer high-tech gadgets like computer screens to watch movies or earphones to listen to music, and lack some of the refreshments that planes do. Of course it is more convenient and comfortable to take a plane, but for saving money, trains are the better option.
 In addition, trains are safer than planes. Even the late leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-il was afraid of taking a plane and only took the train when he traveled. Many people are terrified of heights and appalled of the possibility of a plane crash or a hijacking by terrorists. All these "what-if" questions stop them from truly enjoying their journey. 
 All in all, I think traveling by train is better than by plane because it is more punctual, cheaper and safer.
