Campaigns for April general elections
Rival political parties in Korea have officially embarked on their 13-day campaign for the April 11 general election.
 The upcoming election is expected to be a tight race between the ruling Saenuri Party, and opposition parties. The public sentiment is, as usual, not favorable for either main party. 
 Roughly 900 candidates are competing for the 246 parliamentary constituency spots. Fifty-four seats for proportional representatives in the parliament are also at stake, as well as 63 public offices including that of the mayor of Sejong, a new administrative city in South Chungcheong Province. 
 For the first time in South Korean history, Koreans living abroad and those who have pre-registered, will be able to vote for six days until April 2. According to the National Election Commission, votes will take place at 158 diplomatic missions in 107 countries, starting with those living in New Zealand. Also, roughly 860,000 or 2.1 percent of the overall eligible voters will carry out absentee voting that will be held for two days on April 5-6 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
 In the midst of heightened tension on the campaign trail, the ruling party has ratcheted up its criticism of the opposition parties, attacking on its pro-North Korean identity and flip-flopping stance on free trade agreements, mainly regarding the Korea-U.S. FTA. The construction of a naval base on Jeju Island also attracted attention.
 As a counter attack, opposition parties repeatedly lampooned the policies of President Lee Myung-bak. “The Saenuri Party has to get rid of the same old ideological accusations,” said Han Myeong-sook, chairwoman of the main opposition party, Democratic United Party.
 Winning the April election means having a majority of seats and more say in the National Assembly, so party leaders of both the ruling and opposition parties were eager to woo people from every corner of society. 
Saenuri chief and presidential hopeful Park Geun-hye visited Jogye Temple, the headquarters of the country’s largest Buddhist sect on March 28. The Buddhist community was at odds with the administration, mainly regarding the approach of Lee, who is a devout Protestant. “I hope that our society can unite and be filled with peace,” Rep. Park remarked. Park also visited Jeju Island on March 30 to commemorate the April 3 Jeju Resistance Movement. 
 Meanwhile, Han Myeong-sook of the DUP, traveled to Busan. From her party, liberal heavyweight and potential presidential candidate Moon Jae-in announced his candidacy in the city’s Sasang district, making the southeastern area a political hot spot. Typically Busan has been known as the Saenuri Party’s stronghold.
 Pushing the envelop, Han joined hands and created the opposition coalition with Lee Jung-hee, chief of the Unified Progressive Party to gain the upper hand at the election. 
 “The April election is a choice between two groups ― one focuses on improving ordinary people’s livelihoods and the other is bent on red-baiting,” Han said in a meeting of party leaders. “Because of Lee Myung-bak and Park Geun-hye, Korea turned into a society serving the privileged.”
 Pundits noted the key to securing the election victory comes down to winning the fierce battlegrounds such as the capital, South Gyeongsang Province and Busan. A total of 112 seats are at stake in Seoul, Incheon and Gyeonggi Province and experts predict that if the main opposition DUP party can secure more than 10 seats on the ruling party’s home turf, it may become the majority party in 19th National Assembly. 
 The winners of the April 11 elections will serve as the country’s lawmakers for four years, starting from May 30 and ending May 29, 2016.
