Mattel agrees to produce Bald Barbie for children battling cancer
The heartbreaking story of a four-year-old girl who lost her hair during cancer treatments has inspired the world’s largest toy company, Mattel, to create a bald-version of the Barbie doll. 
According to Mattel, the Bald Barbie will not be available for purchase in stores, but rather, will be distributed exclusively to hospitals treating children with cancer throughout the U.S. and Canada. The company’s Facebook announcement also states that “A limited number of dolls and monetary donations will also be made to CureSearch for Children’s Cancer and the National Alopecia Areata Foundation.”
 The announcement comes after a Facebook group called “Beautiful and Bald Barbie! Let’s see if we can get it made,” appealed to the company to produce a toy that would help young girls cope with hair loss caused by cancer treatments, Alopecia and Trichotillomania. 
“We hope it gets the message out that being bald is beautiful and is no big deal,” said Beckie Sypin, co-founder of the bald doll cause, in an interview with ABCNews.com in January. “There’s no need to cover up.” 
“Most take the hair loss harder than the diagnosis [of illness],” Sypin explained.
 Though Mattel does not usually accept ideas for dolls from outside sources, the CEO was personally touched by the story of four-year-old Genesis Reyes, who lost her hair after undergoing cancer treatments. When a parent of another child being treated at the same hospital heard Reyes’ story, she asked the CEO of Mattel, a personal friend, to create a one-of-a-kind Barbie doll that resembled Reyes.
 “They made a doll that looks like her that’s bald in a beautiful princess outfit. The box, the packaging is completely ‘Princess Genesis’ and says ‘100 percent princess’, it’s beautiful. It’s just amazing – a one-of-a-kind original doll only for her,” said Kim Krupa in an interview with CBS New York. Krupa is a spokesperson from the Cancer Center for Kids in Mineola, Long Island, where Reyes has been undergoing treatment.
 Sypin also heard of Reyes’ story and teamed up with longtime friend Jane Bingham to create the Facebook page in January, asking Mattel to “commercially manufacture a similar doll to bring the same joy to other youngsters dealing with hair-loss,” The Daily Mail reported. 
“When I read the article about Mattel making a one of a kind bald Barbie for Genesis, I though how wonderful that would be, with so many other children dealing with hair-loss from chemo[therapy], aloepcia or trichotillomania,” Bingham told MailOnline. “I thought we could raise awareness for these conditions. Raise awareness that children get cancer too... It would be a win all around.”
 Within three months, the page earned over 150,000 likes, made headlines all over the world before finally grabbing the attention of Mattel.
 Mattel announced that production of the Bald Barbie will begin next year. 
