Happy Easter!
The second biggest Christian holiday after Christmas is Easter. 
Not only does Easter signal the start of the spring season, but it also conjures up images of cute bunnies and colorful eggs, reminding us of our childhood. It is a day spent eating chocolate rabbits and eggs, as well as a time Christians use to reflect on their faith. 
In fact, Easter is possibly a more significant holiday to the Christian religion than Christmas. 
 Significance of Easter
 Easter is historically the springtime celebration of the rebirth of Jesus Christ. It is, in essence, a holiday marking the renewal of the Christian faith.
 According to the Canonical gospels of the New Testament, Jesus rose from the dead on the third day after his crucifixion. Though the chronology of his death and resurrection is unclear, it is widely understood to have occurred between A.D. 26 and 36. Today, his resurrection is celebrated on Easter Day, which is also known as Resurrection Day.
 Easter also marks the end of Lent, a 40-day period of fasting, prayer and penance observed by many Christians. The last week of Lent is referred to as Holy Week.
 Unlike Christmas, Easter is not celebrated on a fixed date. Rather, it is a moveable feast. In A.D. 325, the First Council of Nicaea established the first Sunday after the full moon following the northern hemisphere’s equinox to be the date when Easter would be celebrated. Therefore, Easter generally falls between March 22 and April 25. 
Interestingly, Easter is celebrated on different dates depending on which side of the world your religion began. In Eastern Christianity - traditions and churches that developed in the Balkans, Eastern Europe, Asia Minor, Middle East, Horn of Africa, India and parts of the Far East - the use of the Julian calendar means that the 2012 date for Easter falls on April 15. Western Christianity - developed in most of Western, Northern, Central, Southern and parts of Eastern Europe, ancient Northern Africa, Southern Africa, Australia and much of the Western hemisphere - follows the Gregorian calendar, according to which Easter was celebrated on April 8 this year. 
Easter Celebrations
 Steeped in religious history, Easter has traditionally been celebrated with prayer, attending religious services and feasts. Today, it is celebrated with decorated eggs and chocolate bunnies. 
Similar to Christmas, Easter also includes a creature that brings presents to the homes of children on the night before the holiday – the Easter Bunny. According to legend, the Easter Bunny brings children baskets filled with colored eggs, candy and sometimes toys.
 The U.S. in particular, follows the tradition of coloring hard-boiled eggs and giving children baskets of candy. In fact, the President of the United States holds an annual Easter Egg Roll on the White House lawn for young children. The Easter Egg Roll is a race wherein children push an egg through the grass with a long-handled spoon. On Easter day itself, an annual Easter parade is held in New York City helping bring the festivities to life. 
In some countries, such as Finland, Norway and Sweden, Good Friday (the Friday before Easter) and Easter Monday (the Monday after Easter) are designated public holidays. In the U.S., however, Easter Monday is not celebrated and only 12 states celebrate Good Friday as a public holiday.
 DECORATING EGGS:
 Melted Crayon Eggs
 MATERIALS: Eggs, tongs, empty egg carton or plastic bottle caps, crayons
 1. Hard-boil white eggs. Remove them from the hot water with tongs or a slotted spoon. Dry them, and rest them in an empty egg carton or on plastic bottle caps. WARNING: BE CAREFUL!! ASK AN ADULT TO HELP YOU WITH THIS PART!
 2. Color them with crayons (you can remove the paper coverings and use the side of the crayon too). For a speckled effect, grate a crayon and sprinkle the bits over the eggs. TIP: Crayon-colored eggs can become very slippery because of the wax, so take care when turning them to color the underside.
 3. When you‘re done coloring, leave them to dry for about an hour.
 HINT: The heat from still-warm hard-boiled eggs melts the wax, creating smooth strokes of color　
 Egg Dyeing: Aluminum foil technique
 Materials: Eggs, acrylic paint, aluminum foil
 1. Hard-boil white eggs. Remove them from the hot water with tongs or a slotted spoon and set them aside to dry. WARNING: BE CAREFUL!! ASK YOUR PARENTS TO HELP YOU WITH THIS PART!
 2. Once the eggs are cool and dry, crumple and uncrumple a large piece of aluminum foil, then coat the foil with acrylic paint
 3. Set the egg in the center of the foil and loosely wrap it. Gently press the foil against the egg, then remove the egg and let it dry. Repeat with other colors, if you like.
 Egg Dyeing: String Technique
 Materials: Eggs, acrylic paint, string, paper plate
 1. Hard-boil white eggs. Remove them from the hot water with tongs or a slotted spoon and set them aside to dry. WARNING: BE CAREFUL!! ASK YOUR PARENTS TO HELP YOU WITH THIS PART! 
2. Once eggs are cool and dry, pour small amounts of acrylic paint onto a paper plate.
 3. Dip the end of a piece of string into the paint, then sweep the string across the egg.
 4. Try different colors of paint, and experiment with different sizes and types of string or light rope for a variety of markings.
 DID U KNOW
 According to the Guinness World Records, the largest Easter egg hunt consisted of 501,000 eggs that were searched for by 9,753 children accompanied by their parents at the Cypress Gardens Adventure Park in Winter Haven, Florida, on April 1, 2007.
