 Dr. Kim drums up support worldwide
The World Bank President nominee Dr. Jim Yong Kim met Korean President Lee Myung-bak on April 2 in the latter’s office of Cheong Wa Dae.
 Kim’s visit was part of his global tour to gather support for his final selection as the World Bank’s head.
 President Lee Myung-bak expressed strong support for Kim, explaining that Korea had benefited a lot from the World Bank in the Past. Lee said, “I believe the right person has been nominated at a time when the World Bank needs change.”
 The post of the World Bank head has been taken by an American since the organization’s establishment in 1944, and developing countries have long tried to have more power in the World Bank and its sister organization of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The IMF has always been headed by a European.
 Lee said Dr. Kim’s expertise would greatly contribute to helping economic development in less well-off nations.
 Dr. Kim expressed gratitude towards President Lee and said he would lead the World Bank, if chosen as the leader, based on the lessons of Korea’s economic development.
 A day before Kim’s visit to Korea, he also flew to Japan to meet Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi.
 The minister praised Dr. Kim by saying that Kim’s work on AIDS in the World Health Organization showed the career physician had expertise on developing nation issues.
 “He is a highly competent individual who spearheaded efforts and contributed to AIDS issues... We judge he’s an appropriate candidate for the World Bank and support his bid,” said the minister to the reporters gathered in the Ministry of Finance in Tokyo.
 Meanwhile, U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner stressed Kim’s understanding of the World Bank’s responsibilities beyond his area of expertise, Bloomberg said.
 Geithner emphasized in a letter headed to the World Bank’s 187 governors by saying: “Kim is committed to pursuing an agenda for the bank that supports all the necessary components of development,” according to Bloomberg.
 Two other candidates are Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and former Colombia Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo.
