Frequent chocolate eating linked to weight loss
It may sound too sweet to be true, but eating chocolate on a regular basis can help you stay lean, suggests a new study published in the journal Archives of Medicine suggested.
 In the survey, 1,000 adult men and women, aged between 20 to 85 with an average age of 57 who lived in San Diego participated. The participants were asked how many times in a week they ate chocolate and researchers measured their weight and height.
 According to the study, people who ate chocolate more than twice a week had lower body mass index (BMI) than less frequent eaters. Body mass index is a ratio of weight to height used to indicate a person’s level of obesity. 
 Dr. Beatrice Golomb, associate professor in the department of medicine at the University of California, San Diego who oversaw the study, remarked the finding was quite surprising as frequent chocolate eating comes with more overall calorie intake. 
 “The association between chocolate and low calorie counts can be explained as something in chocolate may have prevented the calories people took in from depositing into fat.” Dr. Golomb suggested. “It’s really like all of your calories count a little bit less.” 
 Researchers suggested that Polyphenols contained in chocolate might have caused the weight loss. In a few previous animal studies, polyphenols have been found to increase the number of energy-burning mitochondria inside cells and improve blood flow, which boosts metabolism and prevent weight gain. 
 For a long time, chocolate, especially dark chocolate, has been linked to a slew of health benefits. Doctors said that dark chocolate helps decrease blood pressure and enhance the body’s response to the hormone insulin. And whether these benefits have played to offset chocolate’s high calories is a researchers’ wonder.
 Still, Golomb cautioned that the study does not provide free license to eat 30 pounds of chocolate in one go. Other researchers pointed out that more detailed study that shows a more direct cause and effect link between people’s chocolate consumption and their weight loss should be provided.
 “In that case, unsweetened cocoa is the best way to go,” added Katherine Tallmadge, a dietitian and author of ‘Diet Simple.’ “Pure cocoa has high polyphenol content.” 
 She recommended people to limit calories from non-nutritious foods, or extras, to 10 percent of their daily intake. Therefore, when people consume 2,000 calories per day, they don’t have to feel so bad about eating a 200-calorie chocolate bar a day.
