The Smithsonian Institution
The Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C., the world’s largest museum and research complex, was founded in 1846 using a bequest to the United States by the British scientist James Smithson for the “increase and diffusion of knowledge.” It is established as a trust instrumentality by an act of Congress and is considered a part of the U.S. government. It is funded by the federal government with an annual operating budget of nearly $800 million. Additional funding also comes from its endowment, contributions, and profits from its retail operations, concessions, and licensing activities. 
 The Smithsonian includes 19 museums and galleries as well as the National Zoological Park. It has over 138 million items in its collections ranging from insects and meteorites to locomotives and spacecraft. Eleven of its museums are located on the National Mall, the strip of land that runs between the Lincoln Memorial and the U.S. Capitol Building. Other museums are located elsewhere in Washington, D.C., New York City and Chantilly, Virginia. The Smithsonian also provides collections of artifacts to its 168 affiliated museums throughout the United States. More than 30 million people visit the Smithsonian each year, and admission to all of its museums is free.
 The most popular venue of Smithsonian’s museums among visitors of all ages is the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. It maintains the largest collection of historic air and space craft in the world. The museum holds in trust over 50,000 objects and features 22 exhibition galleries, including aircraft, spacecraft, engines, rockets, uniforms, spacesuits, weather balloons and artwork. Some of the most impressive displays include the original Wright Brothers 1903 Flyer, the “Spirit of St. Louis,” the Apollo 11 command module that landed Neil Armstrong and Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin on the moon, and the first Space Shuttle orbiter “Enterprise.”
 Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History is a favorite destination for families and students alike. It contains a collection of more than 125 million natural science specimens and cultural artifacts presented through a variety of educational and fun exhibitions. One of the most popular exhibitions among children is “The Evolution Trail,” which answers questions such as why the dinosaurs became extinct, why giraffes have long necks, and why flowers come in so many different colors. It even has an exhibition called the “Korea Gallery” which presents Korea’s millennia of history and its distinctive culture through ceramics, paintings, textiles and sculptures.
 The Smithsonian National Museum of American History collects and preserves more than 3 million artifacts that reflect the diversity of American history and culture, from the War of Independence to the present day. Notable exhibits include: the “Star Spangled Banner” - the story of the flag that inspired the American national anthem, “America on the Move” - the history of transportation in the United States, “The Price of Freedom: Americans at War” - the history of America’s military campaigns from the French and Indian Wars to the recent conflict in Iraq, and “You Must Remember this” - a showcase of rare Hollywood memorabilia, including costumes worn by legendary movie stars in their film roles. 
The Smithsonian National Zoological Park is one of the finest zoos in the world. It is home to approximately 2,000 animals representing nearly 400 species, nearly a quarter of which are endangered. The Amazonia exhibit includes a 1,400-square-meter living tropical rainforest habitat with 350 species of plants. The Giant Panda Habitat is a state-of-the-art exhibit designed to mimic pandas’ natural habitat of rocky, lush terrain in China. The cheetah conservation station is an outdoor exhibit where cheetahs can be seen in a grassland setting similar to their savanna home.
