Tiger roars again
After two-and-a-half frustrating years of coping with personal turmoil and recurring injuries, Tiger Woods finally won a PGA event at the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill. The five-stroke victory over Graeme McDowell was particularly impressive considering Woods suffered an injury to his Achilles tendon a fortnight prior to the tournament. The victory, Woods’ seventh at this course and the 72nd of his career, was the first since his stellar career was derailed by the revelation of a slew of extra-marital affairs in 2009. With the Masters at Augusta National only two weeks away, Woods looks ready to resume his pursuit of golf legend Jack Nicklaus’ record of 18 titles in major championships.
 In many ways the Arnold Palmer Invitational was a get-well tournament for Tiger Woods. Two weeks before the start of play at Bay Hill, Woods pulled out of the Cadillac Championship at Doral in the final round with tightness in his left Achilles tendon. It was the same injury that caused him to miss three months, including two major tournaments, in 2011. Luckily it turned out to be a mild strain and Woods was able to play pain-free and finished all four rounds under par. Woods entered the final round with a two-stroke lead and renewed his reputation as the game’s greatest closer with a nearly flawless performance to secure the title. With the victory, Woods rose to No. 6 in the world, returning to the top 10 for the first time since May 22, 2011. 
 The victory at Bay Hill was a big step for Woods as he continues his quest to reclaim his throne and rule the sport as he once did. For the first time in a long while, Woods professed “pure joy” for the game and had his famous smile on full display throughout the tournament. He was brimming with confidence as he declared: “I am excited. I’m looking forward to the momentum I’ve built here.” Woods’ opponents were equally enthusiastic – Graeme McDowell, the runner-up at Bay Hill, said this of Wood’s victory: “Great to have a front-row seat watching maybe the greatest of all-time doing what he does best -- winning golf tournaments.” Ian Poulter, the third-place finisher, predicted that Woods “is going to be a force at Augusta.” 
 Tiger Woods’ triumphant return to the winners’ circle was a testament to his perseverance and tenacity, but his precipitous downfall from the top of the sporting world was largely self-inflicted. His personal life was a mess after the disclosure of his many marital infidelities. He took a leave of absence from the PGA tour to avoid the media feeding frenzy as his marriage was falling apart. As details of his affairs and his numerous mistresses became tabloid fodder, Woods entered a clinic to seek treatment for sexual addiction. His image and reputation were severely tarnished as key corporate sponsors deserted him. 
 Woods went through a 30-month, 26-tournament stretch without winning a single PGA title after his sordid affairs were exposed. The once invincible and all-conquering golf savant suddenly became a mere mortal incapable of mounting come-from-behind charges, and more alarmingly, unable to hold on to leads in the final rounds. He slipped from No. 1 to No. 46 in world rankings in one year. His game suffered greatly as he was sidelined by recurring injuries as well as major knee surgery. He had a very public breakup with long-time caddy and friend Steve Williams, and went through the third swing overhaul of his professional career after switching to a new swing instructor. 
 Many experts believe that Tiger Woods’ victory at Bay Hill is a harbinger of things to come for the former world No. 1. Odds makers have made Woods a prohibitive 7/2 favorite to win at this year’s Masters, while Rory McIlroy, the current world No. 1, is listed at 9/1.
