The return of a legend: Shinhwa comeback
Though it has been 14 years since their debut, idol group legend Shinhwa is back. An official representing the group announced on April 26 last year that Shinhwa members were planning to release an album once all of them had been discharged from the military. With Lee Min-woo’s completion of his military duties on March 2, the time for Shinhwa’s comeback has finally come, much to the delight of fans worldwide. 
 Shinhwa’s history
 Shinhwa’s history goes hand in hand with the history of idol groups in Korea. As one of the first idol groups to have formed in the late 1990s, Shinhwa is the only original idol group to have stood the test of time. The group debuted on March 24, 1998 with six members: Eric (born Mun Jung-hyuk), Lee Min-woo, Kim Dong-wan, Shin Hye-sung, Jun Jin (born Park Choong-jae) and Andy (born Lee Sun-ho). 
Initially formed under SM Entertainment, the group left the company upon the expiration of their contract in 2003. Between leaving SM Entertainment and forming their own agency, the Shinhwa Company, each of the members pursued their own solo careers in various entertainment industries. Some turned to acting (Eric, Dong-hwan, Jun Jin and Andy) while others pursued solo musical careers (Min-woo, Hye-sung). 
During their 14 years in the business, the group has achieved many notable successes and been awarded many honors; not to mention chart-topping hit singles and albums. Some of their most popular songs include, “Hey, Come On!,” “Uh Sha Uh Sha,” “T.O.P,” “Pretty” and “Once in a Lifetime.” 
 Shinhwa: The return
 On March 23, the group released their tenth studio album, aptly entitled "The Return." The lead track of the album is “Venus,” composed by Andrew Jackson, who has worked with Britney Spears. The lyrics written by none other than Shinhwa’s Min-woo. Since its release, the song has dominated various online music charts. 
Marking their 14th anniversary, the group also began their comeback tour, the 2012 Shinhwa Grand Tour in Seoul, on March 24 and 25 at the Olympic Gymnastic Arena. The tour marks the group’s comeback after a 4-year hiatus - during whichmembers served their mandatory military service - and continues with several shows in Japan, China and Taiwan. 
