Welcoming spring with some dessert and tea
As springtime approaches, the desire to be outdoors gets stronger, becoming almost unbearable. After the long winter months spent inside trying to stay warm, it is nice to finally be able to feel the sun on our faces again. 
For some, the warmth of the sun is not yet enough to make up for the still-chilly evening temperatures, though more and more people have begun taking advantage of the longer days; a sure sign that springtime is just around the corner. Braving the last of the winter cool, the number of people enjoying their days has begun to grow, with many opting for leisurely strolls around the city, grabbing some food or drinks at nearby coffee shops and restaurants. 
Unsurprisingly, the shops around areas like Insa-dong and Myeong-dong are once again bustling with activity and customers, shaking off the sluggishness of winter. 
Always a popular destination for tourists and locals alike, Insa-dong is a great place to visit during the transition from winter to spring. There are many interesting sights to see, ranging from the modern to the traditional, and it can easily be considered the melting pot of Korean culture. However, another great place to go to when looking to ease into the outdoors is Samcheong-dong, just a few minutes walk from Insa-dong.
 Samcheong-dong offers a wide variety of restaurants, coffee shops and dessert cafés that appeal to people of all ages and backgrounds. Strolling alongside the various trinket shops set up on the road truly provides a feast for the eyes. Merely looking at the menus of the various restaurants will make your mouth water, as does the pictures displayed on the various dessert cafés littering the streets. There are three in particular, that deserve some special recognition.
 Gabae
 Gabae offers visitors the chance to explore the traditional desserts of Korea. Surrounded by an atmosphere seemingly straight out of history books, Gabae offers a variety of traditional rice cake treats, sweets and cookies. It is a great place to visit when looking for a relaxing environment and glimpse into the past.
 Retrona Pie
 The Retrona Pie offers a wide variety of treats for those looking to explore the taste of Western desserts. From the classic baked cream cheese and the mouthwatering raspberry fold to the classic egg tart and the delicious potato bacon pie, this place has everything. The delicious smells wafting from the store are enough to make anyone reconsider skipping dessert. It is the perfect place to go with friends, guiltily indulging your sweet tooth. 
 5Cijung Café
 This café has numerous locations scattered all around Seoul, but it has some interesting and unique desserts that mean it has to be mentioned. The 5Cijung Café offers the generic dessert treats available in most coffee shops, with a few minor exceptions. With its homey interior, the café offers a variety of classy dessert choices, such as the Fondant au Chocolate set. It does, however, also offer a variety of healthy options for drinks and dessert as well, including their homemade orange tea, banana ginger tea and Injeolmi toast, to name a few. This particular place is best visited with friends or when you need to study alone, as it offers a very relaxing and quiet atmosphere. 
