Kim Soo-hyun, actor who embraced viewers’ hearts
Since March 15, when the last episode aired of “The Moon that Embraces the Sun,” a drama that enjoyed record viewer ratings of over 40 percent, Kim Soo-hyun, who starred as the charismatic king, “Huan” in the piece, has had a hectic schedule. Kim has already appeared in scores of TV commercials, ranging from electronic utensils and food to sportswear and cosmetics. This is clear reflection of his popularity and elevated status as one of the top actors in Korea. 
 Yet, Kim maintained his humble tone throughout the interview. “I think what attracts me to the audience is the fact that I am not a boy but not yet a man. I am a typical 25-year-old guy.” Kim said during the interview with the Herald Business on March 21. “I don’t think that I am not yet there to be called a star, and it freaks me out just thinking about it because it’s too much pressure. But it is definitely not a bad feeling,” he blithely confessed. 
 Kim went on, “Now after the show, I don’t feel much difference but one thing that I noticed was I get a lot more people asking me for my autograph.” 
 From its first episode, “The Moon that Embraces the Sun” stole viewers’ hearts here in Korea; The phenomenal streak began with the first episode, which garnered a stunning 18 percent in ratings. In fact, at the drama’s production report conference, Kim ambitiously told reporters that he expected the drama to reach 36 percent. Soon after, his forecast became a reality.
 Asking Kim what he thought made him so appealing to viewers; he replied that “When two contrasting images are combined, they create a huge attraction.” 
 “For instance,” Kim said, “Black and white, and sexy and cute are appealing to many people. And I think it was the case for my character at the ‘The Moon that Embraces the Sun’ because my character, ‘Huan’ presented both childish and mature sides.”
 The actor filmed many episodes in the mountains, day and night without much rest. The production process might have tired him out, but Kim replied that it was not the case. It was his first historical drama so he learned a lot throughout the whole process and he felt so much love from his colleagues and staff at the set that he cherishes every little moment of it. He said, “I would never forget the memory.” 
 Kim Soo-hyun first started acting when he was a high school student. “I was a first grader in high school. Up until then I had no dream and my parents were anxious about it. One day my mom suggested me to start acting and I gave it a try and it started to grow on me. Acting made me become a more active and optimistic boy.” That’s how his path of acting began. 
 Now Kim majors in theater and film at JoongAng University. Asked about his mom, he said, “My mom has always been supportive of my dream and had a firm belief in me. And that meant the world to me.” 
 Finishing up the interview, Kim revealed his plans. “Before ‘The Moon that Embraces the Sun,’ I wanted to make it a success and thankfully that came true. Now I can only hope for the same thing for my upcoming movie ‘The Thieves.’ Am I being too greedy?” laughed Kim.
 Concluding the interview, Kim firmly stated that he would like to act for the rest of his life and develop into a solid and reliable actor whose work people can count on unconditionally. 
