CCTV is a necessity for modern society
Pro- CCTV is needed in a modern society
 I believe CCTV is a necessity for a modern society.
 First, CCTV solves many crimes. Crimes are becoming more complex. To solve these new crimes, we need more evidence and information. In a situation like this, CCTV that provides information about criminals is necessary. Also, police can find out more about how criminals commit crimes. Police can get more detailed and reliable information that helps improve investigations next time.
 Second, CCTV can reduce crime. If there is CCTV, people will act better because they don’t want to be ashamed or punished. Also, people who want to commit crime can also change their minds because they are afraid of getting punished. Someone who has already committed crime might admit their crime if they know that CCTV filmed them doing it. This will lead to less crime.
 Finally, CCTV helps solve minor conflicts. Sometimes, there are conflicts between people. Many of these problems are not so serious and caused by somebody’s mistake. Without CCTV, these problems may be have to be dealt with by the police. This uses police time and money that could be used for stopping crimes. However, CCTV can solve these small conflicts because they can ensure reliable information about that situation quickly.
 In summary, CCTV is a necessity for a modern society. Without it, society will be more exposed to crime, and police officers will feel overwhelmed by small troubles. 
 Con-
 I think CCTV violates people’s privacy
 Nowadays there is CCTV and all sorts of security cameras everywhere we go. And the greatest problem involving these rampant cameras in our society is the issue of individual privacy.
 People are exposed to security cameras dozens of times every day and even if these cameras do help reduce crime and make our society a safer place, still I believe it has more negative aspects than positive ones. 
 Today there are too many security cameras all around the public places that it has reached a point where the very existence of it compromises people’s privacy. 
 Acknowledging the fact that they are scattered all around, constantly monitoring and watching us what we are doing and where we are going with who have made us feel uncomfortable and loss of freedom. 
People no longer feel free outside their own home and this could in the long run, create more social ills. The issue of privacy and lack of freedom in our society can cause emotional and psychological distress in people and this thwarts building a healthy society. Sick people make sick society and social problems brought in by privacy issue can eventually turn our society into a more skeptical, ill and darker place. 
 In conclusion, I believe that CCTV compromises our privacy to the unacceptable level and that it should be used at moderation for the sake of social health. 
