Stunning victory for democracy in Myanmar
For the first time in a long time, citizens of Myanmar have something to celebrate, as state officials confirmed on April 2 that Aung San Suu Kyi’s opposition party won a landslide victory in the recent by-elections. This win is historic for a nation notorious for human rights violations, a ruthless military dictatorship and poverty. 
“It is not so much our triumph as a triumph of the people who have decided that they have to be involved in the political progress in this country,” Suu Kyi announced to the thousands of cheering supporters gathered outside her party’s headquarters a day after the vote. “We hope this will be the beginning of a new era.” 
According to U.N. spokesman Martin Nesirky, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called the recent elections “another significant step toward a better future for Myanmar,” while also acknowledging “the courage and vision of President Thein Sein, which has made such progress possible.” Likewise, the White House called it an “important step” in the country’s transition to democracy. 
There have been many drastic changes in Myanmar over the last couple of years, including Suu Kyi’s speedy ascent from a “democracy advocate to elected official” in just 18 months, AP reported. After spending almost 15 of the last 21 years under house arrest, her most recent release happened on Nov. 13, 2010. During her time under house arrest, she was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 1990 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. 
Suu Kyi is the general secretary of the National League for Democracy (NLD), and her supporters hope that the party’s recent victory in the by-elections will open the way for a potential presidential run in 2015. 
For many in Myanmar, however, the victory is viewed with an air of cautious optimism. As the state media confirmed that the NLD won 43 of the 45 available seats in parliament, many expressed delight over the step toward political liberation, while some fear that the hardships were only just starting. 
According to AP, the sudden “topdown [sic] revolution has left Myanmar befuddled,” wondering about its timing and how it happened. Some suspect that the military-backed regime “had long been desperate for legitimacy and a lifting of Western sanctions,” recognizing that Myanmar has fallen far behind the rest of “skyscraper-rich Asia.” 
“The real danger of the by-elections is the overblown expectations many in the West have cast on them,” David Scott Mathieson, an expert on Myanmar for Human Rights Watch, told AP. “The hard work really does start afterward. Constitutional reform, legal reform, tackling systematic corruption, sustainable economic development, continued human rights challenges ... will take many years.” 
