Dinosaur exposition opens its doors in Goseong
An international dinosaur exposition is being held for the third time in Goseong, in South Gyeongsang province.
 Goseong County is known for its quantity and variety of dinosaur fossils. The exhibition is hosted by the county and sponsored by the organizing committee for the World Disnosaur Expo in Goseong. It runs from March 30 to June 10.
 At this year’s Dinosaur World Expo, rare dinosaur fossils will be featured at the Danghangpo Tourist Sites.
 With the theme of “Wakening the Dinosaur with Rain Drops from the Sky,” the event focuses on raising public awareness of the importance of environment by taking a close look at the mystery of the extinction of dinosaurs, which thrived on Earth around 65 million years ago, the organizing committee explained. 
 “We found a connection between dinosaurs and the environment. Although the cause for their extinction remains uncertain, it is clearly related to nature,” an official noted.
 More than 4,000 dinosaur footprints are on display and about 1,900 fossilized dinosaur footprints, believed to be from approximately 100 million years ago during the early-to-mid Cretaceous period, will be there to greet visitors.
 The exhibition is made up of eight distinctively themed rooms. One of them shows a 10-minute movie that gives visitors a vivid glimpse into the way dinosaurs had lived. Visitors can enjoy watching videos at the 5D Screen Theater which rotates 360 degrees. Some 13 pieces of dinosaur fossils that came from China will also be displayed, including an egg fossil presumed to be formed during the Cretaceous period.
Goseong County in South Gyeongsang Province has earlier been recognized as one of the world’s three largest fossilized dinosaur footprint sites along with Colorado in the United States and the coast of Argentina. 
 Organizers expect at least 1.42 million people nationwide will visit the venue this year, along with 100,000 foreign tourists. The number of visitors reached 1.71 million during the first Goseong Dinosaur World Expo in 2009 and 1.54 million in 2006, the organization said.
 Opening hours will begin from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays and 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on weekends. More information is available on the official website at www.dino-expo.com.
