Plant trees and save the Earth
The 67th Arbor Day was celebrated nationwide on April 5, accompanied by a variety of tree-planting events by government offices and civic organizations.
 The government in particular gave out ambitious plans to make the land more productive and eco-friendly; it said it plans to drive forward a 5-year tree-planting plan starting from this year.
 Korea Forest Service Minister Lee Don-koo said through a press release that his organization would invest 145 billion won up until 2017 to restore forests that had been damaged.
 Minister Lee also emphasized in a meeting with reporters that trees are the main resources that can absorb carbon dioxide. He said reforestation campaigns would continue not only in April but also throughout the year.
 Meanwhile, President Lee Myung-bak participated in the Arbor Day ceremony held at the Korea National Arboretum. What he suggested for the country‘s greening was the reforestation of North Korea.
 He said that reforestation of the North would be a win-win project for the two Koreas, pointing out that national steel-maker POSCO had been carrying out a forestation project in Uruguay. He said it would be great if a similar project could proceed in the communist neighbor.
 Nationwide tree-planting campaigns also followed. Led by the Korea Forest Service, communities and villages planted millions of pine trees in local countryside areas.
 Korea was almost completely deforested around the time of the 1950-53 Korean War. However, it has since become a global model for reforestation by having planted 11 billion trees in the nation.
 Why plant trees?
 The temperature of Earth’s atmosphere and oceans has continuously risen since the early 20th century, largely due to increasing greenhouse gases, produced by human activities, such as deforestation and burning of fossil fuels.
 One of the most efficient and effective methods that can reduce greenhouse gases and prevent global warming is tree-planting.
 Greenhouse gases rise high up in the atmosphere and stay there, stopping heat from escaping from the Earth. The process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases include water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and ozone.
 Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the burning of fossil fuels has been increasing the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
 Trees not only moderate climate but also improve air quality and conserve water. They also sustain wildlife.
 Radiant energy emitted by the sun is absorbed by leaves on trees in summer, and people can protect themselves from direct sunlight by staying under the trees. Trees when effectively used in the cities can moderate the heat-island effect caused by pavement and buildings in commercial areas.
 Trees improve air quality as well. Leaves clean up the air we breathe by removing particulates including dust. Then rain washes up the pollutants off the leaves to the ground. Leaves absorb carbon dioxide then change it to carbohydrates to feed themselves. Leaves also absorb other toxic substances, such as ozone and sulfur dioxide. 
Arbor Days worldwide
 In an effort to fight global warming and greenhouse gas emissions, countries around the world celebrate arbor days in their own ways.
 According to the Arbor Day Foundation, over 30 countries celebrate and promote tree-planting days.
 In Australia, for example, Arbor Day falls in June, while National Tree Day is celebrated on the last week of July. The country’s Arbor Week falls at different times around the country.
 The United Kingdom celebrates National Tree Week at the start of tree planting season in November. It is organized by the Tree Council. They also celebrate National Tree Dressing Day on the first weekend in December, which is organized by the environmental charity Common Ground Trees.
 In Brazil, Arbor Day falls on Sept. 21. It used to be held on June 7, but was moved to September to coincide with the beginning of spring in the Southern Hemisphere.
 Bulgaria, Germany, Japan, and the U.S. celebrate their Arbor Days in April.
 Korean Arbor Day
 Korean Arbor Day or sikmogil used to be celebrated as a public holiday until 2005. April 5 was chosen as Arbor Day in 1946 based on the assumption that the clear and balmy weather of the time would be optimal for planting trees. Some people also say that the day was chosen to commemorate the date when the Silla Kingdom unified Korea.
