Samsung to hit global top in mobile gadgets
Samsung Electronics is poised to position itself as the global top smartphone manufacturer with its new Galaxy Note, The Korea Herald said in late March.
 The world’s second largest mobile handset maker said it sold more than 5 million units of the Galaxy Note around the world since its launch in October 2011.
 Samsung grabbed the top spot for smartphones in several markets, such as China, France and Japan.
 Samsung’s mobile chief Shin Jong-kyun said that the firm expects to sell 10 million units of the Galaxy Note by the end of 2012 as it introduced the bigger Galaxy Note 10.1 at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in February.
 “The recent total sales figure for the Galaxy Note indicates that the company has achieved success in creating a new market for the smart gadgets,” a Samsung official told The Korea Herald.
 Meanwhile, a report released on April 3 indicated that Samsung has beaten Apple in global smartphone sales for the Jan-Mar period, according to The Korea Herald.
 Global investment bank Canaccord Genuity’s technology analyst Michael Walkley said in the report that he sees Samsung selling 41 million smartphones from January to March, outperforming Apple’s 32.6 million and Nokia’s 12.5 million.
 The news came as the Korean IT behemoth was getting ready to announce its guidance for the first quarter earnings.
 Backed by the strong sales of its flagship LTE handset Galaxy Note, Samsung is projected to announce high figures in sales and operating profit.
 Lee Sae-chul, an analyst at Meritz Securities, told The Korea Herald that Samsung was likely to record 5.5 trillion won ($4.9 billion) in operating profit despite the fact that the first quarter was a slow season in the sector.
 “Samsung showed strong Galaxy Note sales, with it recording 4 million units in global sales and the expanded lineup of its products also contributed to the rise in profit,” said Lee. “There is not much competition excluding Apple in the smartphone industry, so continuous growth is expected for the firm.”
