Era of flying cars poised to take off
Woburn, Massachusetts-based Terrafugia Inc., announced on April 2 that the company had successfully completed the first flight of its prototype flying car, “Transition,” raising the possibility of a new era of flying vehicles.
 The vehicle has two seats, four wheels and two wings, company officials said. Last month, it flew for 8 minutes and covered 426 meters.
 The launch of the ultimate dream vehicle made car-lovers across the U.S. go berserk; so far, around 100 people have put down the deposit of $10,000 to get their hands on it as soon as possible. 
 Yet the price tag for the car is not so dreamy. The Transition is expected to cost around $279,000, according to Terrafugia, which is scheduled to introduce its invention to the public at the New York Auto Show in early April. 
 A flying car has always been a car-lovers’ dream, especially in the United States, the world’s largest automobile market. Since the 1930s, investors have tried to make it a reality, according to Robert Mann, an American airline industry analyst. 
 “Terrafugia has come closer than anyone to making the flying car a reality,” he said. 
 The company reportedly asked the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to grant the use of special tires and glass to minimize its weight and asked temporarily to suspend mounting electronic stability control inside the machinery because it adds an additional 2.72 kilograms. The car has gone into crash tests to meet the safety standards of the federal government, the company noted.
 “It can reach around 112 kilometers per hour on the road and 185 kph in air. On the ground, it goes 15 kilometers per liter,” Steven Moscaritolo, spokesman of Terrafugia said.
 Now only one question remains: Whether the market for the flying car could be profitable when the general commercial automobile market is in decline due to burdensome fuel costs.
 Nevertheless, Mann says the aviation industry possesses “some uniqueness.” He told AP that Americans will favor flying instead of driving long distances in the near future.
