Pop culture icon in a can: Spam
Spam, the luncheon meat produced by the Hormel Foods Corporation, is more than just the most popular canned food in the world; it has achieved pop culture icon status. Since its launch in 1937, nearly 8 billion cans of Spam have been sold. Currently, the Spam family of products is distributed in 41 countries and trademarked in more than 100 countries on 6 continents. More than 122 million cans of Spam are sold worldwide each year, 90 million in the U.S. alone. 
 The name Spam is derived from spiced ham. The original product, now called “Spam Classic,” is made of chopped pork shoulder meat, ham meat, salt, water, modified potato starch and sodium nitrite, which is used as a preservative. Spam’s gelatinous glaze, or aspic, forms from the cooling of meat stock. Hormel began to expand the Spam product line in 1971 with the introduction of “Spam Hickory Smoke Flavored” and “Spam with Cheese.” To satisfy a more health-conscious consumer base, “Spam Less Sodium” was launched in 1986, and “Spam Lite,” with 25 percent less salt and fat, was introduced in 1992. “Spam Hot & Spicy” and “Spam with Bacon” joined the product line in 2000 and 2004, respectively. 
A major reason for the popularity of Spam was its close ties to the U.S. military. The nutrient-rich and convenient-to-eat luncheon meat was called into action overseas when America entered World War II. Hormel provided 15 million cans of Spam weekly to U.S. and Allied troops as they fought to liberate Europe. Spam became an essential item in every soldier’s diet, often serving as the last line of defense between battle-weary soldiers and starvation. After the war, American, British and Russian leaders credited Spam for its contribution to the Allied victory. Spam followed U.S. and Allied soldiers to the Korean peninsula during the Korean War, as well as the jungles of Vietnam during the Vietnam War.
 Although Spam is popular all over the world, few places can match the U.S. state of Hawaii for its residents’ appetite for the iconic luncheon meat. Hawaii, along with Guam and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, has the only McDonald’s restaurants with Spam on the menu. A popular Hawaiian dish known as Spam Musubi is made with cooked Spam, rice and nori seaweed. Often referred to as the “Hawaiian Steak”, Spam is not just eaten, but celebrated, in the Aloha State. Hawaii’s annual Waikiki SPAM JAM Festival attracts more than 20,000 people and features several of Honolulu’s finest restaurants serving Spam products in creative and mouth-watering recipes.
 Spam has a long history in Korea. Since it landed here with American G.I.’s during the Korean War, Spam has made its way into popular local cuisine as an ingredient for “gimbap” (seaweed rice roll) and “budae jjigae” (army base stew). After the war, spam became one of the most highly sought after products on the black market. Nowadays, Spam products sold in Korea are produced locally with higher quality ingredients than those made in other countries, and they tend to taste slightly different than those made elsewhere. Spam can be found in the cupboards of most Korean households as people find it quite tasty when consumed with boiled rice and seaweed, or a bowl of instant noodles. 
The Spam brand achieved culture icon status in 1998 when Spam packaging was donated to the Smithsonian. In 2001, the Spam Museum was opened in Austin, Minnesota – the home of Hormel Foods Corporation. The 16,500 square feet venue features the world’s most comprehensive collection of spiced pork artifacts in several exhibitions. There is even a Spam store where visitors can purchase unique Spam collectibles.
