The original ‘Dream Team’
“It was like Elvis and the Beatles put together. Traveling with the Dream Team was like traveling with 12 rock stars. That’s all I can compare it to.” – Chuck Daly, Dream Team coach
 At the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, the United States national basketball team, dubbed the “Dream Team,” swept aside all competition in a series of awe-inspiring performances to win the gold medal. The U.S. squad featured eleven NBA superstars, a reigning College Player of the Year, and a legendary coach. It was perhaps the most illustrious collection of talent ever assembled on an actual competitive team in the history of sports. Of the twelve players on that team, ten would later be named to the NBA’s official list of the 50 greatest players of the league’s first 50 years and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
 The formation of the NBA “Dream Team” was made possible by two events. At the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, the U.S. basketball team was defeated by the Soviet Union in the semifinals and finished with a bronze medal. It was an unacceptable result for the Americans, who considered it unfair that their amateur players had to compete against European and South American teams made up of professional players. In 1989, the Federation of International Basketball Associations (FIBA), international basketball’s governing body, allowed professional NBA players to participate in the Olympics for the first time. 
 At the Barcelona Games, spectators and television viewers were treated to basketball’s version of the “greatest show on earth” every time the Dream Team took to the court. There were the tandem efforts of gravity-defying Air Jordan and his versatile wingman Scottie Pippen; the mesmerizing passing skills of Magic Johnson; the silky-smooth shooting prowess of Larry Bird and Chris Mullin, the pick-and-roll artistry of Karl Malone and John Stockton; the low-post domination of Patrick Ewing and David Robinson; the intimidating presence and force of Charles Barkley; and the graceful steps and soaring glides of Clyde Drexler. 
 The collection of NBA royalty was treated with admiration and respect by their opponents. Players from opposing teams were seen asking for pre-game autographs and posing for pictures with Dream Team members. The once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to play against their idols was an overwhelming experience for many players. In one comical moment, an opposing player, while trying to guard Magic Johnson, waved his arms frantically at a teammate sitting on the bench to snap a shot of him in action. 
 The Dream Team lived up to the hype and reputation with unstoppable offense and ferocious defense in competition. Their average winning margin throughout the tournament was an astounding 43.8 points per game. Their domination of opponents was so complete that Coach Chuck Daly never even called a timeout in any of the games played. The Dream Team demolished Angola 116-48 in the opening game; beat Croatia 103-70 in the second; crushed Germany 111-68 in the third game; decimated Brazil 127-83 in the fourth; trounced Spain 122-81 in the fifth; whipped Puerto Rico 115-77 in the sixth; annihilated Lithuania 127-76 in the semifinals; and dominated Croatia 117-85 to win the gold.
 The United States continued to employ the Dream Team concept in subsequent Olympic Games, but no team could match the success or impact of the original squad. The U.S. Dream Teams II and III won Olympic gold in 1996 and 2000, respectively, but they were no longer overwhelming favorites as the quality of international competition improved. At the 2004 Olympics in Athens, the U.S. Dream Team IV met its Waterloo. The team lost three games in the tournament and had to settle for bronze. At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the U.S. Dream Team V won the gold medal with a 118-107 victory over Spain. 
