2012 Kids’ Choice Awards
The slime-filled extravaganza that is Nickelodeon’s 25th Annual Kids’ Choice Awards (KCA) was watched by more than 11 million viewers when it aired on March 31. Considered an awards show with some of the hardest tickets to score, attendees include big-name celebrities and prominent figures such as Michelle Obama, Halle Berry and even Korea’s own Wonder Girls.
 The annual KCA ceremony honors the year’s biggest TV, movie and music acts as voted by Nickelodeon viewers. Winners receive a hollow orange blimp figurine, which can also be used as a kaleidoscope. This year, Will Smith, who has won the most KCA awards to date, was given the honor of hosting the popular awards show. Special guest, First Lady Michelle Obama, was also given the role of a presenter this year. She announced the winner of this year’s The Big Help Award, Taylor Swift.
 The show, which is geared towards a younger audience than any other awards show, features various stunts involving its trademark green slime. Starting in 2002, people ranging from Olympians, extreme sports superstars and daredevil participants perform live stunts involving the green slime. The first stunt involved BMX pro-biker Dave Mirra. Mirra broke a personal record for a double back flip, landing in a 5,000 gallon tank of green slime.
 Unlike traditional awards shows, which have seen an overall decline in viewership, the KCA has seen a consistent rise in ratings, not to mention setting a new voting record with more than 22 million votes cast. Another aspect of the show that sets it apart from other awards shows is its use of unusual items to announce the winner, rather than the traditional envelope. Balloons, T-shirts, models, giant letters, and stickers have all been used to announce the winners. 
The complete list of this year’s winners is:
 　Favorite TV show: Victorious
 　Favorite TV actor: Jake Short
 　Favorite TV actress: Selena Gomez
 　Favorite TV sidekick: Jennette McCurdy
 　Favorite reality show: Wipeout
 　Favorite cartoon: SpongeBob SquarePants
 　Favorite movie: Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked
 　Favorite movie actor: Adam Sandler
 　Favorite movie actress: Kristen Stewart
 　The Big Help Award: Taylor Swift
 　Favorite animated movie: Puss in Boots
 　Favorite voice from an animated movie: Katy Perry
 　Favorite buttkicker: Taylor Lautner
 　Favorite male athlete: Tim Tebow
 　Favorite female athlete: Danica Patrick
 　Favorite book: Diary of a Wimpy Kid series
 　Favorite video game: Just Dance 3
 　Favorite music group: Big Time Rush
 　Favorite male singer: Justin Bieber
 　Favorite female singer: Selena Gomez
 　Favorite song: Party Rock Anthem (by LMFAO)
 For more pictures, check out Photo News on page 3. 
 The Big Help Award
 Previously known as the Big Green Help Award, the Big Help Award (a green version of the blimp award) is presented to a celebrity who has shown that they go above and beyond to help the environment. Past winners include Leonardo Dicaprio (2009), Michelle Obama (2010) and Justin Timberlake (2011). 
