Nation of historic and natural beauty, Russia
Despite being a nation steeped in history, most only have a very limited understanding and awareness of the world’s largest country. For centuries, Russia has been shrouded in many myths and mysteries, with conflicting reports describing the nation as both a land of unbelievable riches and indescribable poverty. Despite it all, however, the sheer size of the country provides ample opportunities for discovery, adventure and wonder. 
To discover the beauty of Russia, Lonely Planet suggests heading “way off the beaten track.” After visiting the traditional tourist sites such as “dynamic Moscow, historic St. Petersburg and beautiful Lake Baikal,” visit the countless other unique places that Russia has to offer.
 For cultural and architecture enthusiasts, stick to Western, or European, Russia. The home of some of the grandest palaces and cathedrals, Russia has the magnificent Moscow Kremlin, cathedrals and Patriarch’s Palace. The Kremlin is a fortified complex at the heart of Moscow overlooking the Moskva River, Saint Basil’s Cathedral and the historic Red Square. The most well-known of Russian citadels, the complex currently serves as the official residence of the President of Russia.
 For nature enthusiasts, feast your eyes on the vast spaces of Siberia and the Far East. The easternmost part of Russia is comprised of numerous Pacific Ocean islands with frigid temperatures and exciting ecotourism. Kamchatka, for example, is considered one of the most exciting ecotourism destinations in East Russia. 
For a simple yet adventure-packed journey, consider taking a tour of Russia via the Trans-Siberian railway. A network of railways connecting Moscow with the Russian Far East and the East Sea, it also branches out through to China. Hop on the train in St. Petersburg in Russia and you can take it straight through to Beijing, China. The two-and-a-half week journey will take you through a quick tour of the beauty that Russia has to offer, as well as the chance to experience traveling on the world’s longest train network. 
 Lake Baikal is the world’s deepest fresh water lake, containing 1/5 of the world’s fresh water.
 Random facts:
 Russia is the land of many firsts. They were the first to successfully send an object into space, “Sputnik,” as well as the first to send a man into outer space, Yuri Gagarin. 
Other notable Russians include: 
l Russian chemist, Dmitri Mendeleev is credited as being the creator of the first version of the periodic table of elements.
 l Renowned composer Pyotr Ilyick Tchaikovsky was also Russian and responsible for some of the world’s most famous ballets (including "Swan Lake" and "The Nutcracker").
