 Park Chan-ho, a legendary Korean baseballer
Park Chan-ho, born on June 30, 1973 in Gongju, South Chungcheong Province, is a baseball player who became the first South Korean to play in Major League Baseball.
 In 1994, Park signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers. From then, he spent 17 seasons in seven different teams in the major league and won 124 games. It was the most stunning winning streak achieved by an Asian pitcher in major league history. 
 The clubs that he has played for include the Los Angeles Dodgers (twice), Texas Rangers, San Diego Padres, New York Mets, Philadelphia Phillies, New York Yankees, and Pittsburgh Pirates in Major League Baseball, and the Orix Buffaloes in Japan. 
 After being released from the Orix Buffaloes in Japan in December, Park signed a one-year contract with Hanwha Eagles in South Korea. Terms of the deal attracted a media frenzy in Korea as he pledged to donate every penny of his salary to creating an amateur baseball team in Korea.
 Today as a member of Hanwha Eagles, according to Park, he is eager to be at his sharpest in front of his home fans in the 2012 season.
 His genius in baseball was witnessed early on. When Park was a high school baseball player in Kongju High School in Gongju, he won Most Valuable Player honors for three consecutive seasons. He was also named MVP in four national prep tournaments. 
 When he was attending Hanyang University as a sophomore in 1994, he signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers.
 In 1992 and 1993, he was a member of the South Korean national baseball team and in the 1993 Asian Baseball Championship, he helped South Korea win the silver medal by posting a 2.76 ERA. In July in the same year, at the Summer Universidad, he once again led his national team to the silver medal.
 In a recent poll on Korea’s most popular baseball player, Park Chan-ho topped the list.
 The Gallup poll noted that it was not a surprising result because in Korea, Park is still considered an iconic baseball player as he holds the record of being the first South Korean to reach the majors in the U.S. league.
 The survey was ran by mobile phone and asked 1,579 South Korean adults. Park earned 25.2 percent of the overall votes, followed by legendary slugger Lee Seung-yeop.
 After playing years in Japan, Lee has also made a return to South Korea by signing a deal with Samsung Lions. Other players who made the list were slugger Lee Dae-ho, who joined the Orix Buffaloes in Japan, and Choo Shin-soo, an outfielder with the Cleveland Indians, Yonhap News reported. 
