Co-education is better than single-sex schools
Pro-
 Co-education is better than single-sex schools 
 In Korea, many types of schools exist, including co-education schools and all-boys or girls schools. I believe that co-education should be more widespread, because it has many benefits that can aid us.
 First of all, we will be able to understand the opposite gender better and get acquainted with them. In the future, we will inevitably work with the opposite sex when we have careers. So we have to get used to them when we are students. It is one of the ways we can get used to each other naturally.
 Furthermore, it will be helpful for us when we choose our spouse. Choosing a spouse is very important because we will be living with that person for the rest of our lives when we become adults. So we have to experience how to work and live with them. When we are studying in all- boys or girls schools, we can’t do that so well.
 Finally, we can learn a lot of things by being taught at co-education schools. Since different genders have different advantages, we can become wiser and smarter by learning these advantages. Learning there can actually be more fun!
 Con-
All-girls or boys schools are better than co-education
 First of all, in all girls or boys schools, students can focus more effectively on their studies than in schools with a co-education system. Students in co-education tend to spend time making themselves pretty by wearing make up and cute clothes. Doing this does not harm students, but they should put more priority on their studies than these things, especially high school students who are going through a critical point of their lives. So, to prevent such disturbances, single-sex schools is better options as they offer a better school environment than co-education.
 Second, all-girls or boys schools provide a more comfortable school environment. Female students do not have to worry about wearing shorts or skirts while at school. Male students do not have to care about changing their shirts after running around and playing soccer. However, in co-education, they have to pay more attention to the length of their pants or skirts and feel self-conscious about something as natural as sweating. 
 Lastly, being with pupils of the same gender means you understand one another better and can be more comfortable around them. Students at same gender schools build strong bonds and they frequently stay friends for life. They share a real sisterhood and brotherhood and this gives precious memories for these students. To build valuable school memories that last a lifetime, I think attending a same-sex school is a better choice.
