Reshuffling in N. Korean party leadership
North Korea’s leader Kim Jong-un has ascended to new top political posts, manifesting his power inside the reclusive nation, AP reported on April 12.
 Kim was named first secretary of the ruling Workers’ Party and succeeded his father and the late leader Kim Jong-il as chairman of the Central Military Commission. He was also elevated to standing member of the powerful Political Bureau, the highest-level decision-making body in the nation’s political sphere.
 Along with Kim’s ascension, a noticeable reshuffle within the North Korean party leadership has taken place in the communist regime. Many of Kim Jong-un’s delegates were elected to key political posts.
 Party member Choe Ryong-hae, emerged as a rising figure. Choe was named to the powerful Presidium of the Central Committee’s Political Bureau alongside Kim Jong-un and three high-ranking officials who have served in the country’s executive body. Choe, according to The Korean Central News Agency, is in his early sixties, and has also been promoted to vice marshal as well as being named a vice chairman of the party’s Central Military Commission.
 A household name, Jang Song-thaek, who married the late Kim Jong-il’s sister, Kim Kyong-hui, also became a member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee.
 Referring to the latest political power reshuffle inside the Hermit Kingdom, North Korean experts noted that even with new titles inside the North’s political arena, “much about North Korea’s leadership remains murky.” 
 “North Korea is less monolithic than it looks from the outside,” claimed John Delury, an assistant professor at Yonsei University. 
 The change was brought in nearly four months after the abrupt passing of Kim Jong-il, who died last December of heart failure while traveling to China. Just two days before the centenary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, founder of the isolated nation, the North pushed ahead with its reckless rocket launch on April 13, but it ended in failure and international condemnation just minutes after its launch.
