Fans express disappointment as Facebook buys out Instagram
Facebook’s $1 billion purchase of Instagram, a popular photo-sharing application, on April 10 resulted in a flood of complaints by fans on Twitter and other online forums. 
Once an iPhone-only service, Instagram finally opened its services on Android devices on April 3, which resulted in 1 million new users in 24 hours. The application, which has seen explosive growth since its launch in October 2010, hit the No. 1 spot on Apple’s App Store on April 10. 
On April 9, Facebook announced that it would acquire the San Francisco-based startup for $1 billion, turning its 13 employees into millionaires. By April 11, however, AFP reported that Twitter and other online platforms “buzzed …with depictions of Facebook as a corporate monster trampling over a defenseless community of creative, free-spirited types.” 
Analysts at Crimson Hexagon, a social media analysis platform, studied 201,000 Twitter references to Facebook’s buyout and found that only 12 percent mentioned the takeover in a positive light. Ten percent expressed “disgust” with the social networking giant while another 10 percent promised to quit Instagram. 
Although Instagram and Facebook share the same basic goal, online social networking, many Instagram users have voiced their fears regarding what the buyout would mean for the application. As a simple service that allows users to connect through photo-sharing, the appeal of Instagram for many has been its privacy and creative environment. 
According to AFP, “Instagram’s mobile-to-mobile traffic is seen as safe from the privacy problems said to plague Facebook’s advertiser-friendly pages.” Some fear that Facebook’s buyout will ultimately lead to privacy issues on Instagram. 
Others are more worried that a “massive influx of new Facebook users could spell the end of Instagram’s charm” as a creative outlet, CNN reported. For some of its more loyal users, Instagram is more than just a social networking tool. It is a place to be inspired as well as a platform to make new friends. 
According to CNN, no matter how they feel about the takeover, few users seem to blame Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom and the rest of the team in contempt for selling out. 
