National costumes
National costumes, or folk costumes, are garments worn by people that identify them with a specific geographic area or a period of time in history. They are reflections of national identity, cultural heritage and sense of pride. Such costumes can be as simple as a length of vibrantly-colored fabric wrapped around the body, as alluring as a form-hugging silk tunic worn over pantaloons, or as elaborate as a multiple-layer work of art adorned with accessories. In modern times, national costumes are no longer practical for daily wear; they are usually worn on holidays, festivals, and special occasions. 
Hanbok, the traditional costume of Korea, is characterized by vibrant colors, simple lines and multiple layers. It is worn as semi-formal or formal wear during traditional festivals such as “chuseok” and “seollal”, and special occasions such as weddings, funerals and birthdays. The version of hanbok worn by women is known as “chima jeogori.” It is composed of an upper garment, or blouse shirt (jeogori), and a full length wrap-around skirt (chima). Materials used to make hanbok can range from woven ramie cloth to silk or cotton. Men’s hanbok consists of jeogori and baji. Baji, meaning pants, is loose and baggy by design to make it easy and comfortable for sitting on the floor. A hanbok ensemble can include a po (outer robe), a jokki (vest), and a magoja (jacket). 
 The kimono is the traditional garment of Japan worn by men, women and children. It can range from formal to casual depending on the pattern of fabric and color. A kimono is a T-shaped, straight-lined robe worn with the hem at the ankles, with attached collars and long, wide sleeves. Kimono wraps around the body with the left side over the right (except when dressing the dead for burial.), and is secured by a sash, called an obi, tied at the back. A kimono is generally worn with traditional footwear (especially zōri or geta) and split-toe socks (tabi). Kimonos can be extremely expensive - a complete outfit with kimono, undergarments, obi, ties, socks, sandals, and accessories can cost more than $20,000. Due to its complex design and multiple parts, most people require professional assistance to properly put on a traditional kimono.
 The sari is a traditional costume worn in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Burma, Malaysia, Bhutan and Singapore. The word sari is derived from Sanskrit, literally meaning “strip of cloth”. It is a strip of unstitched cloth (usually silk, cotton, chiffons, georgettes), worn by women, ranging from four to nine yards in length, that is draped over the body in various styles. There are more than 80 recorded ways to wear a sari, but the most common style is for the sari to be wrapped around the waist, with the loose end of the drape to be worn over the shoulder, baring the midriff. Unlike national costumes of other nations, saris are not limited to festivals and special occasions; they are worn for everyday living. Saris also have the distinction of being a national costume capable of crossing cultural boundaries. It is popular among fashion designers, Hollywood celebrities and well-to-do women in the West. 
The Hanfu is the historical dress worn by the Han Chinese people for millennia before the conquest of China by the Manchus and the establishment of the Qing Dynasty in 1644. In modern times hanfu is largely absent from the daily lives of people in China and can only be seen in certain historical reenactments, Taoist religious rituals, coming of age ceremonies, or in films and on television shows. The so called traditional Chinese clothes people wear nowadays, notably the tight-fitting, figure revealing “qipao” (cheongsam), is derived from a Manchu clothing style, although the original form of Manchu qipao fitted loosely and hung straight down the body. There is currently a movement from within China and among overseas Chinese communities to revive the hanfu in daily life and in festivals and celebrations.
