Age restriction controversy on Lady Gaga’s ‘Born This Way Ball’
Controversy has once again surrounded the eccentric pop star, Lady Gaga. To the disappointment of her younger fan base, the age rating for Lady Gaga’s “Born This Way Ball” was raised from 12 to 18 on March 29. 
Scheduled to begin her world tour at the Olympic Stadium in Seoul on April 27, tickets sold out quickly. Unfortunately, hundreds of tickets had to be refunded when the Korea Media Rating Board (KMRB) declared the concert unsuitable for children under 18, even if accompanied by a parent. 
According to a KMRB official who wanted to remain anonymous, the decision was made largely due to a specific Lady Gaga song, “Just Dance,” which had received a rating of R from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in November of last year, The Korea Herald reported. 
A series of complaints had also been filed by conservative groups demanding that the concert’s sponsor, Hyundai Card, cancel the show based on claims that Lady Gaga advocated inappropriate behavior in her music and performances. Amongst the opponents of Lady Gaga is the Korean Association of Church Communication. 
In response to the KMRB’s controversial decision, Lady Gaga posted the following message on her Twitter account: “Thanku to all the adults in Korea who are speaking out for [the] underaged who want to come to the BTW Ball. Maybe the gov. will change their mind”. She added “parents should be given more credit to determine what’s good for their children.” 
In light of being one of the only Asian countries to have imposed a ban on minors attending the "Born This Way Ball," many Koreans and foreigners alike have expressed both outrage and disappointment. Advocates of Lady Gaga have pointed to her anti-bullying efforts through her Born This Way Foundation, claiming that in fact, she promotes very positive messages through her admittedly over-the-top performances. Many have also pointed to the hypocrisy of the age limit, drawing comparisons of inappropriate and provocative performances between Lady Gaga and certain K-pop groups, such as Sistar. 
Other than the concert in Seoul, only one other country has imposed an age limit of 18 for Lady Gaga’s "Born This Way Ball": Thailand. 
