Nepal, possessing more beauty than just Mount Everest
Best known for having the world’s highest mountain, Mount Everest, Nepal is home to some of the best trekking opportunities in the world. A landlocked nation bordered by China to the north and India to the south, Nepal is home to not just 8 of the world’s 10 tallest mountains, but some world-class artistic and architectural heritage as well. 
The top three tourist destinations in Nepal are the Himalayas, Kathmandu Valley and the Chitwan National Park. 
Mountaineers and trekkers from all over the world travel to Nepal for a chance to trek across the world’s highest mountain range, the Himalayas. A particularly popular trekking course is the Annapurna circuit in western Nepal. Lasting between 17 to 21 days, the trek takes you through a journey of distinctly beautiful scenery that includes rivers, flora, fauna, and of course, mountains. 
For those interested in a more cultural experience, Kathmandu Valley is the place to visit. Lying at the crossroads of ancient civilizations of Asia, there are seven UNESCO World Heritage Sites within the valley, which houses at least 130 important monuments. Also known as the City of Temples, it is also home to several places of pilgrimage for Hindus and Buddhists.
 The third most popular tourist spot in Nepal is the Chitwan National Park. Offering a combination of adrenaline-pumping excitement and beautiful scenery, it is a great place for embarking on a variety of adventures. The untamed wildlife, for example, allows for a chance to go on some intense safaris, where coming face-to-face with a rhino is more than just exciting. The Chitwan National Park also offers a chance to experience some world-class white-water rafting, kayaking and mountain biking. 
Some other places worthy of a visit include Lumbini and Bandipur. As the historical birthplace of Guatama Siddhartha Buddha, Lumbini is considered one of the most important religious sites in the world. On the other hand, visiting Bandipur is like taking a step back into medieval times. Home to the Newa people, indigenous to the Kathmandu Valley, the town of Bandipur has managed to escape the ravages of tourism and development. More than 70 percent of the buildings are traditional Newari houses, and the town itself is considered a living museum of Newari culture. 
 Nepal is the only country whose flag is not four-sided
