Lee Jung-seob, painter of “White Ox”
Born in 1916 in South Pyeongan province, Lee Jung-seob was a South Korean oil painter. Lee began studying art in earnest by entering Teikoku Art School for Occidental Painting in Japan in 1965. But Lee was so infatuated by teaching of Bunka Gakuen that he abruptly quit Teikoku Art School and entered Bunka Gakuen. At Bunka Gakuen, Lee pursed a strong and free drawing style.
 In 1944, when World War II was almost over, Lee graduated from Bunka Gakuen. The following year, he married Yamamoto Masako and they had their first child in 1946. Unfortunately, the baby died of diphtheria; the death of the child shook him to the core. However heart-wrenching the incident, it gave this unknown artist a huge inspiration that he was able to complete his outstanding piece titled, “A Child Flies with a White Star.” Later the piece was displayed in an exhibition commemorating the independence of Korea in 1947.
 When Korean War broke out, Lee wandered around the country and his family came to take a refuge in Busan. At that time Lee had two sons, Tae-hyun, born in 1947, and Tae-seong, born in 1949. As the war progressed, his family fled to Jeju Island. Yet, life on the island was harsh, and it pushed his wife, Masako to leave for Japan with their two sons. Lee was not able to see his family until 1953.
 In 1955, Lee came to Seoul and held a private exhibition at Midopa gallery. Loneliness and hardships had pushed him to suffer a type of schizophrenia. Lee had no escape but to turn to alcoholism. In 1956, Lee Jung-seob died of hepatitis in Seoul. 
 His drawing was greatly influenced by an art teacher he met at Dosan School. His named was Lim Yong-ryeon. Lim, who had studied art at Yale University and had worked as an artist in Paris, put a large emphasis on drawing. 
 Lee Jung-seob was known as a Fauvist painter, whose drawings and paintings were praised highly for their indigenous themes. Also Lee made great contributions to the introduction of western style of drawing to Korean art. Some of Lee’s most celebrated pieces today include “Ox” (now displayed in The Museum of Modern Art in New York) and “White Ox” (located at Hongik University).
