Experts say Spain bailout imminent
According to economic experts cited by Reuters, the bailout of Spain is a question of “when” rather than “if,” specifically that the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) will soon have to help Spain with a multi-billion euro bailout.
 Currently, rumors of a Spanish bailout have been dismissed by the European Union (EU), while the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has repeatedly stated that Spain doesn’t need or want an international bailout. 
The EFSF, along with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), has already stepped in to rescue Greece, Ireland and Portugal in the past two years. Economists believe that soon, the EU’s fourth-largest economy will also have to seek help in recovering from losses caused by the ongoing property market crash. 
“They’re going to need EFSF money to recapitalize the banking sector,” Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING in Brussels was quoted as having said by Reuters. “I think we’ll only see a real end to the Spanish misery if the real estate market stabilizes.” 
Brzeski continued, saying that although Spain does not necessarily require a bailout package tomorrow, “if you look ahead, let’s say the next six months, I would not be surprised if they [the banks] have to get some kind of European support.” 
At the moment, however, the EU is in support of Spain. Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers, has assured the public that Spain is taking the necessary steps to get its economy back on track, despite the recession and facing an unemployment rate of 24 percent. 
Senior economist and eurozone specialist at Roubini Global Economics Megan Greene, however, has told Reuters that even if Spain can put off asking for financial help until 2013, it will eventually need both a banking and a state bailout; similar to that provided to Ireland and Greece. 
“The banking sector is only one piece of the puzzle in Spain,” Greene said. “A banking bailout could deal with one part of the problem, but eventually the sovereign is going to need a bailout too.” 
What worries economists, is not necessarily that Spain will need a bailout, but that Italy would go down as well. 　
 “Spain and Italy are inextricably tied,” said Greene. “If Spain gets a bailout then the EU needs to be ready to provide support to Italy too.” 
