Seoul‘s education chief receives prison sentence
A Seoul appellate court sentenced Kwak No-hyun, the Seoul education chief, to one year in prison for bribing his rival candidate during the 2010 election.
 The court stated that Kwak coaxed his rival candidate, Park Myoung-gee, a professor at Seoul National University of Education, to drop out of the race and offered him 200 million won in exchange. 
 In the 2010 election, Kwak was elected as head of the Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education by a narrow margin. But Park withdrew from the election at the 11th hour, which gave a huge momentum for Kwak’s victory. Then rumors about Kwak having bribed Park went viral across the nation.
 In an earlier sentence by a lower court made in January, he was fined 30 million won ($26,337). 
 This time, the Seoul High Court delivered harsher sentence citing, “the gravity of crime he committed was much heavier than the similar cases of the past.”
 “A sum of 200 million won is huge compared to previous cases of violations of the election law, and Kwak gave the money for his own comfort in exchange for the rival candidate’s resignation, making the original sentence too light and unjust,” a statement by the Seoul High Court read. 
 This latest sentence by the appellate court of Seoul, however, will not be executed until the Supreme Court makes its final ruling on the case. Until then, Kwak remains and serves as Seoul’s education chief, the Yonhap News Agency reported. 
 Hearing the sentence, Kwak stated that it was “beyond understanding.” 
“None of the facts have changed, but this ruling was reached through a mechanical weighing of the case and I am certain the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court will raise the ultimate truth and justice,” said Kwak.
 He claimed the money he gave to Park was a simple gesture of “goodwill” toward his rival, who was suffering from a financial burden at the time. He continuously asserted his innocence.
 Under the country’s election law, the education chief would lose his position if he or she receives a punishment that corresponds to 1 million won in fines. Also Kwak must return roughly 3.52 billion won he received from the national election watchdog during the campaign.
 Park Myoung-gee who received alleged bribe money from Kwak was also sentenced to one-and-a-half years in prison, in addition to a 200 million won fine. Previously, he was sentenced to three years. A college professor who was known to have delivered the money to Park was fined 20 million won in a lower court, according to Yonhap News. 
