The Junior Herald over the years
Kidults relive their childhood
 Issue No. 23
 Sept. 29, 2004
 As a child, most people long to grow up and become adults, looking forward to having responsibilities and becoming independent. On the other hand, did you know that many adults would love a chance to relive their childhoods too?
 The article “Kidults relive their childhood,” in a 2004 issue of The Junior Herald, discusses this interesting cultural trend. The term “kidult” is a compound word made up of the words “kid” and “adult.” According to the article, “kidult” is used to describe adults who “collect toys, old and new character-brands or engross themselves in fairy-tales.” 
What about you? What do you think you would miss the most about being a kid, and do you know any adults whom you would describe as “kidults?” 
Couching the couch potato
 Issue No. 41
 Feb. 2, 2005
 Do you like watching T.V.? Well, so do a lot of people. This is why, in November of 2005, 131 families took part in a project called, “Surviving 20 Days without TV.” 
It may sound easy enough, but have you ever tried counting how many hours you spend sitting in front of the television every day? The project was filmed and eventually aired as a documentary by the Korean broadcasting station, EBS. Although the families initially found it difficult to adjust to life without television, eventually, most were able to find more productive ways of spending their time.
 Kang Young-sook, a professor at Sookmyung Women’s University was quoted in a 2005 article of The Junior Herald as saying, “If you’re addicted to television, that same addiction is found in alcohol or drugs. We as a society must free ourselves from television.” At the time, it was believed that Koreans spent an average of 10 years watching television during their lifetime. 
In the seven years since the article was written, how do you think Koreans’ television watching behavior has changed, if at all?
Cereal turns 100 years old
 Issue No. 99
 March 15, 2006
 In 2006, America’s favorite breakfast food celebrated its 100th birthday. To commemorate the discovery of the delicious breakfast treat, The Junior Herald briefly explored the history of cereal. 
Did you know that cereal was created by mistake? Two brothers working at a sanatorium in Michigan, business manager Will Keith Kellogg and his brother Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, were tasked with finding a special diet for vegetarian patients in the 1800s when they accidentally made the world’s first cereal. In 1906 they established the Battle Creek Toasted Corn Flake Co., which later became Kellogg Co. Prior to cereal, porridge was often eaten for breakfast. 
Nowadays, the cereal market is very competitive, with companies finding new ways to market a century-old concept. With hundreds, if not thousands of different types of cereal to choose from, it is no surprise then that cereal has become more than just a breakfast food. 
Do you like cereal? If so, which type is your favorite? Do you prefer eating cereal for breakfast or as a snack?
Final Harry Potter book a big success
 Issue No. 171
 Aug. 1, 2007
 The seventh and final book of the Harry Potter series hit bookstores around the world on July 21, 2007. By now everyone knows how the story ends, though many fans still mourn the loss of a favorite book series. 
Robert McCrum, literary editor at Britain’s Observer weekly was quoted as having described Harry Potter as “not a book. It’s a brand, a franchise, an event, and, for one last time in the 24/7 news cycle, a breaking story.” 
Five years after the fact, it still rings true. By June 2011, the book series had sold about 450 million copies worldwide, making it to the list of best-selling book series in history. The last four books of the series also managed to consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history.
 According to Forbes Magazine, as of March 2011, J.K. Rowling had an estimated net worth of $1 billion, while the Harry Potter franchise was estimated to be worth in excess of $15 billion. 
Are you a big fan of the Harry Potter series? If so, why do you like it? If not, what is your favorite book series?
Woman to be first Korean astronaut
 Issue No. 202
 March 19, 2008
 2008 was a special year for Korean women and scientists alike, when the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology announced that then-29-year-old Yi So-yeon would be the first Korean astronaut to travel into space. 
Yi boarded the Russian Soyuz spacecraft with two Russian cosmonauts, which launched out of Kazakhstan’s Baikonur Space Center on April 8. The bio systems engineer was given the title of “spaceflight participant,” returning from space a week later, on April 19 after having conducted a series of experiments on board. 
Yi is the second Asian woman to have gone to space, following Chiaki Mukai of Japan. Since her trip to space, Yi has been working as a researcher at the Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI), as well as acting as one of Korea’s space ambassadors. In May 2011, Yi was listed as one of 15 Asian scientists to watch by Asian Scientist Magazine. 
Did you know? South Korean scientists created a special low-calorie, vitamin-rich version of Kimchi for Yi to eat during her mission in space.
Chocolate may ease emotional stress
 Issue No. 289
 Nov. 25, 2009
 What a good excuse to indulge in some sweets! In a November 2009 issue of The Junior Herald, an article was published explaining the results of a study that suggested eating dark chocolate may lower stress hormone levels. 
In the study, researchers found that eating an average-sized bar of dark chocolate every day for two weeks reduced the levels of stress hormones in participants. 
Since this study was published, many more scientists have begun to look into the health benefits of eating dark chocolate. As of now, scientists agree that dark chocolate not only lowers stress levels, but blood pressure as well. According to research, eating limited amounts of dark chocolate seems to help lower cholesterol levels in adults and prevent heart disease. 
Some research has even suggested that dark chocolate may boost cognitive abilities. With all this research to support the health benefits of dark chocolate, it is easy to make the mistake of eating too much of it. Remember: Moderation is key. 
Did you know? Not only is dark chocolate full of antioxidants; it has nearly eight times more than strawberries. Strawberries dipped in dark chocolate anyone?
Highest paid soccer stars at the 2010 World Cup
 Issue No. 318
 June 16, 2010
 Just as the world once again became mesmerized by the athletic beauty and grace of an international football showdown, The Junior Herald briefly introduced the five highest paid players of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Argentina’s Lionel Messi was paid a whopping $43.3 million a year, while Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal raked in $39.4 million. The third highest was Brazilian player Ricardo Izecson dos Santos Leite, better known as Kaka, who was paid $24.7 million. Fourth and fifth were Thierry Henry of France and Carlos Tevez of Argentina who received $23.5 and $20.2 million, respectively.
 What do you think of the highest paid football players of the 2010 FIFA World Cup? Do you think their high salaries are appropriate?
Audition fever
 Issue No. 388
 Nov. 9 2011
 SuperStar K, KPop Star, Project Runway Korea, The Voice of Korea, and Korea’s Got Talent. Nowadays, there seems to be an endless number of audition programs to tune into and vote for your favorite contestant. 
In 2011, an article titled “Audition Fever” was published on The Junior Herald, describing this sudden trend in television programming. Assistant professor of sociology at Ewha Womans University Harris H. Kim was quoted in the article explaining how the unexpected fame and success of audition shows reflected a change in culture. 
Though working in the entertainment industry was once looked down on, and “success was narrowly defined within the context of academic superiority and entry into the ‘mainstream’ labor market,” Kim notes that things have changed. “The fact that singing shows for adolescents have become popular suggests that Korean parents have a different perspective when it comes to the definition of their children’s success.” 
What do you think? Why do you think audition programs have suddenly become so popular? Do you agree that their sudden rise in popularity is a sign of a changing culture?
