A stroll down memory lane
The first edition of Junior Herald was published eight years ago. In commemoration of our anniversary, the “Sports” page looks back at significant sporting events in 2004.
 The Athens Olympics
 The 2004 Summer Olympic Games in Athens, Greece marked the return of the quadrennial sporting event to the birthplace of the Olympic Movement. 10,625 athletes and 5,501 team officials representing every country with a National Olympic Committee participated in the Games. For the first time ever, the Olympic flame travelled around the world in a relay to former Olympic cities and other large cities before returning to the Olympic Stadium in Maroussi, Greece. At the opening ceremony, athletes from two Koreas entered the Stadium together in a symbolic march under the Korean Unification Flag. The United States once again topped the medal table with 103 total medals (35 Gold, 39 Silver, 29 Bronze), followed by Russia with 92 (28 Gold, 26 Silver, 38 Bronze), and China with 63 (32 Gold, 17 Silver, 14 Bronze). Korea finished in the top 10 with 30 medals (9 Gold, 12 Silver, 9 Bronze). 
 Tour de France
 At the 91st Tour de France, cancer survivor Lance Armstrong of the U.S. Postal Team won his record-setting 6th consecutive title. He finished the grueling 20-stage race 6 minutes and 19 seconds ahead of German rider Andreas Klöden. Armstrong won a personal best 5 stages, including three in a row in the punishing mountain stages. 
 Formula One Racing
 The incomparable Michael Schumacher of the Scuderia Ferrari Racing Team won a record 13 out of 18 possible races in a single season. He finished the season with a record 148 points, 34 points ahead of the runner-up, teammate Rubens Barrichello, and secured his seventh Formula 1 World Drivers’ Championship. 
 Tennis
 World No. 1 Roger Federer of Switzerland won three of the four Grand Slam events in the same year for the first time in his career and became the first person to do so since Mats Wilander of Sweden in 1988. His first Grand Slam hard-court title came at the Australian Open over Marat Safin of Russia. He won his second Wimbledon crown over Andy Roddick of the United States. He then defeated the 2001 U.S. Open champion, Lleyton Hewitt of Australia, at the U.S. Open for his first title there.
 Major League Baseball
 The Boston Red Sox ended 86 years of futility by sweeping the St. Louis Cardinals in four straight games to win the World Series. In the previous round, the American League Championship Series, Boston was down 3-0 against their biggest rival -- the New York Yankees. Up to that point, no team in the history of baseball had been able to rebound from a 3–0 series deficit. In one of the greatest comebacks in sports lore, the Red Sox won four games straight, culminating in a wild game 7 celebration at their nemesis’ home turf -- the fabled Yankees Stadium. 
 Kraft Nabisco Championship
 At the 33rd edition of the Kraft Nabisco Championship, Grace Park (Park Ji-eun) of Korea won her first and only major championship on the U.S. LPGA tour. She won the tournament in thrilling fashion by dropping a pressure-filled, 6-foot birdie putt on the 72nd hole, only moments after fellow Korean player Aree Song made a 30-foot eagle putt to tie the score. 
 K-League
 Suwon Samsung Bluewings, led by Asia’s Player of the Century Cha Bum-kum in his first season as manager, and captained by Lee Byung-keun and Kim Young-sun, won its 3rd league title by defeating Pohang Steelers 4-3 on penalties. Brazilian import Nadson became the first non-Korean MVP of the K-League. 
 Korean Baseball Organization Championship
 Hyundai Unicorns (currently known as Nexen Heroes) won the KBO championship for the 4th time by defeating the Samsung Lions (4W-2L-3T) in the Korea Series. The Unicorns’ pitcher Cho Yong-Joon was named the Most Valuable Player.
