Looking back on culture news of 2004
The first edition of Junior Herald was published eight years ago. In commemoration of our anniversary, the “Culture” page looks back at significant cultural events from 2004.
 The birth of Facebook
 Harvard University student Mark Zuckerberg, together with his roommates and fellow students Eduardo Saverin, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes launched Facebook as a social networking site in February, 2004. The site was initially opened only to students from Harvard, but it quickly expanded to other colleges in the Boston area and other Ivy League colleges, and soon spread to most universities in the United States and Canada. Facebook allowed users to create a personal profile, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile. Facebook was incorporated in mid-2004, and entrepreneur Sean Parker became the company president. On October 24, 2007, Microsoft announced that it had purchased a 1.6 percent share of Facebook for $240 million, giving Facebook a total implied value of around $15 billion. By January 2009, Facebook had become the most used social networking service in the world. In November 2010, Facebook was valued at $41 billion became the third largest U.S. Web company after Google and Amazon. As of February 2012, Facebook has more than 845 million active users worldwide. 
 Google’s initial public offering (IPO)
 Google, an American Internet and software corporation that specialized in Internet search, cloud computing and advertising technologies, was founded by Larry Page and Sergey Brin when both were students at Stanford University. Google was first incorporated as a privately held company in 1998 and had its initial public offering on August 19, 2004. The company offered 19,605,052 shares at a price of $85 per share; the sale generated $1.67 billion and gave Google a market capitalization of more than $23 billion, making many of its employees instant millionaires on paper. After the IPO, Google expanded its operations aggressively through acquisitions (Keyhole, Inc., You Tube, DoubleClick, On2 Technologies, Motorola Mobility), and strategic partnerships (NASA Ames Research Center, Sun Microsystems, AOL of Time Warner, Fox Interactive Media of News Corporation). Google is also very well known for having an informal corporate culture with philosophies such as “you can make money without doing evil,” and “work should be challenging and the challenge should be fun.” 
 The Statue of Liberty reopens to the public
 The Statue of Liberty, which had been closed to the public since the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks on the United States, was partially reopened to the public on Aug. 3, 2004. The reopening allows visitors to tour the base of the statue that houses a museum; however, access to the statue itself remains restricted. Prior to the attacks, visitors could climb all the way up to the statue’s crown. It wasn’t until July 4, 2009 that the Statue of Liberty’s crown, with its breath-taking view of New York’s skyscrapers, bridges and seaport, was completely reopened to the public. A total of 50,000 people, 10 at a time, would get to visit the 265-foot-high crown in the next two years before it is closed again for renovation. 
 A banner year for Hollywood
 The U.S. movie industry set a single-year revenue record of $9.4 billion in U.S. ticket sales in 2004 with huge hits, successful sequels, and lots of surprises. Shrek 2 top the box office charts with $919 million in global ticket sales, followed by Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban ($796 million), Spider-Man 2 ($783 million), and The Incredibles ($631 million). The biggest surprise hit of the year was the controversial “The Passion of the Christ” ($611 million). The movie, directed by Mel Gibson, covers the final 12 hours of Jesus’ life beginning with the Agony in the Garden and ending with a brief depiction of his resurrection. It became the highest grossing non-English language film of all time but received mixed reviews for its graphic depiction of extreme violence. For the year, 10 movies surpassed the $350 million mark in worldwide sales. 
