Welcome to Seoul Baekje Museum
A museum featuring the history and culture of South Korea’s ancient Baekje Kingdom (18 B.C. to 668 A.D.) opens its doors to the public on April 30 at the Olympic Park in southern Seoul.　
 The Seoul Baekje Museum located in Songpa-gu has a collection of 42,311 relics from the ancient Kingdom of Baekje as well as the kingdoms of Goguryeo and Silla that occupied the Han River basin.
 The museum is made up of three exhibition halls.
 The first exhibition hall focuses on the Paleolithic, Neolithic and Bronze Ages of Seoul, which was the capital of the Baekje Kingdom for about 500 years until 475 A.D., when it moved its capital to Gongju, South Chungcheong Province. Relics and remains from the Paleolithic, Neolithic and Bronze ages vividly display the lives of ancient Seoulites.
 Ancient diagonal-lined patterned earthenware, stoneware, bones of birds and acorns found near a prehistoric settlement site in Amsa-dong, Seoul, designated as Historical Relics No. 267, show the Neolithic Age of South Korea. In addition, relics like metal tools excavated at Myeongil-dong, Garak-dong, Yeoksam-dong, Eungbong-dong illustrate South Korea’s Bronze Age.
 The second exhibition hall introduces the birth of Hanseongbaekje and its culture. The hall explains about Hanseongbaekje’s international status in the fourth and fifth century, A.D. It traded with many neighboring countries, including Goguryeo, Gaya, Silla and Tamna, the Nanzhao Kingdom, and Japan’s Northern Wei Dynasty. Visitors there will get the first hand experience of the progressive, open and diverse spirits of Hanseongbaekje.
 The third exhibition hall tells about the struggles among the three Korean kingdoms, Goguryeo, Silla, and Baekje around the Han River. Goguryeo conquered the capital from 475 to 551 A.D. and bastions found at Achasan and some relics found in Mongchon Toseong - an earthen fortress built during the Baekje era - speak for the history. Silla ruled the area near the Han River from 553 A.D., buttressed by brisk trading with China. After the fall of Hanseong, Baekje’s capital was moved and from then the culture of Baekje blossomed.
 The five-story Seoul Baekje Museum resembles a sailing vessel, symbolizing the maritime power of the ancient kingdom and is surrounded by Mongchon Toseong. 
More information is provided at the museum’s website, http://baekjemuseum.seoul.go.kr.
