Looking to asteroids for minerals
A new venture by a couple of entrepreneurs is looking to asteroids as a source of natural minerals to be mined - rather than as the cause of Armageddon - the Washington Post reported recently. 
 Peter Diamandis and Eric Anderson announced the formation of Planetary Resources Inc., their asteroid-mining venture, at a news conference in Seattle on April 24. The goal was described by Diamandis during the conference as being “directly in line with every major exploration that humanity has done.”
 “It is in line with Magellan, and Columbus, all the great explorers in the 1400s and 1500s, crossing the Atlantic and looking for resources,” he said. 
 Asteroids have been associated with death and destruction since scientists declared that a large object from space crashing down to Earth was likely responsible for the end of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Diamandis and Anderson, however, argue that since asteroids are full of water and precious metals, they are actually a valuable source of minerals ripe for extraction. Water, in particular, is considered essential to space travel as it can be processed for fuel, oxygen, drinking or growing plants Anderson said.
 The concept of asteroid-mining is not new. In fact, it has long-been suggested that the successful mining of asteroids could have a major impact on life as we know it. In terms of space travel, for example, the ability to make use of the resources available on asteroids could allow us to travel further and spend more time out in space. This means that civilization would be closer to actualizing space travel as depicted in science fiction. Also, as some asteroids are known to be rich in precious metals, our current economy could possibly transition from an “economy of scarcity to an economy of abundance,” Gizmag reported. 
 The biggest difference between Planetary Resources, Inc. and other similar ventures in the past is its arsenal of influential and very rich investors. The company lists several well-known tech-savvy tycoons such as Google co-founder Larry Page, Google chairman Eric Schmidt and Microsoft chief software engineer Charles Simonyi. Popular film director and deep-sea explorer James Cameron is listed as an adviser while former NASA manager Chris Lewicki was hired to act as president and chief engineer. 
 The focus of the company will be to design the hardware for mining asteroids, while flights into space will be purchased from commercial launch companies. 
