Two Korean actors to leave hand prints in Hollywood
Two handsome Korean men have been invited to Hollywood to leave their hand and foot prints where more than 200 Hollywood actors, actresses and movie directors have cast their prints.
 Lee Buyung-hun, 42, and veteran actor Ahn Sung-ki, 60, are reportedly to visit Grauman’s Chinese Theater in Hollywood where the printing ceremony will take place, said an official from Look East.
 Look East is the host of the “Korean Film Festival in Hollywood 2012,” and is led by Martha Chang, a Korean-American film producer.
 According to Chang and other movie officials, Lee and Ahn will visit the Hollywood boulevard on June 23 to participate in the Korean film festival and become the first Asian actors to cast their prints at the home of American cinema. The first Asian to do so was Hong Kong film director and producer John Woo, who made “A Better Tomorrow.”
 There are around 270 Hollywood movie stars and producers who have left their prints; among them are Charlie Chaplin, Marilyn Monroe, Clint Eastwood, Elizabeth Talylor, Steven Spielberg, Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt.
 + Charlie Chaplin - Chaplin was an English comic actor, film director and composer best known for his work during the silent film era. He became the most famous film star in the world before the end of World War I, using mime, slapstick and other visual comedy routines.
 + Marilyn Monroe - Munroe was an American actress, model and singer, who starred in a number of commercially successful motion pictures during the 1950s and early 1960s. She began a career as a model, which led to a film contract in 1946 with Twentieth Century-Fox. In the years and decades following her death, Monroe has become a pop and a cultural icon.
 + Clint Eastwood - Eastwood is an American film actor, director, producer, composer and politician. His rose to fame came while he was playing tough-talking no-nonsense characters in such movies as “Unforgiven,” “The Bridges of Madison County,” and “Dirty Harry.”
 + Elizabeth Taylor - Taylor was a British-American actress. From her early years as a child star, she became one of the great screen actresses of Hollywood’s Golden Age. As one of the world’s most famous film stars, Taylor was recognized for her acting ability and for her glamorous lifestyle, beauty and distinctive violet eyes.
 + Steven Spielberg - Spielberg is an American film director, screenwriter, producer, and studio entrepreneur. In a career of more than four decades, Spielberg’s films have covered many themes and genres. Spielberg’s early science-fiction and adventure films were seen as archetypes of modern Hollywood blockbuster filmmaking. In later years, his films began addressing such issues as the Holocaust, slavery, war and terrorism.
 Grauman’s Chinese Theater opened in 1927 and has hosted three Academy Awards ceremonies. The theater was built following the success of the nearby Grauman’s Egyptian Theater, which opened in 1922. It has been home to many premieres - including the 1977 launch of George Lucas’ Star Wars.
 A representative from Look East said Lee had been recognized for his acting in “A Bittersweet Life” and “The Good, The Bad, The Weird.” The official added that Lee’s charisma in the “G.I. Joe series” overwhelmed Hollywood.
 Lee expressed his excitement and gratitude about the planned hand printing, at a recently held press conference for the new movie “G.I. Joe: Retaliation.”
 “I heard about the hand print while shooting in the U.S. I could not believe it when I first heard it. I think I’ll realize it when I actually visit the hand-printing spot,” Lee said. His new “G.I. Joe” movie will open on 21 June nationwide.
 Ahn Sung-ki was brought into the list through the recommendations of Korean film officials after his success in the movie “Unbowed.” Ahn is widely respected by both producers and the public alike and one of the most favored actors in Korea through all ages and classes.
 Lee Buyung-hun
 Lee is well known in many internationally acclaimed movies, including “Joint Security Area” (2000) and “I saw the Devil” (2010).
 Among Lee’s famous Korean TV dramas are “Iris,” “All In” and “Beautiful Days.”
 Lee first auditioned in the 1991 KBS Super Talent Audition and was accepted, making his debut in the television drama.
 His breakthrough role was in the 2000 film “Joint Security Area” directed by Park Chan-wook. The film was a commercial success and broke records as the highest grossing film in Korean history.
 His first villain role was in the movie “The Good, the bad, the Weird” as “The Bad.” The movie was directed by Kim Ji-woon and also starred Song Kang-ho and Jung Woo-sung. The film was another major success for Lee and was screened out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival.
 Ahn Sung-ki
 Born in Daegu in 1952, Ahn grew up as a child actor. Starting from the 1980s, he starred in nearly 100 movies. He majored in Vietnamese at the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies.
 Recognized for his ability to speak several foreign languages, UNICEF appointed him as a representative.
 Ahn has two sons both of whom attended The Lawrenceville School, a boarding academy in New Jersey. His sons - Dabin and Phillip, are known to both pursue art and design in the future.
