The North Face fined for unfair trading
The North Face, one of the most beloved clothing brands for teenagers in Korea, faced a fine of 5.2 billion won for forcing its sales outlets to keep prices high, according to the Fair Trade Commission (FTC).
 The penalty is the highest-ever amount imposed by the commission on the unfair business practices that limits discounts on products. 
Under fair trade rules, retailers in the distribution channels are allowed to adjust their prices to compete freely. 
However, Goldwin Korea, the importer of the American outdoor brand, was found to have set the same discount rate of products at all 151 retailers and asked them to maintain 10-15 percent higher prices than rivals since its entry in 1997. 
The company took harsh punitive measures, such as suspending the provision of products, nullifying business contracts or imposing fines, for those violating related contract conditions, according to the FTC. 
Nevertheless, retailers were willing to bear the possible damage from stocked goods as they enjoyed a high margin of 42 percent. 
The company has also banned the sale of products via Internet distribution channels, rooting out the usual price competition among online retailers.
 With the local outdoor industry fast growing into a three-trillion won market, The North Face has become the market leader with its annual revenue amounting to 600 billion. 
The FTC said that the unfair business of the No. 1 player with more than 30 percent shares also affected other rival companies such as Kolon Sports, K2 and Columbia, which have taken a premium pricing policy as well.
 “The North Face banned discount deals to secure a premium image, while rival companies followed suit, maintaining the price difference with the market leader,” the official said. 
According to the YMCA, Korean consumers paid 50 percent more for The North Face due to the prevalent “price-fixing” practice. 
Meanwhile, the company strongly protested the FTC’s decision, claiming that it did offer discount deals to customers on some 2 million purchases between 2008 and 2011. 
A spokesperson hinted at legal action against the watchdog, pointing out that the FTC’s standards for a “high-end brand” were not clear, and that the fine was unfairly high.
