A to Z of KFC
KFC, founded as Kentucky Fried Chicken, is a chain of fast food restaurants based in Louisville, Kentucky in the United States. It was established in 1952 when the founder Colonel Harland Sanders awarded Pete Harman of Salt Lake City, Utah, with the first KFC franchise. It was a handshake agreement that called for the payment of five cents to Sanders for each chicken sold. KFC is now the world’s most popular chicken restaurant chain with 5,200 outlets in the United States and more than 15,000 franchises in more than 110 countries and territories around the world. KFC restaurants serve fried chicken, made with a secret recipe of 11 herbs and spices, to 12 million customers on a daily basis.
 Although the company was founded in 1952, the idea for KFC’s fried chicken originated in 1930. During the height of the “Great Depression” in the United States, Harland Sanders opened his first restaurant in the small front room of a gas station in Corbin, Kentucky. Sanders served as station operator, cook and cashier and named the dining area “Sanders Court & Café.” He started to prepare his chicken the old fashioned way – deep-fried in an iron skillet; however the process took 30 minutes and was not efficient for a restaurant environment. With the introduction of the pressure cooker in 1939, Sanders began using it to fry his chicken to give customers fresh chicken, faster. 
In 1940, Harland Sanders came up with the secret recipe that gave his fried chicken its distinct taste. The recipe of 11 herbs and spices used by KFC in preparation of their chicken remains a closely-guarded trade secret to this day. It is believed that portions of the secret spice mix are made at different locations in the United States, and the only complete, handwritten copy of the recipe, with exact amounts of each component, is kept in a vault in corporate headquarters. It is purported to be written in pencil on a single sheet of notebook paper signed by Colonel Sanders. Despite widespread curiosity about the secret recipe, KFC executives have long maintained that no one has come close to correctly guessing its contents. 
Colonel Sanders began actively franchising his chicken business in 1952 by traveling from town to town to cook his chickens for restaurants and customers. His hard work began to pay off as more and more people became interested in his fried chicken recipe. By 1960, there were 190 franchises with 400 franchise units in the United States and Canada. Kentucky Fried Chicken grew to 600 franchises in 1964, including the first overseas outlet in England. In the same year, Colonel Sanders sold his interest in the company for $2 million to a group of investors headed by John Y. Brown Jr., future governor of Kentucky. The Colonel remained a public spokesman for the company for many years thereafter. 
 In 1979, KFC expanded to 6,000 restaurants worldwide with sales exceeding $2 billion. An estimated 2.7 billion pieces of fried chicken had been sold by KFC restaurants since the company was established. On Dec. 16, 1980, Colonel Sanders passed away after being stricken with leukemia. In 1982, KFC became a subsidiary of RJR Nabisco, Inc., which in turn sold it to PepsiCo, Inc. in 1986. In 1997, PepsiCo, Inc. spun-off its quick service restaurants - including KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut - into Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., the largest restaurant company in the world. In 2008, KFC updated its company brand icon with a new logo depicting Colonel Sanders with his signature string tie and a red apron.
 KFC was introduced to Korean consumers in 1984 with the opening of its first franchise in Jongno, Seoul. It is widely believed that the presence of KFC helped launch Korea’s own flourishing fried chicken culture – a different kind of KFC known as Korean fried chicken.
