Asian martial arts
Martial arts generally refer to various systems of codified practices and traditions of combat that are practiced for a variety of reasons, including military training, self-defense, sports competition, physical fitness, and spiritual development. The term “martial arts” is derived from Latin, meaning the “Arts of Mars” - the Roman god of war. Martial Arts can be broadly categorized into armed and unarmed techniques. Armed martial arts involve the use of weapons, including bow and arrow, spear, sword, knife, stick, axe, mace, and various sharp projectiles. Unarmed martial arts place emphasis on strikes, kicks and grappling techniques. Martial arts are closely associated with fighting arts of Asia, such as taekwondo, judo, kung fu and Muay Thai. 
Taekwondo is the national sport and martial art of Korea. Loosely translated as “the ways of the foot and the hand,” taekwondo is a fighting system deeply rooted in tradition. It combines combat technique, self-defense, sport, exercise, meditation and philosophy. Taekwondo is not only widely practiced in Korea; it is also the most popular form of martial arts in the world. There are two main branches of taekwondo - “traditional taekwondo,” governed by Kukkiwon (World Taekwondo Headquarters), and “sport taekwondo,” governed by the World Taekwondo Federation. Sihap gyeorugi, a sparring system of “sport taekwondo,” has been an official event at the Summer Olympics since 2000. 
Judo is a relatively new form of martial art created in Japan in 1882 by Jigoro Kano, an educator and a pioneer of international sports. Meaning the “gentle way,” the objective of judo is to either throw or takedown an opponent to the ground, immobilize or subdue the opponent with a grappling maneuver, or force an opponent to submit by joint locking or by executing a strangle hold or choke hold. The underlying philosophy of judo championed by Kano – the principle of seiryoku zen’yō (maximum efficiency with minimum effort) – was influential in the development of other forms of modern Japanese martial arts, as well as the Brazilian system popularly known as Jiu-jitsu. Judo became an Olympic event in the 1964 Games in Tokyo. 
 Kung fu, or wushu, refers to a number of fighting styles that have developed over the centuries in China. The distinctive fighting styles are classified according to “men (school),” “pai” (sect),” and “jia (families).” The varieties of fighting systems can be categorized according to geographic distinction, such as northern style and southern style, or according to philosophy, such as the internal discipline and the external discipline. Some kung fu styles evolved from Chinese philosophies, religions and legends, while others mimic the actions of animals, reptiles, and even insects. Kung fu took a different route than taekwondo and judo in achieving global awareness and popularity. It spread throughout the world largely due to the profusion of kung fu movies and film stars such as Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan and Jet Li.
 Muay Thai, or Thai kickboxing, is the national sport of Thailand and is a full-contact combat sport in every sense of the word. It evolved from the older muay boran (ancient boxing), an unarmed combat method used by soldiers after losing their weapons on the battlefield. Derived from Sanskrit meaning “to bind together,” Muay Thai is often referred to as the “art of eight limbs” because it makes use of punches, kicks, elbows and knee strikes, thus using eight “points of contact.” Combatants in Muay Thai fights wear boxing gloves and fight in upright positions. They perform elaborate pre-fight rituals of prayers and choreographed dance-like moves before unleashing devastating punches, lethal elbow strikes, bone-crunching shin kicks, and explosive knee bombs on their opponents. 
The global popularity of K-1 and MMA events in recent years has been a renaissance for traditional martial arts. The convergence of so many different fighting styles under one promotion has proven to be far more interesting and exciting than the “sweet science” of boxing.
