Hurricane Irene devastates East Coast
The first big storm to hit the U.S. East Coast in over a decade has left thousands reeling as power outages and flooding swept the area. As of Aug. 29, ABC News reported that the death toll related to the storm stands at 40 once floodwaters receded and allowed searchers to gain access to damaged buildings. 
All flights in and out of the New York City area were cancelled over the weekend of Aug. 27-28 due to the weather, leaving thousands of travelers unable to get home. Boston’s Logan International Airport and Washington’s Ronald Reagan Airport also experienced numerous cancellations. 
Though Hurricane Irene had weakened into a tropical storm by the time it reached New England and the tri-state area, strong winds and pelting rains were enough to leave more than 4.5 million homes and businesses without power. As of Aug. 29, news reports estimated the cost of damages as being between $7 billion and $13 billion. 
“We haven’t gotten all the data yet [on Irene], but I think the damage is much less severe than had been feared and the economic impact will, therefore, be a lot smaller than people predicted,” Mark Zandi, chief economist at research firm Moody’s Analytics, told the LA Times.
 Irene made its first official landfall in North Carolina at around 7:30 a.m. local time with wind gusts of up to 115 mph. By the time the storm hit New York City, the winds had slowed to about 60 mph, which was still strong enough to knock out the power and cause property damage as the rain kept pounding and trees were uprooted. 
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg had ordered an unprecedented evacuation of some 300,000 people in low-lying areas of the city prior to the storm. For the first time in history, the NYC mass transit system was shut down as well. Meanwhile, Jersey City had officially banned any private-car travel, while a state of emergency was declared in Philadelphia for the first time since 1986. Boston’s transit authority shut down all bus, subway and commuter rail services for Aug. 28 as well. 
While New Yorkers scoffed at the fact that Irene caused less damage than predicted in the area, others were not so lucky. In New Jersey for example, a 20-year-old woman was found dead in her flooded car, hours after she had called the police informing them that she was trapped in water up to her neck, the state police told The New York Times. 
Irene was the first hurricane to make landfall in the continental United States since 2008, and came almost six years to the day after Katrina. Experts estimate that no other hurricane in American history has threatened as many people.
