A glimpse into Korea 100 years ago
History and culture buffs will be in for a treat when they head over to the Seoul Museum of History for the exhibition “La Seoul di Rossetti 1902-1903 (Seoul in Rossetti’s Eyes 1902-1903).”
 The exhibition, which will be on display from April 26 to July 1, showcases photographs taken by former Italian consul in Seoul Carlo Rossetti more than a century ago. 
Various photographs and personal belongings of Rossetti are on display, providing a glimpse into life in Korea at the turn of the last century. 
Lucio Izzo, director of the Italian Cultural Institute, described Rossetti’s work as giving “powerful evidence of the well-structured statehood reached by Korea before the [Japanese] invasion.” 
During Rossetti’s position as Italian consul in Seoul between November 1902 and May 1903, he proved to be a careful observer of Korean society. He studied the local society, geography, economy, culture and traditions of a country that was then-known as the “Hermit Kingdom.”
 “Rossetti’s work was the first and most extensive documentation produced in the West about Korea and it remained for many years, and especially during the Japanese occupation, the main source and reference in Europe for contemporary Korean studies,” Izzo said. 
With the help of a local photographer, Rossetti took photographs depicting the daily lives of people in Seoul. Upon his return to Italy, Rossetti held lectures and published two books on his experiences in Seoul. 
 Diplomatic ties between Italy and South Korea
 Italy and South Korea first established diplomatic relations on June 26, 1884, with the Italy-Korea Treaty of 1884. The treaty between Italy and the Joseon Dynasty remained in effect even after Korea was declared a Japanese protectorate in 1905. 
The first Italian Consulate in Seoul was established in December 1901. The same month, the first Italian consul, Count Ugo Francesetti di Malgra, was stationed in Korea. Di Malgra later died during a typhus epidemic that swept through Korea in 1902. 
Diplomatic relations between Korea and foreign countries were disrupted during the Japanese occupation of 1910-1945. Diplomatic relations between Italy and the Republic of Korea were reestablished in November 1956, though Italy had sent medical staff to support South Korea during the Korean War.
