Francois Hollande: France’s next president?
François Hollande is a French politician who served as first secretary of the French Socialist Party from 1997 to 2008 and the Mayor of Tulle from 2001 to 2008. 
 Born on Aug. 12, 1954 in Rouen, Upper Normandy to a middle-class family, François Hollande was raised by his mother, who was a social worker, and his father, who was a doctor.
 He attended Saint Jean-Baptiste de La Salle boarding school, École nationale d’administration (ENA), and the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris. Right after graduating from ENA in 1980, Hollande began working as a councilor in the Court of Audit. He volunteered for François Mitterrand’s presidential campaign in 1974. 
 Hollande became the First Secretary at the Le Mans Congress In 2005. Though in the 2007 presidential election, it was not him but his partner, Ségolène Royal who ran as a Socialist Party candidate against the incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy. However, following his re-election as President of the General Council of Corrèze in March 2011, Hollande was nominated to be the Socialist and Left Radical Party candidate for the 2012 presidential election on Oct. 16.
 In the wake of unsavory sexual assaults allegations against former Finance Minister and IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who was once thought to be most viable presidential nominee, Hollande gained critical momentum. 
 On the campaign trail, Hollande urged equality and the regulation of finance for France. In fact, on Jan. 26, he outlined 60 policy propositions in a manifesto including, separation of retail activities from riskier investment-banking businesses, raising taxes for big corporations, banks and the wealthy, creating 60,000 teaching jobs, bringing the official retirement age back down to 60 from 62, creating subsidized jobs in areas of high unemployment for the young, promoting more industry in France by creating a public investment bank, granting marriage and adoption rights to same-sex couples, and pulling French troops out of Afghanistan in 2012. 
 At the first round of the presidential election on April 22, Hollande beat Nicolas Sarkozy by roughly 1 percentage point with 28.63 percent of the total vote. Since both the candidates failed to gain over 50 percnet of the vote, the two are set to face off for the second time in a run-off on May 6. 
 François Hollande also supported the creation of the first European Prize for Local History (Etienne Baluze Prize) on the suggestion of the French historian Jean Boutier in 2008.
