Should learning English as a second language be mandatory?
Pro-
 Studying English is a must, not a need
 A few days ago, I saw an advertisement in newspaper. It was about a foreign product, and there was only one sentence in Korean that illustrated what it was for. 
 I was quite surprised. Below that one sentence, all the details were written in English, as if there were no one in Korea who couldn’t speak English. 
 English is prevalent in our society these days. In the conversations we have every day, we use an uncountable number of English words. Signboards of stores outside are often written in English. It would be impossible for anyone who didn’t know first thing about English to live conveniently in Korea now. English has become part of our culture. Without knowing it, we can’t expect the kind of understanding or communication that is essential to our lives.
 Additionally, for a broad understanding of other countries’ culture and language, English is crucial. English is the most commonly used language in Western culture, and including German and Spanish, many other languages are similar to English, and their basic structure is also related. So without English, it is hard to grasp those points easily.
 Now in this globalized world, English is becoming not just a useful language, but the language of survival. I think learning English as a second language should be mandatory, not optional. We should remember that it is a must, not a need. 
 Con-
 Learning English as a second language should be optional
 The world’s strongest country is the United States of America. China isn’t the second strongest country in the world, but it is the one of the most influential countries in the world. As most of you have noticed, lots of the things have a sign that says “made in China.” Many foods are also made in China. 
 If China did not exist, it would take a long time to adjust to a world without “made in China,” even though a lot of countries would split up the jobs that China did. In the future, China could become the strongest country in the world, so I think that Chinese will be more important than English. 
 First, nothing lasts forever. Once, Great Britain was world’s most powerful country in the world. However, it was overtaken by the United States of America. In that time, Great Britain was strong enough to choose the prime meridian. Mighty England fell, but how can the United States of America stand that much longer? The U.S. was the top for a long time. It will soon lose its title as the strongest country in the world. When that happens, English would not be as important as it is today. 
 Second, because China is closer to us than the U.S., we will be in touch with China more, so I think Chinese will be more important than English. 
 In conclusion, I think that learning English as a second language should be optional.
