Obama administration faces heat over handling of Chinese activist
The Obama administration has come under fire over its handling of blind Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng. 
On April 22, Chen sought refuge at the U.S. Embassy in China after a dramatic escape from his home village where he was being held under extra-legal house arrest. He remained in hiding for six days before finally resurfacing after a diplomatic solution was secured between China and the U.S. 
Chen left the embassy under assurances from the U.S. that China had promised he could join his family and be allowed to start a new life in a university town, “safe from the rural authorities who had abused him in prison and house arrest for nearly seven years,” Al Jazeera reported. 
Only a day after he was escorted from the embassy to a nearby hospital, however, Chen told Reuters that he had changed his mind after speaking to his wife, who mentioned that renewed threats against his family had been made.
 “I feel very unsafe. My rights and safety cannot be assured here,” he said. 
On May 4, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland announced in a statement that Chen has been offered a fellowship at a U.S. university. In the same statement, Nuland stated that the Chinese government had indicated that it would allow Chen to apply for a visa to study abroad, and that the “United States government would then give visa requests for him and his immediate family priority attention.” 
Leading Republicans and some human-rights advocates have quickly come out to criticize how the Obama administration had handled the situation with Chen. 
Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, in particular, has expressed concern that Chen may have been “pressured to leave the U.S. Embassy against his will amid flimsy promises and possible threats of harm to his family,” the Wall Street Journal reported.　
 Representative Christopher Smith of New Jersey has suggested that perhaps the Obama administration may have forgone the interests of Chen and his family over the importance of the annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue between China and the U.S., which began on May 3. 
Chen became an international human rights figure and inspiration in 2005 after being caught exposing forced abortions carried out as part of China’s infamous one-child policy. According to his supporters, he has served four years in prison on fabricated charges and has been kept under house arrest with his wife, daughter and mother.
