Mayhem over U.S. beef imports
With renewed questions over the safety of U.S. beef, large supermarket chains in Korea have stopped the sale of American beef. For the Korean government’s part, it has strengthened quarantine inspections at customs but refrained from putting an absolute hold on the imports. The outbreak was the first case in six years and the fourth case overall and the public distrust over the product has reached a pinnacle.
 Opposition political parties denounced the government’s response, calling it “lukewarm.” They urged an immediate halt of imports and a renegotiation on the bilateral deals on American beef. “The Lee administration initially promised to halt imports of U.S. beef when mad cow disease is reported again and it has failed to keep its promise,” they claimed.
 The government’s judgment on the case, cited by one presidential aide, has been that the latest outbreak of mad cow disease in California is an atypical form of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), spotted in a dairy cow older than 30 months old, and that beef from cattle of that age is not imported to Korea. 
 “The latest kind involving mutations is not contagious, and there are no signs of potential serious effects on public health in the latest case,” Agriculture Minister Suh Kyu-yong noted.
 The ministry cautiously said that if import inspections are halted in an abrupt manner without sufficient scientific evidence, it could ignite trade friction between Korea and the U.S. Countries such as the European Union, Japan and Hong Kong have also taken similar steps as South Korea. 
 To contain public distrust over the government’s decision and the safety of American beef as a whole, a joint government and civic team flew to Washington on May 1 to inspect and monitor the safety of U.S. beef. The team visited a quarantine office, the Agriculture Department’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) in Maryland. When they return to Seoul, they will deliver findings to the government and the administration will take measures accordingly, Yonhap News reported.
 South Korea is the world’s fourth-largest importer of U.S. beef. In previous outbreaks, it banned imports but resumed in 2008 on the condition that beef had to come from cattle 30 months old or younger. 
 “The United States remains confident in the safety of U.S. beef and the credibility of its quarantine system,” Matt Herrick, communications official at the USDA insisted.
