France embraces transfer of power to the left with Francois Hollande
With Europe’s ever aggravating economic turmoil, the world is paying a peculiarly keen look at the final result of the presidential election in France, which was held on May 6.
 Together with Germany, France is one of Europe’s two largest economies and this year’s presidential election holds much more significance not only to French voters, but to Eurozone nations and the international community as a whole. 
 The first round of the 2012 presidential vote, which was held on April 22, ended with no winner, as neither of the contenders could secure a majority. The incumbent president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy earned 27 percent of the vote and his leftist opponent, François Hollande garnered just more with 28 percent. In this second round of voting on May 6, the two politicians faced-off for the country’s top post. And the next president of France was finally announced: François Hollande, the challenger.
 Ten years of prominence in French politics, as interior minister and as president, Sarkozy has mostly disappointed his people, French media said. His biased economic policies favored those at the top of the economic ladder and under his five years of leadership, France humiliatingly endured high youth unemployment and wretched economic prospects. 
 To halt such national misfortune and save France from the social, economic and political pit, socialist politician François Hollande rolled up his sleeves. François Hollande, once the head of the French Socialist Party is also known as a former partner of France’s first female presidential candidate in 2007, Ségolène Royal, who ran a so-called “Sarko-Ségo” race against Nicolas Sarkozy.
 < François Hollande’s private life > 
Though François Hollande and Ségolène Royal have never been married, together the couple has four children. Their first child, Thomas Hollande was born in 1984 and is a law student. During Ségolène Royal’s presidential bid in 2007, he served as an adviser during his mother’s campaign and designed her official website to appeal to young voters. Their second child, born in 1985 is Clémence and the third, Julien was born in 1987. The youngest child is Flora, born in 1993. The pair ended their relationship in June 2007 right after Ségolène Royal was defeated in the presidential election against Sarkozy. It was a fierce competition between Ségolène Royal and Nicolas Sarkozy, being described as a fight between the left and right in French politics as well as a battle of the sexes. In the first round of vote, Royal earned 25.8 percent and in the run-off she garnered 47 percent. Sarkozy gained 31.1 percent in the first round and 53 percent in the run-off to take home a celebrated victory. 
 It was revealed in French media that the cause of the couple’s separation was Hollande’s long-time affair with a journalist named Valérie Trierweiler.
 In the 2012 presidential election campaigns, Hollande appeared several times with his partner, Valérie Trierweiler. 
 She is François Hollande’s current companion. She was born as the fifth child of six in Feb. 16, 1965 in Angers. Her mother worked at Angers ice rink and her father was a victim of WWII who lost a leg when he was 13. He died when she was 21. Valérie Trierweiler studied history and political science and obtained a master of advanced studies DESS of political science from the Sorbonne.
 When French TV channel Direct 8 was launched in 2005, she began hosting political talk-shows at the station. Until 2007, she hosted the weekly political talk-show “Le Grand 8.” In September that year, she started hosting the weekly TV show “Politiquement Parlant (politically-speaking).” Before she met François Hollande in parliamentary elections in 1988, she had married twice; first with a childhood friend and second with Denis Trierweiler, a sub-editor for a magazine. Denis Trierweiler was also a writer and academic. However, both of her marriages ended in divorce and she has three children from her second marriage.
 Her relationship with François Hollande began in earnest in 2006 while Hollande was still living with Ségolène Royal. The couple’s relationship was made public in Oct. 2010. In Oct. 20, 2011, she claimed that her personal data had been collected and processed by illegal investigations by intelligence branch of the Paris police. All of these happenings were made in connection to her personal relationship with France’s new president, François Hollande. 
 < Politics of France> 
 France’s president is head of the state and its prime minister is the head of government.
 French politics has a multi-party system. In France, executive power is exercised by the government whereas legislative power is shared among the government, Senate and National Assembly. With some exceptions, judicial power is independently executed by its legislature. 
 Nicolas Sarkozy advocated austerity measures to tackle the current economic impasse of the country alongside his close relationship with Germany’s Angela Merkel. Other prominent French politicians including François Hollande’s former partner, Ségolène Royal and former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn are largely regarded as socialists who support economic liberalism.
