Adidas goes barefoot with “Adipure Trainer”
Adidas, the world‘s second-largest sportswear company unveiled its first “barefoot” training shoe, the Adipure Trainer, Forbes magazine reported on Aug. 23. 
Related officials from adidas mentioned that the company’s Adipure Trainer was designed to give a “not-wearing-a-thing” like barefoot feeling when at the same time offering decent protection to the feet. The report said the shoes which has separated toes, making it look like a glove for the feet, is scheduled to hit stores in North America this November priced $90. 
The global athletic shoe market has been dominated by Nike, the world’s biggest athletic company which holds roughly 46 percent of market share in U.S. alone. At the moment, Adidas has about 11 percent of market share and the company is struggling to break the status-quo. 
Officials from SportsOneSource have argued that athletic shoe business is a “fast-growing business,” which has remained fairly strong despite the global economic downturn, even though barefoot shoe market yet makes up a tiny fraction of $22 billion in U.S. athletic shoe industry. However, they underlined, that sales have more than doubled in the past year to roughly $750 million. 
Therefore, adidas is now jumping on the bandwagon and targeting the fitness-obsessed demographics and top-tier athletes in North America who just cannot stop asking for the latest and the greatest, industry experts estimated.
 Adidas’ long-time rival Nike and other companies such as Fila, Saucony, Asics and New Balance also have their own barefoot line of products. In this fiscal year in North America, Nike fetched up $7.58 billion in revenue while Adidas made around $4.05 billion.
 Yet, Patrik Nilsson, president of adidas North America assured that adidas was preparing to reach out to consumers with the newly polished marketing strategy and brilliant shoe line, in particular, the Adipure Trainer. He said that their new product was “optimally designed” for body movements, and thus helps reduce possible injuries.
