Samsung Electronics to divert to non-memory chip business
Korea's mobile giant Samsung Electgronics is ready to rearrange part of its manufacturing lines so as to produce non-memory chips.
 Samsung’s plant reorganization will occur both at home and abroad, the company official said.
 Experts say the reason for the reshuffle was the increase in demand for components for smart devices including application processors. In general, smart gadgets function without memory chips.
 Samsung Electronics spokesman said at its April conference revealing its earnings for the first quarter that some manufacturing lines of the company‘s Giheung Plant in Gyenggi Province had been altered to non-memory chip manufacturing.
 “We are pursuing a plan to further change facilities with flexibility,” a spokesperson said while mentioning that the specific schedule was yet to be fixed.
 Samsung Electronics said it will invest a total of 8 trillion won into non-memory chip businesses. The company’s main focus so far has been manufacturing DRAM and NAND memory chips, which are less efficient than non-memory chips.
 The non-memory chip sector has long been governed by such global enterprises as Intel and Qualcomm, The Korea Herald explained.
 Samsung saw its operating profit in semiconductors decrease by 54 percent to 760 billion won in the first quarter.
 The company explained that the drop was due to weak and decreased demand for DRAM and NAND memory chips, through its financial statements.
 An industry source told The Korea Herald that Samsung Electronics seems to be developing efficient server-based DRAM chips as global tech firms such as Apple, Google and Amazon boost their data systems integrated with cloud computing technologies.
 Meanwhile, Samsung Electronics profits for the first quarter of 2012 increased 98 percent from the previous year.
 According to a Samsung press released on Apr. 27, the company’s operating profit during the Jan-Mar period reached an all-time high of 5.85 trillion won.
 Despite a decrease in sales of semiconductor chips and TVs due to seasonal factors, an increase in profitability in display panels and mobile phones pushed up quarterly operating profit margins by 1.7 percentage points to 12.9 percent, read the statement.
