Cyber-bullying
The problem of cyber-bullying is increasingly prevalent as societies become more connected than ever due to advancements in communications and technology. Cyber-bullying commonly refers to the use of the Internet to intentionally and repeatedly inflict harm on other people. Victims of cyber-bullying often suffer from emotional and mental stress, public humiliation, abject embarrassment, damaged reputation, and even financial loss at the hands of their tormentors. The alarming spread of cyber-bullying has nations across the globe scrambling to come up with solutions and legislation to combat the phenomenon. 
The term “cyber-bullying” was attributed to a Canadian educator and anti-bullying activist named Bill Belsey. As the founder and President of the educational organization “Bullying.org Canada Incorporated” and the creator of the first anti cyber-bullying website, he dedicated his efforts to the prevention of bullying through education and awareness. Since Belsey’s first formal definition of the term, cyber-bullying has been more specifically defined as “someone using the Internet or cell phone to send or post texts or images intended to hurt or embarrass another person.” (J.W. Patchin and S. Hinuja -- “Bullying Beyond the Schoolyard: Preventing and Responding to Cyberbullying”) 
Cyber-bullying typically occurs in venues such as instant messaging, e-mail, text messages, chat rooms, web sites, blogs, and Internet cafes. Most cyber-bullies can remain anonymous and operate with impunity by using temporary email accounts and pseudonyms to mask their identities. There is often a wolf-pack mentality to cyber-bullying where large numbers of people gang up on a particular individual’s homepage or blog and use extremely foul and offensive language to berate, humiliate and insult the person for their own amusement. In some extreme cases, victims of cyber-bullying were unable to cope with the constant pressure and harassment that they suffered mental breakdowns or even committed suicide. 
What can be done to combat cyber-bullying has become an urgent matter for victims, parents, schools and governments alike. On his seminal website, Bill Belsey offers many helpful tips on preventing cyber-bullying, including:
  Don’t believe everything you see or read – people you meet on the Internet may not be who you think, or who they say they are. 
 Use Netiquette – be polite to others online and do not respond to aggression.
  Don’t open a message from someone you don’t know – if you have doubts, ask your parents or teacher for guidance.
 If you are a victim of cyber-bullying, Belsey’s website offers the following advice:
  Do not keep it to yourself -- you are not alone and you don’t deserve it. Tell an adult you know and trust.
  Inform your Internet Service Provider or cell phone/pager service provider.
  Do not erase or delete messages from cyber bullies. Keep them as evidence.
  Inform your local police if the situation is serious.
 There are various organizations and businesses that offer assistance in the fight against cyber-bullying. A tool known as CyberBully Alert allows children to instantly notify selected adults when they are bullied or harassed online -- it documents the threatening message by saving a screen shot of a child’s computer when he or she triggers an alert.
 Governments all over the world are beginning to take measures against cyber-bullying. In the United States, where a government report found that nearly half of all American teens are affected by cyber-bullying, legislation aimed at penalizing cyber-bullying has been introduced in a number of states, and a federal law is in the works that would make cyber-bullying a criminal offense. 
In England, a ground-breaking ruling determined that it is possible for an Internet Service Provider to be liable for the content of sites it hosts, setting a precedent that any ISP should treat a notice of complaint seriously and investigate it immediately. 
Korea, one of the most “wired” countries in the world, has put in effect a law that requires websites with more than 100,000 visitors a day to verify users’ identities through a so-called “real name system.” 
