NBA - after the lockout
The 2011–12 NBA season, the 66th season of the National Basketball Association (NBA), almost did not happen. On July 1, 2011, owners of the 30 NBA teams announced a lockout after failing to reach a contract agreement with the National Basketball Players Association (NBPA). The main issues dividing the owners and the players were revenue sharing and the structure of the salary cap. The season eventually began on Dec. 25, after both sides signed a new collective bargaining agreement (CBA). With the new deal in place, the regular season was shortened from the normal 82 games per team to 66, and NBA stars took center stage once again.
 The NBA season got off to a rousing start on Christmas Day, with five games of marquee matchups featuring the league’s brightest stars. The day began with Boston Celtics, led by their all-star foursome of Ray Allen, Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Rajon Rondo, visiting Madison Square Garden to face Carmelo Anthony and Amar’e Stoudemire of the New York Knicks. It was followed by a rematch of the NBA Finals with Lebron James and Dwyane Wade leading the Miami Heat at the defending champions Dallas Mavericks, with Finals MVP Dirk Nowitzki. The third game saw reigning MVP Derrick Rose and the Chicago Bulls taking on Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers. The fourth game featured two-time NBA scoring champion Kevin Durant and the Oklahoma City Thunder facing the three-time NBA defensive player of the year Dwight Howard and the Orlando Magic. The Los Angeles Clippers and 2010-11 rookie of the year and slam dunk champion Blake Griffin closed out the holiday schedule by playing against the Golden State Warriors. 
 The lockout and the condensed schedule proved to be problematic for players and teams throughout the entire season. A shortened pre-season schedule meant that players did not have enough time to work on physical conditioning and team chemistry; and a truncated regular season schedule forced teams to play physically punishing back-to-back-to-back games, or up to five games in six days. The quality of play suffered as players became exhausted and injury-prone due to insufficient time to recover from the aches and pains of everyday play. The list of high profile players lost for the season due to injuries included reigning league MVP Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls, all-star center Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic, Caron Butler and Chauncey Billups of the Los Angeles Clippers, and rising stars Jeremy Lim and Iman Shumpert of the New York Knicks.
 The 2011-2012 NBA regular season ended on April 26. In the Eastern Conference, the eight teams that qualified for the post season are (in order of seeding): Chicago Bulls, Miami Heat, Indiana Pacers, Boston Celtics, Atlanta Hawks, Orlando Magic, New York Knicks, and Philadelphia 76ers. Chicago Bulls owns the best record (56 wins – 16 losses) in the conference and is considered an elite team. However, the loss of their superstar point guard Derrick Rose to a knee injury casts serious doubts on the team’s championship aspirations. Miami Heat, the number two seed led by front-running MVP candidate Lebron James and Dwayne Wade, is the most complete team and the most likely to represent the Eastern conference in the NBA Finals.
 In the Western Conference, the eight teams that qualified for the post season are (in order of seeding): San Antonio Spurs, Oklahoma City Thunder, Los Angeles Lakers, Memphis Grizzlies, Los Angeles Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Dallas Mavericks, and Utah Jazz. The Oklahoma City Thunder, with the star tandem of Kevin Duran and Russell Westbrook, was the best of the West for most of the season until they were overtaken during a late season surge by the vastly experienced San Antonio Spurs. The stellar play by point guard Tony Parker and the ageless wonder Tim Duncan make the Spurs serious title contenders once again. The outcome of the three-horse race between the Spurs, Thunder and Lakers will likely determine the winner of the Western Conference.
