Dr. Seuss’ 'The Lorax' hits theaters
“The Lorax,” a 2012 film adaptation of Dr. Seuss’ children’s book of the same name, debuted on the big screen in Korea on May 3, just in time to celebrate Children’s Day. 
Brought to you by the producers of “Despicable Me,” the 86-minute animated film is full of beautifully animated graphics and catchy songs. Thanks to advancements in computer-generated graphics technology, Dr. Seuss’ classic illustration style was preserved, much to the delight of true Seuss fans everywhere. With an 86 minute animated film, however, there were slight tweaks from the original story, which has left some die-hard fans cringing as they did with “Horton Hears a Who!” in 2008 and “The Cat in the Hat” in 2003.
 Nonetheless, to most, the star-studded cast and beautiful graphics of “The Lorax” is sure to be a delight to watch with friends or family.
 The story
 The story begins with Ted Wiggins (played by Zac Efron), an idealistic 12-year-old boy from Thneed-Ville, a walled city where everything is made of artificial materials such as plastic or metal. Ted sets out on an adventure to win the affection of Audrey (Taylor Swift), the girl of his dreams. Audrey confides in Ted that her one wish is to see a real tree. Believing that the only way to get Audrey’s attention is to find a real tree, Ted ventures outside of Thneed-Ville’s walls to speak to the Once-ler (Ed Helms) on the advice of his grandmother, Grammy Norma (Betty White). 
Unfortunately, the greedy Aloysius O’Hare (Rob Riggle), the Mayor of Thneed-Ville, catches Ted leaving the town and tries to pressure him to stay within the walls. Despite the mayor’s intimidation, however, Ted continues to sneak out to visit the Once-ler to learn about the Lorax (Danny DeVito) and the history of trees. 
The Once-ler shares with Ted the story of how he met the Lorax, a grumpy orange creature who served as guardian of the land, during his days as a businessman. The Once-ler explains how he was once a successful businessman who had invented the thneed, and that the Lorax had warned him against cutting down the trees which were key to the Once-ler’s invention. It was not until the last tree fell that the Once-ler finally realized his mistake, but unfortunately, it was too late. 
