Park Ji-min, winner of ‘K-pop Star Audition’
Park Ji-min, a 14-year-old middle-schooler from Daejeon, won SBS’ “K-pop Star Audition” on April 29, walking away with 300 million won and a guaranteed singing career. 
 Victory in the fierce, seven-month-long competition was truly sweet for Park, who took home the largest amount of prize money and a brand new Hyundai i40 - not to mention the prestige of debuting as a singer from one of the country’s three major entertainment agencies: SM Entertainment, YG Entertainment or JYP Entertainment.
 Park broke down in tears on the last episode when she was named the winner of the show. Recalling all the memories, both good and bad throughout the competition, Park remarked, “Winning the title means that all the work I have done for the show has paid off. I am so relieved that it is all over.” Then she thanked her parents and the three judges who served as remarkable mentors for all participants in the journey.
 For the finale performance, Park sang two songs: First, Korean singer Yim Jeong-hee’s song, “Music is My Life,” and U.K. singer Duffy’s “Mercy.” Park’s competition and the show’s runner-up Lee Ha-yi, who is also a middle school student from Bucheon, Gyeonggi Province, sang American classic “Killing Me Softly with His Song” by Roberta Flack and later, British sensation Adele’s song “Rolling in the Deep.” 
 From early on, the two contestants emerged as apparent shoo-ins of the competition. Lee won the audience’s affection with her soulful low-key tone of voice, while Park stole the public’s hearts with her ability to hit the high notes with perfection and a natural sense of rhythm.
 Korean Wave pioneer BoA appeared as a judge, representing SM Entertainment. Alongside her, there were also the head of YG Entertainment, Yang Hyun-suk and JYP chair, Park Jin-young. The three panels of judges helped all the participants polish their skills to perfection and to ultimately realize their eagerly-sought dreams. 
 After the last episode of the show, Park appeared on SBS’ Night Line News. When the show’s host asked what she had done with the prize money, she replied, “I gave my parents the 300 million won.” 
 During the interview, she picked “Rolling in the deep” as her most memorable song from the contest. Park shared with the audience that she felt an immense pressure to put in an impeccable performance every week and to manage her weight. 
 Finishing off the TV appearance, she said “I hope that I could sing as long as possible and be able to move people’s hearts with my songs.”
