Discovering fun at Samsung Everland’s 'Kizcovery'!
To mark Children’s Day on May 5, Samsung’s Everland Resort opened a new kid-centered theme park called “Kizcovery.” With eight different themed zones, Kizcovery offers the chance for children aged 2-7 to play to their hearts content in a safe and fun environment.
 Kizcovery can be divided into two sections; the main space, which holds a playground, while a Mom’s Café and a Baby Service area can be found in the amenities section for parents to relax or tend to infants’ needs. 
The playground area is further divided into eight different zones; each designed with an animal and jungle concept. The animal and jungle concept was used to help children naturally experience and learn about the wonders of ecology. The eight zones of the playground are Bear Village, Volcano, Monkey Temple, Watering Hole, Lion’s Den, Undersea Cavern, Toddler Zone and Tree House. 
As a compound word made up of “kid” and “discovery,” Kizcovery was created to provide children with an exploratory space in which they can play and enjoy themselves while simultaneously developing their creativity and thinking skills. Not only is Kizcovery a great way for kids to have fun and learn at the same time, it has also been awarded the prestigious “OK for Kids” certification for child-friendliness from the highly acclaimed German Technical Inspection Association, TÜV Nord. 
The “OK for Kids” seal of quality is only offered to facilities that have been tested to be suitable for children. To date, only 22 hotels, theme parks, playgrounds and other such facilities have been awarded the prestigious seal of approval globally, with Kizcovery being the first in Asia to receive the honor. 
To the delight of environmentalists and parents everywhere, eco-friendly, safe and anti-bacterial soft foam was used to create the play area of Kizcovery. 
Kizcovery opened on May 5. For those without an all-day pass or an annual membership to Everland, there is an entrance fee of 5,000 won. Children under 12 months old are eligible for free admission.  
 For more information:　
 Call (031) 320-5000 or visit http://www.everland.com/web/kizcovery/index.html
