Human activity is a direct cause of climate change
Pro-I believe that human activity is a direct cause of climate change.
 Scores of scientific evidence show that human activities are a direct cause of climate change. People are around the world binge on natural resources, throw away waste, use cars even for short journeys - all for the mere sake of their convenience and comfort. They take the fresh air, clean water and healthy land that the Earth offers for granted. Due to our senseless and careless actions, the Earth suffers.
With the advent of industrialization, tons of factories, city states and buildings have been built and the amount of carbon dioxide, methane and Freon gas released into the Earth’s atmosphere has skyrocketed.
Thus, we should stop pouring pollution into our planet, lest the ecosystems in our trees, forests, mountains, seas and oceans vanish. 
 First, we should develop a habit of walking instead of riding a car to reduce vehicle exhaust emissions. Also, we should use public transportation, recycle waste, plant trees, and use water and electricity economically. Moreover, try to buy environment-friendly products and limit the use of air-conditioning. Lastly, developing clean energy sources, such as solar, wind, and hydroelectric power can also protect our environment. 
 Con-
 I think there are other reasons beside human activity for climate change.
 On April 23, the temperature of Gyeongju in Korea, rose to 31 degrees, way too high considering it was only April. Today, Korea is showing summer temperatures in spring.
 As we know, Korea has been extremely hot in summer and very cold in winter. Why is the weather so abnormal these days?
 First, it is because of the unusual climate in the Arctic. If Arctic temperatures go up, its glaciers melt and then it cools the seawater. That seawater flows into Korea, and makes our weather cooler. This winter, the temperature of the Arctic went up about 2 degrees. So that is why we had a colder winter. 
 Second, the unusual climate can be explained by global warming. Global warming causes the earth’s temperature to rise, creating more extreme climates. The examples of that are heavy rain and drought, because global warming causes a lot of problems, such as changes in ocean currents, or changes in polar temperature.
 Third, solar radiation is another cause. Nowadays, the sun is changing, reaching the height of an 11-year cycle in sun activity. So, the sun might send more radiation to the Earth, resulting in warmer temperature here on Earth. In fact, the explosion of sunspots in the sun might bring communication disruptions in phones, or other kinds of devices. Also, it can damage satellites. 
 I hope the temperature gets stable soon, since the unusual temperatures in Korea bring massive economic losses to the nation.
