Yahoo CEO resigns amidst resume scandal
Yahoo CEO Scott Thompson resigned from his post on May 13, amidst growing controversy over a fake computer science degree listed on his resume. 
Thompson has been the focus of a scandal regarding an inconsistency in his IT credentials and in official documents that Yahoo filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
According to news reports, Thompson’s resume and the SEC filings falsely state that the ex-CEO received both a computer science and an accounting degree from Stonehill College near Boston. In fact, Thompson only earned an accounting degree from Stonehill in 1979. 
Thompson was appointed CEO of Yahoo in January under hopes that he could turn things around for the struggling Internet company. Unfortunately, he is being replaced only four months after becoming the fourth CEO to leave Yahoo in five years. 
Prior to becoming the CEO of Yahoo, Thompson was president of PayPal, a fast-growing global e-commerce business. Carlos Kirjner, a senior analyst at Stanford C. Bernstein, suggested that perhaps this prior experience hadn’t prepared Thompson for the role of Yahoo CEO.
 “It is very different to be CEO of a growth company, making choices between opportunities, and to be CEO of a company in turnaround mode, whose parts are declining or losing share,” Kirjner was quoted as saying by AP. 
Some speculate that Thompson’s resume discrepancy may have been forgivable if the company was making money for its shareholders at the time. 
“Yahoo has been embattled for such a long time that there are a lot of people prepared to believe the worst about that company,” James Post, a management professor at Boston University, told AP.
 “When you’re angry at the management and the board, when nothing’s going right and you’re losing money, it’s understandable that shareholders would adopt an ‘off with their head’ attitude.”
 On May 8, Thompson reportedly sent a memo to Yahoo employees, “apologizing for the distractions that the company is dealing with,” making no mention of his resume, Computerworld reported. 
Yahoo has since appointed Ross Levinsohn as interim CEO and Fred Amoroso as chairman of its board. 
