Korea the first to punish Apple and Google
Korea’s telecommunications regulator announced on Aug. 3 that in violation of Korean Law, punitive measures will be taken against Apple and Google for tracking their users’ locations. 
The Korea Communications Commission (KCC) said Apple and Google violated Korea’s Location Information Law Articles 15 and 16. Article 15 dictates that businesses seeking to collect, utilize, and offer location data services need to gain the consent of the user. Article 16 states that businesses need to take the necessary technical measures to prevent location information from being exposed, falsified, or damaged. 
KCC began their investigation in April 2011, after it was discovered that iOS 4.0, the newest version of Apple’s mobile operating system, keeps track of all user’s location information since its inception in June 2010. In fact, the KCC found that the location data of iPhone users was kept in an unprotected cache, regardless of whether the user set their location services to “off.” 
The KCC imposed a 3 million won fine on Apple Korea for collecting its users’ locations without consent, while both Apple Korea and Google Korea were given a rectification order. Google Korea only received a rectification order and not a fine because it was found that Google’s Android operating system did not map user locations without consent. 
The Korean government is not the first to investigate either Apple or Google for problems concerning their location tracking practices, but Korea is the first in the world to actually punish the two giants for violating the law. 
According to The Korea Herald, Korea has set a legal precedent that supports the 27,800 Koreans filing a class action lawsuit against Apple for violating their privacy by collecting their location information. 
The fact that “information is being collected without my knowledge is simply appalling, which is why this situation has to be addressed and why we are trying to take collective action,” said on 27-year-old who has joined the class action suit campaign, declining to be identified. He explains further, that the main issue isn’t whether or not the information is being encrypted or how unidentifiable the data is. The fact that personal information is being tracked at all without consent is the main problem. 
This new revelation highlights privacy issues of today’s smartphone-obsessed world, and the growing market for location-based services. 
