Crowds flock to Yeosu in time for Expo
Under the theme of “The Living Ocean and Coast,” the 2012 Yeosu Expo opened its doors, greeting visitors around the world on May 12. 
 With the grand cause of bringing awareness of the importance of the marine life and promoting international cooperation to preserve it safely for the future, the Expo also offers participants a rare opportunity to find out about sophisticated marine science and technology to help marine industries flourish, according to Yonhap News. 
 A total of 104 countries, ten international organizations and numerous companies will take part in the event.
 Pavilions of many countries, including the United States, China, Russia, Denmark, Japan, Singapore as well as a number of international organizations like the United Nations and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have been set up. 
 Domestic conglomerates such as Hyundai Motor Group, Samsung Group, SK Telecom, and LG have opened pavilions. With a 30-meter dome screen, the Korean pavilion projects moving images of the ocean environment. 
 The 67-meter-tall Sky Tower, aquarium with a size of 6,030 tons, and “Big O” floating entertainment structure are other highlights of the global fair.
 On Saturdays, K-pop stars will perform in live concerts and tickets are priced between 19,000 to 33,000 won for a daily visit.
 The organizing committee anticipates the 93-day-long exposition will attract more than 8 million visitors, boosting the local economy by around 12 trillion won, creating 80,000 related jobs and helping the local tourism industry. 
 Just in time for the Expo opening, more than 600 female entrepreneurs who are members of the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs (FCEM) visited the city on May 8 to seek transnational business cooperation.
 “Women entrepreneurs from all over the world will share ideas and foster better relations within their enterprises by strengthening economic cooperation among the member countries,” the organization noted on its website.
 According to Park Nae-yong, a senior official of the South Jeolla Provincial government, the 2012 meeting of FCEM will “serve to enhance not only the status of women entrepreneurs but also the brand value of South Jeolla Province and the Yeosu Expo.” 
 Founded in France in 1945, the FCEM network has more than 70 different countries from five continents as its members, Yonhap News said.
