Study shows rise in eye damage rates in East Asia
A recent study has found that myopia rates of those completing secondary schooling in major East Asian countries - China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Japan - have reached an all-time high of around 80 to 90 percent.
 For decades, researchers believed that genetics played a major role in myopia, or nearsightedness. People from China, Japan, Korea and a handful of other countries, for example, were thought to be particularly susceptible to the condition. While it does not rule out the role of genetics completely, the recent research provides an alternative perspective to the problem. 
Myopia findings
 The report, entitled “Myopia,” was conducted by professor Ian Morgan, from the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, and his team. Published in the May 5 issue of The Lancet, the scientists found that the extremely high prevalence of nearsightedness can be “associated with increasing educational pressures, combined with lifestyle changes, which have reduced the time children spend outside.”
 “What we’ve done is written a review of all the evidence which suggests that something extraordinary has happened in East Asia in the last two generations,” Morgan told BBC News.
 “They’ve gone from something like 20 percent myopia in the population to well over 80 percent, heading for 90 percent in young adults, and as they get adult it will just spread through the population. It certainly poses a major health problem.” 
The steep rise in myopia rates presents a huge problem since 10 to 20 percent of those affected are suffering from "high" myopia, which, in extreme cases, can lead to blindness.
 East Asian children and nearsightedness
 Since students in East Asia tend to spend long hours studying at school and doing their homework - putting pressure on the eyes - it usually means that they spend less time outside in the sun. 
“Children suffer from a double whammy in South East Asia,” says Morgan. “As a result of massive educational pressures and the construction of a child’s day, the amount of time they spend outside in bright light is minimized.” 
Morgan cites this as a major cause of rising myopia rates, suggesting that two to three hours of daylight can help counterbalance the ill-effects of studying long hours as well as maintain healthy eyes.
 Other recent studies are cited by Morgan in support of the effects of the environment in myopia development. A recent study in Singapore, for example, found that rates of nearsightedness for three key ethnic groups - Chinese, Malaysian and Indian - have seen steep increases since 1996. Morgan explains that since all three groups are equally affected, it is likely the result of a common environmental factor. 
Dr. Kathryn Saunders, from the University of Ulster, was part of a team that compared myopia rates in children in Australia and Northern Ireland. Saunders also found that exposure to sunlight played a factor in the development of myopia in her study sample.
 What now?
 Although further research has to be done to understand the extent to which genes and the environment play a role in myopia, both Saunders and Morgan suggest allowing students to spend more time outside during the day.
 Saunders, in particular, was quoted in BBC News as saying, “we might want to encourage children to spend more time outside when the sun is shining. It’s unlikely to do them any harm.” 
Tips on maintaining good eye health (source: WebMD)
 1. Nutrition
 A healthy diet equals a healthy body. Studies have shown that nutrients such as omega-3 fatty acids, lutein, zinc, and vitamins C and E can help deter the onset of vision problems as you age. Regularly eating the following foods can help lead to good eye health:
 　- Green, leafy vegetables like spinach
 　- Salmon, tuna and other oily fish
 　- Eggs, nuts, beans and other non-meat sources of protein 
　- Oranges and other citrus fruits and juices
 2. Sunglasses
 Wearing sunglasses not only makes you look cool, but it provides protection for your eyes as well! Too much UV exposure could increase your risk for eye damage, so make sure to have adequate protection when outside. 
When choosing sunglasses, make sure to buy ones that block 99 to 100 percent of both UVA and UVB rays. If possible, find ones that have wraparound lenses to help protect your eyes from the side. 
For people who wear contact lenses, try to find a brand that offers UV protection as well. 
 3. Safety eyewear
 When appropriate, make sure to wear safety glasses or protective goggles to protect your eyes from injury, vision loss and blindness. When playing certain sports - like ice hockey - or working with dangerous materials at school - such as conducting experiments for science - wearing safety eyewear is a must. 
 4. Taking a break from the computer
 Spending long hours in front of your computer not only puts a strain on your eyes, but it can also cause computer vision syndrome (CVS). CVS occurs from frequent computer use, whose symptoms includes eyestrain, blurry vision, difficulty focusing on distant objects, dry eyes and headaches, as well as pain on the neck, back and shoulders. 
 To protect your eyes’ health, take the following steps:
 　- Make sure your glasses or contact lens prescriptions are up to date and adequate for computer use.
 　- Position your computer so that your eyes are level with the top of the monitor (this allows you to look slightly down the screen)
 　- Try to avoid glare on your computer from windows and lights. Use anti-glare screens if needed.
 　- Choose a comfortable, supportive chair. Position it so that your feet are flat on the floor when seated.
 　- Remember to blink often as this can help prevent dry eyes.
 　- Allow your eyes some time to rest by looking 20 feet (around 6 meters) away for 20 seconds every 20 minutes. Make sure to also get up and take a 15-minute break every two hours. 
 5. Regular visits to the eye doctor
 Regular visits to the eye doctor can help you maintain good eye health as well as catch any problems early on. Many eye diseases do not have very obvious symptoms and so regular check ups can help you find these problems while they’re easier to treat.
 Regular check ups are especially important for those already wearing glasses or contact lenses. Regular visits allow you to keep track of your prescription and adjust them as needed. 
