Upside of having bipolar disorder
Having bipolar disorder is not all inconvenience, claim a few bipolar patients who think themselves lucky.
 People with bipolar disorder suffer from emotional swings between elation and depression. Yet, one British study led by Fiona Lobban of Spectrum Centre for Mental Health Research at Lancaster University in the U.K. broke the stereotype by sharing the personal stories of 10 patients. In it, they say the symptoms had affected their lives in a positive way.
 According to the Journal of Affective Disorders published online on April 1, an anonymous patient remarked the disorder had helped boost his artistic ability, such as the susceptibility to color and sound.
 “I can see color much more vividly than I used to ... So I think that my access to music and art is something for which I’m grateful to bipolar for enhancing. It’s almost as if it’s a magnifying glass that sits between that and myself,” he was quoted as saying in the paper.
 Others in the report also believed that the condition had assisted them achieve goals which would otherwise not have been possible. 
 One patient who was a theater performer added that the symptom had helped him stand out in his acting career. “Had it not been for being bipolar, there’s no chance I could have done it,” he noted.
 Another patient named Dominic said: “I’ve been able to experience life in sort of extremes, but it just gives me an opportunity to feel things and experience things that I wouldn’t otherwise do.”
 Though there are serious downsides to bipolar disorder, such as causing long-term unemployment, strain on families, substance abuse, poor quality of life and high suicide rates, the researchers cautioned against focusing only on negative aspects of it as it may lead to a poor understanding of the condition and its patients. 
 The study concludes that most participants, aside from frequent mood swings, viewed their “bipolarness” as a gift that they feel grateful for. The researchers revealed that they were “struck” by “the passion and enthusiasm” that these people feel about the positive aspects of the disease.
