Showcasing Korean culture
At a recent meeting in Shanghai, Asian neighbors Korea, China and Japan reached an agreement on an action plan to expand cultural cooperation and exchange between the three nations. Participants cited the need to take advantage of the long and rich cultural heritage shared by the three nations to foster closer regional bonds and awareness between people. The action plan included concrete steps such as the designation of cultural cities, the hosting of joint art fairs, and the protection of each other’s cultural heritage. 
 Speaking about the newly-reached agreement, Korea’s Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism Choe Kwang-shik pointed out that the trend of Korean Wave (Hallyu), though instrumental in generating interest and awareness about Korea, must diversify beyond pop music and television drama in order to maintain its momentum. He stressed the need for Hallyu to be expanded to showcase the full spectrum of Korea’s long and rich cultural heritage.
 To fully reach the potential of the expansion of culture-related businesses and economic activities, it is vital for Korea to promote aggressively, in addition to the existing elements of Hallyu, the nation’s historical treasures, traditional arts, indigenous cuisine, and aesthetic trends. 
 Few historical sites in Korea can match the significance and splendor of Gyeongju - the capital of the 992-year Silla Dynasty. It is filled with priceless cultural relics and national treasures. The Daereungwon Tomb Complex features 23 large tombs, with tens of thousands of valuable relics, of kings and noblemen of the Silla Dynasty. The magnificent Bulguksa Temple, a UNESCO World Heritage site, contains a number of important relics listed as National Treasures. Seokguram Grotto on Tohamsan, another UNESCO World Heritage site, houses the Bonjon Statue, a bodhisattva and his disciples. Cheomseongdae, the oldest existing astronomical observatory in Asia, is also located in Gyeongju. 
 Korea has plenty to offer when it comes to traditional art forms. Hanguk eumak, or traditional Korean music, is rich in emotional content and formal rituals. Jongmyo Shrine music, usually played for the ritual services for dead kings, has been appointed a world intangible heritage by UNESCO. Traditional Korean dances - the stately and elegant court dance, the soulful shamanistic ritual dance, the visually stunning fan dance, and the festive farmers‘ dance - are always pleasing to the senses. Korean ink-brush painting and calligraphy date back thousands of years with a broad range of regional styles, specific techniques, graphic tastes, and genre subjects. 
 Korean cuisine is so much more than just kimchi and bulgogi. It is rich in variety, featuring distinctive regional flavors, diverse cooking techniques, fresh seasonal bounties, and meticulous table presentations. The liberal use of fresh ingredients, vegetables and herbs, and natural seasoning makes Korean cuisine particularly suitable for today’s health-conscious societies. From court cuisines to aromatic barbecues; from assorted “banchan” (side dishes) to hearty broths and stews; and from KFC (Korean fried chicken) to Pojangmacha (street food), Korean food has something to satisfy every taste. A branch of Korean cuisine known as “boyangsik,” or medicinal food, is deeply rooted in tradition and age-old wisdom. It combines ingredients with proper herbs and medicines to treat or prevent multitudes of physical ailments. 
 Korean fashion, both traditional and modern, speaks of the nation’s pursuit of aesthetic beauty. Korean fashion ranges from the traditional Hanbok, elegant garments of vibrant colors and simple lines worn on holidays and special occasions, to the Haute Couture worn by Hallyu stars, and the casual chic seen on city streets. Korean designers, headlined by pioneers such as Andre Kim and Ji Choon-hee, and exciting new talents such as Im Sang-ah and Richard Chai, have made their marks in the international fashion scene. Korean made cosmetic products have also made a splash with slick packaging and clever promotion. 
 The first wave of Hallyu may have been impressive, but Korean culture has so much more to offer, both in substance and quality. So look out, world, you ain’t seen nothing yet!
