Sports of unyielding will - Paralympics
The Paralympic Games are a major international sporting event where athletes with a physical disability compete in various disciplines. Paralympic athletes are grouped into six major categories based on their type of disability: amputee, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability, visually impaired, wheelchair and Les Autres. The Paralympics are divided into Summer Games (21 sports) and Winter Games (5 sports), which are held immediately following their respective Olympic Games. The motto for the Paralympic movement is “Spirit in motion,” and the symbol for the Paralympics contains the colors red, blue, and green in the shape of an Agito (Latin for “I move”).
 Although sport for athletes with disabilities has existed for more than 100 years, it was not widely introduced until after World War II. At the opening ceremony of the 1948 Olympic Games in London, the first ever competition for wheelchair athletes - the Stoke Mandeville Games - was organized. Sixteen injured servicemen and women took part in an archery competition. The Stoke Mandeville Games grew into an international movement, and in 1960, the first Paralympic Games, featuring 400 wheelchair athletes from 23 nations, took place in Rome, Italy. Since then, the Paralympics have taken place every four years. In 1976, the first Winter Paralympics was held in Sweden. 
 The Paralympic Movement gained momentum quickly and spread throughout the world. At the 1976 Paralympic Summer Games in Toronto, Canada, athletes with different disabilities (amputees and visually impaired) were included for the first time. A total of 1,600 athletes from 40 nations competed in 13 sports. The 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, Korea was an important milestone. It ws the first time the Paralympics were held directly after the regular Olympic Games, in the same host city, and using the same facilities. It set a precedent for two subsequent Olympics and led to an agreement between the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 2001 to make the arrangement permanent.
 Over the years, Paralympians have proven themselves to be remarkable competitors capable of incredible feats of athleticism and awe-inspiring achievements. The most successful Paralympian of all time is Trischa Zorn of the United States. Blind at birth, her Paralympic career spanned 24 years from 1980 to 2004, during which she won 55 medals, 41 of them gold. The most decorated Winter Paralympian is Ragnhild Myklebust of Norway. She participated in 4 Winter Paralympics from 1988 to 2002, winning 27 medals, 22 of them gold, in the process. More amazingly, she has won Paralympic medals in multiple events, including: short, middle and long distance cross-country races, relays, biathlon and ice sledge racing.
 Some Paralympians were even good enough to compete in the Olympics. Neroli Susan Fairhall of New Zealand, paralyzed from the waist down in a motorcycle accident, became the first paraplegic to compete in the Olympic Games when she took part in Archery competition at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics. She finished in a respectable 35th place. Marla Runyan, a legally blind American track and field athlete and marathon runner, is a multiple gold medal winner at the Paralympic Games. She also has the distinction of being the only Paralympian to compete in two Olympic Games (2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens). Natalia Partyka of Poland, born without a right hand and forearm, became a world-class table tennis player. She took part in the 2008 Beijing Olympics and won the hearts of spectators and the respect of opponents with great skills and tenacity. 
 Korea has been part of the Paralympics Movement for over 40 years. In 1968, Korea participated in Paralympic Games for the first time in Tel Aviv, Israel, but did not win any medals. At the 1988 Paralymics in Seoul, Korea, the host nation enjoyed great success with 40 gold medals, 35 silver medals, 19 bronze medals and ranked 7th among all nations. At the Beijing Paralympic Games, Korea ranked 13th, finishing with 31 total medals, 10 of them gold.
