'The Avengers’ smashes box office records
The numbers speak for themselves: The eagerly-awaited superhero film, “The Avengers,” smashed global box office records on its opening week, hitting a whopping $775.4 million in revenue worldwide by May 10. 
Pulling in an astounding $207.4 million in domestic revenue during its opening weekend, “The Avengers” quickly surpassed the previous record of $169.2 million, held by the final installment of the “Harry Potter” series last year. 
Directed by Joss Whedon, “The Avengers” features Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man, Chris Evans as Captain America, Chris Hemsworth as Thor, Mark Ruffalo as the Hulk, Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow, Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye and Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury.
 The superstar cast may have played a part in the film’s success, but the positive response from fans around the world helped push “The Avengers” to greatness. 
“Fans, non-fans, parents, non-parents. Any kind of descriptor you can come up with, people are embracing this film,” Dave Hollis, Disney’s head of distribution was quoted as saying by AP.
 One of the biggest draws for Marvel fans was probably the continuity between the individual characters’ movies and “The Avengers.” Not only has there been overlap of characters and props between films, but there were crossovers in the storyline as well. 
The plot of “The Avengers” revolves around the Tesseract, an ancient Asgardian artifact of unimaginable power that also made brief appearances in “Iron Man 2,” “Thor,” and “Captain America: The First Avenger.” Loki, Thor’s brother, is the central villain of the film, plotting to destroy Earth as he promised to do in the 2011 film, “Thor.” 
When Nick Fury of S.H.I.E.L.D. is confronted with the threat of Earth’s destruction, he decides that assembling the Avengers – Tony Stark, a.k.a. Iron Man, Steve Rogers, a.k.a. Captain America, Dr. Bruce Banner, a.k.a. The Hulk, and Thor – alongside S.H.I.E.L.D. members Hawkeye and Black Widow is the only way to stop Loki and his army. 
To find out what happens, watch “The Avengers,” still in theaters all across the nation.
