Dogs are new detectives for lung cancer?
German researchers published a study in the European Respiratory Journal (ERJ) claimed on Aug. 18 that showed that dogs can be amazing detectives for lung cancer.
 German scientists reported in the ERJ that they trained two German shepherds, a Lab and an Australian shepherd for nine months and the dogs were given to sniff glass tubes filled with people’s exhalation. After conducting the experiment, scientists concluded that dogs could detect lung cancer by sniffing. They underscored that the dogs could correctly identify 71 out of 100 cancer cases and called it beyond impressive. 
“The outcome is better than the imaging tests that most physicians currently use to detect lung cancer,” noted the researchers. 
According to a recent statistics, CT scans, commonly used for identifying early-stage cancer in order to allow patients to begin treatment as quickly as possible, turned out to have helped only a mere 20 percent of cancer patients survive lung cancer. 
Dogs are known to have delicate sense of smell but the fact that they can pick up these subtle “volatile organic compounds (VOCs)” linked to lung cancer in patients’ breath is groundbreaking, the study claimed. In the study, it said that trained dogs were able to distinguish breath of lung cancer patients from that of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients, as well as between smokers and nonsmokers (healthy people).
 Thorsten Walles of Schillerhoehe Hospital, lead author of the study, explained that dogs appear to possess the ability to “catch stable markers in lung cancer.” 
“This is a big step forward in the diagnosis of lung cancer, but we still need to precisely identify the compounds in the exhaled breath of patients,” said Walles in a statement. He added that it’s yet unclear “exactly what odor the dogs are detecting,” however, he emphasized that marking lung-cancer at an early stage would give patients more chance of surviving lung cancer.
 Lung cancer is the second most common kind of cancer across the United States and Europe, and accounts for around 500,000 deaths annually. 
Doctors say that part of the reason that lung cancer has such a high mortality rate is because it is difficult to identify early on. In many cases, they insist, lung cancer doesn’t show any symptoms; therefore diagnosis is often made after it has already progressed. 
