Should teenagers drink coffee?
Pro-
 I think that teenagers should be allowed to drink coffee 
 I think that teenagers should drink coffee because it has many health benefits.
 First, those who want to stay young and maintain their healthy and youthful looking skin should definitely drink coffee. Coffee has a natural antioxidant called polyphenol, which helps delay aging and drinking coffee also prevents constipation. 
 What’s more, coffee can fight depression. A U.S. study revealed that women who drink more than 4 cups of coffee a day are 20 percent less likely to suffer from depression. Teenagers have a high risk of suffering depression, so coffee can be a huge help. 
 Moreover, coffee helps boost short-term memory and for teenagers who do a lot of memorizing in their studies, drinking coffee can be very helpful. 
 Lastly, coffee is known to prevent certain diseases. For instance, a study shows women with a daily intake of three or more cups of coffee have a 20 percent lower chance of developing skin cancer and the likelihood for men who drink more than 6 cups a day of dying from prostate cancer is reduced by 60 percent. In addition, two daily cups of coffee reduced deaths from stroke by 25 percent in women and 20 percent in men.
 As coffee has innumerable health benefits, I think that everyone, including teenagers should enjoy drinking it.
 Con-
 I believe that teenagers should not drink coffee 
 There is a fierce debate nowadays whether parents should allow teenagers to drink coffee. I disagree that teenagers could drink coffee because it can be addictive, and it can cause age related diseases later on. 
 The first reason that teenagers should not drink coffee is that coffee is addictive. If teens get addicted to coffee, they can’t concentrate well on their studies and easily become nervous when they lack caffeine. So they would keep drinking more coffee and this would lead to other problems, such as insomnia. 
 Second, drinking coffee from an early age can cause problems as adults. If people drink coffee when they are young, they will drink more coffee than average later on. Then people could get diseases such as heart disease and high blood pressure. These are the two reasons why I disagree with teenagers’ coffee drinking.
 Some people say that teenagers can drink coffee to keep them awake, but I think teenagers could drink other things to keep them awake, like herbal tea. 
 All in all, I think that teenagers should not drink coffee because coffee is addictive, and it can cause diseases later on their life.
