NATO summit in Chicago plagued by tension with Pakistan
Continued tension between the U.S. and Pakistan cast a dark shadow over the NATO summit in Chicago on May 20-21. 
More than 60 world leaders were welcomed by President Barack Obama to the two-day NATO summit in Chicago. The summit was to focus on the pulling out of combat troops in Afghanistan by the U.S. and its allies. Unfortunately, continued tension between the U.S. and Pakistan over an unfinished deal to reopen vital NATO supply routes has diverted much of the focus away from Afghanistan and onto the relationship between the two allies. 
The relationship between the U.S. and Pakistan has been rocky in the past year, thanks to a series of events that began with a unilateral raid on Abbottabad that ultimately led to the death of Osama bin Laden in May of 2011. The 60-year diplomatic relationship between Pakistan and the U.S. has become further frayed by the continued unauthorized drone attacks on Pakistani soil by the world’s oldest democracy. 
NATO supply routes through Pakistan were closed after the tragic death of 24 Pakistani soldiers during a U.S.-led NATO airstrike over Salalah in November 2011. The Salalah tragedy and continued drone attacks have resulted in further deterioration of relations between Pakistan and the U.S. 
On May 15, however, the Pakistani government announced that an agreement to reopen the NATO supply routes was being negotiated, taking the first step toward restoring normalcy between the two allies. 
The New York Times reported that just before the NATO summit in Chicago began, negotiators from both sides expressed optimism that after three weeks of intense deliberations and a last-minute invitation for Pakistan to attend the summit, an agreement was imminent. 
For its part, Pakistan has been pushing for an unconditional apology from the U.S. for the fatal Salalah airstrike in 2011. When it became clear that no such apology would be forthcoming, Pakistan’s civilian and military leaders retaliated by increasing their financial demands for reopening NATO’s key supply routes through Pakistan. 
If negotiations are successful, the new agreement will reportedly earn Pakistan $365 million annually, a cost that the U.S. will have to bear the brunt of. 
