Beijing rejects release of S. Korean detainee
The news of a Korean human rights activist having been detained in China for more than 50 days have jolted the nation’s political circles, with the ruling political party urging Beijing for his immediate release.
 “We have decided to deliver the party’s position to the Chinese Embassy, calling for the speedy release of human rights activist Kim Young-hwan, who is being held by Chinese police,” Lee Sang-il, a spokesman for the ruling Saenuri Party, told reporters during a press briefing.
 In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei confirmed Seoul that four Koreans have been charged with violating China’s national security but they fell short of disclosing specific details of their crimes. 
 “They were reportedly being held in the Chinese border city of Dandong across the Yalu River from North Korea,” officials of the South Korean ministry said. 
According to local media reports, four South Koreans, including Kim Young-hwan, a researcher at a local activist group, were arrested by the Chinese law authorities in the northeastern city of Dalian on March 29. 
 They are thought to be under the supervision of the Liaoning province’s security office. Previously it refused to grant attorney access to Kim.
 “It cited China’s domestic law which rejects access to a lawyer for a suspect accused of threatening national security or terrorism,” Yonhap News said.
 North Korea was rumored to have exercised its political leverage on the matter. Activist groups in South Korea have implied that the case will be handed over to the United Nation. 
 Kim Young-hwan was once an avid advocate of the key North Korean “Juche ideology,” the philosophy of self-reliance which aroused South Korean college students’ antigovernment movement in the 1980s. In 1991, he sneaked into the North through a North Korean submersible and had a private meeting with the late leader Kim Il-sung. 
 Several years later, however, he scrapped his pro-North Korean ideology and started a campaign on raising awareness about the human rights violations in the North. 
