Korea celebrates 30 years online
Korea Communications Commission, the country’s media regulation agency, said it will celebrate the 30th anniversary of Korea’s Internet use at the Sejong Center for the Performing Arts on May 30.
 The 10th and 20th anniversaries were not celebrated, but the 30th will be observed, considering the Internet’s revolutionary effect on industry for the last 30 years, the commission explained.
 The first Internet connection in Korea came in May 1982. Seoul National University and an electronics research institute (current Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute) were hooked up through the System Development Network(SDN), and tens of computer scientists at both ends yelled out of a cheer, celebrating the first Internet connection for the nation.
 Now, 30 years have passed since the first wired connection, and Korea went through revolutionary changes, both positive and negative, by the connectivity.
 In 1986, the country’s Internet domain of “.kr” was introduced, and in 1994 Internet service providers including DACOM were established.
 Beginning with the PC networking service of “Chollian” and “HiTEL,” more effective Web portals of Daum Communications (1995) and Naver (1999) were established.
 Professor Jeon Gil-nam, 69, who developed the SDN in the 1980s is scheduled to give a lecture at the 30th anniversary of Korea’s Internet use. Professor Jeon who now teaches at Japan’s Keio University said recently in an interview with Maeil Business Newspaper that nobody expected the Internet would change the world this much.
 He said the Internet is now only in its adolescent period and would see explosive growth for the next 10 years.
 He also warned that Korea, which currently has the best Internet infrastructure, is not considered superior in the field of research and development by many.
 It is worth here taking a look at how the Internet has changed people’s life in general in Korea. Both positive and negative changes have been spotted.
 It is common for Koreans -- both students and adults -- to start and finish a day with the Internet.
 According to a research by the Korea Internet Security Agency, the number of the Internet users in the country as of July 2011 reached 37 million, which is 78 percent of the total South Korean population, and the usage rate by those between in their teens and 30s is 99 percent.
 The most recent change that the Internet has brought to the scene was in the political arena.
 The web portal sites -- Naver and Daum in particular -- have become an open discussion space for voters.
 Before the Internet use was vitalized, politicians had to contact interest groups and individuals in person to promote his or her electoral commitment. The voters were in the position of just listening to the promotion instead of projecting their own opinions.
 This all changed with the advent of the Internet and the following open space forums, such as Facebook and Twitter.
 These social networking sites play pivotal roles whenever there come such major events in the nation as elections, street demonstrations and candlelight vigils.
 The biggest such evidence was shown in the Seoul Mayor election in October 2011 and the general election in April 2012. Those people in their 20s and 30s, the most active Internet user group, attracted people’s participation in votes and actively transmitted their ideas, through the networking service.
 Another change the Internet has brought is in the way information flows.
 In the past, the most common used tools for two-way communication were letters and post cards, which now have been replaced by online messenger services and e-mails.
 The Internet usage rate in the country increased from 76 percent in 2000 to 86 percent in 2011, and messenger services are used by more than half of the total population.
 The Internet has also affected how people access information. Important information used to be exclusively reserved for the few -- the government, academia and media.
 But now anybody who needs information can have access to it if they know how to use the Internet.
 The Internet engulfed us in the flood of information, and we have to know how to distinguish the gems from the pebbles; on the bright side, you can secure wider resources of information, while on the flipside, you are highly likely to waste your time surfing through the net forgetting what you originally intended to find.
 Further elaborating on the so-called adverse effects of the Internet, you can fall victim to or become a source of wrong and harmful information.
 Illegal and immoral information are showing steady growth, and as many victims are produced, as evidenced by ongoing suicides of TV celebrities in Korea, who were verbally harassed and tortured with groundless criticism.
 Perpetrators of these verbal attacks think they can do harm to others without getting caught because they think they can maintain their anonymity, which is not really true with the advance in technology of cyber-investigation.
 Many experts and Internet service providers note that the Internet in Korea has been gaining ground for the past 30 years and that it is time people worked to establish a virtuous e-culture where proper use is widely encouraged and adverse effects are prevented.
