Hanwha channels efforts to enhance social welfare
Hanwha General Insurance Co., Ltd., which boasts the longest history of all property insurance firms in the nation, has long made efforts to return some of the profits it has made back to the society.
 As seen in its official website, the company has left no stone unturned to realize a society “where every single member feels happy and becomes united.”
 To achieve the goal, Hanwha has been promoting Corporate Social Responsibility programs in the areas of social welfare enhancement, emergency relief, cultural events for the underprivileged, environmental protection, and supporting the families of the deceased.
 For public welfare enhancement, Hanwha dispatches social workers on a regular basis to senior citizens living alone to provide daily necessities and medical checkups. The workers there spend time with the elderly listening to their troubles and agonies.
 Another social welfare program run by the company is “musical concerts reaching the locals.” The concerts of sort were firstly held in the cities of Changwon, Sokcho, Yeosu, Cheonan and Daejeon in 2004. The events invited youths, the elderly and the disabled whom the company supports through special support programs.
 The concerts further expanded to the cities of Incheon and Ulsan in 2005. They have reached Busan and Ulsan through 2011. World-famous conductor Kum Nan-sae and the Eurasian Philharmonic Orchestra also took part in the concerts.
 Hanwha also runs special programs aimed at helping the disabled naturally become part of society. The programs help those people independently carry out daily routines, such as depositing in a bank and shopping in the market. These people are also given rehabilitation trainings and art therapy through the programs.
 The insurance company cares about emergency relief and children’s safety as well. When natural disasters, such as Typhoon Maemi (2003), heavy snowfalls (2004), floods (2005 and 2006) and torrential rains (2011) devastated the nation, Hanwha sent out its employees to disaster sites to help clean up the waste and rebuild the battered communities. The company also helps youths grow up in a sound and healthy environment by providing nationwide children welfare centers with safety-related lectures and on-site training.
