Mid-autumn festivals in Asia
“So people can‘t sleep,
 So they go out where elms and oak trees keep
 A kneeling vigil, in a religious hush.
 The harvest moon has come!”– Ted Hughes, the Harvest Moon
 The Mid-Autumn Festival, known as Chuseok in Korea, is a major holiday celebrated in many countries throughout Asia. It falls on the 15th day of the 8th month on the lunar calendar when the moon is at its fullest and brightest. It is a holiday that is rich in culture, tradition, folklore and pageantry. Let’s look at how the Mid-Autumn Festival is celebrated in other countries.
 China – The Mid-autumn Festival, known as Zhong Qiu Jie, is a popular harvest festival celebrated by the Chinese people dating back 3,000 years to moon worship in the Shang dynasty. It is a date set aside for farmers to celebrate the end of the fall harvesting season. Traditionally, families and friends gather to feast on moon cakes and pomelos under the bright harvest moon. Moon cakes are sweet pastries filled with bean or lotus seed pastes, salted egg yolks, assorted nuts and dried fruits. On the day of the festival, it is customary for people to burn incense in honor of Chang’e, the legendary Moon Goddess of Immortality. Celebratory activities include the floating of sky lanterns, hanging lanterns on bamboo poles, and festive dragon dances. 
Vietnam - The Mid-Autumn festival is called “Tet Trung Thu” in Vietnam. The holiday recounts the legend of Cuội, whose wife accidentally urinated on a sacred banyan tree, taking him with it to the Moon. Every year, on the mid-autumn festival, children light traditional five-point lanterns and participate in a procession to show Cuội the way to Earth. Lion dance groups go from house to house asking for permission to perform a ritual dance purported to bring luck and fortune for the hosts. After the performance, the hosts show their appreciation by giving “lucky money” to the lion dance groups. 
Malaysia – The Mid-Autumn Festival is known as the Moon cake Festival or Lantern Festival in Malaysia. It is a celebration of unity when families return to celebrate and give thanks for the year’s bounty. Offerings of their harvest include fruits such as apples, pears, peaches, grapes, pomegranates, melons and pomelos, and cooked or baked foods such as moon cakes and “tang yuen.” Tang yuen is particularly symbolic of this important holiday. It is made of glutinous rice, and it means “round” symbolizing “completeness”. Thus, it means unity and harmony within the family.
 Hong Kong - The Mid-autumn Festival is a charming and colorful holiday in Hong Kong. People go to high vantage points such as the Victoria Peak to light their brightly-colored lanterns and watch the huge autumn moon rise while eating their moon cakes. Public parks are ablaze with thousands of awe-inspiring lanterns in all colors, sizes and shapes. The lantern carnivals and lantern exhibitions over Hong Kong have become a major tourist attraction during this time every year.
