KDB invites underprivileged kids over to Seoul
The Korea Development Bank (KDB) invited children living in remote areas over to the capital city of Seoul from May 15-18 to enjoy unique cultural experiences.
 A visiting squad from Uiryeong-gun, South Gyeongsang Province, was composed of 35 students and 6 teachers from Nakseo, Gungnyu and Yugok Elementary Schools.
 The KDB’s social contribution activities are divided into four categories, which are named “Love for Neighbors,” “Love for Education,” “Love for Culture” and “Love for Farming Villages.” These activities were started in 1985 and have continued ever since.
 The invitation program of May falls into the “Love for Education” group and is designed to give young people hopes and dreams, said the bank official.
 During the tour program, about 30 students who are fifth and sixth graders visited the KDB headquarters and went on to visit Changgyeonggung, the 63 Building in Yeouido, the presidential office of Cheong Wa Dae and the theme park Everland in Yongin.
 Through the program, which also stopped at the War Memorial of Korea in Yongsan and took in a performance of the musical “Jump,” KDB hopes to resolve the problem of cultural inequality between regions and social classes and to encourage young aspirants to follow their dreams, a bank official said.
 Other than the cultural tour program, KDB also provides economic education for children helped by the non-profit education organization JA (Junior Achievement) Korea.
 The economic education program kicked off in 2003, and until 2011 a total of 141 volunteer workers have provided students from 73 schools with classes on the market economy, business administration and more. The program is said to help children develop a pioneer spirit, instill moral values and contribute to community development in general.
 The elementary school students in the program receive education on general knowledge about economy, society, business, entrepreneurship and various jobs in plain language, while middle- and high-school students have classes on tougher topics, such as financial management and successful career paths.
 In 2008, KDB hosted an economic education camp for 62 children who are North Korean defectors. University students joined the camp as mentors and helped the kids understand the market economy and the job market.
 KDB has also run its scholarship program since 2006. In the first year alone, 198 million won in scholarships was handed to 126 students. The total amount of scholarship delivered as of 2011 amounts to 2.7 billion won.
