Yellow dust level in Seoul record low
Spring is notorious for its vulnerability to yellow dust that blows from China; but this year seems to be a delightful exception from the ritual as there has been no sign of this unwelcome visitor.
 Even when there was a report of yellow dust in the northern part of China on May 14, the impact on the Korean Peninsula was meager at the most. It was first time in 18 years that there was no yellow dust warning in the spring time in South Korea, according to Jeon Youngshin, a researcher at National Institute of Meteorological Research. Jeon takes care of the nation’s yellow dust problem.
 “In order for yellow dust to reach Korea, a strong Northwest wind is necessary, but this year a warmer Southwestern wind overwhelmed the former and the infamous dust died away to the border of North Korea-China and Russia,” he claimed.
 This year, thanks to municipal government’s anti air-pollution efforts, Seoul’s average fine dust level fell even more, to a record low.
 For 52 days from the first four months of 2012, Seoul’s air quality was similar to that of Jeju Island, the nation’s southern island known for its pollution-free, clean environment. The number was four more days of clean air than during the same period last year, government officials noted.
 During the period, the average concentration level of dust particles in the Metropolitan area was 52 micrograms per cubic meter, the lowest level since 1995 when the first test was read at 78 micrograms per cubic meter. In 2003, the level jumped up to 79 micrograms per cubic meter.
 “The gradual reduction of dust density in the area was driven by the city’s efforts to bring about clean air and less yellow dust blowing from China,” the Seoul Metropolitan Government remarked.
 To elevate air quality, the government has doubled the number of road cleaning observances and taken a stricter management of air pollutants near construction areas. It also replaced the city buses’ fuel from diesel to compressed natural gas and plans to increase the number of electric and hybrid buses in the city.
