600th anniversary of Joan of Arc
France recently celebrated the 600th birthday of its beloved national heroine and Roman Catholic Saint - Joan of Arc. In the city of Orleans, festivities went on for two weeks featuring locals in medieval attire reenacting Joan of Arc’s famous entry into the city in 1429. Portraits of Joan of Arc through the ages, made by 600 contemporary artists from all over the world, were projected on the City Hall, and a sound and light show was projected on the city’s Gothic cathedral to celebrate her life. Joan of Arc remains a national symbol of France, and her life and heroic deeds have been immortalized in plays, poems, operas, books, theaters and films.
 Joan of Arc was born in 1412 to a peasant family in a village in what is now eastern France. She grew up in a tumultuous period in French history - during the Hundred Years’ War between France and England, and an internal war between the “Orleanist” and the “Armagnac” factions of the French royal family. At age 12 she began to experience visions of verbal communications and visible figures of saints and angels. She identified these visions as Archangel Saint Michael, Saint Catherine of Alexandria, and Saint Margaret of Antioch, who told her to drive out the English and bring the Dauphin (the heir apparent to the throne of France) to Reims for his coronation.
 In 1428, the 16-year-old Joan of Arc acted on one of the visions that called for her to go to the local commander at Vaucouleurs to obtain an escort to take her to the royal court at Chinon. After impressing King Charles VII during a private conference, Joan of Arc asked for and was granted permission to travel with the army and wear the equipment of a knight. She immediately set upon the task of reforming the undisciplined and demoralized French army. Upon her arrival at the siege of Orléans on April 29, 1429, she led successive strikes against English fortresses over the objections of Jean d‘Orléans, the cautious acting leader of the Orléans family. Under her remarkable leadership, the half-year long siege of Orléans was lifted in only 9 days.
 After the successful campaign at Orléans, Joan of Arc convinced Charles VII to take an army north to Reims to be crowned, as custom dictated. It was a bold proposal and a monumental task because Reims lay deep within enemy-held territory. The royal army marched victoriously; inflicting crushing defeats on the English troops while forging alliances, coercing concessions and accepting surrenders from cities alone the way. On July 16, 1429, Reims opened its gates to the French royal army, and the coronation of King Charles VII took place the following morning. During the ceremony, Joan of Arc stood near Charles, holding her banner. 
In April, 1430, Joan of Arc went to Compiègne to help defend the city against an English and Burgundian siege. Her troops were ambushed by Burgundian forces at Margny, and she was taken prisoner. After a few months in captivity, she was put on trial for heresy at Rouen, the seat of the British occupation government. The trial featured serious deviations from lawful procedures, including illegally altered transcripts and the denial of her right to a legal adviser. In the end, she was convicted on the cross-dressing charge, pronounced a “relapsed heretic” and sentenced to death. On May 30, 1431, she was tied to a pillar above an on-looking crowd, set on fire, and burned to death. Joan of Arc was only 19 years old. Witness accounts said that many of the judges and even English officials and soldiers were reduced to tears in the end. 
After the war ended, Pope Callixtus III authorized a posthumous retrial. Joan of Arc was cleared of all charges against her and declared “a martyr unjustly executed for a secular vendetta.” She was beatified in 1909 and canonized as a saint in 1920. 
