Big wave surfing
Guinness World Records, the record-keeping agency that tracks human achievements and extremes of the natural world, recently acknowledged 44-year-old pro surfer Garrett McNamara of Hawaii for setting a new world record by surfing a 78-foot (23.8-meter) wave off the coast of Portugal. Video of the record-setting run showed McNamara against a towering wall of water roughly the height of a nine-story building as he began riding down the wave at Praia do Norte. He briefly disappeared into the break about 10 seconds into the run, then sped up and re-emerged from the roaring wave‘s tube as the huge swell dissipated. 　 
The spot where McNamara surfed into the record books is above an undersea canyon known as one of the biggest wave-generators in the world. Ironically, he didn’t even want to surf that day because he felt physically beat-up after wiping out several times on bigger waves there. To certify and authenticate the record ride, judges examined the video footage and high-resolution still images, using McNamara’s height (178cm) in a crouch and the length of his shin bone to help compare it to the wave‘s top and bottom, to calculate a more accurate estimate. For his magical ride, McNamara was awarded $15,000 at the Billabong XXL Global Big Wave Awards.
 Big wave surfing is every bit as thrilling and dangerous as it looks. It is an extreme form of surfing in which surfers, usually highly skilled and well-experienced, paddle into or are towed by personal water craft onto waves which are at least 20 feet (6.2 m) high on surfboards known as “guns” or “rhino chasers.” In order to surf big waves, a larger and longer board (up to 12 feet) is necessary. Although a big board affords surfers more stability during the ride, it tends to limit maneuverability and speed. The introduction of “tow in surfing” – using jet skis to tow surfers in to huge waves –- allows riders to use 7-foot boards (2.1 meters) to challenge waves of 50 feet (15.5 meters) and higher. 
In most forms of surfing, a “wipeout” means a surfer falls off, or is knocked off, the surfboard when riding a wave. It is a frequent occurrence and every surfer must learn to deal with it in order to avoid injuries. However, in a big wave wipeout, a breaking wave can push a surfer down 20 to 50 feet (6.2 meters to 15.5 meters) below the surface onto a jagged reef or the ocean floor. A surfer in this situation must quickly regain his or her equilibrium and has approximately 20 seconds to get to the surface before the next wave crashes down. When a surfer is pinned below the water surface by two or more waves, it can result in punctured eardrums, severe injuries and even death. 
Big wave surfers are generally regarded as larger-than-life, care-free, and fearless thrill seekers. They travel the globe seeking the biggest and the best waves for that elusive “ultimate ride.” George Downing, Wally Froiseth, Woody Brown and Buzzy Trent are considered pioneers of big wave surfing. They were the first to take on the big waves at Makaha, Hawaii in the 1940’s and 1950’s. Laird Hamilton, the co-inventor of “tow in surfing,” is a legend in the big wave surfing circle. He has conquered some of the world’s most treacherous big wave surfing spots, including the fearsome Teahupo’o in Tahiti. Mark Foo was a professional surfer of exceptional talent, courage, and enthusiasm. He is often credited with elevating the appeal and popularity of big wave surfing. He lost his life in a surfing accident at Mavericks, a big wave surf location in Northern California. 
 Some of the best spots to catch big wave surfers in action are: Banzai Pipeline - North Shore, Oahu, Hawaii; Mavericks - Northern California; Peahi/Jaws – North Shore, Maui, Hawaii; Praia do Norte - Portugal; and Teahupo’o - Tahiti.
