A closer look at some of the world’s ugliest buildings
Sharp Centre for Design; Toronto, Canada
 The Sharp Centre for Design was designed by acclaimed British architect, Will Alsop, in a joint venture with the Toronto-based firm, Robbie/Young+Wright Architects Inc. 
Completed in September 2004, the Sharp Centre for Design is named after the lead benefactors Rosalie and Isadore Sharp. The building features a unique, black and white “table top” structure that has quickly become an exciting architectural landmark of Toronto. It has received numerous international awards, including being one of six buildings honored with the first-ever Royal Institute of British Architects Worldwide Award on June 16, 2004. 
 Aoyama Technical College; Shibuya, Japan
 Located in Shibuya, one of the main sub-centers of Tokyo, the Aoyama Technical College was designed by Watanabe Sei. Considered a great example of post-modern architecture, the building features sharp angles and contrasting colors and shapes. 
Described on the school’s website as representing a “new order … through the tolerance of chaos,” the building is made to resemble a metallic insect, though many have expressed that it looks like one of the robots of the Gundam series, a popular science fiction anime and video game. 
 Geisel Library; University of California, San Diego, CA
 Named in honor of Audrey and Theodor Seuss Geisel (Dr. Seuss), the Geisel Library is the main library building on campus. It was designed in the late 1960s by William Pereira. 
As one of the most recognizable building on campus, the library first opened in 1970 as the Central Library. It was later renamed the “Geisel Library” in 1995. The building features 8 above-ground floors and two subterranean levels. Interestingly, there is no third floor because the building’s design did not take the weight of books into consideration when it was built. Instead, the “missing” third floor is simply reinforced concrete and an emergency exit. 
 The Pixel Building; Melbourne, Australia
 The Pixel Building is unique in that it is the first carbon neutral office building of its type. The $6 million, four-story office block was described as “truly the office of the future and one of the most sustainable buildings in the world,” by Grocon CEO Daniel Grollo. 
The Pixel Building achieved the highest Green Star score ever awarded by the Green Building Council of Australia when it finally opened in 2010. The most important feature of the building would be its carbon neutrality. In fact, Grollo assured that any carbon used in the building’s construction and ongoing operation would be offset by its use of renewable solar and wind energy. 
