Lily Collins, heroine in ‘Mirror Mirror’
Lily Jane Collins, Snow White in “Mirror Mirror,” a comedy fantasy film based on the fairy tale is a rising starlet in Hollywood.
 Lily Collins was born in March 18, 1989 in Guildford, England and is the daughter of English musician Phil Collins and Jill Tavelman, who is the president of the Beverly Hills’ Women’s Club. Collins has two half siblings -- Joely Collins, who is also an actress and Simon Collins, a musician. 
 She first started acting at the age of two by appearing in the BBC series, “Growing Pains.” Lily Collins lived in England until the age of five and moved to Los Angeles and graduated from Harvard-Westlake School. 
 As a teenager, Collins has been active in the media world, by contributing to several fashion magazines, including Elle Girl, Seventeen, Teen Vogue, and the Los Angeles Times.
 After making a noticeable TV appearance in the show “90210,” she starred in the 2009 film “The Blind Side” as the daughter of Sandra Bullock. 
 All the expectations of the film industry have been showering on her shoulders lately. In 2008, Spain’s Glamour magazine named her as the “International model of the year” and she made the cover of the magazine in August next year. 
 In 2009, she was named one of “The Hottest Daughters of Rock Stars” by Maxim magazine and MTV Networks’ NextMovie.com placed her one of the “Breakout Stars to Watch For” in 2011.
 “She has an adorable, sensational, almost perfect face for cinema; think Audrey Hepburn with the eyebrows of Liam Gallagher. Her smile is the Platonic ideal of cheeky,” wrote a reporter at British newspaper The Telegraph. 
 She currently studies broadcast journalism at the University of Southern California and is set to star in the film adaptation of the New York Times bestselling novel, “The Mortal Instruments,” playing 16-year-old Clary Fray.
 From her latest role in “Mirror Mirror,” Collins played alongside Julia Roberts, who played Clementianna, Snow White’s evil step-mother. Jealous Clementianna exiles Snow White but the courageous princess wins back her kingdom with the help of seven dwarfs. 
