Reading the book is better than watching the movie
Pro-
 I prefer reading the books to watching the movies.
 Nowadays there are a lot of film versions of bestseller fantasy or science fiction novels released in theaters worldwide. There are "Harry Potter," "Twilight," the "Hunger Games," and "The Lord of The Rings," to name a few. 
 Thanks to these box office hits, people get to know about these brilliant pieces of writing. Yet, in my opinion, reading the book, instead of watching the movie is a much wiser choice when it comes to truly enjoying the piece. 
 This is because; the book is the original piece which contains the true, accurate message of the writing. It entails the lesson the creator intends to convey through his writing to its readers. 
 However, the movie versions of the books tend to miss the core message as they often alter the story by dramatizing; exaggerating certain parts of the plot or leave out some important components of the story. 
 This is done just for the sake of getting as many people as possible to come and see the film. Therefore, the movies risk changing the true message of the story and with that, the quality of the art can be subdued. 
 So in order to grasp the creator’s original message, I prefer reading the book to the movie.
 Con-
 I believe watching the movie is better than reading the book.
 The latest trend in the Korean publishing industry is that books made into movies make the nation’s bestseller list. This is especially so when these book-version films become major box office hits. These include “Dogani,” “Gabi,” “Eungyo,” and “Helpless.” 
Following the films’ success, the public’s attention crosses to the original piece of writing. This is how sales of the books that were released as movies in advance have greatly increased. 
 To many people, watching a movie is more entertaining than reading a book. Everyone likes watching movies but not as many people like to read. Watching movies is fun, exciting and offers a great entertainment but books are tend to be more serious, and a bit boring.
 So people can get to know about the novel through a less difficult and more approachable form of art, such as movies, and later move on to reading the original work. That way they can fully enjoy and build a greater understanding of the piece. Movies in that sense can also help people develop a habit of reading.
 This is why I prefer watching the movie to reading the book.
Breakthrough in study holds promise for heart attack patients
In the first step toward developing a new therapy for those suffering from heart damage, scientists have recently been successful in turning skin tissue from heart attack patients into “fresh, beating heart cells,” The Guardian reported. 
“This technology needs to be refined before it can be used for the treatment of patients with heart failure, but these findings are encouraging and take us a step closer to our goal of identifying an effective means of repairing the heart and limiting the consequences of heart failure,” Nicholas Mills, a consultant cardiologist at Edinburgh University, was quoted as saying in The Guardian. 
Creating new heart cells from a patient’s own tissues lowers the risk of them being rejected by the immune system after transplant. 
