Landmark elections take place in Egypt
Polls across Egypt closed May 24 as the vote counting began for their first-ever democratically-elected president. 
“Today [May 24], the Egyptian people concluded a historic two days of voting in the first round of their presidential election, marking another important milestone in their transition to democracy,” U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in a statement released by her spokesperson. 
After decades of pre-determined results under Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year rule, countless Egyptians took to the polls to choose from 12 candidates in the historic presidential election. As the final phase of a tumultuous transition since Mubarak was overthrown in 2011, the novelty of a free and fair election has left thousands of voters brimming with excitement. 
“This is the first time that I vote in my entire life. I didn’t take part in past elections because we knew who would be president. This is the first time we don’t know,” Mohamed Mustafa, a 52-year-old engineer in Cairo’s Zamalek district was quoted as saying by Reuters. 
The ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF), a body of 20 senior officers in the Egyptian military that came into power after the revolution in 2011, has been the driving force behind voter participation during the election.
 “The participation of citizens in the presidential election is the best guarantee of the transparency and security of the electoral process,” Mohammed al-Assar, a member of the SCAF, was quoted as saying by state news agency MENA.
 “We will not allow any violation or (attempt) to influence the electoral process or the voters,” he added, saying that any violation would be treated “firmly and decisively.”
 Regardless of who gets elected, the next president will face numerous hardships upon taking office. Not only are his powers yet to be defined by a new constitution, but the next president will be inheriting a “struggling economy, deteriorating security and the challenge of uniting a nation divided by the uprising and its sometimes deadly aftermath,” AFP reported.
 Official government announcements regarding the results of the first round were made on May 29. The next round of voting is planned for June 16-17. 
