Seoul to hold more legal jurisdiction over U.S. troops
The U.S. military stationed in Korea agreed on May 23 to hand over greater legal jurisdiction to its host nation in matters regarding crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in Korea. 
 The agreement was struck during a regular bilateral meeting between the two allies, just nine months after two U.S. soldiers were charged with raping South Korean teenage girls.
 According to local media reports, the renewed Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), which defines the legal status of U.S. troops here in Korea, will offer South Korean law enforcement more leverage over the handling of U.S. military personnel accused of serious crimes such as murder or rape and take custody of the suspect.
 It will also remove a contentious clause in the bilateral agreement that stipulates that Korean prosecutors must indict a U.S. Army suspect within 24 hours of taking them into custody, or release them. The clause was criticized for giving too much legal protection to U.S. troops.
 “In cases of serious crime, it is unrealistic for a prosecutor to indict a suspect within 24 hours,” a senior Foreign Ministry official noted. He confirmed that the new agreement would grant Korean law enforcement officials sturdier investigative powers in serious criminal cases involving U.S. military staff. 
 The latest Korea-U.S. SOFA meeting was led by Lee Baek-soon, the director-general of the Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, and Lt. Gen. Jan-Marc Jouas, the deputy commander of the U.S. Forces Korea, said the Yonhap News report.
 Currently there are about 28,500 U.S Forces stationed in Korea. The Status of Forces Agreement covers military operational issues such as the locations of bases and access to facilities and is concerned with the legal issues associated with military individuals and property. 
 Among the most contentious issues are civil and criminal jurisdictions over bases and personnel, especially regarding crimes committed by U.S. service members in the host nation.
