Facebook’s historic day of initial public offering
Facebook, which fueled the worldwide cultural phenomenon of social networking, raised $16 billion on May 19, the day it went public on the Nasdaq Stock Market. In just a few years, Facebook has grown into a social networking sensation that brought nearly 900 million people worldwide together. 
 Thanks to its initial public offering (IPO), now Facebook is valued at $104 billion in the global stock market. Being traded under the symbol of “FB,” its stock was priced much higher than expected at $38 per share.
 Its valuation was the third-highest IPO, worth more than global giants such as Amazon.com, Kraft, Walt Disney and McDonald’s, reported AP. So far only two Chinese banks -- Agricultural Bank of China with $133 billion in 2010 and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China with $132 billion in 2006 -- were valued more highly in IPOs.
 The higher-than-anticipated valuation has stunned skeptics, who took note of the company’s disappointing growth over the past years. 
 “There seems to be somewhat of a hype around the [Facebook’s] stock offering,” one market analyst claimed. In fact, it did not take long before its stock price fell -- to $34 on May 21 and to $31 on May 22.
 On the first day of IPO, Zuckerberg put up about 30 million company shares for sale. Yet, he remains as the largest shareholder of the company he co-founded eight years ago in his college dormitory room. He holds roughly 28.4 percent of its total shares along with 56.9 percent of the company’s voting power. 
 Zuckerberg’s personal wealth was updated at more than $19.1 billion and is officially one of the 30 richest people in the world.
 With the money raised, Facebook would be able to invest more money to upgrade its services and hire top-notch computer engineers to enhance its programs at Facebook’s engineering office in Menlo Park, California, which opened last year.
 In the first three months of this year, Facebook’s net income was $205 million with a total revenue of $1.06 billion. 
 The latest Silicon Valley prodigy, just like his mentor Steve Jobs, has a trademark fashion statement: plain hoodies. Contrary to the abundant media frenzy over his networking site Facebook, he has managed to maintain low profile from the public spotlight, to the point he seems reluctant to reveal himself.
 The 28-year-old, the face of Facebook, has recently updated his relationship status on his Facebook page to “married” after tying the knot with his long time Chinese-American girlfriend, Priscilla Chan. 
 The couple met at a school party at Harvard and began dating in 2003. At home, they have a Hungarian Puli dog, named “Beast” which, to no surprise, has its own Facebook page. 
 Even though Zuckerberg is one of the youngest billionaires in the world, his life-style is far from that of extravagance. Only recently, he purchased his own house in California, reportedly worth $7 million -- a modest price for his fancy neighborhood. And the wedding ceremony held at Zuckerberg’s backyard in Palo Alto, California on May 19 was so low-key that even the couples’ friends misconstrued it as a party celebrating Chan’s graduation from medical school at the University of California, San Francisco, and her receipt of an M.D. degree as a pediatrician.
 “Facebook was not originally created to be a company, but it was built to accomplish a social mission: to make the world more open and connected,” Zuckerberg wrote before the day of IPO. 
 According to Kirkpatrick who wrote the book on Facebook, “Zuckerberg is a true genius who understands how, in a new age, people and computers can interact.” 
 On his own Facebook page, Zuckerberg put his personal interests as “openness, making things that help people connect and share what’s important to them, revolutions, information flow, minimalism”
