Eco-friendly motor show in Busan
The internationally acclaimed Busan motor show ended on June 3, with various environmentally friendly cars having been promoted.
 The motor show, which kicked off on May 24 was held this time under the theme of “The Voyage of the Green Car Across the Ocean.”
 The biennial Busan motor show has played a pivotal role in fueling the development of the domestic automobile industry and contributed greatly to building the competitive global reputation of Korean automobiles, says Hur Nam-sik, Mayor of Busan Metropolitan City.
 The local motor show which commenced in 2001, has grown tremendously over the past decade. For the decade ahead, Busan International Motor Show (BIMOS) is preparing an ambitious voyage full of new challenges, Hur said.
 The show was hosted by Busan Metropolitan City and was held at both the indoor and outdoor exhibition halls of BEXCO. It was supported by several government offices, including Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Land, Transportation and Maritime Affairs.
 What drew attention to the international automobile fair was its unique theme representing global environmental protection. The auto convention featured environmentally friendly vehicles reflecting the “green-car” trend in Korean automobile industry.
 For one, Hyundai Motor Co. unveiled “Avante MD EV,” which is capable of running purely on an eclectic power system at up to 145 kilometers per hour. It can top 180 kilometers when fully charged.
 Hyundai also caught viewers‘ attention by introducing IT control system Bluelink. By accessing a smartphone app at home, customers can locate, unlock and start their cars if they are parked nearby. Drivers can also turn on the air conditioner, send directions to the car’s navigators and receive text messages when people try to break into or damage the car.
 German automaker BMW also introduced five models, stressing their energy efficiency and emission reductions. Its “ActiveHybrid 5” is the company’s first sedan equipped with an electric motor and an engine. Able to cover about 4 kilometers without using the combustion engine, the hybrid car boasts power-efficiency of 14.2-15.6 kilometers per liter and low carbon dioxide emissions of 149-163 grams per kilometer. 
Car experts judged that the 2012 BIMOS event enhanced people’s awareness of the futuristic automobile market with a multitude of fuel-saving vehicles being introduced in Korea.
