The place where world taekwondo athletes will gather
The national sport of Korea, taekwondo, is not only practiced in Korea but also enjoyed by more than 70 million people around the globe.
 Such global fans of taekwondo are expected to flock to Muju of North Jeolla Province to see a global taekwondo park from 2013.
 The “Taekwondowon” which was named by the Taekwondo Promotion Foundation (www.tpf.kr) is scheduled to open in the Muju region next year, and will work as the hub of taekwondo education, training and international exchanges, according to the foundation.
 Taekwondowon will be a complex where taekwondo-related facilities are gathered to achieve the optimal goal of “One World Through Taekwondo,” the foundation explains.
 The name also contains the symbolic meaning of “Mu-Rueng-Do-Won (Shangri-La)” or utopia.
 The training and educational facility will include a Taekwondo Hall of Fame, a World Culture Village, a 5,000-seat arena, training centers and lodging facilities on a site of 23,000 square meters.
 A groundbreaking ceremony took place on Taekwondo Day on Sept. 4, 2009 and the taekwondo park is to be completed in two phases, the first phase by 2013 and the rest by 2018.
 The entire project, backed by public and private funds, is expected to cost around 236 billion won.
 When complete it is expected to provide practitioners of the sport with a place to gather and hone their bodies, spirits and minds, said the foundation.
 “What sets taekwondo apart from some other modern sports is that it preaches the importance of moral values and respect for elders. For practitioners of the sport, it is not merely important to be a good athlete but also to develop into a well-rounded person with outstanding moral values,” a high-ranking official from the foundation said of the core values of the sport.
 While known as a sport that has been dominated by Korean athletes at international events in the past, taekwondo has consistently grown over the years in other places around the world.
 Taekwondowon is expected to be completed within a year, and the prospects of the sport will further blossom with the passage of time, the Taekwondo Promotion Foundation said.
