Korean-American overcomes difficult childhood
A Korean-American in his late 30s shared his troubled childhood and triumphs later on in Seoul in May.
 Yul Kwon, the Yale Law School graduate and 2006 winner of U.S. reality television game show “Survivor,” said he had a severe mental disorder when young and was the target of bullying.
 He said this at a press conference in Seoul where he promoted his recently published book “I Evolve Every Day.”
 The successful second-generation Korean said he wanted to tell people that he also struggles in life.
 “My hope is that the young people will read my book will understand they are not alone if they are struggling, that they can change and be happy.”
 He had to wash his hands twenty times a day - sometimes until they bled - due to his severe obsessive compulsive disorder and was often bullied severely by fellow students, Kwon confessed.
 He added that he was ashamed of himself for looking different from the caucasian kids in the neighborhood.
 Then, he started to change himself with the help of two close Asian-American friends who seemed to stand up for themselves against all forms of prejudice.
 Fighting aginst his difficult childhood, Kwon entered Stanford University. Again he moved on to Yale Law School and worked as an editor for the Yale Law Journal. 
Before he became the first winner of Asian ethnicity of “Survivor,” Kwon worked in such various fields as law, government and technology.
 Kwon worked at two law firms - Venture Law Group and Harris, and Wiltshire & Grannis. He also worked as a legislative aide to U.S. Senator Joseph Lieberman in Washington, D.C. He worked in Google’s business strategy group and served as a management consultant for McKinsey & Company.
 Quite recently, he hosted “America Revealed,” a documentary series of the U.S. Public Broadcasting Service (PBS).
 As to why he wanted to host the program, he said he thought that was a great opportunity to improve the profile and image of Korean-Americans in the U.S.
 Kwon is currently married to Sophie Tan, a Taiwanese American, and they welcomed their first daughter, Genevie, in 2010.
