Depp and Burton return in ‘Dark Shadows’
The enigmatic Johnny Depp has returned to the big screen with “Dark Shadows,” a horror/comedy flick based on the 1960s U.S. television gothic series of the same name.
 Starring alongside Helena Bonham Carter (who played Bellatrix Lestrange in the “Harry Potter” series), Eva Green and Michelle Pfeiffer, “Dark Shadows” is Depp’s eighth collaboration with director and close friend, Tim Burton.
 Depp’s character in “Dark Shadows” is reminiscent of his role as Captain Jack Sparrow in the “Pirates of the Caribbean” series; highly entertaining in his clueless demeanor and deadpan humor. 
In “Dark Shadows,” Depp plays Barnabas Collins, a rich playboy-turned-vampire who is accidentally disinterred after 200 years of imprisonment. The story begins when Collins is just a boy. His parents move from Liverpool, England in 1752 to start a new life in America and escape from a mysterious curse that has plagued the family. 
Two decades later, Collins is older but not wiser. As the master of Collinwood Manor, a pompous Collins is rich, powerful and a lifelong playboy who bites off more than he can chew when he breaks the heart of Angelique Bouchard (Eva Green). 
The scorned Bouchard turns out to be a witch, who takes revenge by turning Collins into a vampire and burying him alive; a fate worse than death.
 Two centuries later, Collins is accidentally freed from his imprisonment to find his once-majestic home in ruins and his dysfunctional descendants in need of protection. 
 Tim Burton Biography:
 Famous for his quirky-themed movies, Tim Burton is a celebrated American film director, producer, writer and artist. 
Graduated from California Institute of the Arts in 1979, Burton has become one of the most famous Hollywood directors of his time. 
In fact, Burton has achieved a cult status thanks to his eccentric style and popular movies including, “Beetlejuice” (1988), “Edward Scissorhands” (1990), “The Nightmare Before Christmas” (1993), “Sleepy Hollow” (1999), “Planet of the Apes” (2001), “Corpse Bride” (2005), “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” (2005) and “Alice in Wonderland” (2010).
