Egypt, the land of the Pharaohs
Fresh off of a turbulent year of revolution and subsequent transition into democracy, Egypt has been in the news more than ever. Unfortunately, not all of the attention has been positive on the land described by Lonely Planet as having given birth to the first great civilization. 
In light of the recent step toward democracy demonstrated by the Egyptians (see WORLD article on page 4), let’s take a moment to look at some of the most famous and beautiful tourist destinations in the land of the Pharaohs. 
 Cairo
 The capital city of Egypt is undoubtedly a popular tourist destination, with its mixture of modernization barely superimposed on a backdrop of ancient history. 
Although the city may be overwhelming at first, the beautiful architecture, world-class museums and riverside restaurants more than make up for the disorienting chaos that is Cairo. A highlight of Cairo is walking along the famed Nile river. 
For a glimpse of the more recent past, Lonely Planet suggests wandering through the dust, decrepit glamour of Garden City. It is a labyrinth of crumbling 19th and early 20th century mansions found just south of the now-infamous Tahrir Square. 
 Luxor
 Built around the 4,000-year-old site of ancient Thebes, the city of Luxor is described by Lonely Planet as “an eccentric combination of provincial town and staggering ancient splendor.” 
Lined with opulent burial chambers and some of the most formidable monuments in archaeological history, Luxor houses some of the most popular and must-see sights. 
They include, the Luxor Temple, Karnak Temple, Mummification Museum, Valley of the Kings, Valley of the Queens, Medinet Habu (memorial temple of Ramses III), and more. 
 Giza Necropolis 
You haven’t been to Egypt unless you’ve stood at the base of the Pyramids of Giza. As the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the World, the three bigger pyramids are a wonder to behold. 
Located in the Giza Necropolis, the Pyramids of Giza consist of the Great Pyramid of Giza, the somewhat smaller Pyramid of Khafre, and the relatively modest-sized Pyramid of Menkaure.
 Also found in the Giza Necropolis is none other than the mysterious Great Sphinx. 
Although the current consensus amongst Egyptologists is that the head of the Great Sphinx is that of Khafre, it has been the source of much debate in regards to its origins and identity since its discovery. 
