Mark Zuckerberg, genius who changed world of networking
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, was born on May 14, 1984 in White Plains, New York. 
 He grew up in the New York suburb of Dobbs Ferry with his three sisters, Randi, Donna, and Arielle and he is the son of Karen Zuckerberg, who was a psychiatrist, and Edward Zuckerberg, a dentist. He was raised a Jewish when he was young, but today he describes himself as an atheist.
 Zuckerberg began using computers as a child and writing software in middle school. At the age of 10, he developed computer programs, games and communication tools.
 When he was a high school student, he built a music player called the “Synapse Media Player” that automatically developed personalized music playlists. Zuckerberg enrolled at Harvard University in September 2002. In his sophomore year at Harvard, he wrote a program called “CourseMatch,” which allowed students to choose classes based on other students suggestions and to form study groups at campus.
 Soon, he created another computer program named “Facemash.” With it, students at Harvard ranked their classmates by the level of their cuteness. According to his roommate at the time, Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg created the site purely “for fun.” 
 However, the popularity of “Facemash” went overboard and ended up preventing students from accessing the Harvard’s Internet server. And the site had to be shut down immediately.
 Then on Feb. 4, 2004, he launched the “Facebook” at his Harvard dorm room.
 It seems that his ultimate life-long mission would be to “make the world open.”
 After leaving Harvard in the summer of his sophomore year, he went on to Silicon Valley to develop Facebook in earnest. In the process, he garnered venture funding from Peter Thiel, one of the founders of “PayPal.”
 “I want to take the fact that transparency and sharing are the future,” Zuckerberg once noted.
 Mark Zuckerberg was named one of the 100 most influential people of the world in 2009 and in 2010 he was honored as Time magazine’s Person of the Year. He was listed as one of the 100 most influential people of the world in 2011 by Time.
