Arbor Day should be kept as a national holiday
Pro-
 If Arbor Day were to be a national holiday, everyone would have no choice but to be aware of its existence and purpose. It would help push more people to plant trees, or at the very least, be aware of the role that trees play in global climate change. 
 Countless studies conducted by scientists have shown that our careless pollution and rising greenhouse gas emission levels have caused an exponential spike on Earth’s temperature. In fact, our greenhouse gas emissions levels have skyrocketed in the past century, thanks to rising levels of consumerism. 
 Aside from abolishing cars and shutting down all factories and power plants, the best way to combat our excessive greenhouse gas emissions is to plant more trees. Tree-planting has long been believed to be the best weapon against climate change, especially given its function of absorbing carbon dioxide and turning it into oxygen. 
 Since Arbor Day is all about planting trees and going green, I believe it plays a significant role in saving Earth. Raising people’s awareness of the effects of pollution is important in our war against pollution, and the first step toward victory is to make Arbor Day a national holiday.
 Con-
Arbor Day should be kept as a national holiday
 I think that Arbor Day shouldn’t be kept as a national holiday.
 This is because, to begin with, it is very likely that people will not spend the day as it supposed to be used, for example, by planting trees and participating in environmentally friendly activities. 
 Most people will end up using the day vainly by sleeping throughout the day, or going out with friends and family and possibly doing activities that might actually polluting the environment, instead of cleaning it. So in my view, we should not have a meaningless holiday as it is waste of time, money and resources for the country as a whole.
 Moreover, I think that keeping Hangeul Day, the day that celebrates the Korean alphabet, is much more urgent than making Arbor Day a national holiday of Korea. Both of these days were holidays in the past but now they are no longer celebrated. 
 It seems as if their significance has been diminished due to the decision. What a pity for the country’s affluent and flourishing culture. If I have to choose one day as Korea’s national holiday, I would pick Hangeul Day over Arbor Day. 
 I don’t see much pressing reason to make Arbor Day a national holiday.
 Arbor Day should be considered a national holiday.
 In today’s world of hyper-consumerism, the risks of over pollution and severe damage to our one and only home planet are at an all-time high. Rather than focusing on the value of material possessions, we should be focusing on planting trees and saving the environment before it is too late. 
