Incheon airport named world’s best for seventh time
South Korea’s Incheon International Airport(IIA) has been named the world’s best airport for the seventh straight year by Airports Council International (ACI), a leading airport organization, said Yonhap News.
 At the awards ceremony held in Singapore on May 24, Incheon took home the Airport Service Quality award, given for world’s top airport. The ACI pointed out that in a 2011 survey on passenger satisfaction, Incheon airport received the highest marks. More than 350,000 passengers from over 200 international airports took part in the survey.
 “The key element of the remarkable success of Incheon was well-concerted collaboration among a large number of airport employees which is the underpinning force behind the superb services,” the organization’s website noted. 
 The announcement of winners was made earlier in February and the runners-up were Singapore’s Changi Airport and Beijing Capital International Airport of China.
 According to its official website, Incheon International Airport brought in 1.5 trillion won of revenue in 2011 with 34 million passengers and 5.6 million transfer passengers traveling in and out of facility. A total of 2.5 million tons of cargo was exchanged through the airport last year.
 Incheon boasts 80,000 hours of accident free, non-stop operation and cutting-edge and environment-friendly operating systems. It says it has also demonstrated a strong sense of responsibility as a member of society, and that its outstanding achievement has a lasting effect on the local communities and the national economy as a whole. 
 It was the airport’s 10th anniversary last year and Lee Chae-wook, president of Incheon International Airport was quoted as saying, “We will march toward the next decade with greater creativity, passion and the vision for the future. With the vision of becoming a leading airport the world over, Incheon International Airport will keep offering the world class services to its customers and make utmost efforts to further strengthen its brand value in the world.” 
