The good, the bad and the 'Wicked’: The untold story of the witches of Oz.
Set to cast a magical spell on the citizens of Korea, the cast of “Wicked” were greeted with a thunderous and well-deserved standing ovation as the cast took its bows during opening night on May 30.
 Since the original Broadway production began in 2003, “Wicked” has gone on to receive numerous international awards as well as inspire international productions. It has also become the 12th longest-running Broadway show in history. To the delight of theater-enthusiasts, “Wicked” began its first Korean season in May 2012. 
Based on Gregory Maguire’s 1995 novel, “Wicked: the Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West,” the story provides a different perspective on the witches in the classic, “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.” It chronicles the life of Elphaba Thropp, an unpopular girl with emerald green skin who later becomes known as the Wicked Witch of the West. Her childhood relationship with Galinda Upland, later known as Glinda the Good Witch of the North, and her own struggles with being misunderstood are the central plots of the musical. 
In short, “Wicked” is the untold story of what happened in Oz long before Dorothy’s house lands and the dark truth behind what makes the Wicked Witch of the West so wicked.
 Especially for those familiar with the story of “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,” “Wicked” promises to be a refreshing yet thought-provoking view on the battle between good and evil.
 Performed by the original cast members of the Australian premier production, “Wicked” is full of spectacular performances and seamless transitions between scenes. The mesmerizing set design, costumes, music and overall talent of the cast are delightful and sure to appeal to people of all ages. 
“Wicked” is being staged at Blue Square in Hannam-dong, Seoul. Tickets are available from 50,000 to 160,000 won. 
For more information, visit www.wickedthemusical.co.kr 
 Jemma Rix as Elphaba
 Currently starring as the feared and misunderstood Elphaba in the Australian touring production of “Wicked,” Jemma Rix was born on the Central Coast of New South Wales, Australia. 
Rix’s history with the “Wicked” production began in 2006, when she was cast as Elphaba in Universal Studios Japan’s condensed 30-minute version of the Broadway musical. Interestingly, Rix was required to perform parts of the show in Japanese. In 2008, Rix was cast as the standby for Elphaba in the Australian premiere of “Wicked,” during which time she had many opportunities to perform the role. After the lead actress announced that she would not be returning to the show due to illness in 2010, the lead role was offered to Rix, who continues to be the first billed Elphaba today. 
 In 2011, Rix was nominated for a Helpmann Award for her portrayal of Elphaba. 
 Suzie Mathers as Glinda 
Born in Aberdeen, Scotland and raised in Perth, Western Australia, Suzie Mathers steps into the role of bubbly and ambitious Glinda in “Wicked.” 
Mathers is a graduate of the internationally renowned Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts (WAAPA). She was cast in the Australian premiere season of “Wicked” in 2007, just weeks after graduating from WAAPA with a Bachelor of Arts in Music Theater. After a year-long stint as the lead role of Sophie Sheridan in the Australian tour of “Mama Mia!” Mathers returned to “Wicked” as an ensemble performer and understudy for the role of Glinda. In a truly fairytale story, three years after returning to “Wicked,” Mathers was offered the lead role of Glinda for the Asian tour of the Australian production.
