Marc Jacobs rumored to be new Creative Director of Dior
On Aug. 23, AP reported that the fashion world is stirred by the news that the U.S.-born designer Marc Jacobs might take over the creative director position at Christian Dior, a mega French fashion house.
 Christian Dior has let go of its long-time creative director, John Galliano after he was embroiled in a lawsuit over allegations that he bombarded a woman in a Paris restaurant with anti-Semitic slurs and made comments praising about Adolf Hitler. Since the controversy, Dior, which has been regarded as the crown of French fashion, faltered. 
Marc Jacobs is among the world’s top designers in the fashion industry. Critics and industry officials alike admired the creativity and talent he has shown at Louis Vuitton as creative director.
 One fashion publication unfolded the rumor on Aug. 23 that management of LVMH, the parent company of Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior, Celine, Givenchy and bunch of other high-end fashion houses, advised him to move to Dior and that a possible deal was in the making.
 The paper also hinted that designer Phoebe Philo of Celine could succeed Marc Jacobs at Louis Vuitton in the case of him leaving. 
“Everyone loves Marc. He’s boundlessly creative. He knows how to assemble and manage an excellent team,” Dana Thomas, a veteran fashion journalist commented. “Having worked with Marc for so long, LVMH knows that there will be no drama at Dior,” she explained. She believes that transferring Marc Jacobs is the safest move by LVMH to save Dior.
 Many designers have also been favored to take the job at Dior; just to name a few, Alber Elbaz of Lanvin, Sarah Burton of Alexander McQueen, Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy.
 Marc Jacobs graduated from Manhattan’s High School of Art and Design and went on to Parsons the New School of Design. While attending Parsons, he was named the design student of the year and started selling his own pieces as students. He launched his own label in 1986, began working at Perry Ellis in 1987 and then got the creative director job at Louis Vuitton in 1997. 
