Controversial foods
Food for humans can be defined as any substance consumed to provide the nutritional support necessary for producing energy, stimulating growth, sustaining the body and maintaining life. The source of food usually includes any plants, animals and marine life containing essential nutrients such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals. Dietary habits and food preferences differ significantly from country to country and culture to culture. What is a preferential food to one culture may be considered a taboo to another. In modern society, the consumption of certain foods has come under close scrutiny due to increasing awareness of sustainability issues, animal welfare concerns and ethical dilemmas. 
 Whale Meat – Whale meat is eaten in Japan, Norway, Iceland and the Arctic in a variety of ways: raw as sashimi, cured or marinated, or dried and made into jerky. Whaling, the hunting of whales mainly for meat and oil, is a practice that dates back to at least 3000 B.C.  Modern whaling is done solely for food, despite claims by certain nations that it is for “scientific research.”  Many whale species have been hunted to the brink of extinction until the International Whaling Commission banned commercial whaling worldwide in 1986; however, there are many loopholes that allow the practice to continue. 
 Foie Gras - Foie gras, French for “fat liver,” is made from the liver of a duck or goose that has been specially fattened. It is a signature delicacy in French cuisine famous for its rich, buttery flavor and silky texture. The controversy over foie gras is not the liver itself, but the manner in which the ducks and geese are force-fed to enlarge the liver. The practice of “gavage,” or force-feeding, which involves sticking a long tube down the throat of a goose or duck and pumping an unstoppable torrent of feed into the animal, is considered by many as cruel and inhumane. Some U.S. states, including California, have banned foie gras from being served in restaurants.
 Shark Fin - Shark fin soup has been a Chinese delicacy for centuries. It contains shark fin as one of the main ingredients and is traditionally served at banquets for weddings and other important occasions. Although shark fin has a chewy texture and is tasteless by itself, it is highly valued for purported health benefits such as improving skin conditions, increasing energy levels, preventing heart disease and lowering cholesterol. Opponents of shark fin consumption point out that the practice known as “live finning”, in which fishermen chop off a shark’s fin and throw the shark back in the water, bloody and injured, is extremely cruel. 
Dog Meat - Human consumption of dog meat dates back to ancient times in many civilizations and still continues today in China, Korea, Vietnam and Switzerland. The controversy over the eating of dog meat has more to do with cultural perception and bias than any other issues. In Western nations, particularly the United States and England, where dogs are viewed as beloved pets, companions, and even family members, Animal Rights groups are particularly vocal in their opposition to the consumption of dog meat. China, perhaps bowing to international pressure, recently drafted legislations to ban the consumption of dog meat. Meanwhile, Korea continues to vigorously defend the practice of dog meat consumption against western criticism. 
 Ortolan Bunting – The Ortolan Bunting is a small bird known as a delicacy in France and western Asia.  The population of the bird is now in decline, and it’s illegal to eat it in some countries.  The preparation of Ortolan is controversial due to its extreme cruelty - a bird is captured alive, blinded, kept in a darkened cage to disrupt its feeding habits, then force-fed to make it swell up to unnaturally large proportions. Afterwards, the bird is drowned in brandy and subsequently roasted for consumption. 
