‘Men in Black’ are back in black!
Alien-fighting, world-saving duo Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones are back in the third installment of sci-fi franchise, “Men in Black.” In a long-awaited return, Will Smith returns as fast-talking, streetwise Agent J (Jay) while Tommy Lee Jones reprises his role as the impassive mentor, Agent K (Kay). 
The blockbuster series began in the 1997, a refreshing deviation from vampire-chasing, ghost-busting comedies of the time. In fact, it is considered by many to be one of the funniest movies of the 1990s. Five years later, “Men in Black II” was released to some lukewarm reviews, before this year’s “Men in Black III.” 
“Men in Black III”
 Now, 10 years later, the third installment of the “Men in Black” series has hit theaters, much to the delight of fans all over the world. In “Men in Black III,” Agents J and K are faced with an alien criminal, Boris the Animal (Jermaine Clement) who escapes from his top-security jail on the moon to get revenge against the person responsible for his imprisonment. Boris decides to use a time travel device to go back to 1969, where he successfully kills a younger Agent K thus rewriting history. The only one to have his original memories intact, Agent J sets out to find a way to reverse what Boris has done. To do this, he too must go back in time and stop Boris from accomplishing his mission. 
 Box Office numbers
 “Men in Black III” grossed a respectable $70 million during its opening weekend in the U.S. With $132 million in overseas revenue, the film’s worldwide total comes to $202 million, which is $48 million less than anticipated. 
The first “Men in Black” film was a smash hit, raking in a total lifetime gross of $589 million worldwide, while the less well received “Men in Black II” made roughly $442 million worldwide. 
 Interestingly…
 There are a total of 13 minutes missing from China’s theatrical release of “Men in Black III.” According to China’s Southern Daily newspaper, certain segments of the movie were cut out by officials because of how it portrays the government’s position on Internet censorship. 
