Shalom!
Known particularly for its ongoing conflicts with the equally religious Palestine, Israel is a nation steeped in history - in particular, Biblical history. With the birthplace of John the Baptist being one of the many sacred landmarks found in Israel, it is rather tragic that the small Middle Eastern nation is so often in the midst of conflict. Fortunately, its history of conflict has done little to deter tourism. 
In fact, tourism, especially religious tourism, is one of Israel’s major sources of income. In 2011, an estimated 3.4 million tourist arrivals were reported - 59.2 percent visiting from Europe, 28.9 percent from the Americas, 7.6 percent from Asia, 2.6 from Africa, 1.3 percent from Oceania and the remaining unknown. 
Some places to check out when visiting Israel:
 Jerusalem
 Capital city of Israel
 Jerusalem is the most-visited city of Israel. As one of the oldest cities in the world, its appeal is not surprising. With its myriad of historical, archaeological and religious attractions, the city is considered holy to the three great Abrahamic religions - Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
 Notable places to visit:
 Via Dolorosa – The sacred path long considered as the final path of Jesus on his way to Calvary, where his crucifixion occurred.
 Israel Museum – This museum holds some of the richest collections of artifacts in the Middle East.
 City of David – Thought to be the location of biblical Jerusalem, it is the oldest settled neighborhood of Jerusalem and a major archaeological site. 
 Galilee
 Large region in northern Israel
 Galilee has long been considered “serious Bible territory,” the Lonely Planet says. It is believed to be the place where Jesus grew up, gathered his disciples and performed many miracles. Traditionally divided into three regions – upper, lower and western – Galilee is full of green valleys, leafy forests and fertile farmland. 
 Notable places to visit:
 “Jesus Trail” – The “Jesus Trail” is a 65 km hiking and pilgrimage route believed to trace the route that Jesus may have walked during his life. 
Acre – A city in the western region of Galilee, Acre (also known as Akko) is a beautifully preserved city of stone, with references to its existence dating back to 14th century B.C. it is one of the oldest continuously inhabited sites in the region. 
