Should euthanasia be legal?
Pro-
 I agree with the move to make euthanasia legal.
 First, euthanasia helps patients to be free of pain, and also helps them and their families financially and mentally. For example, say you are a cancer patient. You are receiving cancer treatment, even though you know that it’s just sustaining your life temporarily, and you’ll die in a few months. The treatment is very painful and costs tons of money. In this case, you might want to choose death by some chemical which makes you die without pain, but you can’t because of the current law. Euthanasia is banned in Korea. 
 Second, everyone has right to decide their fate. As people have the right to live, they also have the right to die. Most of all, everyone deserves to die like a human being. Like the example I mentioned above, many patients do not make it despite agonizing treatments, and they will continue till the last moment of their life. I think that hospitals are not making them "live," but allowing patients to maintain a life worse than death. 
 Therefore, I believe that euthanasia should be authorized so that people can end their lives while keeping their dignity.
 On these grounds, I agree with legalizing euthanasia.
 Con-
 I think euthanasia should be banned for good. 
I believe that no person has the right to deliberately end another human being’s life. Life and death is the most natural thing on Earth and no one can or should make this decision, except God. 
 Second, people who support euthanasia argue that the chance to choose between life and death should be given to patients who suffer from unfathomable pain and those who have no hope of surviving. However, I don’t agree with this idea. I believe that in the world we live in there is always a room for hope. Especially when a person desperately wants and prays for something, the power of strong desire and will can and does make miracles from time to time. This miracle can be your father’s or mother’s story, then how can you miss out this invaluable chance of hope and choose to die on your own?　
 Last but not least, I do not believe that people lying with paralyzed limbs and unconscious minds are any less human than we are. Yes, they are sick and no doubt a burden to their family emotionally, physically and financially. They can’t smile back at you, laugh at jokes or have a decent conversation with you. But they can listen and feel your care. Them being alive means that their lives are precious.
