Remembering Tiananmen Square
Thousands gathered on the streets of Hong Kong on June 4 to commemorate the 23rd anniversary of the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown. 
In the only mass commemoration of the event allowed on Chinese soil, organizers announced that a record number of people turned out for the annual vigil. Organizers estimated that 180,000 people showed up to honor those who lost their lives, while police say the figures are closer to 85,000. CNN reports that there were 15,000 more attendees than last year, based on even the most conservative estimates. 
The annual vigil typically features singing, speeches, video messages and tributes. This year, however, a special appearance by Fang Zheng served as the main event. Zheng is a former Tiananmen student protestor who had both legs amputated after an army tank ran him over during the crackdown. 
Now 46, Zheng was wheeled on stage where he thanked the crowd for “23 years of support.” 
On June 3 and 4, 1989, Chinese troops entered Beijing’s Tiananmen Square using lethal force to quash a seven-week-long occupation by pro-democracy protesters, most of whom were students. Though no official death toll of protestors and soldiers has ever been announced, it is estimated to be between several hundred to several thousand. 
According to AM730, one of three free Chinese newspapers in Hong Kong, a pre-recorded message of Wang Dan was also aired during the vigil. In the recording, Dan, one of the key leaders of the Tiananmen student protests, cited the persistence of people in Hong Kong as being crucial to the rehabilitation of the crackdown’s surviving victims. Specifically, the clearing of victims’ names - victims who have been arrested, labeled rioters and blacklisted as political dissidents. 
While the vigil dominated headlines of newspapers in Hong Kong for days, papers in mainland China remained as silent as ever on the issue. The papers chose instead to lead with the visit of newly re-elected Russian President Vladimir Putin and the funeral of Hangzhou bus driver Wu Bin, who saved the lives of his 24 passengers after being hit with a piece of metal in a freak accident.
