Cuisine of Chuseok
Chuseok, or Hangawi, one of Korea’s most celebrated national holidays, is just around the corner. Originally, Korean people celebrate fall harvest on Chuseok. The most popular food people share at this time is songpyeon, a crescent-shaped rice cake. Additionally, Koreans enjoy eating japchae, bulgogi and drinking rice wine during the festival period. 
 Songpyeon
 Songpyeon is a kind of tteok -- small rice cakes that are one of the most common Korean foods. The main ingredients of songpyeon are non-glutinous rice flour and bean powder. These half-moon-shaped rice cakes contain sweet fillings, with ingredients such as sesame seeds, honey, sweet red bean paste, and chestnut paste and are steamed over a layer of pine needles to add the fragrant smell of fresh pine trees. It is part of a tradition in Korea that all family members sit together and make songpyeon in celebration.
 Japchae 
 Japchae, whose name refers to “a mixture of vegetables” in Korean is a traditional food made from sweet potato noodles called “dangmyeon.” To turn dangmyeon into japchae, these noodles are being fried in sesame oil with various ingredients, such as thinly sliced carrots, onion, spinach, mushrooms and shredded beef, and later flavored with soy sauce and sesame seeds.
 Japchae is more often served as a side dish but when served with rice, it becomes a delicious main dish called “japchae-bap.” Depending what is added, a whole different dish is made, for instance, with chopped green chili pepper, there is Gochu japchae, buchu japchae is made with Korean chives, haemul japchae is made with seafood, and by adding mushrooms, you get beoseot japchae.
 Bulgogi
 Bulgogi refers to tmarinated barbecued beef. It is made from thin slices of beef sirloin and is usually grilled or cooked in a frying pan. Before being cooked, the meat is marinated with a mixture of soy sauce, sugar, sesame oil, garlic, pepper, onions or mushrooms to enhance its flavor and tenderness. Sometimes, sweet potato noodles used for japchae are added to make the dish more savory. Usually, Korean people eat bulgogi after wrapping it with lettuce and “ssamjang,” a soybean paste mixed with red pepper paste, garlic and sesame.
 Rice wine
 Rice wine is an alcoholic beverage made from rice which is served during traditional Korean “Jesasang,” a ceremonial table setting. Unlike regular wine made from sweet grapes, rice “wine” is formed by fermenting rice starch. The process is similar to that of beer making. Usually, Cheongju, a famous Korean rice wine, contains a higher alcohol content (18–25 percent) than wine (10–20 percent) and beer (3–8 percent). 
