Commemorating ancestors who sacrificed their lives
We now lead a peaceful and sound life thanks to our ancestors who sacrificed their precious lives about a half century ago, but it is hard to really feel grateful for the peace because so many of us take it for granted.
 Greeting June, the month to commemorate national defense and patriots, we need to rethink how important our nation and its security are for individual freedom and prosperity.
 June has two important days, which are Memorial Day (June 6) and the day when the Korean War broke out (June 25).
 The Memorial Day is celebrated every year to commemorate the men and women who died while in military service during the Korean War and other significant battles.
 On that day, a memorial ceremony takes place at the National Cemetery in Seoul. At 10 a.m. a siren sounds all over the country, and people have prayers for 10 minutes. The national flag is flown at half-mast.
 The country marked the 57th anniversary of the Memorial Day in 2012.
 We also need to know what actually happened on June 25, 1950 on the Korean Peninsula. We should have basic knowledge about the 1950-53 Korean War in order to prevent similar outbreaks from happening again in the future.
 The Korean War was a war between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea). The war resulted from the political division of the Korean Peninsula at the end of World War II.
 Following the surrender of Japan in 1945, American administrators divided the peninsula along the 38th Parallel, with the U.S. military occupying the southern half and Soviet military forces occupying the northern half.
 Talks on reunification of the peninsula continuously went on after the division, but cross-border attacks at the 38th Parallel persisted.
 War broke out when North Korean forces invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950.
 Between some 245,000 to 415,000 South Korean civilian deaths were reported during the war, and the total civilian casualties were estimated at around 2 million.
 To commemorate Memorial Day and the outbreak of the Korean War, a variety of events are held, especially for fallen soldiers and the bereaved families.
 Despite national efforts to keep the nation safe, there are always security threats from outside.
 The territorial disputes between Korea and Japan, which are represented by Dokdo and East Sea issues, have a long history and do not seem likely to settle in the near future.
 Another territorial dispute raised by China toward Korea was China’s claims to Goguryeo, the ancient kingdom of Korea which lasted from B.C. 37 to A.D. 668.
 The Korean government said on June 7 that it would closely watch whether China’s new survey has distorted historic facts to include parts of Korea within in the Great Wall area.
 China announced on June 6, to coincide with Memorial Day, that the Great Wall is more than twice as long as previously thought.
 Its first-ever official measurement concluded that the structure is 21,196 kilometers long, revising its 2009 estimate of 8,852 kilometers. The research said the wall’s eastern parts covered some areas which belonged to ancient Korean kingdoms. 
 Countering the research results, Korean government officials said: “The government’s principle stance is not to overlook any possible historical distortion as it directly relates to Koreans’ ethnic identity.” 
 Korean historians and activists called the claims “a political attempt to boast its old territorial prowess as a multiethnic country and rationalize its oppression of minority groups.” 
 Seoul’s Northeast Asian History Foundation said the latest study has a “factual error” because it took into account not only the generally accepted Great Wall pieces but also other small and large fortresses scattered across northern China. 
 “The number is not the actual length of the Great Wall, but a tally of all the lengths of different walls,” the state-run think tank said in a statement. 
 The Goguryeo region has repeatedly been a source of diplomatic tension between Seoul and Beijing. China’s so-called Northeast Project, which aims to verify that northeastern China has always been under its own control.
 As can be seen in historical precedents and further in the latest security threats, peace and security of a country are not something to be taken for granted but to be maintained and earned.
