Charge-free SNS revolution KakaoTalk
It has been 27 months since people in Korea started enjoying KakaoTalk‘s free mobile messaging service.
 KakaoTalk is a cross-platform messaging service for smartphones. It enables people to send and receive messages, including texts, photos and videos on a one-to-one basis or in groups, using the Wifi or 3G network.
 Telecom companies including KT and SKT have been both fearing and complaining about the rapid growth of KakatoTalk’s free service.
 KakaoTalk had 46 million users registered in May 2012, and an average of 22 million users are estimated to be using the service every day.
 KakaoTalk was released in March 2010 by Kakao Inc. The company was founded by Kim Beom-soo, the founder of NHN Corporation which runs the portal website Naver. Kakao Inc. is now geared to compete with Facebook and Twitter with its messenger service and related applications.
 The messenger service surprised the nation once again when it announced in early June that it would offer free phone call services.
 Kakao‘s VoiceTalk allows people to make mobile phone calls over the Internet.
 The test version of the service is being offered to over 4 million worldwide users who wish to try the service on their iPhones or Android-based smartphones.
 Kakao said it would pursue the free telephone service plan despite opposition from the nation’s leading mobile carriers.
 Following Kakao Talk’s announcement, Korean telecommunications giants such as SK Telecom and KT expressed their opposition.
 SK Telecom said in a statement that the free service would hinder investment for the further advancement of Korea‘s information and communications technology.
 KT, Korea’s second-largest mobile carrier, said that Kakao Talk would hurt the industry in the long run, even though its free mobile telephony service may benefit consumers in the short term, its spokesperson said.
 Kakao Talk and Voice Talk services, which do not yet have a profit model, could be part of efforts to improve the company’s bottom line by gathering as many users as possible in order to sell mobile games and advertising, industry sources said.
