Go: The cerebral game
Go, also known as baduk in Korean, weiqi in Chinese, and igo in Japanese, is a board game that dates back more than 3,000 years to China‘s Zhou dynasty. The ancient game, noted for being rich in strategy despite its relatively simple rules, has enjoyed immense popularity in modern times, with over 40 million players throughout the world. Although the majority of go players are from East Asia, the International Go Federation has a total of 74 member countries and four Association Members. 
 In ancient China, go was one of the four cultivated arts - along with calligraphy, painting, and playing the string instrument guqin - that a gentleman scholar must master. Go was originally played on a 17×17 line grid, but during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), a 19×19 grid became standard. The game was introduced to Korea sometime between the 5th and 7th centuries A.D., and was popular among the upper classes. It reached Japan in the 7th century A.D. and became popular in the imperial court. To this day, the game of go is contested at the highest level among players from China, Korea and Japan.
 Go is easy to learn; however, it can take a lifetime to truly master. It is an adversarial game played on a wooden board with two players alternately placing black and white playing pieces, called “stones,” on the vacant intersections, called “points” of a grid of 19×19 lines. The objective is to surround more territory than one’s opponent. As the game progresses, the board becomes divided into areas of territory outlined by groups of stones. These areas are then contested in complicated, tactical local battles, and may result in the expansion, reduction, and dramatic exchange of territory. 
The skill level of a go player is measured by a number of different national, regional and online ranking and rating systems. Traditionally, go ranking has been measured using a system of kyu (student ranks) and dan (master ranks). Beginners just learning the rules of the game are usually around 30th kyu. As they progress, they advance numerically downwards through the kyu grades. The best kyu grade attainable is therefore 1st kyu. If players progress beyond 1st kyu, they will receive the rank of 1st dan, and from there on will move numerically upwards to higher dan ranks. Dan rankings are usually awarded based on tournament results and exam scores. 
A small handful of elite go players can acquire diplomas to become professional players through one of the major go organizations: Hanguk Kiwon (Korea), Zhongguo Qiyuan (China), Nihon Ki-in and Kansai Ki-in (Japan), and Taiwan Qiyuan (Taiwan). Professional go players can compete in a slew of prestigious and lucrative international tournaments such as the quadrennial Ing Cup ($500,000 top prize), the annual BC Card Cup ($300,000 top prize), the annual LG Cup ($250,000 top prize) and the bi-annual Chunlan cup ($170,000 top prize). In addition, there are numerous domestic tournaments for professionals to showcase their talents and supplement their income.
 For much of the 20th century, most of the best go professionals, including prominent Korean and Chinese players, were trained in one of Japan’s go houses. With the establishment of the Hankuk Kiwon, Korea began to produce top notch go players that went on to dominate domestic and international competitions in the later part of the 20th century. Players such as 9-dan Cho Hun-hyun (150 titles overall, 11 international), 9-dan Lee Chang-ho (140 titles overall, 18 international) and 9-dan Lee Se-dol (37 titles overall, 11 international) became legends of the game as they ushered in the Korean era in go. In recent years, Japanese players have faded significantly in the international go scene, while Chinese players have risen to challenge the supremacy of Korean players.
