Games people play
This summer, some of the best athletes in the world will gather in London to compete for gold and glory in 26 sports at the 2012 Olympic Games. The quadrennial global sporting extravaganza is sure to bring out patriotic fervor in everyone from spectators to television viewers, and make national heroes out of many gold medal winners. However, many great athletes and players will not get the opportunity to showcase their talents in London - not because they are injured or failed to make their national squads, but because they excel in sports and games that are not included in the Olympic program. 
 Fortunately for those non-Olympian athletes and players, they can still shine at various continental sporting events. The Olympic Council of Asia, for example, has been at the forefront of promoting cultural awareness, equality and respect by including a rich and diverse program for the various themed games and popular sporting activities in the Asian Games. This is a tribute to those other games that people play.
 Bridge - Few people would associate card games with sports; however, the game of contract bridge, or simply bridge, has been part of the Asian Games since the 1998 Games in Bangkok, Thailand. Bridge is a trick-taking game using a standard deck of 52 playing cards. It is played by four players in two competing partnerships, with partners sitting opposite each other around a table. The origin of the game dates back to the 1800s in the United Kingdom and the United States. Today, it is one of the most popular card games with millions of people playing worldwide in clubs, tournaments, online and with family and friends at home.
 Dragon Boat Racing - Dragon Boat Racing is a sport featuring very long and narrow boat decorated with Chinese dragon heads and tails powered by team of 10 to 50 paddlers. It originated in China and has been contested over the past 2,000 years. A dragon boat is required to carry a large drum aboard that leads the crew throughout a race with rhythmic beating that indicates the timing and frequency of paddling strokes. Rowers follow the cadence for instructions on picking up and slowing down the pace. The sport has spread to N. America, Europe, Latin America and Africa. It was incorporated into the Asian Games in 2010. 
Electronic Sports - Electronic sports, also known as e-sports, cyber-sports, competitive gaming, or V-Sports, refer to the playing of video games competitively. The games themselves can vary in nature from clued shooting, strategy and various sports. Electronic Sports, though a relatively new form of competition, are extremely popular all over the world. Korean players are considered the “Best of the Best” in the E-Sports arena. Electronic sports were incorporated into the Asian Indoor Games in 2007.
 Kabaddi – Kabaddi is a team sport popular in South Asian nations, particularly India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Iran. In the international version of Kabaddi, two teams with seven players on each side occupy opposite halves of a small field and take turns sending a “raider” into the other half. The objective is to win points by tackling members of the opposing team, with the raider then trying to return to his own half, holding his breath and chanting the word “Kabaddi” during the whole raid. Kabadi became an official Asian Games sport in 1990.
 Sepak Takraw - Sepak takraw or kick volleyball, is a sport native to the Malay-Thai Peninsula. Sepak takraw differs from volleyball in its use of a rattan ball and only allowing players to use their feet, knees, chest and head to touch the ball. A match is played by two regus, or teams, each made up of three players. It is a fast-paced, high-flying sport featuring stunning feats of athleticism with gravity defying leaps and thunderous kicks. It is a popular sport in Southeast Asia but has since spread to every corner of the globe. It has been part of the Asian Games since 1990.
