Everyone’s favorite runaway animals are back in ‘Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted’!
The “Madagascar” series has become more than just mere animated movies. Since the first film was released in 2005, it has grown to become a brand, nay an icon. It is without a doubt a thoroughly popular franchise. 
The premise of the series starts with four Central Park Zoo animals - Alex the lion (Ben Stiller), Melman the giraffe (David Schwimmer), Marty the zebra (Chris Rock) and Gloria the hippo (Jada Pinkett Smith). The series follows the adventures of Alex, Melman, Marty and Gloria, who have spent their entire lives in peaceful captivity but find themselves suddenly being shipped back to Africa. 
In the first installment, “Madagascar” (2005), the four friends find themselves unexpectedly shipwrecked on the island of Madagascar, thanks to the antics of the penguins. In their first attempt to escape Madagascar and return to New York City, however, they crash-land in mainland Africa, the premise of “Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa.” 
In their never-ending quest to return to the “Big Apple” (a.k.a. New York City), Alex, Melman, Marty and Gloria return to the big screen, along with nutty King Julien (Sacha Baron Cohen), his sidekick Maurice (Cedric the Entertainer) and the ever-lovable penguins. In “Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted,” the Central Park Zoo refugees and their cohorts find themselves joining a traveling circus as they attempt to thwart the relentless Captain Chantel DuBois (Frances McDormand) of Monaco Animal Control. 
The third Dreamworks production is full of color and fast-paced action, and is best viewed in 3-D. Scenes involving the traveling circus are especially chaotic, with high-flying trapeze stunts and colorful performances. As always, the dialogue is sprinkled with witty one-liners from the entire cast. As they do in many live-action films, the minor characters of “Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted” also managed to steal the spotlight from Alex, Melman, Marty and Gloria. Captain Chantel DuBois, for example, will have you giggling uncontrollably at her ridiculously improbable and passionate methods of tracking down the runaway zoo animals. In particular, watch out for her rendition of “Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien.” 
 ‘Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted’
 Release Date: June 6, 2012
 Runtime: 94 minutes
 Rating: Everyone
 Category: Animation/Comedy/Adventure
