Private islands
What does it mean to be truly rich? Owning a mansion or two? A plane perhaps? What about owning an island? That’s right, your very own private island. 
Craig McCaw, a 62-year old billionaire businessman from Seattle, made headlines recently when he decided to put his private Canadian island up for sale for $75 million. In light of this news, interest in celebrities who own private islands has spiked. Although countless celebrities are rumored to own their own islands, there are in fact, only a handful of celebrities that do. 
Johnny Depp - Little Hall’s Pond Cay, Bahamas
 Johnny Depp, who portrays Captain Jack Sparrow in the “Pirates of the Caribbean” series, is aptly rumored to own a cozy little island in the Bahamas named Little Hall’s Pond Cay. This is true. Depp reportedly purchased the island shortly after the first “Pirates” movie was completed in 2004. 
 Nicholas Cage – Leaf Cay, Bahamas
 Nicholas Cage is rumored to have purchased an island in the Bahamas in 2006. This is somewhat true. Cage is purported to have purchased Leaf Cay for an unconfirmed $3 million in 2006. However, the island has since changed hands numerous times and is now reported to be back on the market.
 Mel Gibson – Mago Island, Fiji
 The notorious Mel Gibson is rumored to own a massive island in the exotic South Pacific. This is true. Mago Island of Fiji was sold to the actor in early 2005. The massive volcanic island is one of the largest private islands in the southwestern Pacific Ocean. Much like the actor, the island’s sale is steeped in controversy. The island has since been featured in a campaign by native Fijians who say they have an ancestral claim to the property. 
 Cristiano Ronaldo – Deserta Island, Portugal
 Famous football star Cristiano Ronaldo is known to have once rented an island for an entire month in the summer of 2011. Having been born and raised on the Portuguese island of Madeira, Ronaldo is known to love the island life. In fact, he is rumored to have purchased his very own Portuguese island. This rumor, however, has since been debunked. Though he may be prone to renting islands every once in a while, he has yet to purchase one of his own. 
