Queen Elizabeth II, celebrating 60 years of reign
Queen Elizabeth II of England was born in London on April 21, 1926. She was educated privately at home with her younger sister, Princess Margaret. 
 Elizabeth was the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth. 
 Queen Elizabeth first encountered her husband at the Royal Naval College in Dartmouth in July 1939. She married Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark on Nov. 20, 1947 at Westminster Abbey.
 She gave birth to her first child, Prince Charles on 14 Nov. 1948. A second child, Princess Anne, was born in 1950. They have four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward. 
 Queen Elizabeth II was crowned on June 2, 1953 at London’s Westminster Abbey. It was the first televised ceremony. An estimated 20 million British watched her accede to the throne. With the coronation, she became head of the Commonwealth, an intergovernmental organization of 54 independent member states.
 The Diamond Jubilee in this June commemorated her 60-year reign as Britain’s queen. The four-day celebration that began on June 2 included a pop concert outside Buckingham Palace. Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, the wife of Prince Charles, two princes, William and Harry and Kate Middleton were there to celebrate. 
 Her reign of 60 years has been marked with both equal amount of joy and tragedy. 
 The queen’s eldest son and heir, Prince Charles divorced Lady Diana Spencer, (better known as ‘Princess Diana’) Princess of Wales in 1992. She died in a horrible car accident in Paris in 1997. The death of Diana brought the lowest point for the British royalty for decades.
 Recently at Westminster Abbey, her grandson Prince William married Kate Middleton in April 29, 2011.
Queen Elizabeth is currently the second longest reigning British monarch, behind only Queen Victoria, her great-great-grandmother, who ruled for 63 years. 
 She is known for not giving interviews and putting out her feelings. She often wears decorative hats and solid-colored suits to stand out in a crowd. 
