Thanksgiving vs. Chuseok
Thanksgiving Day in the United States
The U.S. celebrates Thanksgiving on the fourth Thursday of November. This year, Thanksgiving falls on Nov. 24. 
 History/Origins
 The annual celebration of Thanksgiving on the fourth Thursday of November has only been a tradition since 1863, when President Abraham Lincoln proclaimed the last Thursday of November a national holiday. Prior to this, each state had scheduled its own Thanksgiving differently. 
The origin of the actual celebration however, varies. Most Americans believe that the “First Thanksgiving” in 1621 was celebrated to thank the Native Americans of the Wampanoag nation who helped the pilgrims of the Plymouth Colony survive their first winter in New England. This feast is believed to have lasted three days, with dishes of fish, shellfish, wildfowl, venison and other such harvests native to the Americas. 
 Traditional Food
 In celebration of the feast between the pilgrim settlers and Native Americans, the traditional Thanksgiving dinner features foods modeled after those that were consumed during the “First Thanksgiving.”
 A roasted or baked turkey is usually the main dish, playing a central role in the celebration of Thanksgiving - commonly referred to as “Turkey Day.” Side dishes include stuffing, mashed potatoes with gravy, a sweet potato dish, cranberry sauce, sweet corn, a squash-based dish and various other fall vegetables. 
Pumpkin pie is usually prepared as the staple thanksgiving dessert, though other pies (i.e. apple pie) are also prepared.
 Activities
 On Thanksgiving in the U.S., family and friends get together for the main event; Thanksgiving dinner. As one of the major family holidays celebrated in the U.S., schools and colleges have a four- or five-day weekend break for Thanksgiving. 
Other than the feast, there are several other traditions of celebrating Thanksgiving that most Americans look forward to. The first is the annual Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade held in Manhattan. The parade begins in the Upper West Side, featuring various floats with specific themes, large balloons of cartoon characters and TV personalities, and performances by high school marching bands. The parade traditionally ends with a Santa Claus float, to signal the beginning of the Christmas season. 
The second is American football. Every year, the National Football League has played a series of games on Thanksgiving Day, called the Thanksgiving Classic. Typically, the family gathers around the television to watch the games while Thanksgiving Dinner is prepared. Some families also have their own tradition of playing American football after the meal. 
Chuseok in Korea
 Korea celebrates Chuseok on the 15th day of the 8th month of the lunar calendar.
 History/Origins
 Chuseok is also referred to as Hangawi, which means the very middle of August, based on the lunar calendar. Though the exact origin of this holiday is unclear, the official website for the Korea Tourism Organization claims that Chuseok’s origin can be traced back to an ancient religion of the harvest moon. The religion considered the sun to be natural, while the “full moon that came once a month to brighten the dark night was seen as a grateful presence,” thus the beginning of Chuseok celebrations. 
 Traditional Food
 As a celebration of the harvest season, newly harvested grains are used to make steamed rice, rice cakes and liquor. 
The representative food of Chuseok is songpyeon. A rice cake prepared using rice or non-glutinous rice powder kneaded into the perfect size and filled with sesame seeds, beans, red beans, chestnuts, and other such nutritious ingredients, songpyeon acts as a symbol of a successful harvest. Traditionally, the entire family gathers on the eve of Chuseok to make songpyeon under the full moon. 
Other foods commonly prepared are japchae and bulgogi.
 Activities
 There are two main traditions of Chuseok which are observed to give thanks to the year’s harvest as well as pay respects to ancestors through what is called “Charye.” 
Charye, a type of memorial service honoring past ancestors, is held on the morning of Chuseok. Family members gather around a table prepared with Songpyeon and other foods in an elaborate layout as an offering for their ancestors. Charye services are held twice a year; once at Chuseok and another during Seollal (New Year’s Day). The main difference between the two services is the food. Seollal’s most important dish is Tteokguk, a rice cake soup, while Chuseok’s is freshly harvested rice. Once the family members are done paying their respects, they gather together to enjoy the delicious food prepared to symbolize their blessings.
 Other major customs of Koreans on Chuseok is Seongmyo and Beolcho. Seongmyo refers to the act of visiting the ancestral graves, while Beolcho refers to the act of taking care of the grave and clearing the weeds that have grown around it over the summer. Such acts are considered an expression of devotion and respect for one’s family, as well as a familial obligation.
