Is Seoul a good place to live for foreigners?
Pro-
 Seoul is a good place to live for foreigners
 Seoul is becoming bigger and better for us. But there is a doubt whether Seoul is a good place to live for foreigners. 
 I think Seoul is a good place to live for foreigners. This is because there are many international facilities and many jobs foreigners can do.
 There are many international stores in Seoul. For example, there are more than 20 McDonalds and 34 Subway outlets in Seoul. It helps foreigners who aren’t adjusted to life in Korea, by offering them diverse food choices.
 In addition, in Seoul, there are many jobs that foreigners can obtain. For example, many people can find well-paying jobs in academies or schools. They can teach students foreign languages. So I think Seoul is a good place to live for foreigners.
 Some people say that there aren’t many people who can speak foreign languages like French. However, there are many people who can speak English in Seoul so I think foreigners can communicate without trouble with Korean people. 
 All in all, I think that Seoul is a good place to live for foreigners because there are many job offerings and many facilities that offer a life of convenience that no other city can provide. 
 Con- 
Seoul is not a good place to live for foreigners
 Seoul is not a foreigner-friendly city because of the indifference of the Korean people toward foreigners. They might feel lonely in Seoul. 
 Koreans are quite shy and especially so when around foreigners. For example, when foreigners say hello to people of Korea, their face immediately turns red and they try to get out of the situation as soon as possible. Of course, they do not have the intention of deliberately disrespecting foreigners, but most of the time Koreans are too shy to respond or speak English. 
 However, from foreigners’ point of view, this can hurt their feelings, as they might feel unwelcome. 
 Foreign tourists being ripped off in Seoul is another example that Seoul is not a foreigner-friendly city. There are mounting reports of overcharging tourists in Seoul these days. Many sellers overprice their products when foreigners make purchases here in Korea, especially when they do not understand Korean and don’t seem to know what’s going on. 
 Some Japanese tourists have made complaints that Korean taxi drivers overcharge them in Seoul. News reports showed that the fares are sometimes doubled or even tripled for foreign customers. Fooling tourists from abroad who come to Korea would leave the country with a horrible reputation, and means the city is not so foreigner-friendly city.
