Obstacles faced by Rio+20 Conference
World leaders from more than 130 countries convened in Brazil for the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) on June 22. The conference focused on two main themes: (a) building a green economy designed to achieve sustainable development and eradicate poverty, (b) and improving international coordination for sustainable development. 
 Unfortunately, the conference got off to a rough start as negotiators faced obstacles stemming from the European financial crisis, the U.S. election campaign and ongoing differences between rich and poor countries. Three major world leaders, for example, were conspicuously absent from the Rio+20 conference; British Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and U.S. President Barack Obama. 
 Divisions between rich and poor countries have also hampered the negotiation process, particularly in discussions of “burden sharing, monitoring of commitments, and whether to stress environmental protection or poverty alleviation,” The Guardian reported. 
 Called a “once-in-a-generation opportunity to make real progress toward the sustainable economy of the future” by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Rio+20 faced criticisms early on for being vaguer and less ambitious than its predecessors. 
 While the last Earth Summit, also held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, resulted in landmark conventions on climate change and biodiversity, this year’s conference focused instead on starting a process to develop a set of global sustainable development goals by 2015. 
 The lack of tangible goals and legally binding treaties comes in light of the publication of the latest Global Environment Outlook (GEO), which found that significant progress was made in a dismal four out of 90 important environmental goals and objectives set out by the 1992 summit. 
 The world is faced with a “triple planetary crisis -- from climate catastrophe, deepening global inequity and unsustainable consumption driven by a broken economic system,” Asad Rehman of Friends of the Earth was quoted as saying by AFP.
 “The text [of Rio+20] is neither ambitious enough nor delivers the required political will needed to fix our broken planet,” he added.
