Renewable energy, the path to a global green economy
The Korean government unveiled its ambition to become a leading green economy by 2030. 
To accomplish the grand objective, the government announced that it will make further investment on renewable energy research and development. 
This year, it is slated to inject 373.7 billion won to acquire basic technology in eco-friendly energy generation. The plan is expected to expand Korea’s sustainable energy infrastructure, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy says.
 Promoting research links between large conglomerates and smaller businesses is another goal for the government as it seeks to lay a firm foundation for commercial development of green power generation in Korea.
 The government expects the country’s use of renewable energy to shoot up to more than 10 percent from today’s level of less than 2.5 percent. 
To do so, the ministry adds, it will expand the use of clean bio-fuel in public transportation and 1 million private new homes that use solar and thermal energy will be constructed by 2020.
 The R&D fund will also serve as a catalyst for Korea’s export in the global market and help create 16,000 new jobs compared to last year.
 In the period between 2007 and 2011, private sector investment in the country’s renewable energy sources has soared 6.6 times to 4.65 trillion won. Just last year alone, exports of renewable energy related products reached a record, 6.92 trillion won, Yonhap News noted.
 In tandem with a nationwide campaign to conserve energy and reduce its reliance on nuclear power, the Seoul Metropolitan Government promised to build solar power facilities at about 1,000 schools in Seoul. In cooperation with Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education and a local environmental organization, the metropolitan government will seek to minimize the country’s potential damage from global climate change.
 Solar power panels with a total capacity of 100 megawatts will be installed at Seoul’s 200 schools this year and the number will gradually increase to 1,000 schools by 2014.
 Schools and other public buildings will also be equipped with energy-efficient light-emitting diodes and the municipal education office will give students lectures on how to save energy. 
Renewable energy is energy that can naturally be replenished as it is being made from natural resources such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, and geothermal heat.
 Types of renewable energy include: wind power, hydropower, biomass, biofuel, solar energy and geothermal energy.
 Solar energy
 Solar energy is derived from the sun through solar radiation. Usually photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors are used to harness this energy.
 Biofuel
 Bio-fuel possesses a wide range of fuels derived from biomass. They include solid biomass, liquid fuels and various biogases. Liquid biofuels include bio alcohols, such as bio ethanol and oils, such as bio diesel. 
Bio ethanol is created through fermenting plant sugars and is mostly made from sugar and starch crops. Ethanol is used as a fuel for vehicles.
 Geothermal energy
 Geothermal energy is the energy that is generated and stored in the Earth. 20 percent of the energy is originated from the planet’s formation and the majority of it is made from minerals’ radioactive decay. Geothermal energy has been used for bathing at hot springs.
