Judgment day for Seoul Mayor Oh Se-hoon
On Aug. 24, citizens went to the polls to vote on a proposal to offer free school lunches to only students from poorer families, as well as the fate of Seoul Mayor Oh Se-hoon.
 More than 2,200 polling stations across Seoul had been set up from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. for eligible voters to cast their ballots. Voters were asked to choose between free lunch for all students and free lunch for only the students whose families with below average incomes. 
A 33.3 percent turnout was required for the ballots to be opened and the votes counted. Voter participation was a meager 25.7 percent, however, rendering the referendum invalid, as well as putting the spotlight on Oh and his political future. 
As the referendum fell through, the current free lunch program for students will continue to be provided. Currently in Korea, free meals are provided for all first to fourth grade students in elementary schools; with the exception of fourth graders in four districts that are run by district heads of the ruling Grand National Party (GNP). In accordance with the welfare plan passed by the opposition-led Seoul Council last December, middle-school students will also be provided free meals, starting in 2012.
 Politics
 Oh’s failed referendum was originally proposed to limit the number of recipients for the free meal program in schools, but it soon turned into a political battle. In light of the upcoming parliamentary elections and presidential ballot, the two main parties had turned the free meals program into a political debate about welfare provision.
 Backed by the GNP, Oh put his political future on the line in opposition of the bill passed by the rival Democratic Party leaders last December. In an effort to both draw more people to polling stations, as well as dismiss allegations that his proposal was purely for political reasons, Oh had announced at a press conference on Aug. 21 that he would step down as Seoul Mayor should his proposal fail in the referendum.
 The bill in question aims to provide free lunches to all students in middle and elementary schools regardless of family income, and was seen by Oh and his supporters as excessive. Oh claims that this bill is over-the-top, arguing that wealthy students do not need to receive free meals, and that the program will cost too much money. 
As a result, Oh proposed a partial benefit plan in place of the universal one, limiting the beneficiaries to students from the lower half of the income bracket. 
Opponents of Oh’s referendum campaigned for a boycott of the vote, claiming it is being used by the mayor for his political ambitions rather than for the good of the people. 
The opposition also claims that the selective meal service will only serve to stigmatize its recipients as being from poorer families, thus creating resentment and a bigger divide between the rich and the poor. 
In fact, opposition groups claim that the failure of the referendum to meet the necessary quorum showed citizens’ decision to choose the “general welfare” for all people rather than the select few. 
“Citizens consented to the idea that welfare in education, especially in public education, should be provided as generally as possible regardless of parents’ financial status,” said Kwak No-hyun, Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education Superintendant. 
 Public opinion
 Public opinion on the other hand, showed some mixed results. Those who supported Oh and his referendum expressed their fears of the financial burden of the opposition parties’ populist welfare policy. 
After placing his vote, 50-year-old Shin Min-jae, told the Korea Times that “Unless we have an oil field in the East Sea, it’s totally nonsensical to provide all students with free lunches.”
 Those opposed to the referendum claim that it is merely a political maneuver rather than genuine interest in the public’s wellbeing. 
Some have expressed their disappointment with politicians of both parties.
 A 65-year old male voter tells the Korea Times, “If a policy is good, people should accept it regardless of their political leanings. But politicians unconditionally oppose a policy suggested by rival parties, they oppose for opposition’s sake. I just voted for which I believe is [a] better choice.” 
Oh’s resignation
 As promised, Oh announced his resignation on Aug. 26, following the annulment of his referendum to secure the required number of votes to remain valid. 
In a nationally televised news conference, Oh said, “Today, I resign from mayoral duty, assuming responsibility for the referendum results,” adding that “In light of my resignation, I hope debates on excessive welfare will have more depth and intensity.” 
Oh claims that excessive welfare is bound to increase taxes, placing a heavy burden on the next generation of taxpayers.
 Officials say that by-elections are planned for Oct. 26 to elect Oh’s successor, though in the meantime, Deputy Mayor Kwon Yong-gyu will be in charge as acting mayor of Seoul. 
