Hula dancing
Hula is an indigenous Hawaiian dance form accompanied by chant (oli) or song (mele). It has its origins in ancient history as a ritual dance, a form of worship during religious ceremonies performed for the Volcano goddess, Pele. In modern times, hula has evolved into a popular form of entertainment, often performed for tourists against the backdrop of Hawaii’s breathtaking landscapes. Known for its fluid body gestures, airy instrumentals and mesmerizing vocals, hula is sometimes referred to as the soul of Hawaii expressed in motion. 
There are two main forms of hula -- Hula Kahiko (ancient style), and Hula ’Auana (modern style). Hula Kahiko, the more traditional and ritualistic form of hula, remains largely untouched by western influences. It features percussion instruments such as gourd drums, shark skin drums, knee drums, split bamboo sticks and castanets. Since Hawaiian history is an oral history, chanting is an important element of the ancient style hula. It aids in telling the dancer’s stories of creation, mythology, royalty, and other significant events and people. When Christian missionaries arrived in Hawaii in the early 1800’s, hula was banned as it was considered a pagan ritual with vulgar and sinful dance moves. King Kamehameaha III later intervened, citing the right to religious freedom.
 Modern hula is an adaptation of the traditional form, but with more emphasis on dance and music. As hula became a popular form of entertainment in the 20th century, the visual aspect of the dance became the primary focus. Hula ’Auana dancers wear colorful costumes such as a mu’umu’u or a pau (grass skirt), and wear leis (flower wreaths) for the head and shoulders. Dance moves featuring smooth body movements and stylized hand gestures are increasingly emphasized because so few, particularly tourists, understand the language of the chants. The accompanying instruments are decidedly western style, including the guitar, ukulele, steel guitar and bass. Hula ’Auana mele, sounding more and more like a pop song, has replaced the chant in assisting dancers in conveying a story. 
Hula dancing is a complex and evolving art form, and there are many hand motions used to represent the words in a song or chant. When performing a hula, a dancer must become one with the dance and immerse in the elements -- the images, objects, emotions or events being conveyed. For example, in imitating a swimming shark or a waving palm tree, the true hula dancer believes he or she becomes the shark or the palm tree. Every movement in hula has a specific meaning, and every expression of the dancer’s hands has great significance. Hand movements can signify aspects of nature, such as the swaying of a tree in the breeze or a wave in the ocean, the movement of a fish as it glides through water, or a feeling or emotion, such as fondness or yearning. The movements of a dancer’s body might represent certain plants, animals, and even war. 
By the mid 20th century, hula became well known throughout the world largely due to Hollywood films. Movie musicals like “Blue Hawaii,” starring Elvis Presley, “Girls, Girls, Girls” and “Paradise, Hawaiian Style” helped popularize, and to some extent, commercialize hula. During the Second Hawaiian Renaissance in the 1970’s, there was a renewed interest in hula, along with Hawaiian language, Hawaiian music, Hawaiian crafts and Hawaiian studies. Hālau, schools or groups that teach the art of hula in both the traditional and modern forms, began to spring up everywhere. Students of ancient hula were taught under strict conditions and must adhere to precise traditional rules governing ritualistic protocols, personal conduct, dress codes, and dietary restrictions. Today, there are hundreds of hula schools active on every Hawaiian island, as well as mainland United States, teaching hula to thousands of students and keeping the old ways and traditional Hawaiian culture alive.
