Racism - The ugly side of the beautiful game
The UEFA European Football Championship, in which the continent’s top 16 national teams face off in a mini World Cup, is one of the most eagerly anticipated football tournaments in the world. It is second only to the World Cup in size and prestige, but it does not take a back seat to any sporting event when it comes to generating excitement and stoking the flames of national pride among rival fans. The tournament is usually rich in storylines, featuring fierce rivalries between flamboyant players, rabid fans and football-mad countries; however, at the Euro 2012 tournament in Poland and Ukraine, the main storyline is about concerns over racism.
 Prior to the start of Euro 2012, English police issued a warning to fans after the Ukrainian neo-Nazi group Donetsk Company threatened to attack black and Asian English supporters during the tournament. The families of two of England’s black players, Theo Walcott and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, said they would not attend the tournament because they fear becoming victims. After more players and ex-players expressed their concerns about racism, the Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.K. came to the defense of his country by declaring that “Ukraine is very well known for its tolerance, and it has a long history of living together with other nationalities”; and a Polish Foreign Ministry official proclaimed that “the problem with racism and anti-Semitism in Poland is blown out of proportion.” 
 Despite ongoing efforts to root out racism in football, racially motivated incidents and attacks continue to occur both inside and outside football stadiums throughout Europe. Players, fans and ethnic minority communities are abused regularly in some parts of Europe where far right groups are active and National Football Federations appear reluctant to act on the problem. Neo-nazi and neo-fascist groups target football stadiums in Europe as recruitment grounds. They often incite the abuse of minority players and spectators with offensive banners, rude remarks, racial epitaphs, and vulgar songs. Black players are often subjected to the worst abuses, having to put up with monkey chants and bananas thrown at them onto the playing field. 
Racism in football is also present in the locker rooms and on the pitch. England, one of the most racially diverse nations in Europe, was recently rocked by two high-profile player-on-player racism controversies. John Terry, the distinguished Chelsea defender and long-time England captain, faced criminal charges following an allegation of racist abuse made at Anton Ferdinand during a match against Queens Park Rangers. Although he has maintained his innocence, Terry has been stripped of his England captaincy and is due to stand trial after Euro 2012. The Liverpool striker Luis Suárez was banned for eight matches and fined 40,000 pounds after he was found guilty of misconduct, for “using insulting words towards” Patrice Evra of Manchester United at least 10 times during a match. Suárez was unrepentant, and refused to shake hands with Evra in a game after serving his suspension.
 The UEFA has vowed to take a hard-line stand against racism during the Euro 2012 tournament. UEFA president Michel Platini stressed that if a player is subjected to racial abuse, he should report it to the referee who will have the authority to stop or even abandon the game. It will have a dedicated hotline to report racism as well as an online form, both of which will be publicized outside of stadiums prior to matches. Teams could be fined, forced to play behind closed doors, or even kicked out of the competition if their supporters display far-right banners or engage in racially motivated abuses during matches. In addition to UEFA’s initiatives, Football against Racism in Europe, an anti-racism advocacy group, will have over 30 independent monitors -- with two at each match -- looking for evidence of racism.
