Smelling like a celebrity
Pictures of Lady Gaga’s new perfume bottle were leaked online on June 13, prompting the eccentric singer to confirm the details on her personal Twitter account and jumpstarting renewed interest in celebrity fragrances. 
 “Looks like photos of my perfume are being leaked. Oh you fashion editors I could just crinkle my hands at you,” Gaga tweeted, later releasing additional photos of the bottle and its packaging. 
 Celebrities have been churning out their own fragrances since Sophia Loren became the first celebrity to launch her own perfume in 1981 and Elizabeth Taylor launched the first real celebrity fragrance empire a decade later in 1991. Since then, the market of celebrity fragrances has become saturated, with numerous celebrities creating scents that bank on their marketability and fan base. 
 Britney Spears, for example, has launched 11 different perfume brands between 2004 and 2012, while Antonio Banderas launched seven between 2007 and 2010. Earlier this year, KARA became the first Korean artist to release their own perfume line with “K5J” (KARA 5 Jewel). 
 Unfortunately, celebrity fragrances generally do not have the longevity of classic fragrances. Many fans buy the product in support of the celebrity, rather than because they like the scent itself. There are, however, some notable exceptions. 
 Justin Bieber 
Pop sensation Justin Bieber took the fragrance world by storm with his debut scent, “Someday.” On May 18 during the annual FiFi Awards, Bieber’s “Someday” was branded the Best New Celebrity Fragrance 2012 by the Fragrance Foundation U.K. Three days later, “Someday” also earned the young singer the highly coveted Elizabeth Taylor Fragrance Celebrity of the Year Award during The Fragrance Foundation’s 40th annual FiFi Awards in New York. 
 Heidi Klum 
Supermodel Heidi Klum won the Broad Appeal Women category for her debut fragrance “Shine” at the 2012 FiFi Awards in New York on May 21. The fragrance was launched in September 2011 in collaboration with Coty. 
 David Beckham 
Football star David Beckham recently added another prestigious award to his growing collection. On May 4, Beckham’s signature scent, “Homme” was added to the list of award-winning perfumes of 2012. The Fragrance Foundation of Germany awarded “Homme” by David Beckham the winning prize in the Lifestyle Men category during the 2012 annual Duftstars Awards Gala in Berlin. “Homme” was released in collaboration with Coty. It has been available for purchase since September 2011.
