Komm doch nach Deutschland!
Despite the seemingly never-ending financial crisis and bailouts from its neighboring countries, citizens of Germany have welcomed the upbeat distraction brought about by the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship (Euro 2012).
 With one of the top ranked national football teams in the world, Germany has found a welcome reprieve from the pressures of bailing out struggling nations in the increasingly discouraging European financial crisis. As football fans from all over the world flock to Europe to participate in the exhilaration of the Euro 2012, many are hoping that the games will lift the spirits of struggling Europeans by providing an escape from their financial woes.
 With that in mind, here are some great places to check out on your next trip to Germany. 
 For those looking for a creative experience, you’re in luck. In fact, Germany has long been known as “the country of poets and thinkers.” There are about 4,000 museums in Germany catering to all interests. History buffs may find the Anne Frank Museum in Berlin worth a visit, while car enthusiasts may be more inclined to check out the BMW Museum in Munich. 
 Literature lovers may want to consider the German Fairy Tale Route. Established in 1975, the 600-kilometer-long route takes visitors through the Hanau in central Germany to Bremen in the north. The route focuses on the lives and work of the famous Brothers Grimm.
 Germany is also a well-known fashion mecca. With more than 40 fashion academies and exhibitions, it is unsurprising that Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in Berlin was able to establish itself as a must-see event in just four seasons. Having debuted in July 2008, the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week has become a crucial stepping stone for many fashion labels. As a showcase event for the latest collections from German and international fashion labels, the media coverage alone could help catapult a largely unknown designer to international success.
 Did you know 1
 The Brothers Grimm 
　Brothers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm (more commonly known as the Brothers Grimm) are amongst the most well-known storytellers of European folk tales. Many popular Disney movies were actually adaptations of their work, including Cinderella, The Frog Prince, Hansel and Gretel, Rapunzel and Snow White. Unlike their Disney counterparts, however, the Grimm Brothers’ stories were dark and violent in nature. Between 1812 and 1857, the brothers’ collection of German folk tales, commonly known today as “Grimms’ Fairy Tales,” grew to include more than 200 stories.
 Did you know 2
 Town Musicians of Bremen 
The popular children’s musical “The Town Musicians of Bremen,” is also a Brothers’ Grimm folktale adaptation.
