Do you believe in ghosts?
Pro – I believe in ghosts
 No matter how irrational and unreasonable this may sound, I do believe that ghosts exist. 
This is because there are many people who have firsthand experiences with ghosts. Legions of media reports on people’s personal experience of encountering and witnessing ghosts further support the existence of these spirits in the real world.
 Of course, people might have mistaken other things for ghosts and started to build up groundless beliefs, but never say never; we should not underestimate these people’s personal accounts. When the stories are derived from a reliable and honest friends, it adds extra credibility to the stories. Most people just do not make up fake stories to appear on TV or become famous. When they share the incidents, we have no choice but to trust them.
 In the world we live in, there are many mysterious and unknown happenings that no scientific data or common sense can explain. When these miraculous events play out in front of your eyes -- for example, one’s survival story from a dreadful car accident -- we lean toward believing in other-worldly spirits that seem to linger near us. 
 Con - I do not believe in ghosts
 I believe that ghosts exist only to those who believe in them. Thus, for people who do not believe in them, there is no such thing as ghosts. I personally do not believe in ghosts.
 People who are weak-spirited often look for mysterious, non-existing energy -- such as ghosts -- if they are in trouble and have nowhere to turn for help. They try to depend and rely on unreal powers. Their very desire to believe in ghosts is what has created this ghost-believing phenomenon in the first place. 
The consequence of believing in ghosts is more negative than positive, as there are some who try to take advantage of people’s ungrounded fears. For example, fortune-tellers play with people’s fears and make profits by fooling them. They devise daunting stories to scare people and sell talismans for large sums of money. 
There are many horror movies, books, and legends, depicting ghost stories. However, this too, I think is a fiction people made up for entertainment and money-making.
