Illegal downloading: Piracy of a different kind
“Notwithstanding the fact that the most innovative and progressive space we’ve seen - the Internet - has been the place where intellectual property has been least respected. You know, facts don’t get in the way of this ideology.” -- Lawrence Lessig
 Piracy, or theft, of copyrighted material such as music, films, TV shows, software, books and applications, is a growing international concern. One of the most prevalent forms of intellectual property piracy is illegal downloading through the Internet. The advent of advanced technology that allows broadband internet access on personal computers has made the illegal downloading of copyrighted material increasingly easy and common. It has been estimated that illegal downloading has caused the music industry alone to lose over $10 billion. 
When a person engages in the online sharing or downloading of copyrighted material without gaining permission from the owners of the material, then that person is acting in violation of international and domestic laws and can face prosecution. For example, if a person downloads a film from the internet that appears to be the work of someone sitting in a movie theater with a video camera, or is clearly marked “for award considerations only,” it is a type of piracy. Most people who engage in illegal downloading are either unaware of the illegality of their actions or simply choose to ignore the law. 
There are international laws that protect the rights of intellectual property owners outside the borders of their home country. Most countries are members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and, as a condition of membership, are required to ratify the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Currently, more than 150 nations are members of the WTO. Although most countries have stringent laws to protect intellectual property, actual enforcement and application of the laws has proven to be difficult, and the results are still unsatisfactory.
 In the United States, the government’s resolve to protect intellectual property was demonstrated in its actions against Napster, a pioneering peer-to-peer file sharing internet service that emphasized sharing audio files. It founded that Napster was liable for contributory infringement of the musicians’ copyrights, and that its users were also directly infringing the musicians’ copyrights. There were several high profile cases of the U.S. government going after individuals for illegally downloading music, including filing a suit against an elementary school student. In Korea, government efforts in this area are centered on going after groups or individuals who upload illegal materials, rather than pursuing those who download them. 
Illegal downloading comes in two common forms:
 File Sharing -- In the 1990s, file sharing programs were developed to allow Internet users to share collections of music, small video clips and other small files. Both users and copyright holders experienced problems with the file sharing process because shared files could easily be infected with viruses that infected users’ computers. Copyright was infringed with impunity. For illegal downloading of larger files such as movies, peer-to-peer networks made it possible for people to use software that joins them with a network to locate shared files on the computers of other users (who are connected to the network). Bit Torrent, a peer-to-peer file sharing protocol used for distributing large amounts of data over the internet, is one of the most common protocols for transferring large files such as movies and computer software. It has been estimated that it accounted for more than 50 percent of all internet traffic. 
Not all file sharing is illegal. For example, even if the work, particularly music, being shared is covered by copyright, some artists may choose to support freeware, shareware, open source, or anti-copyright, and advocate the use of file sharing as a free promotional tool. Nearly all shareware, freeware, and open source software may be shared as much as the end user wishes, depending on the license for that specific piece of software. Content in the public domain can also be freely shared.
 Media Streaming -- Media streaming is multimedia that is constantly received by and presented to an end-user while being delivered by a streaming provider. Live streaming refers to the live broadcasting of multimedia such as movies, concerts or sporting events over the Internet, and it remains a popular means of viewing media both legally and illegally, especially among users who do not wish to permanently download a video, for example. 
A media stream can be provided in one of two ways. Live streaming works through a process called true streaming that sends information straight to a computer or mobile device without having to save the file in a hard disk. The other way is on called demand streaming, or progressive download. Progressive streaming involves saving a file to a hard disk and then having it played from that location. The main difference is that on demand streams are often saved to hard disks for long periods of time; while live streams are only made available at one time. Such as during the live broadcasting of a football match. 
Popular media streaming sites such as YouTube sometimes get into trouble for copyright infringement when its users upload copyrighted movies, TV shows, and music videos for viewing and downloading. On many occasions, YouTube has had to take down video clips at the request of the copyright holders. In Korea, Afreeca, a popular live streaming service that allows users access to TV shows, cable programs and premier sporting events such as the World Cup and Euro 2008 also drew the ire of the government for skirting copyright laws.
