Galaxy S3 finally arrives in Seoul
Galaxy S3 finally arrives in Seoul
 Samsung Electronics finally unveiled its much-awaited Galaxy S3 smartphone in Seoul on June 25.
 The 9 millimeter-thick phone, which was first released in Europe pleased Seoul enthusiasts with a so-called “human-centered” design and newer functions.
 The release coincided with the date when the Galaxy S1 was released exactly two years ago, which was June 25, 2010.
 The company‘s mobile chief Shin Jong-kyun said in a Seoul media event held to introduce the handset that the Galaxy S3 would become a 10 million seller by next month.
 “We expect it to surpass the 10 million mark by the end of next month as it is being well-received globally.”
 The earlier version of the Galaxy S2 took five months until it reached sales record of 10 million.
 Galaxy S3 first debuted in London and then moved on to France, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, the United States and Mexico.
 The new model drew special attention, especially when it debuted in the Americas.
 Samsung Electronics invited a number of guests to its event at Mexico’s stock exchange, while guests in the U.S. included basketball players, Hollywood actresses and 500 consumers who registered to attend the New York event via Facebook.
 The handset is available in pebble blue and marble white colors.
 Among the phone’s major features are face recognition and near-field communication. The latter allows for easy sharing of Web pages, applications and videos.
 “Pictures taken with the Galaxy were sharper and had better light balance than those with the iPhone,” said an Associated Press article on June 21.
 The Galaxy S3 running on the third-generation communications networks is currently provided in Korea solely by SK Telecom and is priced around 900,000 won, Samsung said.
 Meanwhile, the model operating on the fourth-generation Long Term Evolution networks will be released through all three mobile carriers, including KT and LG Uplus, as early as the second week of July.
 It also has a 4.8-inch (12.2-centimetre) screen that is 22 percent larger than the S2, while it can detect eye movements and avoid an automatic shutdown if the user is looking at the screen, AFP explained in its recent article.
 Samsung said in early June that it had sold more than 50 million units of its flagship smartphones Galaxy S and Galaxy S2 in the global market.
 The company said the sales of its Galaxy S and Galaxy S2 topped 24 million and 28 million units, respectively, as of June 1.
 Samsung’s first Galaxy phone was released in 2010 to fight against Apple‘s iPhone, and global analysts are focusing on whether Galaxy S3 will achieve its 10 million sales goal.
