Manny Pacquiao lost - to the Judges
Filipino boxing sensation Manny Pacquiao’s remarkable seven-year, 15-fight winning streak came to an abrupt halt following a split decision loss to Timothy Bradley at the MGM Grand arena in Las Vegas. In one of the most controversial and confounding decisions in boxing history, Pacquiao lost his WBO welterweight title despite his clear dominance over his opponent in every facet of the fight. Boxing experts, sports writers, fight commentators and boxing fans were unanimous in expressing their shock and disbelief at the incomprehensible decision. Although Pacquiao was shocked by the decision, he accepted the “defeat” gracefully and respectfully. Others, however, were not as forgiving -- they denounced the decision as a “black eye for boxing”.
 Manny Pacquiao entered the fight with Timothy Bradley as a substantial favorite in the eyes of boxing experts and fans. He brought with him world championships in eight different weight classes -- a feat unmatched by anyone. His pre-fight record of 54 wins, 3 losses and 2 draws (38 by KO) included victories over some of the best boxers in the world. Timothy was considered a worthy opponent capable of giving Pacquiao a decent fight. He held titles in the light welterweight division. He went into the bout with an unblemished record of 28 wins (12 by KO) and no losses or draws; however, none of his opponents had the same pedigree, skill set, or the notoriety of the great Pacquiao.
 The fight was fast-paced and action-packed from round one. Pacquiao was faster, stronger and more accurate with his punches than his younger opponent throughout the entire fight. Bradley tried to be aggressive, but he had difficulties penetrating Pacquiao’s defenses and was unable to land clean, punishing shots. Pacquiao’s experience and patience paid off handsomely as he deflected punches effectively and rocked Bradley on multiple occasions with powerful counter punches. The fight looked like a one-sided affair favoring Pacquiao entering the middle rounds. Pacquiao picked up the pace offensively, and Bradley seemed to be visibly hurting. Bradley tried to rally and gained some momentum by staying active and becoming more aggressive in the later rounds, but his efforts appeared to be too little, too late. 
 As the fight ended, commentators, media outlets, and sports writers all scored the fight as a lopsided win for the champion Pacquiao.  Before the judges’ scorecards were read, even Bradley was convinced that he had lost.  He reportedly said to Bob Arum, the fight’s promoter: “I tried hard but I couldn’t beat the guy.” And then came the decision -- one judge scored the fight 115-113 in favor of Pacquiao, while the other two had it 115-113 for Bradley -- and a new WBO welterweight champion was crowned. Pacquiao was robbed! The crowd booed loudly; television announcers were incredulous; and boxing fans flooded online forums with charges of conspiracy and corruption. 
 In the aftermath of the infamous decision, fight promoter Bob Arum, who handles both Pacquiao and Bradley, openly questioned the competence of the judges. He expressed grave concerns about the credibility of boxing by declaring: “I’ve never been as ashamed of the sport of boxing as I am tonight.” Two days after the fight, Bob Arum submitted a complaint about the decision in the Pacquiao vs. Bradley fight to the Nevada Athletic Commission to ask for an official review of the verdict.
 Justice for Manny Pacquiao came on June 20th, 2012. The World Boxing Organization (WBO) appointed five accomplished judges with world title experience to review the fight. The result was unanimous - they scored the fight for Pacquiao, 118-110, 117-111, 117-111, 116-112 and 115-113. It was a moral victory for Pacquiao and his legion of fans. Although the WBO has no authority to change the result of the fight, they will order a rematch. 
