Cultural Olympiad - London 2012 Festival
London 2012 Festival, also known as the Cultural Olympics, is the primary cultural complement to the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games. Set to run from June 21 to Sept. 9, it is being hailed as the biggest cultural event in U.K. history. The Festival will feature 12,000 performances and events including 137 world premieres, and more than 25,000 artists from all over the world appearing in 900 venues in 204 centers. Cultural events on offer at the Festival will range from street dance to pop concerts, art installations to opera, and theater to literature festivals.
 The London 2012 Festival kicks off on June 21 with several spectacular events. Up first is the Big Concert, featuring conductor Gustavo Dudamel leading his 200-member Simón Bolívar Symphony Orchestra of Venezuela. The outdoor concert is set against the backdrop of Stirling Castle in the Scottish community of Raploch, Stirling. Up next is Lakes Alive – the world premier of a new show “On the Night Shift” by the French percussion and pyrotechnic wizards Les Commandos Percu at Lake Windermere. In Wales, award-winning artist Jeremy Deller will present Sacrilege, a life-size replica of Stonehenge made as a fully operational bouncy castle. In Birmingham, an enormous ship will sail into the center of Victoria Square, accompanied by dancers and aerialists. 
 One of the main events of the Festival is the World Shakespeare Festival. It is a celebration of the life and works of the “world’s playwright.” In London, the British Museum will unveil its “Shakespeare Staging the World” exhibition, telling Shakespeare’s works anew and showing maps, medals, armor and other treasures associated with one of history’s most influential authors. Shakespeare’s Globe Theater will host 37 international companies presenting all 37 Shakespeare plays in 37 different languages. Shakespeare’s hometown of Stratford-upon-Avon will be featured prominently in the festivities. Worlds Together, an international education conference will bring together educators, artists and academics to share their experience through Shakespeare and the arts. 
 One of the biggest community-based projects of the London 2012 Festival is Big Dance 2012. Its aim is to get five million people across the country to dance between July 7 and July 15. Big Dance is the brainchild of famed choreographer Arlene Phillips. The Big Dance has commissioned five leading choreographers to produce films which will be used in schools as examples of the different ways in which dances are created. It will culminate in the creation of a new dance piece for 2,000 dancers in Trafalgar Square, which will be organized by Wayne McGregor, resident choreographer of the Royal Ballet. 
 The “U.K. Transformed” project centers on presenting some of U.K.’s most stunning scenery and world-renowned heritage sites as integral parts of the performance for a number of London 2012 Festival events. The World Heritage Site Giant’s Causeway, an area of about 40,000 interlocking basalt columns on the northeast coast of Northern Ireland, is the setting for artist Hans Peter Kuhn’s installation of flags, stretching the length of the bay and flickering red and yellow in the wind. Along the River Thames, the BT River of Music will present two days of free music from around the world on six stages from July 21-22. In Edinburgh, thousands of runners will activate specially designed light suits as they run around Arthur’s Seat, making the hillside come alive with trails of patterned light.
 Sinead O’Donnell, the Dublin-born, Belfast-based artist headlines London 2012 Festival’s disability arts program -- “Unlimited”. Her two-year project Caution, a collaborative effort with five artists of various disabilities from around the world, is a showcase of achievements that parallel the Paralympic athletes’ triumphs over adversity. The project seeks to create links between the performance art world and the disabled world. Their works will be shown at Belfast’s Golden Thread Gallery in August. 
