Breakfast is the most important meal of the day
Pro-
 Breakfast is good for us
 Commonly, we eat three meals a day. These days many people do not eat breakfast because they are too busy. But breakfast is very important.
 To support this idea, I will give you several reasons why I think eating breakfast is important for you.
 Firstly, breakfast provides us with glucose that can make our brains to activate. It helps people concentrate well and aids memory throughout the day.
 Also, our sleeping brain awakes if we chew something. So, if we read a book after having breakfast, we may have a better understanding of it.
 Next, our metabolism will be activated. Moreover, the carbohydrates in breakfast reduce the chance that we will overeat during lunch and dinner.
 It can protect us from lots of diseases such as diabetes. Furthermore, if there is a long space between meals, an empty stomach will cause problems.
 Lastly, here are some foods that are good for breakfast. An apple has lots of lactic acid. A tomato is good for digestion and blood pressure. Also, honey is good for constipation and potatoes are good for gastritis and enteritis.
 In conclusion, I think that breakfast is the most important meal of the day.
 Con-
 Each three meals of the day are equally important.
 Throngs of media reports claim that breakfast is the most important out of the three meals of the day. They argue that people should portion-control all three meals by putting the greatest emphasis on their breakfast. According to them, we should have the most glamorous meal for breakfast and limit food intake as day passes by. This is because, they say, breakfast provides essential energy to both your body and brain throughout the day. 
 However, I do not agree with the statement. I view that these argument has a risk of underestimating the worth of lunch and dinner. Having a grand breakfast is not a one-size-fits-all rule that applies to everyone. People’s lifestyles and constitutions differ from one another. What is right for you may not be so great for others. When one has, due to her work schedule, a habit of eating a big dinner, she does not and should not have another big breakfast as the rule suggests. Lunch and dinner can also give quality energy to people all around the day just like breakfast. 
 Therefore, it is rather what kind of food people eat for each meal than just increasing the volume of breakfast that plays a more significant role in improving one’s health.
