Disneyland in Florida, a place to visit in summer
If you are thinking about having a blast this summer, there is no better place than Disneyland in Florida. It provides unforgettable memories to tweens, teens and adults alike with its stellar roller coasters and high-tech rides. 
 This year, Disneyland in Florida has even greater, brand new attractions to draw more people across the world. So there is no chance of you being disappointed.
 The Walt Disney World has announced that for summer of 2012, the company is going to double the size of “Fantasyland,” the section of the grand theme park reserved for the youngest Disney fans. The area consists of two parts, Fantasyland Forest and Storybook Circus. 
 It is the largest expansion since the Magic Kingdom opened in 1971, the company officials said. "Fantasyland Forest” in Fantasyland is ready to greet visitors late this year and at the venue, several Disney princess characters, such as Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, Belle, Rapunzel and Ariel will be featured.
 Another major addition to Fantasyland is “Enchanted Tales with Belle,” which is based on the film “Beauty and the Beast.” Named after one of the film’s signature songs, “Be Our Guest,” a restaurant that looks just like the “Great Hall” in the movie’s castle, is also about to open.
 Avatar Land, a joint venture between Disney and filmmaker James Cameron, would become a new section in Walt Disney World’s Animal Kingdom theme park. Reportedly, $500 million was spent to build the site, which will open to the public beginning 2013. 
 Disneyland comprises four theme parks - Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Animal Kingdom Theme Park and Disney’s Hollywood Studios. Here are some sites and rides at each of the parks. 
 1. Soarin’ (Epcot) 
The Soarin’ in Epcot theme park gives you the opportunity to have a peaceful hang-gliding flight over the Golden State of California. This multi-passenger glider is lifted 40 feet into the air, “soaring” towards the clouds. An IMAX projection dome wraps 180 degrees around passengers to get a spectacular view of the Pacific Ocean. When riding on it, you will feel wind gently caressing your face while at the same time your feet are dangling freely high above the sky. What an incredible ride!
 2. Kilimanjaro Safaris (Animal Kingdom) 
With Kilimanjaro Safaris, in Disney’s Animal Kingdom, visitors go on an expedition to see African animals such as antelopes, baboons, black rhinos, cheetahs, crocodiles, elephants, flamingos, gazelles, giraffes, hippopotamus, lions, okapis, ostrich, white rhinos and zebras in 100 acres of savanna.
 This unforgettable journey begins at the Harambe wildlife reserve. People jump in a rugged open-sided safari car and go across bumpy and rickety bridges and rocky hills and rivers. Yet this "not-so-comfy" journey is all worthwhile and is fully rewarded as you encounter spectacular wildlife preservation right in front of your eyes. 
 3. Space Mountain (Magic Kingdom) 
Boarding a sleek, rocket-shaped vehicle in the glow-in-the-dark Space Port, Space Mountain in Magic Kingdom theme park presents you with an exotic journey into outer space. The ride starts by steadily climbing up the 180-foot-high mountain and passing by the Mission Control booth in pitch-darkness, illuminated only by shooting stars, celestial satellites, black holes and shimmering constellations. For those who want to have a taste of space travel, Space Mountain is the answer!
 4. Extreme Stunt Show (Hollywood Studios) 
At the extreme Stunt Show at Hollywood Studios theme park, you see cars accelerating frantically and swerving uncontrollably like a scene from an action movie. The typical yet very exciting Hollywood-style stunt performances are there to surprise you!
 5. Pirates of the Caribbean (Magic Kingdom)
 At the Pirates of the Caribbean at the Magic Kingdom, you get to experience a life-size sailing ship combined with spectacular design, glamorous lighting effects, and jaw-dropping epic Hollywood costumes.
 6. Jungle Cruise (Magic Kingdom)
 Located in Magic Kingdom, Jungle Cruise was first opened in 1955. The ride was created to promote Walt Disney’s True Life Adventures nature documentaries, says the company website. Crowds are charmed by robotic elephants bathing in the water and boats navigate the mysterious and curious route using a hidden paddle. 
