Chef David Chang and his budding restaurant empire
David Chang, the award-winning chef and owner of the Momofuku restaurant group, is one of the brightest culinary talents in America. He is best known for integrating Asian flavors into his food creations to great effect; as well as for turning foods of humble origins into exciting and imaginative dishes. His meteoric rise to fame is testament to his tireless work ethic, dedicated professional approach, uncompromising demand for quality, and relentless attention to detail. Despite his status as a celebrity chef, David Chang is also noted for his affable and humble demeanor.
 David Chang was born in Virginia to immigrant parents from Korea. He attended high school at Georgetown Prep and majored in religious studies at Trinity College in Connecticut. He also attended the French Culinary Institute. With no particular plans after graduation, he lived in London, taught English in Japan, worked at a soba noodle shop, and had a variety of jobs in New York ranging from bussing tables to working in the finance industry. He did several stints at famous New York City restaurants and found that he was “completely dissatisfied with the whole fine dining scene and its pretentiousness”. 
In 2004, Chang and his partner and co-chef Joaquin Baca opened his first restaurant, Momofuku Noodle Bar in the East Village, New York City. The name momofuku means "lucky peach" in Japanese, but it is likely a reference to Momofuku Ando - the inventor of instant noodles. The restaurant serves mainly Japanese-style ramen featuring generous portions of braised pork belly and shredded pork shoulder meat in a rich broth. A particularly popular item on the menu is the pork bun - David Chang’s homage to the Peking duck - with thick slices of braised pork belly served in a steamed bun with a savory sauce. The restaurant, along with its owner, became an overnight sensation.
 In 2006, Chang opened his second restaurant, Momofuku Ssäm Bar, a few blocks away from Momofuku Noodle Bar. It serves high-end Asian comfort food in a relaxed, informal atmosphere. The menu is a tribute to Chang’s Korean roots, featuring rotisserie duck served with chive pancakes, apple kimchi and ssamjjang paste. One of the most sought after items on the menu is bossam, but rather than the neatly sliced pork belly meats commonly seen in Korea, Chang’s version features a hunk of pork shoulder braised to tender perfection and served with fresh oysters on a half shell and lettuce leaves. In 2012, Momofuku Ssäm Bar was chosen as no. 37 on the list of S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants.
 In 2008, Chang opened Momofuku Ko, a 12 seat restaurant that takes reservations, online only, on a first-come-first-served basis. It quickly became one of the most difficult restaurants in the city to get a reservation - one week in advance for dinner, and two weeks in advance for lunch. At Ko (which means “son of”), guests sit along a kitchen counter and are served by the cooks. Dinner is a set tasting menu devised by the chef and his aides de camp based on market availability, and it is usually about 10 courses long; at lunch the menu stretches out to 16 courses and takes three hours to complete. Ko has two Michelin stars, which it has retained for four years; it is also No. 79 on the San Pellegrino world’s best restaurants list. 
Following the success of his restaurants, David Chang opened Momofuku Milk Bar, serving soft drinks, along with cookies, pies, cakes and other treats. In 2010, má pêche (which means “mother peach”), Momofuku’s only restaurant in midtown, was opened. It has the largest raw bar and a variety of menu options for quick business lunches, post-work drinks, pre-theater meals, group dinners and private parties. In 2011, Chang expanded his business to Australia with the opening of Momofuku seiōbo in Sydney. In August, 2012, Momofuku Toronto will open in Canada. 
