King James finally wears his crown
“You know, my dream has become a reality now, and it’s the best feeling I ever had.” – LeBron James, NBA Finals MVP
 Two years after joining the Miami Heat to form the “big three” with all-stars Dyane Wade and Chris Bosh, LeBron James delivered on his promise and led his team to the NBA title. James was spectacular throughout the playoffs, but he took his game to an even higher level in the title clinching game. He had 26 points, 11 rebounds and 13 assists in leading the Miami Heat to a 121-106 rout of the Oklahoma City Thunder to win the NBA Finals in five games. He was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the NBA Finals. For James, the championship is sweet vindication after enduring severe criticism and ridicule for his decision to leave Cleveland for Miami.
 LeBron James received a great deal of national attention while he was a star player at St. Vincent – St. Mary High School in Ohio. He was selected with the number one pick in the 2003 NBA Draft by the Cleveland Cavaliers. Listed as a small forward, James had the imposing physique of a power forward with the ball handling skills of a point guard. He became an instant fan favorite with his explosive moves to the basket and highlight-reel dunks. In his first game as a professional player, James recorded 25 points, 9 assists, 6 rebounds, and 4 steals on 60 percent shooting. James was named the 2003–04 NBA Rookie of the Year. 
With LeBron James on the team, the Cleveland Cavaliers became one of the most exciting and popular teams in the NBA. In the 2004-2005 Season, James became the youngest player in league history to be named to an All-NBA Team. He led the Cleveland Cavaliers to consecutive playoff appearances from 2006 through 2010. In 2007, the Cavaliers advanced to the NBA Finals for the first time in franchise history, but they lost to the San Antonio Spurs. James won consecutive NBA Most Valuable Player awards in 2009 and 2010. He was also the NBA All-Star Game MVP in 2006 and 2008.
 LeBron James became an unrestricted free agent in 2010 -- meaning he could sign with any team. He became the most sought after player in the market and was courted by teams such as the L.A. Lakers, the New York Knicks, and the Miami Heat. The Cleveland Cavaliers remained in the mix and tried desperately to re-sign him. On July 8, 2010, James announced on a live television special on ESPN titled “The Decision” that he would sign with the Miami Heat and join forces with Wade and Bosh. The manner in which James dragged out the process and announced his decision was viewed by many as pretentious, unprofessional and unnecessary. He was roundly condemned throughout the league.
 In joining the Miami Heat, LeBron James actually took less money so that the team could afford a supporting cast to the “big three.” It was a sign of his hunger for the elusive NBA title. Throughout the season, James was regarded as a villain and booed by fans at every away game. James was affected by the negative reactions and admitted later that it “basically turned me into somebody I wasn’t.” Nevertheless, James still had a great regular season and led the team to the NBA Finals against the Dallas Mavericks. The Miami Heat lost the finals in six games, and James gained a new reputation -- as a choker, for not being able to score when the game was on the line.
 In the lockout-shortened 2012 season, LeBron James dedicated himself to improve on every facet of his already formidable game. He worked with NBA legend Hakeem Olajuwon on his post game, became an unselfish playmaker, and played defense with total commitment. He became an all-around player of the highest caliber. The result is there for all to see -- “The king” has his crown. 
