'The Amazing Spider-Man’: A different take on the origins of Spider-Man
The fictional character Spider-Man has been a popular and often featured superhero in Marvel Comics’ comic books. In 2002, Sony Pictures released the first of three “Spider-Man” film adaptations directed by comic book enthusiast Sam Riami. Rather than continue with the storyline for a fourth film as planned, Sony announced in January 2010 that the franchise will be rebooted instead with new director, Marc Webb.
 Webb’s “The Amazing Spider-Man” features a whole new cast portraying a different perspective of the origins of Spider-Man storyline. There are several key differences between Riami’s take on the story in his 2002 film, “Spider-Man,” and Webb’s recent release, “The Amazing Spider-Man.”
 Some storyline differences between “Spider-Man” and “The Amazing Spider-Man”:
 “Spider-Man” 2002
 “The Amazing Spider-Man” 2012
 Peter Parker (Spider-Man) is played by actor Tobey Maguire.
 Peter Parker is played by actor Andrew Garfield.
 Fellow high-school student Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst) plays Peter Parker’s love interest.
 Fellow high-school student Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone) plays Peter Parker’s love interest.
 Harry Osborn (James Franco), son of the CEO of Oscorp, plays Peter’s best friend and later roommate.
 Peter does not make any significant friends his age, other than Gwen Stacy.
 Dr. Norman Osborn (Willem Dafoe), CEO of Oscorp, is the first nemesis Spider-Man has to fight. Dr. Osborn uses himself as a test subject for an unstable chemical to enhance his strength that eventually turns him into the Green Goblin.
 Peter’s first nemesis in Webb’s adaptation is a character known as the Lizard. The Lizard is in fact, Dr. Curt Connors (Rhys Ifans), a scientist at Oscorp and old friend of Peter’s father. Dr. Connors attempts to create a cross-species serum that will help re-grow his missing arm. Something goes wrong and he becomes transformed into a Lizard monster.
 The film begins with Peter living with his Aunt May (Rosemary Harris) and Uncle Ben (Cliff Robertson). Neither Peter’s parents nor the circumstances of his living with his aunt and uncle are ever mentioned.
 The beginning of the film shows the mysterious circumstances under which Peter ends up living with his Aunt May (Sally Field) and Uncle Ben (Martin Sheen).  
“The Amazing Spider-Man” 
　Release Date: June 28, 2012
 　Category: Action/Adventure 
　Director: Marc Webb
 　Runtime: 136 minutes
 　Rating: Ages 12 and up
 　Official website: www.amazing-spiderman.co.kr 
