Vegetarian diets should be more widely adopted
Pro-
I think more people should choose vegetarian diets 
This is because vegetarian diets have many health benefits. 
To begin with, compared to diets that contain meat and other animal products, vegetarian diets offer distinct health advantages, according to a growing amount of scientific data.
 To name a few, vegetarian diets usually have lower intakes of saturated fat, cholesterol and animal protein and higher intakes of complex carbohydrates, dietary fiber, magnesium, folic acid, and vitamin C and E, which are crucial for good nutrition.
 It is also scientifically proven that vegetarian diets are beneficial in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, cancer, dementia and rheumatoid arthritis. 
 Unlike many misperceptions about vegetarianism, vegetarian diets do not lack important nutrients such as protein, iron, zinc, calcium, vitamin B12 and A, n-3 fatty acids and iodine, if people maintain a good balance in what they eat. Therefore, it is not a strict, extreme form of dieting but a more health and socially conscious way of eating. 
 The vegetarian way of eating is a new trend that comes with a change in people’s lifestyles; therefore it should be adopted as a matter of course. 
 Con-
Food preference should be left up to individuals
 It is widely believed that vegetarian diets are good for your health, but which foods to enjoy should be entirely left for individual choice.
 Some proponents of vegetarian diets argue that eating meat is not ethical. However, each and every living organism is supposed to die, and this allows others to survive. This is how organisms exist together in the food chain.
 There are several rights naturally given to humans, and the right to eat what they want is a fundamental liberty. Vegetarians and animal-rights groups would like to see meat consumption restricted, helped by lawsuits or government measures, but what people eat should be based upon individual choices.
 Also, meat eaters do not necessarily have to worry about their health. Contrary to common beliefs, eating meat has a good many health benefits. For one, meat provides healthy saturated fats that strengthen the immune system and has vitamins A, D, E and K. Also, meat is the best source of vitamin B12 -- a vitamin necessary to digestive system health.
 From a historical perspective, people have been eating meat for more than 2 million years and it is believed that this has been an essential part of human evolution. Studies show that meat in the diet provided essential nutrients, including protein, which allowed people to develop their brains and intelligence.
 So, based on the importance of human rights, nutritional analysis and historical considerations, I strongly believe that what people eat should be left up to them.
