Global animation festival hits Seoul
One of the world’s five grandest international animation festivals greets Seoulites on July 18 at the city’s major tourist spots.
 The Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival or SICAF is held for five days until July 22 at the COEX exhibition center, Myeong-dong CGV theater, Seoul Animation Center, Seoul AniCinema and Namsan park.
 The city festival, which marks the 16th anniversary this year, is co-hosted by the SICAF organizing committee and the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and sponsored by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
 Since the first run in 1995, SICAF has established itself as a leading cultural exhibition event that offers bountiful experiences and entertainment.
 “SICAF 2012 is one of the leading cartoon and animation festivals and is hosted by the Seoul Metropolitan Government, which endeavors to realize a multi-faceted exhibition that all generations can enjoy and empathize with,” said Hwang Gyung-tae, chairman of the SICAF organizing committee said on the official website of the festival.
 In the festival, 300 animated films will be shown and diverse cartoon exhibitions and business workshops for animation artists will take place.
 The event will offer entertainment for viewers and market opportunities for artists.
 The festival this year is divided into three different parts: Cartoon exhibitions, an animated film festival, and Seoul Promotion Plan (SPP).
 The film festival is opening with Spanish director Ignacio Ferreras’ film, “Wrinkles.” It tells the story of two aged men, Emilio and Miguel, living in a nursing home. The film begins as Emilio, who is in the early stages of Alzheimer’s, arrives in the care home and is greeted by Miguel and other colleagues. 
For this year’s competition section, a total of 1,362 films were submitted from 45 countries. Among them, 154 films have been selected.
 Director Yeun Sang-ho’s sensational debut “The King of Pigs,” which was invited to a non-competition section of this year’s Cannes, is among the five films in the competition section. The middle school flick is recognized for its portrayal of bullying, violence and systemic poverty.
 Director Lee Dae-hee’s “Padak,” also in the competition section, depicts the journey of a fish who ends up in the water tank of a sashimi restaurant. 
The SICAF 2012 exhibitions will consist of a series of educational programs for all generations, including a special exhibition on legendary SF cartoonist Kim San-ho and his works; an exhibition featuring a set of baseball-themed cartoons released in the past 30 years; and a show dedicated to American cartoonist Jim Davis’ famous cat character Garfield.
 Some of its education programs include animated filmmakers Kim Seon-ah and Park Se-hee’s special lecture titled “Producing Animated Feature A to Z,” where animated filmmakers can learn about the process of making a film, from pre-production to distribution. 
Vietnamese-American animator Mike Nguyen, who worked as a supervising animator on Warner Bros’ “The Iron Giant,” will also give a lecture on how to apply time affects to animated films. 
Local animators and cartoonists will find the festival’s SPP helpful. It gives them a chance to network with international buyers, listen to business conferences, and attend one-on-one sessions with marketing advisers for tips and the latest animation market trends. 
Tickets range from 3,000 won to 8,000 won for cartoon exhibitions, and 4,000 won to 5,000 won for film screenings. For more information and the full line-up of the films, visit www.sicaf.org. 
