In Focus: Korea’s Internet development
Over the past 30 years, the social development the Internet has brought to the Korean society is immense, and this positive effect is expected to become even larger with newer technology at hand every day.
 The significant influence of the Internet can be seen in the increasing global popularity of K-pop groups.
 As of June, over 2 billion hits were recorded on YouTube videos released by Korea’s big 3 global entertainment agencies -- SM, YG and JYP entertainment.
 Also, the number of global fans registered with the Facebook pages of Super Junior, Girls’ Generation, Big Bang and 2NE1 amount to over 10 million.
 YouTube and Facebook are not Korean, but such Korean social networking sites as “I Love School” and “Cyworld” have played a pivotal role in expanding social links between people, boosting Internet use and developing a related e-industry.
 Internet portal websites have contributed significantly to Korea’s online industry.
 The two biggest such Korean websites are Naver and Daum. The number of visitors to Naver in October last year stood at 31 million and the number to Daum marked 28 million, according to Nielsen Korea Click, an online media rating agency.
 In the United States, the most-visited website was Google, boasting 150 million visitors a month on average, according to Nielsen, a global marketing research company. Facebook followed with 130 million, and MSN and Windows Live were ranked 3rd and 4th, respectively. YouTube stood in 5th place.
 Behind Korea’s online industry development has been the government’s incessant efforts to become an IT powerhouse. Such efforts are shown by Korea’s e-government standing. Korea ranked first in the United Nations’ e-government index in 2010 and 2011. The Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Denmark followed in that order in the 2011 list.
 Meanwhile, experts advise that Korea should focus on developing a new telecommunications protocol for faster and larger information transmission, strengthening information security and advancing wireless Internet technology, to foster its position as an IT leader.
