Watch out for the summer heat!
In a welcome relief from the thick coats and bone-chilling cold of winter, the sunny summer season has finally arrived. With the warmer season, however, come bugs, stifling heat and occasional thunderstorms. 
Despite the heat, summer is the peak season for beach getaways and family get-togethers. Some people choose this time to travel around the country, while others choose to go abroad. No matter where you choose to go, however, spending time outside is the primary goal of people celebrating the summer season. 
Unfortunately the high temperatures of summer can be dangerous, especially for children. This is because children’s bodies don’t adapt to the heat as well as adults.
 For this reason, children must take more precautions against heat exhaustion than adults. 
Below is a simple guideline to follow for a safe and enjoyable summer.
 　1. Make sure to wear lightweight, light-colored, loose-fitting clothes.
 　2. Make sure to put on plenty of sunscreen and bug repellant.
 　3. When rehydrating, make sure to drink water instead of soda or sports drinks. Sports drinks, like Gatorade or Pocari Sweat, are only needed if you participate in vigorous exercise for more than an hour. 
 　4. On road trips: Even if it is for a short period of time, avoid waiting in the car unless it is air-conditioned. Even if the windows are down, staying inside a non-air-conditioned car can lead to heat stroke or heat exhaustion.
 　5. When playing outside: Although it is easy to get distracted, make sure to keep hydrated. For every 20 minutes of vigorous exercise, make sure to drink about 250ml (half a bottle) of water, even if you are playing in a swimming pool.
 　6. When playing outside: Whether you are in a pool or just running around with your friends, make sure to take frequent breaks to cool off. 
 l For every one-degree Celsius rise in your body temperature, the average person’s heartbeat increases 30 beats per minute.
 l When trying to cool down on a very hot day, an air-conditioned room is recommended over sitting in front of a fan. In fact, fans can make overheating worse because they blow hot air on a person that can heat them up rather than cool them down. Unfortunately, turning on an air-conditioner is more expensive than turning on a fan. 
l Humidity can be just as dangerous as high temperatures. Humans cool off primarily by sweating, but if humidity prevents your sweat from evaporating, your body temperature will rise. 
