Food combinations to avoid
It is common knowledge that an important element of maintaining good health is a balanced diet - eating from varied food groups that contain carbohydrates, protein, fat, vitamins, mineral salts and fiber. For most people, a typical meal features a combination of foods such as meat, seafood, vegetables, rice or noodles, dairy, sweets and fruit. However, due to the common misconception that the human stomach can handle just about anything (think about what people eat at a buffet), problems such as digestive unease, gas, bloating, stomachache, nausea, and fatigue often emerge after eating. The fact is that improper food combinations can do more harm than good. 
 In order to avoid health related problems as a result of improper food combinations, there are a few simple rules to keep in mind:
 Cereal with milk and orange juice - A bowl of corn flakes or Coco Puffs with milk and a glass of freshly squeezed orange juice in the morning might sound like a healthy meal, but it is not exactly the breakfast of champions if they are consumed at roughly the same time. Acids in orange juice or any acidic fruits can destroy the enzyme that is responsible for digesting starches present in cereal, thereby preventing carbohydrate digestion. In addition, orange juice can curdle milk and turn it into a heavy mucus-forming substance. It is better to drink the orange juice first, wait for 30 minutes (after it has been digested), then have the cereal with milk.
 Fruit after a meal - Any quick digesting foods must wait till the slowest digesting foods leave the stomach before they can leave. Fruits such as watermelon, oranges, grapes, apples, pears, and peaches contain simple sugars and take a very short time (less than 30 minutes) to digest. Meats such as beef, pork, duck or chicken, can take up to 5 hours to digest. While waiting for the animal proteins to be digested, fruits can undergo some decomposition and fermentation, producing gas, acid and even alcohol and causing bloating and indigestion. Therefore, after a meal of grilled pork belly (samgyeopsal) or short ribs (galbi), it would be wise to leave the pear, orange, and watermelon alone. 
 Beans and cheese - Dairy protein and beans is a common combination in any Mexican restaurant. Although few can resist the temptation of a hearty Mexican meal, anyone who has ever eaten enchiladas, quesadillas, chimichangas, refried beans, or Mexican chili, with a hearty serving of guacamole and hot sauce, is almost guaranteed to experience heartburn, gas and bloating at one time or another. The protein-starch combination of cheese and beans needs different enzymes and different levels of acidity to be digested. When eaten together, the body chooses to digest the protein first, leaving undigested starch to undergo fermentation and decomposition in the stomach. 
 Tomato sauce and cheese and pasta - This combination is surprising in that most people love eating spaghetti and pizza. Tomatoes are acidic, so it’s best not to mix them with starchy carbohydrates such as pasta. Take the common pizza for example: adding high protein (mozzarella cheese) to high acid content (tomato sauce) and starchy carbohydrate (pasta dough), and it turns into a recipe for digestive problems such as heart burn, acid reflux, and after meal fatigue (since the body will require a lot of energy to digest this meal.)
 Meat and dairy - A combination of foods high in protein and fat content but low in fiber often results in problems with the digestive system as well as constipation. The reason for avoiding these combinations is that each protein and fat requires a specific character and strength of digestive juice. A meal consisting of steak or fried chicken in a cream or butter sauce, French fries, cheese, and ice cream is an example of a bad combination with high protein and fat.
