Spain wins Euro 2012
“We won being true to our playing style, and by moving the ball the way we moved it we knew how to take charge of the match. What we do is difficult, but we make it look easy.” - Spain goalkeeper Iker Casillas 
 Spain made history in dominant fashion in the Euro 2012 final. They completely outclassed Italy with brilliant precision passes and controlled football to produce a comprehensive 4-0 rout. With the victory, Spain became the only team to successfully defend the European Championship crown, and coupled with its 2010 World Cup title, can legitimately stake a claim to be the greatest international side of all time. 
 Four years ago at Euro 2008, Spain defeated Germany 1-0 in the final to end a 44-year drought of major titles and started a remarkable run that has been unmatched by any other team in history. The team was nearly impossible to beat, and went on a record setting 15-game winning streak. The only blemish leading up to the 2010 World Cup was a rare loss to the United States in the semifinals of the Confederations Cup in 2009. At the 2010 World Cup, Spain lost the opening match to Switzerland, then went on a rampage to win six straight games and claim their first World Cup title.
 Spain was one of the favorites entering Euro 2012, but injuries to star players David Villa and Carles Puyol presented challenges to its championship aspirations. Nevertheless, the team still featured a roster loaded with talented players such as Xavi Hernández, David Silva, Andrés Iniesta, Fernando Torres, Cesc Fàbregas, and Iker Casillas. Spainish coach Vicente Del Bosque’s side featured a lineup without a traditional striker, but employed a short passing game - dubbed “tiki taka” by the Spanish news media - to overwhelm scrambling opponents to great effect. 
 Spain was drawn into Group C with Italy, Croatia, and the Republic of Ireland. In the first match against Italy, Cesc Fàbregas scored the equalizer in the 64th minute to help Spain salvage a 1-1 draw. In the second match, Spain whitewashed Ireland 4-0 as Fernando Torres scored twice and David Silva and Cesc Fàbregas also found the net. In the last Group C encounter with Croatia, substitute Jesús Navas scored the only goal of a tight contest with two minutes remaining in the game to send Spain through to the knockout stage.
 Spain met France - the team that eliminated it from the 2006 World Cup -- in the knockout stage. In a tightly contested match, it was the Spanish side that played with poise and flair. Xabi Alonso, in his 100th cap, scored a goal on a header in the 19th minute, and added a penalty kick in the 90th minute to propel Spain to a semifinal showdown with Cristiano Ronaldo-led Portugal. 
 The much anticipated semifinal encounter between Spain and Portugal was tense and hotly contested. A total of 9 yellow cards were handed out during the match. Portugal pressed hard throughout the match and effectively neutralized Spain’s vaunted passing game. The game ended in a 0-0 draw after 120 minutes of not quite spectacular but intriguing football and went to a penalty-shootout. João Moutinho and Bruno Alves missed their attempts for Portugal, and Cesc Fàbregas converted the winning spot kick for a 4-2 victory as the defending champion reached the finals. 
 In the championship game, Spain met Italy - a surprise winner over Germany in the other semifinal. The Spanish side saved its best for last as it thoroughly dominated a spirited, but ultimately outclassed Italian side. David Silva and Jordi Alba scored first half goals to establish Spanish supremacy; and substitutes Fernando Torres and Juan Mata added exclamation points to the emphatic win with two late strikes. The Spanish put on a breathtaking display, and history was made.
