97th annual Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest
The 97th annual Nathan’s Famous Fourth of July International Hot Dog Eating Contest at Coney Island drew large crowds this year as reigning champions Joey Chestnut and Sonya Thomas returned to face their respective rivals. 
With the nickname “Jaws,” 28-year-old Chestnut from San Jose, California, won last year’s competition with 62 hot dogs. In his sixth straight win, Chestnut took first place again this year after downing 68 hot dogs and buns in 10 minutes. 
“I feel good, it was a great win,” Chestnut told reporters after the competition. “I tried my best. I’m looking forward to next year already.” 
45-year-old Sonya Thomas of Alexandria, Virginia, ate 45 hot dogs to win the women’s competition and beating her record of 40 last year. Thomas said next year, she’s going to beat her record again by attempting to eat 46. 
Thomas, whose nickname is “Black Widow,” was the defending champion after winning the first women’s division of Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest in 2011. Rather than the mustard yellow belt awarded in the men’s competition, Thomas was able to hold on to her “bejeweled” pink Nathan’s Belt of the women’s division. 
The annual hot dog eating competition is believed to have been held since 1972. In order to compete, adults have to be at least 18-years-old and fulfill one of the following four conditions: 1) Be a defending champion, 2) win a regional qualifying contest for the season, 3) qualify as one of two wildcard competitors, or 4) receive a special initiation by the International Federation of Competitive Eating. 
 PRIZES
 Other than the Nathan’s Belt, champions receive a trophy, two cases of Nathan’s Famous hot dogs, and in recent years a cash prize. 
 First Place: $10,000
 Second Place: $5,000
 Third Place: $2,500
 Fourth Place: $1,500 
Fifth Place: $1,000
 Winners of 2012 Nathan’s Famous Hot Dog Eating Competition:
 MEN’S DIVISION
 　First – Joey Chestnut (San Jose, California)
 　Second – Tim Janus (New York, New York)
 　Third – Patrick Bertoletti (Chicago, Illinois)
 WOMEN’S DIVISION
 　First – Sonya Thomas (Alexandria, Virginia)
 　Second – Juliet Lee (Germantown, Maryland)
 　Third – Michelle Lesco (Tucson, Arizona)
