Face of the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics: Wenlock and Mandeville
With the 2012 London Olympics gearing up to begin on July 27, all eyes are on athletes as they get ready to convene for the worldwide sports showdown. As a major sporting event, it is no surprise that much of the focus remains on the athletes. However, another important aspect of the Olympic Games is the mascot. 
Mascots and the Olympic Games
 The Olympic Games’ first official mascot was announced during the 1972 Summer Olympic Games in Munich. Since 1972, mascots have become the most popular and memorable ambassadors of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
 Wenlock and Mandeville
 On May 19, 2010, the official mascots for the 2012 London Olympics were announced - Wenlock and Mandeville. It is only the second time that mascots for both the Summer Olympics and the Paralympics were announced together. 
 Both Wenlock and Mandeville are animated characters depicting two drops of steel used for the London 2012 Olympic Stadium. Wenlock is the mascot for the Summer Olympic Games while Mandeville represents the Paralympic Games. 
 Wenlock’s name was inspired by Much Wenlock in Shropshire, England, where the first Olympian Games in 1850 was held by the Wenlock Olympian Society. Wenlock is depicted with five “friendship bracelets,” the colors of which represent the five Olympic rings. The shape of the front of his head is designed to reflect the shape of the Olympic stadium roof while the light on his head was inspired by London’s iconic black taxis. The three points on his head represents the podium where successful athletes stand to receive their medals. 
 Mandeville’s name was inspired by the Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, England. In 1948, the Stoke Mandeville Hospital organized a competition for injured soldiers, an event largely considered to be the inspiration for the Paralympics. Unlike Wenlock’s five “friendship bracelets,” Mandeville wears a personal best timer on his wrist. The three colors of the Paralympics can be seen on Mandeville’s head, which is shaped like a helmet. Mandeville also has a taxi-inspired light on his head.
 Other Olympic Mascots
 Looking back, there are several other Olympic mascots worth noting. Though each is unique, some are more interesting than others.
 Waldi (Munich 1972)
 Waldi the Dachshund was the first official mascot of the Olympic Games. As the mascot of the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, Waldi was modeled after the Dachshund, a popular breed of dog in Germany. In fact, designer Otl Aicher modeled Waldi after a real Dachshund named Cherie von Birkenhof. In terms of decoration, Waldi’s head and tail were blue whereas his body was decorated with stripes of three out of the five Olympic colors. Aicher intentionally left out the colors red and black because of their relation to the Nazi Party.
 Sam (Los Angeles 1984)
 During the 1984 Los Angeles Games, an eagle named Sam was chosen as the mascot. Designed by Disney legend C. Robert Moore, the national bird of the U.S. was used. The name “Sam” was used in reference to “Uncle Sam,” a symbol of American nationality. 
 Hodori (Seoul 1988)
 Hodori the tiger has a special place in all Koreans’ hearts. Not only are tigers prevalent in many Korean legends, Hodori represented a momentous achievement for Korea as a nation: hosting the 1988 Summer Olympic Games. Although it failed to make a remarkable impression to the world at large, Hodori remains a source of national pride for Koreans. 
 Izzy (Atlanta 1996)
 Izzy was the mascot for the 1996 Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta. Izzy is described as being an amorphous abstract fantasy figure. The name “Izzy” is short for “Whatizit” (What is it?), an allusion to the fact that no one knew exactly what Izzy was supposed to be. In fact, Izzy was subject to much ridicule throughout the 1996 Summer Olympics. 
