Park Ji-sung joins Queens Park Rangers
“It was a difficult decision. It is time for a new challenge and I think it’s a great decision so that both me and the club can progress.” – Park Ji-sung
 Park Ji-sung has left Manchester United after seven glory-filled years to join recently-promoted Queens Park Rangers (QPR) on a two-year deal. At the news conference to announce the signing, QPR manager Mark Hughes described Park as someone he has admired from afar for many years, and expressed his confidence that Park can help the ambitious club get to the next level. Speaking to the assembled media, Park expressed his enthusiasm for facing new challenges and spoke optimistically about the future prospects of his new club. 
 Park Ji-sung reportedly rejected a new offer from Manchester United and initiated the transfer to QPR due to reduced playing time with the Reds over the last two seasons. He was left sitting on the bench for 7 straight games during one stretch in the second half of last season. With the Rangers, Park should see plenty of game action and put his talents on full display. 
 The signing of Park Ji-sung is part of an ambitious plan by Queens Park Rangers to ensure the club’s stay at the top tier of English football. The Rangers were promoted to the Barclays Premier League for the first time in 15 years in 2011; the club barely escaped relegation on the final day of last season and is determined to avoid a similar struggle next season. In addition to Park, QPR signed Ryan Nelsen, Andy Johnson, Rob Green, Samba Diakite and Fabio da Silva. QPR manager Mark Hughes is reportedly considering naming the well-experienced and big-game tested Park the club’s new captain.
 Rangers also declared that having Park Ji-sung on the team will “put the QPR brand on a global scale” and spearhead the club’s attempts to break into the Asian market. Tony Fernandes, a Malaysian entrepreneur who rose to prominence by turning AirAsia, a failing government-linked commercial airline, into a highly successful budget airline, is the majority shareholder of Queens Park Rangers and the chairman of QPR Holdings Ltd. He told the media: “I am the ultimate dreamer, and myself and Mark (Hughes) have worked incredibly hard to make this happen. Ji has bought into the story and we couldn’t be more delighted.”
 Queens Park Rangers Football Club (founded in 1882) is an English professional football club based in White City, London. During the early years after the club’s formation, QPR lived an almost nomadic existence, playing their home games in a league record 20 different stadiums before permanently settling at Loftus Road in 1917. In the 1966-67 season, QPR became the first Third Division club to win the League Cup, beating West Bromwich Albion 3–2; 45 years on, and it is still the only major trophy that QPR have ever won. The Rangers’ best result on the Premier League level was a runners-up spot (behind Liverpool) in the 1975-1976 season, missing out on the championship by a single point. 
 In his seven years with Premier League powerhouse Manchester United, Park Ji-sung made more than 200 appearances and scored 27 goals, winning four Premier League titles and the Champions League in 2008. Sir Alex Ferguson, the legendary Reds manager, described Park as “the ultimate professional and a nice lad.” Park endeared himself to legions of Reds fans with his tireless devotion to the game and his humble demeanor. He earned a well-deserved reputation as a “big game player” for his uncanny ability to rise to the occasion and perform at the highest level when it counts. His exploits against powerful rivals such as Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool should ensure his enduring popularity among Manchester United fans for years to come.
