Tom Cruise’s divorce and Scientology
Actress Katie Holmes has filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences, from her husband Hollywood superstar Tom Cruise. She has reportedly requested sole custody of their daughter, 6-year-old Suri. Amid wild rumors and speculations, the couple released a joint statement to the press through their respective representatives saying: “We are committed to working together as parents to accomplishing what is in our daughter Suri’s best interests. We want to keep matters affecting our family private and express our respect for each other’s commitment to each of our respective beliefs and support each other’s roles as parents.” 
 Tom Cruise was on location in Iceland filming his new movie, Oblivion, when Holmes filed papers for a divorce in New York. The next day, he confirmed through his representative that he was “deeply saddened” about the development and is “concentrating on his three children (two of whom were adopted during his previous marriage to actress Nicole Kidman).” Media reports indicated that Holmes was well prepared before she began divorce proceedings. She enlisted the expertise of her father, Martin Holmes, an attorney based in Ohio, who flew to New York for legal advice and moral support. She secretly rented an apartment in New York City to ride out the media storm after the divorce announcement was made public. 
 The end of the five-year marriage between the 50-year-old “Mission Impossible” star Cruise and the 33-year-old “Dawson’s Creek” actress Holmes caught many by surprise. Just a few weeks before their divorce announcement, Tom Cruise was quoted in a conversation with an interviewer professing that his greatest achievement in life has been “my marriage and my family”; and he said to another reporter, “Nothing’s more important than my wife, my children.” Many people still remember the “couch incident” that took place on the Oprah Winfrey Show in 2005, in which Cruise goofily jumped around the set, hopped onto a couch, fell to one knee and repeatedly professed his love for his new girlfriend Katie Holmes. 
 It has been widely speculated in the media that differences in religious beliefs might have played a significant role in the Cruise-Holmes divorce. Tom Cruise has been a prominent Scientology member for years, but Katie Holmes was brought up in the Catholic faith. Katie Holmes converted to Scientology in 2006, and the couple was married by a Church of Scientology minister. It has been reported that Holmes has grown increasingly weary of the religion over the past six years and is concerned about their 6-year-old daughter Suri’s further involvement with, and exposure to, Scientology. Since the divorce announcement, Holmes has registered with the Church of St. Francis Xavier in New York, signaling her return to Catholicism.
 Tom Cruise is an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology – a religion founded by American science fiction author L. Ron Hubbard. Scientology, based on Hubbard’s self-help system, Dianetics, is described as the study and handling of the spirit in relationship to itself, others, and all of life. The stated purpose of Scientology is “to become certain of one’s spiritual existence and one‘s relationship to God, or the Supreme Being. “One belief of Scientology is that a human is an immortal alien – an extraterrestrial, spiritual being termed a “thetan” - that is trapped on Earth in a physical body. Cruise credited Scientology with helping him overcome dyslexia.
 Tom Cruise’s strong belief in Scientology has caused many controversies. In 2005, the Paris city council revealed that Cruise had lobbied officials Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Claude Gaudin on behalf of the religion, described him as a spokesman and militant for Scientology, and barred any further dealings with him. His public expression of Scientology’s opposition to mainstream psychiatry has caused confrontations with fellow actors, television hosts and medical authorities. The Church of Scientology has so far declined to weigh in on the divorce settlement. 
