A market within a market: Ssamzigil
Ssamzigil is a quaint little outdoor mall found within the Insa-dong market place. Tucked behind the many stores of Insa-dong, it is easy to miss if you aren’t paying attention – especially during the daytime. 
Though at first glance it may seem rather small and unimpressive, a closer look will prove otherwise. There are a plethora of things to see and do; it is easy to get drawn into the charm of Ssamzigil. This is especially true if you consider just how diverse the 5-story complex really is. In fact, it could be said to be the epitome of fusion. 
Ssamzigil is popular for its art galleries, restaurants and abundance of shops that sell everything from little decorative trinkets to traditional Korean furniture. It has both indoor and outdoor stores that are simultaneously old and new, traditional and modern. 
Interestingly enough, the two most exciting aspects of Ssamzigil can be found at the highest and lowest floors of the complex. 
Ssamzigil Workshop
 The Ssamzigil Workshop is located on B1 of the complex. Here you can try your hand at making six different kinds of craftworks, ranging from ceramic painting to candle making. Divided into six different sections, each section offers a variety of different ways for you to express your creativity. The sections are divided into ceramics, hanji crafts, wooden crafts, jewelry-making, baking and candle- and soap-making. 
 Visit www.ssamzigil.com or call (02) 736-6711 for more information. 
 “Between Pages”
 Located at the top floor on Ssamzigil, “Between Pages” is a cozy little book café that boasts tasty treats and a relaxing environment. The decoration itself is enough to melt your stress away. Books and magazines fill the shelves, ready to be flipped through, while personal notes written by visitors decorate the walls. It is a great place to go study, hang out with friends, or even just to stop by for a quick drink as you explore all that Ssamzigil has to offer.
 Visit www.betweenpages.co.kr or call (02) 725-0230 for more information. 
