Are 3-D movies worth the price compared to regular movies?
Pro- 
3-D movies are worth the price
There is fierce debate whether 3-D movies are worth paying more money for. Some say that it isn’t worth paying more money to watch 3-D movies, but a closer look reveals that this is not true. 
 First, I think 3-D movies are worth more money than regular movies because they appear on screen more vividly. When the 3-D “Avatar” was unspooled, the world was amazed by the 3-D technology and how lifelike it was. 
 Second, I think 3-D movies are worth paying more money for because they cost more money to make than regular movies. It takes a special camera with two lenses to film a 3-D movie. Also special professionals are needed to make one.
 The experience of watching 3-D movies is more vivid, and it takes more money to make 3-D movies than regular movies. So I think that 3-D movies are worth paying more money for than regular movies. 
Con-
 3-D movies are not worth the price
 I think 3-D movies are too pricey. They are almost twice the price of regular movies. For youngsters, movie-watching is one of the most popular forms of entertainment, and if the price of seeing movies keeps rising due to the so-called “3-D movie boom,” soon there will be no regular movies. Then people will not be able to afford to come to the cinema. This would eventually hurt the movie industry.
 Moreover, the mind-blowing, spectacular visual effects in 3-D movies give people headaches while they are watching. They can also distract you from understanding the plot or storyline of the movie. Too many 3-D effects prevent you from concentrating on actors’ performances. 
 Last but not least, movies are becoming more and more like a “banquet of technology,” rather than “a repository of emotion.” Movies have become superficial with the advent of 3-D, instead of touching viewers with beautiful stories or telling people great life lessons. 
 All in all, as 3-D movies are far too expensive, keep people from concentrating on the plot and become more and more lacking in emotion, I prefer regular movies to 3-D movies. 
