Hopping on an adventure with ‘Ice Age 4: Continental Drift’
“Ice Age 4: Continental Drift” is an American 3-D film directed by Steve Martino and Mike Thurmeier. The movie was released on July 26 in the U.S. and made $385 million at the box office. It was produced by Blue Sky, one of the three major animation studios in Hollywood, along with Pixar and Dreamworks. 
 Pop diva Jennifer Lopez took part in the making, starring as the saber-toothed cat Shira. She also sang the main theme song, “We are.” 
 “I am very excited to join in this journey and Ice Age 4 is a touching and very interesting movie to watch,” She said in an interview. 
 The film’s music director John Powell is a renowned music composer who put together the theme songs for “Ants,” “Shrek,” and “I am Sam.” He won a music award at the 64th Golden Globes for “Happy Feet.”
 As the fourth installment of the Ice Age series, “Ice Age 4” is filled with both revolutionary techniques and the charm of brilliant wit.
 The Ice Age series has evolved with the release of new installments. In fact, for movie number four, about 350 staff got absorbed in making three-dimensional mud sculptures and 2 million strands of hair to give more reality to the characters. For the first time of the series, Ice Age 4 was shot in the 2.39:1 ratio wide screen.
 Adventure of the mammoth Manny, the cat Diego, the sloth Sid and Granny begins as ice broke out from continents because of Scrat’s obsession over acorns. The tragedy separates Manny from his family, leaving them floating on an ice raft in the ocean. 
 Lost at sea, the animal crew encounters a pirate ship that is as scary as the “black pearl” of the “Pirates of the Caribbean.” The captain of the ship, Gutt is the main antagonist of the film. The gang of animal pirates, led by Gutt, captures Manny, Diego, Sid and Granny. Yet they manage to escape and finally reunite with the herd. However, the pirate gang has already captured Manny’s wife and daughter, Ellie and Peaches. 
 With the help of estranged pirate gang member Shira and a gigantic whale, they eventually defeat the bad guys and go on to find new home in South America. Diego and Shira later fall in love with each other. 
 At the final scene of the film, Gutt is devoured by a siren and Scrat finally reaches a mysterious acorn-filled island: Scratlantis, his own version of Atlantis. This floating city is filled with acorns and greedy Scrat goes berserk when seeing tons of nuts. He attempts to pull a giant nut that is being used as a plug for the drainage hole. Soon the island submerged into the Atlantic Ocean, leaving Scrat in the middle of a bleak desert.
The Sirens that appeared in the film were, according to Greek mythology, dangerous creatures, depicted as femmes-fatales who lured nearby sailors with their enchanting songs.
Ice Age 
Date of release: Aug. 7, 2002 
Box office takings: $380 million 
Plot: Manny and Sid find a human baby and try to find his family 
 Ice Age 2: The Meltdown 
Date of release: April, 20, 2006 
Box office takings: $650 million
 Plot: Due to global warming, a deluge is rumored to hit the animal crew and they begin moving to a safer area. The fear of mammoth extinction pushes Manny and Alice to launch a dating service.
 Ice Age 3: Dawn of the Dinosaurs
 Date of release: Aug. 12, 2009
 Box office takings: $880 million 
Plot: By stealing a dinosaur egg, Sid puts an underground dinosaur world into chaos, and there begins an adventure.
 “Ice Age 3” rewrote a box office history by raking in $42.5 million on the first week of release in the U.S. market alone.
 The past three installments have together accumulated more than $1.9 billion world-wide. The series has been called one of the best animation series of all time.
