Friday the 13th superstitions
In Western superstition, Friday the 13th is widely considered an unlucky day. Friggatriskaidekaphobia (the fear of Friday the 13th) is more than just a garden variety superstition; it has real life consequences. People who suffer from it often display symptoms ranging from mild anxiety to full-blown panic attacks. Some people have been known to go as far as avoiding their normal routines, reshuffling their schedules, missing an entire day’s work, or not getting out of bed at all on this day. In the United States alone, it has been estimated that upward of 20 million people are affected by the fear of Friday the 13th. 
 Friday the 13th superstitions are rooted in ancient bad-luck associations with the number 13 and the day Friday. 
 Folklore historians have theorized that the number 13 was deemed undesirable because of its position after 12. In numerology, the number 12 is considered the number of completeness, as reflected in the twelve months of the year, twelve hours of the clock, twelve gods of Olympus, twelve tribes of Israel, twelve Apostles of Jesus, twelve signs of the Zodiac, etc. The number 13 was therefore considered irregular, beyond completeness. There is also a biblical reference to 13 as an unlucky number -- Judas, the apostle said to have betrayed Jesus, was the 13th guest to the Last Supper. In modern society, the fear of 13 can be seen in how we build. In the West, more than 80 percent of high-rise buildings lack a 13th floor, many airports skip the 13th gate, and many hospitals and hotels don’t have room number 13. 
The theories on why Friday was considered unlucky rely heavily on biblical references. It’s well known among Christians that Jesus was crucified on a Friday. Furthermore, some biblical scholars believe that Eve tempted Adam in the Garden of Eden with the forbidden fruit on a Friday, which resulted in their ejection from Paradise. Also of significance is a belief that Abel was slain by his brother Cain on Friday the 13th. Friday has been considered an unlucky day as early as the 14th century in Geoffrey Chaucer’s The Canterbury Tales. In maritime circles, one of the most enduring sailing superstitions is that it is unlucky to begin a voyage on a Friday. 
 Friday the 13th superstitions are featured prominently in popular culture as well. In the global best-selling novel “The Da Vinci Code,” author Dan Brown offered a theory connecting the Friday the 13th superstition to a single historical event -- the fate of Knights Templar. The Knights Templar was a legendary order of “warrior monks” formed during the Christian Crusades to combat Islam. On Friday, Oct. 13, 1307, officers of King Philip IV of France carried out mass arrests that left several thousand Templars -- knights, sergeants, priests, and serving brethren -- in chains, charged with heresy, blasphemy, and homosexual practices. Dan Brown concluded that it was “a day so infamous that Friday the 13th would become a synonym for ill fortune.”
 Despite popular theories regarding the pre-modern origins of Friday the 13th superstitions, many folklore historians cautioned that no one has been able to document the existence of such superstitions prior to the late 19th century. The earliest known documented reference in English occurred in British journalist Henry Sutherland Edwards’ 1869 biography of Gioachino Rossini, the Italian composer who died on Friday, November 13th, 1868. Some scholars have attributed the stigma of Friday the 13th to a modern day creation -- a combination of two older superstitions -- that thirteen is an unlucky number and that Friday is an unlucky day. The 20th-century media hype and popular culture then elevated the phenomenon to a whole new level.
