Serena Williams wins Fifth Wimbledon title
“Coming here and winning today is amazing. … It’s been an unbelievable journey for me.” – Serena Williams
 American tennis star Serena Williams made a triumphant return to the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club. She won the 2012 Wimbledon Championships with a 6-1, 5-7, 6-2 victory over Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland. It was the fifth Wimbledon title, and 14th Grand Slam title overall, of her illustrious career. She became the first woman over the age of 30 to win a major title since tennis legend Martina Navratilova lifted the Rosewater Dish in 1990. She also teamed up with sister Venus Williams to win the Wimbledon doubles title for the fifth time.
 Following her shock first round defeat at the previous Grand-Slam event - the French Open -Serena entered the 2012 Wimbledon as the sixth seed. She handily defeated Barbora Záhlavová-Strýcová in the first round and Melinda Czink in the second round. In the third round, Serena was pushed to the limit by the 25th-seeded Zheng Ji of China. Serena’s grit and big serves saved the day as she fought back to win 9-7 in the 3rd set. She next defeated Yaroslava Shvedova in the fourth round and took down the fourth-seeded defending champion Petra Kvitová in the quarterfinals. Serena seemed to hit her stride as the tournament progressed. In the semifinals, she beat the second-seeded Victoria Azarenka in straight sets 6–3, 7–6(6) to book a place in the finals. 
 In the title match against Radwanska, who was trying to become the first Polish Grand Slam singles champion, Serena was shaky at times but dominant when it counted the most. In the first set, Serena raced to a commanding 5-0 lead, steamrolling her opponent with service aces and powerful ground strokes. In the second set, Serena squandered an early break, lost her concentration after a poor line call, and surrendered the set 7-5. In the deciding third set, Serena regained her composure and took control by hitting booming serves and outright winners. She won the last five games to close out the match. Serena set a new Wimbledon ladies’ record with 102 service aces in the tournament. 
 It was Serena’s first major title since she suffered a severe foot injury and a series of health scares over the past two years. A few days after winning Wimbledon for the fourth time in 2010, Serena cut both feet on broken glass while leaving a Munich restaurant, requiring 18 stitches to close the wound. Subsequent surgeries to repair the damage prevented her from competing for the rest of the year. In March 2011, Serena confirmed that she had suffered a pulmonary embolism - a blockage (blood clot) of the main artery of the lung. The blood thinner injections she took to treat the condition led to a pool of blood gathering under her stomach’s skin, requiring another procedure. 
Most great tennis champions have one or more chief rivals to whom they are compared to and judged against throughout their careers. Legendary rivalries that come to mind include John McEnroe and Jimmy Connors, Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert, Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi, Steffi Graf and Monica Seles, and the on-going saga of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Serena has a most worthy rival too, and a very friendly one at that; it’s her older sister Venus Williams. Venus, like Serena, is a five-time Wimbledon champion. Serena has mentioned on numerous occasions that her older sister is her main rival and source of inspiration. Sibling rivalry and professional rivalry aside, the Williams sisters have also teamed up to claim 13 Grand Slam doubles titles and two Olympic doubles gold medals together. 
