An island of stunning beauty: Iceland
Despite its misleading name, Iceland is in fact, not just one giant patch of ice. Although 10 percent of the country is covered by glaciers, it has a surprisingly mild climate and countless geothermal hotspots. In fact, its natural beauty is sure to take your breath away. 
Iceland boasts several must-see places and unbelievable experiences. Below are some examples of what Iceland has to offer. 
 Blue Lagoon
 The famous Blue Lagoon is one of the most visited attractions in Iceland. A geothermal spa, its warm waters are rich in minerals. In fact, bathing in it is thought to help people suffering from skin diseases such as psoriasis. 
The medicinal and healing properties of the water are considered so important that Iceland has implemented a strict code of hygiene for people hoping to take a dip in the Blue Lagoon. Guests are required to shower without clothing in the communal shower before going in. 
 The Northern Lights
 No doubt many people have heard of the breathtaking beauty of the Aurora Borealis, more commonly known as the northern lights. Only seen in the northern hemisphere in high altitudes, the northern lights are a spectacular natural light show visible between the start of autumn to mid-spring. 
Although there are numerous places in the world where the northern lights are visible, Iceland offers some of the best views of this natural phenomenon. In fact, Iceland offers several tour packages purely based on witnessing the northern lights. The tours are seasonal, operating only between September and April.
 Geysir and Gullfoss
 Often referred to as Iceland’s “big two,” Geysir and Gullfoss are two more examples of the extent to which Iceland houses some of the most spectacular natural beauties in the world. 
Geysir is the first original geyser; the original spouting hot spring that all other geysers are named after. A regularly erupting geyser, watching Geysir shoot water between 35 to 70 meters up in the air without warning is truly a sight to behold. 
Another water-based not-to-be missed sight in Iceland is Gullfoss. As Iceland’s most famous waterfall, it is located in the canyon of the Hvítá river. Watching water tumble into a 32-meter-deep crevice, especially on a sunny day, is truly impressive. 
