The Junior Herald goes through changes
Reflecting a series of surveys conducted through the first half of 2012, the Junior Herald has gone through a few changes, which our readers might want to take note of.
 Cover Page
The new cover page introduces the cover story on the right and thumbnails of four other news stories on the left -- instead of two at the top as previously. The four stories are selected from all news stories in consideration of their timing and significance. You can also see the introduction of the new page “Sentence of the Week” right below the newspaper title.
 Entertainment & Culture News
News coverage on the Korean Wave, new movies, animated films and celebrities is being increased according to the readers’ requests. Recently, features on the movies of “Ice Age 4,” “The Dark Knight Rises,” “StreetDance2,” “The Amazing Spider-Man” were run. There were also special stories on comedian Sin Bo-ra, Kim Yu-na’s future, and tourist information for Disney Land, Jeju Island, Insa-dong and Spain.
 Enlarged letters
The Junior Herald used to carry a good many lengthy articles, which was regarded by many readers burdensome. The new Junior Herald is including more shorter articles on more fun and informative topics. The articles accordingly have larger letters and are easier to read. They provide more space for you to take notes as well.
 News on Human body
The surveys showed readers’ interests in the science of human body. With that in mind, the Junior Herald writers have prepared more interesting stories with such topics as protecting yourself from the summer heat, the effect of household pets and babies’ health and the dangers of a sedentary lifestyle. You can expect more useful stories on the Science page.
 Food Stories
Our readers expressed interest in recipes, different types of foods from around the countries and globally successful chefs. Accordingly, the Junior Herald is researching these topics, and recently ran stories on food combinations to avoid, Korean-American chef David Chang, and a U.S. hot dog eating contest. Topic suggestions on the subject are always welcome.
 Sentence of the Week
This section provides readers with great sentences spoken or written by such celebrities as Nelson Mandela (human rights activist of South Africa), U.S. General Douglas MacArthur (in relation to Japan’s Peace Constitution), and Pierre de Coubertin (founder of the International Olympic Committee). The readers will have a chance to study sentences spoken by prominent figures in a historical context. The title is sometimes changed to “Address of the Week” depending on the nature of the quotation.
Daily Junior Herald
To the delight of our readers, the Daily Junior Herald corner opened online on July 16.
The corner -consisting of two sections, Hot News and Education -was launched to get closer to the readers and provide them with stories more rapidly and instantly.
In the Hot News section, you can check out the most recent news that will appear on other major media outlets. What sets the Hot News apart from others is that it deals with interesting and informative news related to teenagers.
In July, we ran stories on the heat wave (July 27), North Korea’s first lady (July 26), Olympic news (From July 17 on), the Aurora movie-theater shooting (July 25), Tom Cruise’s divorce (July 23) and many more.
The Junior Herald plans to diversify and expand continuously the Hot News section, while reflecting our readers’ opinions.
In the Education section, you can read the latest news stories on education policies, mostly released by the Education Ministry.
So far, building English competence through newspapers, special education forums in Chungcheong and Jeolla provinces, pre-school programs for children from multinational families and many other special programs run by the Education Ministry have been introduced in the section.
The Junior Herald will continue to improve readers’ access to its news storage with new media tools, such as Facebook and Twitter.
