79 new species of shark discovered
Scientists from South Carolina recently discovered 79 new species of shark after comparing their DNA with known shark species, The Post and Courier of Charleston reported. 
Gavin Naylon, biologist at the Hollings Marine Laboratory discovered the new species while studying the DNA of sharks to find out how and why organisms evolve. 
Naylon’s discovery adds to the already known 1,200 species of shark and rays in the world. 
“We’re pretty sure there are a lot more out there,” he said. “We’re just a bunch of nerdy scientists doing the best we can. I’m pretty sure we have barely scratched the surface.” 
What is surprising about the newly discovered species is that on the surface, they look exactly the same as existing sharks. The only way to differentiate between them is through DNA testing. 
FUN SHARK FACTS:
1. Almost 40 of the approximately 1,200 known species of sharks and rays are found in the waters around South Carolina. 
2. Sharks are older than dinosaurs! As the oldest surviving vertebrate animals with jaws, sharks have been around for more than 400 million years. Comparatively, dinosaurs began to appear only 245 million years ago.
3. Sharks are both big and small. The smallest known shark in the world is the dwarf lantern shark, usually between 16 and 21 centimeters. The largest known shark, on the other hand, is the whale shark, which can grow up to 12.64 meters in length. 
4. While other fish have bones, a shark’s skeleton is made up of cartilage. 
5. Sharks can be either cold-blooded or warm-blooded. Like other fish, most sharks are cold-blooded. There are, however, some sharks that are warm-blooded, like the great white shark. 
6. Baby sharks are called pups! Some sharks, like the horn shark, lay eggs that later hatch into live pups. Other sharks, like the tiger shark, keep their eggs inside them until they hatch. Sharks like the hammerhead, on the other hand, are like mammals. They grow live baby sharks inside them before giving birth. 
7. Like other fish, sharks have gills that allow them to breathe and tail fins that move side to side.
