Big Ben chimes for three minutes to mark Olympic opening
Big Ben, the iconic Great Bell of the Clock Tower at the Palace of Westminster in London, chimed continuously for three minutes in concert with virtually every bell in England to help ring in the 2012 London Olympics. Special permission had been granted for the bell to toll out of its regular hourly sequence. It struck more than 42 times between 8:12 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. on July 27, to herald the beginning of the first day of the Olympic Games. It marked the first time Big Ben has been rung outside its regular schedule since Feb. 15, 1952, when it tolled every minute for 56 strokes for the funeral of King George VI. 
The chiming of all bells in England and beyond for the London 2012 Festival, titled “All the Bells,” is the brainchild of Turner Prize-winning artist and musician Martin Creed. He suggested that all bells in the country -- including hand-bells, bicycle bells, doorbells, tower bells and church bells -- should be rung as loudly as possible for three minutes. The bells at the National Assembly for Wales, Stormont (parliament building) in Northern Ireland and the Scottish Parliament also rang and all four Parliaments chimed in unison. The celebration aimed to set a world record for the largest number of bells being rung simultaneously.
The clock tower that houses Big Ben is one of the most famous structures in the world, up there with the Eiffel Tower, the Statue of Liberty, the Sydney Opera House, and the Taj Mahal. It was completed during the restoration of the Palace of Westminster in 1858. The clock tower, at 96 meters, is the third-tallest free-standing clock tower. It holds the largest four-faced chiming clock in the world, with each dial (clock face) measuring 49 square meters and adorned with 1.2-meter tall numbers. At the base of each clock dial in gilt letters is the Latin inscription: “O Lord, keep safe our Queen Victoria the First.” The Great Bell is 2.2 meters tall and weighs 13 tons. Nobody knows exactly whom Big Ben is named after but common theories include Sir Benjamin Hall (who oversaw the installation of the bell) or English Heavyweight Boxing Champion Benjamin Count. 
Along with the Great Bell, the bell tower houses four quarter bells which play the “Westminster Quarters” on the quarter hours (every fifteen minutes). The full hour strike and chime consists of the 4 quarter bells ringing the “Westminster Chimes,” first used for the chimes of Great St Mary’s church, Cambridge, followed by the striking of Big Ben itself. The tune of the chimes is set to the music of Handel’s aria “I know that my redeemer liveth,” and each quarter chime is set to the lines: “All through this hour/Lord be my guide/And by thy power/No foot shall slide.” 
Big Ben has stood tall and proud through some of Britain’s most trying times. For two years during World War I, the clock face was darkened at night and the bells were silenced to prevent attacks by German Zeppelins (airships). During World War II, the clock faces were darkened at night at the height of the Blitz (a sustained German bombing of England), but the bells continued to ring. Today, Big Ben remains a symbol as well as the most popular landmark of the United Kingdom. The British parliament recently announced that the Big Ben Clock Tower would be renamed the Elizabeth Tower to mark the queen’s Diamond Jubilee -- her 60th year on the British throne.
