New rules unveiled for taekwondo at London Olympics
“The London Olympics will serve as a perfect platform for the sport of taekwondo to showcase its beauty and philosophy.” - Yu Zaiqing, vice-president of International Olympic Committee (IOC) 
The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) has introduced several significant rule changes involving competition, scoring, and judging ahead of the 2012 London Olympic Games. The new rules are instituted with two main objectives in mind: to avoid a repeat of the kind of judging controversies that marred the taekwondo competition during the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and to increase the appeal of the sport to a greater audience, helping it remain as a part of the Games. 
Taekwondo made its first appearance at the Summer Olympic Games as a demonstration sport at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. It later became a full medal sport at the 2000 summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, and has been a sport in the Olympics since then. Although taekwondo has grown into one of the most popular combat sports with more than 60 million practitioners worldwide, it has come under criticism for inconsistent judging, a confusing scoring system, and lackluster matches. After the Beijing Games, there were rumors that taekwondo might be in danger of being eliminated from future Olympic Games.
Baseball and softball were removed from the Olympic program for London 2012, reducing the number of core sports to 26, and it has been projected that the number of core sports is set to be reduced to 25 by the 2020 Games. With baseball and softball pushing hard for re-inclusion, and other popular sports such as karate, rugby and golf vying to become part of the Olympic program, the World Taekwondo Federation decided to take the initiative and address the concerns and uncertainties about the sport with a series of rule changes.
The first rule change is intended to make taekwondo safer for competitors. At the London Olympics, fighters will be awarded a score of up to 4 points for head kicks as soon as any part of their foot touches their opponent’s head - without regard for impact, as was previously the case. Under the old rules, fighters were awarded points for head kicks depending on if a spinning technique was used. Points for those kicks were determined based on the assessment of referees and judges, which usually requires the kicks to have significant force. Under the new rule, theoretically, fighters could resort to more fancy moves with speed and lightness to score points without having to rely on hard strikes, thus making the fight more exciting and less dangerous.
The second rule change is centered on improving the consistency and fairness in judging. Under the previous format, a match takes place on a 10m x 10m mat with one referee, and four judges sitting quite far from the action (assisted by 2 cameras). Points and penalties are given when two judges recognize them. Due to the exceptional speed of some of the moves and the angle of view, judges’ decisions often caused disputes and protests. The new rule changed the area of combat to an 8m x 8m mat, allowing judges to be closer to the action, and increased the number of cameras from 2 to 5. 
The third rule change is the employment of an electronic scoring system. Taekwondo competitors are required to wear hogu or chest protectors embedded with electronic sensors. Points are only awarded if fighters kick or punch their opponents’ chest protector with sufficient force to register on the scoring system, leaving the judges to concentrate on head strikes and penalties. This system is projected to greatly reduce instances of biased or mistaken judging decisions. Furthermore, competitors are entitled to at least one video replay for a disputed point if necessary.
