‘The Thieves’
“The Thieves” is an action-packed adventure where the audience is taken through a wild chase around Seoul, Busan, Hong Kong and Macau as the characters attempt to pull off a daring heist. 
Hailed as the Asian “Ocean’s 11,” director Choi Dong-hun’s “The Thieves” is about a team of 10 South Korean and Chinese thieves attempting to steal a rare diamond necklace from a casino vault in Macau. Much like Steven Soderbergh’s hit remake, “Ocean’s 11” (2001), “The Thieves” features a star-studded cast.
Unlike Soderbergh’s film, however, the focus of “The Thieves” is not on the meticulous and brilliant planning of the heist between trusted team members, but more on the spectacularly disloyal relationship between the thieves. 
The film starts off with the successful theft of a priceless artifact from a local art museum by Popeye’s (Lee Jung-jae) team of Korean thieves. After almost getting caught and the police on their tail, Popeye decides to accept a job offer in Macau, taking his team along with him. 
In Macau, Popeye and his group of thieves team up with a group of Chinese thieves for a heist masterminded by his old partner, Macao Park (Kim Yoon-seok). The tension is almost palpable when the two groups first meet and begin the planning process. Fortunately, one of the funnier moments of the film occurs at this point, when Andrew (Oh Dal-soo), a member of the Chinese group of thieves, reveals that he is in fact Korean after Anycall (Jeon Ji-hyun) throws hot tea on his face. 
Overall, the film has gotten mixed reviews from critics despite beating out Hollywood’s “The Dark Knight Rises” in the box office on its first day of release. A hectic action film interspersed with moments of hilarity, it is a great way to escape from the heat of summer for even just a couple of hours. 
Korean Thieves: 
　Macao Park (Kim Yoon-seok)
　Pepsi (Kim Hye-soo)
　Popeye (Lee Jeong-jae)
　Anycall (Jeon Ji-hyun)
　Zampano (Kim Soo-hyun)
　Chewed Gum (Kim Hae-sook)
Chinese Thieves: 
　Andrew (Oh Dal-soo)
　Chen (Simon Yam)
　Julie (Angelica Lee)
　Jonnie (Derek Tsang)
Don’t miss! 
Perhaps the most memorable character in the film was the cameo role played by Shin Ha-kyun. Shin plays a womanizing art museum chief conned at the beginning of the film by Jeon’s character. Even the most negative of critics have praised his appearance in the film.
