Chocolate is better than Candy
Pro-
Chocolate is better
Everyone likes chocolate and candy, especially children. It is difficult for kids to decide which is better because both of them are delicious and sweet. There was a survey in my classroom to decide which was better. Between 34 students, it came out that students like chocolate better than candy. Personally, I like chocolate better than candy, too. 
Candies are too sweet, which makes me easily get fed up with the taste. But chocolate is different. It’s a little weird because I am a bit addicted, making me a chocoholic. 
Parents don’t like children eating chocolate because it’s bad for our teeth. But there are good sides to chocolate too!
First of all, chocolate helps dieting. The natural cocoa inside the chocolate stimulates a calorie-digesting enzyme. Also it prevents the starch and fats in other foods being absorbed into the body. 
Secondly, chocolate is good for the heart, and improves our vision. There are other more specific reasons why chocolate is good. On the other hand, are there ways in which candy is good for our bodies? No, the only good side is a psychological stability when we eat it. 
Therefore, even in terms of scientific fact, chocolate are better than candy, and students like chocolate more than candy too. 
Con-　
Candy is better
I think candy is better than chocolate because, first, it has a lot more flavors. 
For chocolate, there are only a dozen flavors at the most, such as dark, milk, strawberry, mint, orange and almond. However, there is no limit to the flavors that candies can have. The flavors range from fruity, sweet and sour, to minty, pop and caramel. The sky is the limit in terms of flavors. This is a convenient point for people who get easily bored of one flavor. They can switch to other flavors with ease and it makes eating candy great fun! Candies offer a sea of flavors to choose from.
In addition, candies are given to women on White Day. So this means that to women, candies may give more personal memories for them. I think objects that one’s private meaning is absorbed into are more precious than any luxury or rare items. They bring about unforgettable memories. Therefore, to girls candy could be a more meaningful treat than chocolate. In the same vein, chocolate might be more special to boys.
