Fun and wacky holidays in August
In Korea, Aug. 15 is perhaps one of the most significant public holidays of the year. An annual celebration commemorating Korea’s liberation from Japanese rule, the general tone of National Liberation Day is rather serious, with government-sponsored events and festivities celebrating national pride and commemorating a significantly dark period of Korean history. 
Without a doubt, National Liberation Day is an important part of Korean history. Unfortunately, in one of the hottest months of the year, National Liberation Day is only one day of celebration. To most, holidays are important not just for their significance in history or society, but also as a day when we can relax, take a break from all of our worries and try to have fun. 
To help take your minds off of the grueling summer heat, here are some fun and wacky holidays you can consider celebrating this August.
Aug. 1 
Respect for Parents Day
The name speaks for itself. On this day, try to be more respectful of your parents than usual. 
Girlfriends’ Day
Time to buy some flowers for your girlfriend; Girlfriends Day is celebrated around the world to pay tribute to girlfriends (and sometimes boyfriends too). All you have to do is shower them with love (and maybe some flowers).
Aug. 2 
National Ice Cream Sandwich Day
This holiday needs no introduction. Just go have a delicious ice cream sandwich. 
Aug. 3
Watermelon Day
Undoubtedly the most popular summer fruit everywhere, the watermelon is commemorated on this day. To celebrate, have a slice of this delicious and refreshing fruit! For a truly fun day, you could consider playing games with your friends using watermelon seeds. 
Aug. 4 
Chocolate Chip Day
Mmmm … Chocolate chips.
Aug. 5 
Sisters’ Day
Similar to Respect for Parents Day and Girlfriends’ Day, Sisters’ Day is a day to show your appreciation for your sisters. If you don’t have a sister, you could always choose your best female friend. 
Aug. 6 
National Fresh Breath Day
Did you know that bad breath is caused by more than 50 percent of the bacteria found in the mouth? On National Fresh Breath Day, you can celebrate by handing out mints or chewing gum to your friends! Don’t forget to brush your teeth extra carefully on this day!
Aug. 7 
Lighthouse Day
Lighthouses play a very important part in navigating safely through the ocean. On Lighthouse Day, perhaps you should consider taking a trip out to a nearby lighthouse and learn about its significance to the millions who depend on them everyday. 
Aug. 8 
Happiness Happens Day
Happiness Happens Day was started in 1999 by the Secret Society of Happy People. The goal is to spread the joys of being happy and persuading people to look on the brighter side of life. To celebrate, simply keep smiling. 
Aug. 9 
Book Lovers’ Day
This day is celebrated to give book lovers an excuse to read a new book and help encourage reading in those who don’t enjoy it as much. To celebrate, simply head to the nearest library or book store and find a good book to read.
Aug. 10 
National S’mores Day
Mmmm … S’mores. 
Aug. 11 
Son and Daughter Day
Remind your parents to be nicer to you on this day.
Aug. 12 
Vinyl Record Day
Do you know what a vinyl record is? It’s the first-generation CD. Why not ask your parents to tell you about them?
Aug. 13 
International Left Handers’ Day
Are you left-handed? If so, this is your day! 
Aug. 14 
National Creamsicle Day
Unfortunately, there are no creamsicle ice creams in Korea. Instead, go to the nearest convenience store, grab a popsicle ice cream and enjoy!
Aug. 15 
Relaxation Day
Hakuna matata. A day just for relaxation.
Aug. 16 
National Tell a Joke Day
Knock knock.
Who’s there?
Orange
Orange who?
Orange you going to answer the door?
Aug. 17 
Men’s Grooming Day
A day to encourage men to use grooming products and look put together. Wouldn’t it be nice if every day was Men’s Grooming Day? 
Aug. 18 
Bad Poetry Day
If you can’t find any daffodils to appreciate, why not celebrate Bad Poetry Day instead? Not everyone can be beautiful poets. On this day, why not try writing bad poetry on purpose? You could have a contest with friends or family to see who can write the worst poem.
Aug. 19 
Aviation Day
A day to appreciate the brilliance of planes.
Aug. 20 
International Homeless Animals Day
Looking to get a pet? Why not consider adopting a homeless pet instead of buying one? They’re cheaper and in need of love. 
Aug. 21 
Senior Citizens Day
A day to be especially respectful to the elderly.
Aug. 22 
Be an Angel Day
Have you heard of karma? How about the concept of pay-it-forward? Try to do something extra nice for a stranger today!
Aug. 23 
Sponge Cake Day
Mmmm … sponge cake …
Aug. 24 
Pluto Demoted Day
A day to mourn the day Pluto was demoted from the ninth planet of our solar system to merely a dwarf planet. 
Aug. 25 
Kiss and Make Up Day
A day to kiss and make up with someone you had a fight with recently. Life is too short to hold grudges. 
Aug. 26 
National Dog Day
Woof! Woof! If you have a dog, perhaps you can give him or her an extra treat today.
Aug. 27 
Global Forgiveness Day
A day for forgiveness. 
Aug. 28 
Race Your Mouse Around the Icons Day
Ready… Set… Go!
Aug. 29 
More Herbs, Less Salt Day
Start down the path towards healthier meals -- less salt, more herbs.
Aug. 30 
Toasted Marshmallow Day
An excuse to have toasted marshmallows; Why not?
Aug. 31 
National Trail Mix Day
Get some almonds, peanuts, cashews and M&Ms (or raisins if you prefer), mix it together and go for a hike! Trail mix is a simple, great way to boost your energy.
