Is bottled water really good for you?: Part 1
A recent episode of tvN’s “Martian Virus” featured a student who seemed to be addicted to bottled water. She doesn’t just drink bottled water; she uses it for showering and brushing her teeth as well!
When asked for the reason behind her preference for bottled water as opposed to tap water, she stated that it is because she believes that tap water isn’t clean; that it contains harmful chemicals.
But is bottled water really better for you than tap water?
The idea that tap water isn’t safe for drinking has been a touchy subject for a long time. Koreans have often disputed the safety of drinking tap water, a practice that is common in many other countries. In Korea, the use of water dispensers or drinking bottled water is the norm, while tap water is only consumed after it has been thoroughly boiled. 
Some might argue, however, that merely drinking purified bottled water may have negative side effects; particularly in relation to dental health. In fact, a recent HealthDay article discussed the health benefits of drinking fluoridated tap water over bottled water. 
The HealthDay article discussed the possible correlation between the increasing prevalence of tooth decay in young children today and rising consumption of bottled water each year.
Dr. Jonathan Shenkin, an American Dental Association spokesman, acknowledged that no research proved that drinking bottled water causes tooth decay. He does, however, assert that experts believe fluoridated water reduces the risk of tooth decay by about 25 percent. 
“Fluoride - no matter how it gets to the tooth surfaces - toothpaste, water, rinses, varnishes, gels, is effective in a multitude of ways,” Dr. Burton Edelstein, president of the Children’s Dental Health Project in Washington, D.C., was quoted as saying. 
“It strengthens the tooth structure while also inhibiting the bacteria’s capacity to produce acids from sugars. It is most effective when delivered multiple times throughout the day, by using fluoridated toothpastes twice daily and by drinking fluoridated water.”
