English foods
The food and cooking of England is steeped in history and heritage. Its influence spread to a large part of the world in the days of the colonial empire; however, it does not enjoy the same level of worldwide popularity as French, Italian, or Spanish cuisines. English food has long had the unfortunate reputation for being somewhat bland, unimaginative, poorly presented, and served by waiters and waitresses that can be downright rude. Stereotypical impressions aside, the fact is that English food, at its best, is hearty, simple, satisfying, and delicious fare made with quality ingredients and exotic spices. 
Full English breakfast – Playwright W. Somerset Maugham once said, “To eat well in England you should have breakfast three times a day.” A full English breakfast is a substantial meal eaten not just for breakfast, but sometimes for lunch as well. The ingredients can vary according to region and taste, but basic components feature eggs (fried, poached, scrambled), bacon (fried or grilled), sausage or sausage patties, baked beans, grilled tomato slices, black pudding (blood sausage), potato cakes (hash browns), and bubble and squeak (shallow-fried leftover vegetables from a roast dinner).
The Sunday Roast – On Sundays, English families sit down for a feast called the Sunday roast. The meal usually features roasted meat (beef, pork, chicken, lamb, duck, goose, or turkey), roast potatoes (cooked in meat drippings or vegetable oil) or mashed potato, with accompaniments such as Yorkshire puddings, stuffing, vegetables and rich onion gravy. One theory on its origin holds that during the industrial revolution, Yorkshire families left a cut of meat in the oven before going to church on a Sunday morning, which was then ready to be eaten by the time they arrived home at lunchtime. 
Fish and Chips - England is internationally famous for its fish and chips – the most popular and identifiable English fast food dish. This traditional take-away food is usually made from cod, haddock, or plaice. Fresh fish fillet is dredged in flour and then dipped in batter and deep fried. It is then served with fried potato wedges known as chips, with salt and vinegar added for additional flavor. A small wooden or plastic fork is provided to eat them with, although it’s perfectly fine to use hands and fingers. Traditionally, fish and chips were served up wrapped in old newspaper, but nowadays they are wrapped in greaseproof paper specially printed to look like newspaper.
Afternoon Tea – The serving of afternoon tea is a quintessential English ritual. It is a small meal of snacks and tea typically eaten between 2 and 5 p.m. Tea is brewed in a teapot and served with milk and sugar. Common snacks include finger-sized smoked salmon, cucumber, or egg and mustard cress sandwiches; scones with jam and cream; and assorted cakes and pastries. The custom of afternoon tea is believed to have originated in England in the mid-19th century. The usual habit of eating dinner well past 8 pm at that time made it necessary for people to have a snack to stave off the hunger in between meals. 
Chicken Tikka Masala - Since the Victorian era, during the British Raj, Britain has been adopting Indian cooking ingredients and methods to create Anglo-Indian cuisine to suit the British palate. Chicken tikka masala is chicken tikka (chunks of chicken marinated in spices and yogurt, that is then baked in a tandoor oven), and served in a masala (mixture of spices) sauce. It voted the most popular dish in British restaurants and it has been called “a true British national dish.” The origin of the dish is in dispute – one theory claimed that it was conceived in an Indian restaurant in the Punjab, while another stated that it was created by a Pakistani chef in a restaurant in the west end of Glasgow.
