Olympic Games judging controversies
The 2012 Olympic Games in London got off to a rousing start with a lavish opening ceremony called “Isles of Wonder.” The nearly five-hour long extravaganza under the direction of Oscar-winning director Danny Boyle was a feel-good story that celebrated the creativity and exuberance of the U.K. and its people. In the first week of competition, spectators and television audiences around the world were treated to a slew of record-breaking performances, amazing feats of athleticism, and unfortunately, a series of incomprehensible judging blunders.
Controversial or erroneous judging decisions are not uncommon in Olympic Games, and the London Olympics has been no exception. On the first day of competition, Korean swimmer Park Tae-hwan was disqualified for a false start in the preliminary heat of the 400-meter freestyle. After an appeal by the Korean delegation, the disqualification was overturned, and Park went on to win a silver medal, finishing behind Sun Yang of China. Many believed that the judging mishap and the subsequent review process took a toll on Park both physically and emotionally, thus preventing him from swimming at his best.
On the second day of the Judo competition, a Korean athlete again became the victim of a controversial judging decision. In the men’s under-66 kg match between Cho Jun-ho of Korea and Masashi Ebinuma of Japan, a referee and two judges raised three blue flags in favor of Cho following the overtime golden score period; however, the referees director conferred with the International Judo Federation (IJF) chief and later the judges, who then overturned the result to declare victory for Ebinuma. The Korean delegation appealed the decision to no avail. Both Cho and Ebinuma ended up with a bronze medal.
On the third day of competition, a judging controversy marred the result of an otherwise exciting and jubilant men’s gymnastics team final. In the finals, China won the gold medal by a comfortable margin after putting on a dismal performance in the preliminary round. Team Great Britain and the partisan crowd wildly celebrated its first ever appearance on the podium with a silver medal. Ukraine’s men’s gymnastics team celebrated their third-place finish like it was gold. Then, fourth-placed Japan lodged a protest based on a score given to Kohei Uchimura on the pommel horse. Judges reviewed the video and upheld the appeal, adding .700 to his score and boosting Japan from fourth to second place. Ukraine’s celebration was short-lived.
Perhaps the most egregious judging error of the London Games so far occurred in the women’s fencing epee semifinal with Shin A-lam of Korea facing defending champion Britta Heidemann of Germany. Their match was tied at 5-5 in the sudden death phase and Shin would have advanced to the final due to the priority she was awarded before the contest. With one second left on the clock, which apparently failed to elapse, the referee inexplicably allowed the match to continue. A confused Shin defended three of Heidemann’s attacks, but on the fourth try, the German scored a hit and was declared the winner. The outraged Korean coach protested vociferously while Shin was left crying in disbelief. She became the victim of the longest second in Olympic history. The decision stood after a lengthy and heated discussion between technical directors and officials from the International Fencing Federation. Shin sat on the piste in tears for an hour after the conclusion of the match. Although the International Fencing Federation later apologized to Shin for the clock mismanagement, it was little comfort to an athlete who saw years of hard work and dedication go down the drain due to events beyond her control.
The Games go on. More records will be broken, and more heroes will be born. Athletes will continue to live up to the Olympic Credo of “higher, faster and stronger.” Hopefully, judges and referees will live up to their pledge: “… we shall officiate in these Olympic Games with complete impartiality, respecting and abiding by the rules which govern them in the true spirit of sportsmanship.”
