‘Rock of Ages’
Set in the late 1980s, “Rock of Ages” is a musical comedy adapted from the 2006 Broadway musical of the same name. Directed by Adam Shankman, “Rock of Ages” is unlike any other musical film to hit the big screen. Rather than the upbeat pop songs of the High School Musical series, “Rock of Ages” features a medley of well-known Rock & Roll songs set against the backdrop of grungy Los Angeles in the same year that “Appetite for Destruction,” the first album by Guns N’ Roses, and Tipper Gore’s book “Raising PG Kids in an X-Rated Society,” came out.
Like the musical, the film adaptation “Rock of Ages” focuses on this significant cultural clash in the form of a popular yet struggling Rock & Roll club and pressure from Mayor Whitmore (Bryan Cranston) and his wife Patricia (Catherine Zeta-Jones) to shut down the club.
The story begins with a girl from Tulsa, Oklahoma named Sherrie Christian (Julianne Hough), who arrives in Los Angeles with dreams of becoming a famous Rock & Roll star. Upon her arrival, Sherrie is greeted by the harsh reality of life in a new town. Rather than the fairytale welcome she expected, her luggage is stolen by a random hooligan on the streets moments after she steps off the bus. Sherrie is saved from a quick end to her dream by a busboy from the iconic Bourbon Room, Drew Boley (Diego Boneta), who also happens to be an aspiring rock star. Feeling bad for Sherrie, Drew offers to get her a job as a waitress at the Bourbon Room. Upon meeting Sherrie, however, Bourbon Room owner Dennis Dupree (Alec Baldwin) is reluctant about hiring “another wannabe singer.” After much persuasion, Dennis finally relents, introducing Sherrie to Bourbon Room manager Lonny Barnett (Russell Brand). 
Despite being a successful concert hall and bar, the Bourbon Room is on the verge of financial collapse. As Dennis and Lonny struggle to make ends meet, their only hope falls upon the eccentric “Rock God” Stacee Jaxx (Tom Cruise). With Patricia spearheading the boycott of all things Rock & Roll and other internal conflicts, the Jaxx concert doesn’t go as planned. 
As the Bourbon Room encounters problem after problem, Dennis and Lonny are faced with the possibility of having to shut down. Similarly, Sherrie and Drew are at a crossroads in their careers; Sherrie on the brink of giving up on her dream and returning to Oklahoma and Drew struggling with the direction his musical career has taken. All in all, Dennis, Lonny, Sherrie, Drew and even Patricia must turn to their love of and faith in Rock & Roll to find their way back to nirvana.
