Viva l’Italia!
As a classic European getaway, Italy continues to surprise and delight visitors with its eternal beauty and history. Easily recognizable due to its shape, Italy is one of the rare countries where art and life intermingle effortlessly, thanks to its prominent place in both world history and modern culture. 
Aside from the iconic Coliseum and Torre pedente di Pisa (Leaning Tower of Pisa), there are countless other landmarks and experiences to be taken advantage of in Italy. Here are some examples.
Venice
Once the capital of the Venetian Republic, Venice is also known as “The Floating City” thanks to its extensive canal system. Other than taking a romantic ride on one of the classic gondolas, Venice has plenty of other exciting opportunities for visitors. The Basilica di San Marco, for example, is a beautiful structure with breathtaking architecture. More than a thousand years old, the basilica is also known as the Church of Gold, with opulent gilded domes and Byzantine mosaics. For music-lovers, a visit to the Piazza San Marco in front of the church is in order, where visitors can sway and dance to the music played by musicians at Caffè Florian.
Milan 
For fashion enthusiasts, Milan is without a doubt the most intriguing city in Italy. Much like the fusion of old and new in fashion, Milan’s city structure also offers a striking view of historic and new architecture. Having survived the destruction of World War II, Milan is also the home of some of the world’s most valuable cultural and historical treasures. Of course, fashion is at the heart of Milan. The city is the birthplace of world-famous brands such as Armani, Versace, Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, Gucci and more. Thousands of fashion enthusiasts come from all over the world to shop at the renowned Quadrilatero d’Oro (Golden Quad), where designers’ flagship stores can be found. 
Pompeii (Vesuvius) 
The city of Pompeii has a very dark but interesting history. As Europe’s most compelling archaeological site and one of Italy’s most visited tourist attractions, it acts as a stark reminder of the destructive forces of nature. Pompeii is a partially buried city near modern Naples that was destroyed and buried under 4 to 6 meters of ash and lava when Mount Vesuvius erupted in A.D. 79. It wasn’t until 1784 that the city was rediscovered by archaeologists after being lost for almost 1,700 years. Due to how quickly the town was overcome by Mount Vesuvius’ sudden eruption, much of the city remained well-preserved, providing detailed insight into life during the Pax Romana.
