Summer vacation destination: beach is better than mountain
Pro-
Ocean is better
From my experience, I think the beach is better than the mountains as a summer vacation destination.
First, the beach is so cooling. As you know one of the reasons that we choose to go somewhere in summer is to escape the heat. In that respect when you go to the beach, you can play in the beach and the ocean breeze makes you so cool. So you can forget the heat and you will feel better.
Second, you can make great memories. If you play with family or friends, it is more exciting. Many people eat Samgyeopsal there. During that time you will talk with other people, and you can leave with some fantastic memories.
Finally, you can do many other things there. As well as having fun in the water, you can enjoy sun-tanning. Another activity is surfing. I think surfing is one of the beach’s main appeals. Third, you can fully imbibe nature with many kinds of animals, such as seagulls, fish and many other living creatures. Also the beautiful seascape is just divine. 
These are the reasons why I think the beach is a better summer destination than the mountains.
So how about going to ocean this summer with your best friend or family, and having a nice time while escaping the heat?
Con-
Mountain is better 
These days, the sun shines strongly. So, people sweat profusely just standing up. People go to the ocean or beach to cool themselves off. But, nowadays, taking a camp at a mountain is very popular. So how about going to take a rest in mountains? 
There are a lot of trees and streams in the mountains. Thanks to them, we can breathe clear air and see a lot of different animals such as squirrels, deer and sparrows. Also, mountains have many streams, so we can enjoy cool water in the valley away from the ocean. People bring summer fruits and put them in a cool valley, and we can eat icy fruits in the mountains. 
On a hot day like this, people often go to the beach. But, the beaches are very crowded with people, so we can’t enjoy them much. It is better to go to the mountains. We can lose weight by hiking there and we can enjoy thrilling rafting in the valley. In mountains, there are some waterfalls that flow over smooth rocks. We can slip down on the rocks like riding a slide. 
For these reasons, I think the mountains is better place than to go for summer vacation than the beach. Have a nice summer vacation, everyone!
