Proud faces of Korea at London Olympics
The 2012 Summer London Olympics was filled with throngs of remarkable Olympic records. Some of them were proudly made by the Korean Olympic squad.
Here is a summary of the outstanding feats that Korean athletes accomplished throughout this year’s global sporting fair.
Yang Hak-seon 
Nineteen-year-old Korean Gymnast Yang Hak-seon won the country’s first Olympic gymnastic gold in the men’s vault at the North Greenwich Arena.
In the men’s vault final on Aug. 7, Yang earned an average score of 16.533 points after his two mesmerizing jumps.
In his first try out, he successfully pulled off his signature jump move, “The Yang Hak-seon.” The move itself is named after him and it refers to triple-twisting handspring front somersault. Only Yang, in the world, has command of this demanding gymnastic technique. This is what makes him so special and one of a kind. 
He grabbed 16.466 points in the first attempt. Although the landing was a bit shaky and movement of his feet was noticeable, the jump itself was a pure perfection that it easily put him the first in line. 　
His second jump was impeccable. Yang made a flawless landing and by that, he obtained 16.600 points. Eventually he clinched the gold. 
Korea has never won a single gold in Olympic gymnastics before him. It was a truly historic day not only for Yang but also to the nation as a whole, thanks to Yang’s superb performance.
Despite his under-privileged upbringing, he made it to the top of the world. It was a true rags-to-riches story that touched so many hearts. 
Kim Ji-yeon 
The 2012 London Olympics will be an unforgettable time for the Korean national fencing team. 
It renewed attention to the sport as Korea’s female saber fencer Kim Ji-yeon captured the country’s first ever Olympic individual fencing gold.
Kim beat Russia’s Sofya Velikaya to 15-9 on Aug. 2. Her victory was even more precious because her teammate Shin A-lam was stripped off her silver due to a judging mistake in women’s epee semi-final. 
However, uplifting news kept coming in. Shin later won a valuable silver medal in women’s team epee. The men’s saber team also snatched gold on Aug. 4. The team of Gu Bon-gil, Kim Jung-hwan, Won Woo-young, and substitute Oh Eun-seok, beat Romania 45-26 in the final and took home a historic gold.
Song Dae-nam 
Yes, he finally did it! 
After losing a chance to compete in the 2008 Beijing Olympics four years ago, Song Dae-nam, 34, finally made it to the Games this summer and won judo gold in men’s under-90 kg category. 
Given that he is relatively old, this year’s event would likely be his last as well as his first Olympics. 
“At the age of 33, winning a gold medal is amazing,” Song said with mounting emotion after the game. “I figured this would be my last Olympics so I tried my hardest.”
The men’s under-90 kilogram category judo competition was held on Aug. 2 at ExCeL Arena. Song beat Cuba’s Asley Gonzalez for his Olympic title. 
His gold medal was the country’s fifth gold in London.
Song had to move up a weight class from under-81 kilogram to under-90 kilogram in March 2011 after a knee injury in 2010. A day before Song’s dramatic victory, his teammate and Beijing Olympics silver medalist judoka Kim Jae-bum also won the world title in the men’s 81kg category.
Ki Bo-bae 
Ki Bo-bae claimed her second Olympic title in women’s individual archery in London on Aug. 2. 
The final round was a tight match between Ki and her contender, Aida Roman of Mexico.
The five rounds ended in a tie at 5-5. The winner had to be decided by one arrow, in a shoot-off. The player who shoots closer to the center of the target wins.
In the final shoot-off, both archers shot an 8, but Ki’s was slightly closer to the center, so she was named the winner of the game.
Ki earlier helped Korea win gold in the women’s team competition.
Her winning and Korean women team’s victory only solidified Korea’s inviolable reign in the field of archery.
It was the seventh straight Olympic title for Korea. Seeing the country keep up its world’s top spot in archery for so long was just inspirational.
Jin Jong-oh 
Pistol shooter Jin Jong-oh may be the happiest athlete among the Korean Olympic team as he won not one but two gold medals at the London Olympics.
Jin first won his first ever gold in the men’s 10-meter air pistol on July 28. It was the first gold medal for team Korea in the Summer Olympics.
His win gave a boost to the Korean national team, and in that sense it bore an enormous meaning and honor. 
Yet his hunt for gold showed no sing of waning. Jin went on to capture his second gold in the men’s 50-meter pistol bout on Aug. 5.
This time again, in coincidence, his second gold became Korea’s 10th gold medal. It carried grave meanings, because prior to the Olympics, the country pledged to win 10 gold medals and rank top 10 in the world medal tally. His win helped complete this mission.
There were many “firsts” achieved by Korean athletes at the 2012 Summer London Olympics. Only seven days after the start of the Games, Korea reached its target of 10 gold medals. 
Team Korea played beyond everyone’s expectations and made people of the country so proud and gave so much joy!
