Popular Korean snacks
A snack is a category of food that is often smaller than a regular meal and is usually eaten between meals. Snacks can come in a variety of forms, including packaged and processed foods such as chips and cookies, inexpensive treats sold by roadside food vendors, as well as simple fare made from readily available ingredients at home. In many countries, snacks are an important part of the food culture, and Korea is no exception. Let’s take a look at some of the popular snack foods in Korea.
Tteokbokki – One of the most common but beloved snack foods in Korea is tteokbokki. It is available at food vendors in virtually every street corner. It is made with cylinder-shaped rice cakes cooked in a thick, spicy chili paste sauce. Additional ingredients may include fish cake slices, scallions, carrots, onions, and hard-boiled eggs. A heartier version of tteokbokki, known as “rabokki”, features additional ingredients such as instant noodle, ham, sausages, assorted vegetables, and cheese. 
Sundae – Sundae is the Korean version of blood sausage. It is made by boiling cow or pig’s intestines stuffed with cellophane noodles, barley, and pig’s blood. Other versions of sundae may include ingredients such as glutinous rice, perilla seed powder, chopped scallions, soybean paste and even diced kimchi. A serving of sundae is usually accompanied by slices of boiled pig offal such as the heart, lung, and liver. Sundae is commonly sold at food vendors that also sell Tteokbokki and odaeng (skewered fish cake cooked in broth). 
Kimbap – Kimbap is a snack food widely available at food vendors, neighborhood eateries and convenience stores. It can also be easily prepared at home. Kimbap is made by spreading cooked white rice and ingredients such as ham, canned tuna, pickled radish, cooked carrot, boiled spinach, and cheese onto a sheet of dried seaweed (aka gim, laver, or nori). It is then tightly rolled into a cylinder shape and cut into bite-size pieces. Kimbap has higher nutritional values than most snacks and is convenient to bring on picnics or school outings. 
Bungeoppang – Bungeoppang, literally meaning “goldfish bread,” is an inexpensive but delicious snack sold by street vendors, particularly during winter months. It is made by using an appliance similar to a waffle iron. A pancake-like light batter is poured into a fish-shaped mold, a dollop of slightly sweet red bean paste is placed in the center, and more batter is added to cover the red bean paste. The mold is then closed and roasted on and open flame. A freshly made Bungeoppang is a thing of beauty -- golden crispy on the outside and richly creamy on the inside.
Buchimgae - Buchimgae is a version of Korean pancake known as “jeon.” Unlike most other Korean snack foods, buchimgae is usually not available from street vendors. It is more often seen in market eateries or restaurants; and it is commonly eaten as a side dish, or as an accompaniment for alcoholic drinks. Ingredients such as meat, seafood, or vegetables are mixed with flour batter and pan-fried until crispy. When prepared at home, buchimgae is an ideal snack food. It is easy to prepare, and it’s a great way to make use of leftover food.
Ppeondegi – Ppeondegi is stewed and seasoned silkworm pupae. It is solder by street vendors and served in a paper cup, with a toothpick provided for lifting the tiny morsels. It is also served in bars and Pojangmacha (tented roadside eateries) as accompaniment to liquor. Beondegi is an acquired taste. Those who like it find the woody, slightly gamey flavor and creamy texture irresistible; others find its bug-like appearance unappetizing and off-putting. Beondegi is also available in cans and can be purchased in grocery stores and supermarkets.
