Swimming great Michael Phelps retires
“To be able to sit here and say I’ve done everything I wanted to do in my swimming career is something that’s pretty special. That’s the only thing I wanted to say when I retired. I wouldn’t change anything...” ? Michael Phelps
Michael Phelps, the most decorated Olympian in history with 22 medals (18 gold, 2 silver, 2 bronze), has retired from competitive swimming. In a fitting end to his glorious career, Phelps swam the butterfly leg of the men’s 4x100 medley relay for the U.S. team on the final night of the swim meet at the 2012 London Olympic Games. Phelps’ swan song was golden as the Americans won in 3:29.35. After his 22nd trip to the Olympic podium, Phelps was summoned back to the pool deck for one more ceremony, but this time, it felt more like a coronation. He received a glittering silver trophy with a name plate that said: “To Michael Phelps - The Greatest Olympic Athlete of All Time.”
As a child, Michael Phelps was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD). At age 7 he started swimming partly because it could provide an outlet for all his extra energy. Phelps made his Olympic debut at the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games when he was only 15 years old. He placed fifth in the 200 meter butterfly. His appearance there made him the youngest male Olympian since 1932, when 14-year-old Japanese swimmer Kusuo Kitamura won the 1,500-meter freestyle in Los Angeles. 
The 2004 Athens Games was a coming-out party for Michael Phelps on the Olympics stage. A year earlier at the 2003 World Aquatics Championships, Phelps won four gold medals, two silver medals, and broke five world records. Expectations were high for Phelps at Athens, and he did not disappoint. Phelps won gold medals in 4 individual events, including the 400-meter individual medley (world record), the 100-meter butterfly (Olympic record), the 200-meter butterfly (Olympic record), and the 200-meter individual medley (Olympic record). He also won two gold medals in relay events and two bronze medals. At age 19, Phelps became the second male swimmer ever to win four individual titles at a single Olympic Games, tying him with American swimming legend Mark Spitz, who accomplished that feat at the 1972 Olympics in Munich, Germany. 
At the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, Michael Phelps ruled the swimming pool like no other swimmer had ever done before. He won five individual gold medals, setting four world records and one Olympic record in the process. He also won three gold medals in relay events ? all three in world record time. Phelps’ eight-gold-medal performance shattered Mark Spitz’s record of seven gold medals won in a single Olympic Games, which had stood since 1972. The record-setting performance of Phelps was not without controversy. In the 100-meter butterfly event in which Phelps won by one one-hundredth (0.01) of a second over Milorad ?avi?, subsequent analysis of the video showed that ?avi? actually touched the wall first. To put Phelps’ performance in perspective, His gold medal total would have placed ninth among all participating nations, tied with Italy, on the Beijing Games medal table. 
At the 2012 London Olympic Games, Phelps qualified in the same eight events that he swam in Beijing in 2008, but he dropped the 200-meter freestyle in order to focus on the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. On the world’s biggest stage, Phelps once again did not disappoint. He won four more gold medals as well as two silver medals, making him the most successful swimmer for the third Olympics in a row. Phelps’ 18 Olympic gold medals is twice as many as any other Olympian has ever won, and his total of 22 Olympic medals is a standard unlikely to be challenged for a long time. 
