U.S. networks’ fall lineup Part 1: Returning series (The “Big Three”)
With fall just around the corner, fans of U.S. television shows eagerly await the return of their favorite characters after the cliffhangers of the previous season finales. The five major television networks in the U.S. -- ABC, CBS, NBC; FOX and The CW -- recently announced their fall schedule lineups. To begin, let’s take a look at the returning shows of the “Big Three” networks -- NBC, ABC and CBS. 
(NBC)
As the official broadcaster of the 2012 London Olympics, NBC should no doubt be praised for making time to announce its 2012-2013 fall lineup. NBC’s critically acclaimed comedy programs “The Office,” “30 Rock,” “Parks and Recreation” and “Community” have all been renewed for another year, although some are on their last season. 
Multi-award winning show, “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (SVU),” is a U.S. police procedural crime drama set in New York City that has been renewed for its 14th season. Unlike the long-running “Law & Order: SVU,” the fantasy-inspired police procedural series “Grimm” is only on its second season, set to premiere this fall.
(ABC)
ABC network has several award winning shows that are, of course, returning in the fall with new episodes. Best known for its multi-award winning shows “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Modern Family,” ABC did not disappoint fans when it decided to renew the shows for another season. On the brink of being cancelled, the less-popular “Grey’s Anatomy” spin-off, “Private Practice,” was also renewed at the eleventh hour for a condensed 13-episode season 6.
Another one of ABC’s lesser-known shows, crime comedy-drama “Castle,” will also return for its fifth season. 
(CBS)
The CBS network has several highly successful comedy programs that have been renewed for the 2012-2013 television season. From longest-running series is “How I Met Your Mother,” “Two and a Half Men,” “The Big Bang Theory,” “Mike and Molly” and “2 Broke Girls,” which are renewed for seasons 8, 10, 6, 3 and 2, respectively. 
Military-based police procedurals “NCIS” and “CSI” will return in the fall along with their respective spin-off series “NCIS: Los Angeles” and “CSI: New York.” The more dramatic and profiling-based police procedural drama “Criminal Minds” as well as the more light-hearted “The Mentalist” are also slated to return with new seasons this year. 
In a three-part series, we will take a look at the shows set to air on U.S. networks in the fall. Part 2 will look at the returning shows of two other major television networks: The CW and Fox. 
