Anteeksi, en puhu suomea (I’m sorry, I don’t speak Finnish)
Probably best known as the birthplace of the Nokia Corporation, Finland holds the same natural beauty that is typical of Nordic countries. Bordered by Sweden to the west, Norway to the north and Russia to the east, Finland has an abundance of natural beauty with traces of prehistoric civilizations. In fact, according to archaeological evidence, modern-day Finland has been inhabited from as far back as the Stone Age, in B.C. 8,500. 
Although Finland was a relative latecomer to industrialization, it has become one of the world’s wealthiest nations in a little over 50 years. Considered to have one of the best educational systems in Europe, Finland often ranks high on the list of most peaceful, livable and competitive countries in the world. 
Not only does Finland seem like the perfect place to be born in, it also offers a variety of different reasons for people to visit: breathtaking views of relatively untouched nature interspersed with urbanized regions bustling with vibrant culture. 
Some activities to check out when visiting Finland:
- Spend the night in an igloo
- Visit the real Santa Claus! (His house is located in the Lapland region of Finland)
- Compete in the weirdest events on Earth (i.e.: mobile phone throwing, wife carrying, air guitar and table drumming)
- Ride on a sled pulled by reindeer or huskies
In April 2012, a report published by The Earth Institute found that Finland ranked 2nd in the assessment of Gross National Happiness. 
Saunas were invented by Finnish people. In fact, the word sauna is an ancient Finnish word that refers to a traditional Finnish bath. 
The language
Usually, Finnish words are pronounced just like they are spelled. However, some vowels are pronounced differently compared to English:
A: pronounced like the u in “cup”
A: sounds close to the a in “hat”
E: pronounced like e in “hen”
I: sounds like i in “tip”
Y: close to the u in the British pronunciation of “you” with tight lips
O: pronounced like the u in “fur” with tight lips
