Females are better students than males
Pro - Females are better students than males
In this increasingly competitive world, education has emerged as the battleground for many students. With the overemphasis on student performance in school, a new light has been shed on the perennial enigma concerning the relationship between gender and student ability. Despite the controversy, females students are better than male students for several reasons.
To begin with, female students tend to focus better than male students. Less attracted by sports or video games, female students are not sidetracked by factors that impede concentration in male students. In other words, there are fewer activities that compete with studying for female students’ attention. Although this does not directly translate into better student performance, at least the temptation to veer away from studying is that much less for female students.
Moreover, female students feel less self-conscious and are thus less stressed out. In Asian societies such as Korea, conventional thought patterns coerce boys to focus only on success, including in education. Those who fail to make name for themselves are stigmatized and jeered at. In short, male success is valued and prioritized over female success. Therefore, in a society that does not regard them with too much attention, female students do their best in academia either to reclaim the attention of society or because they are merely less burdened with emotional obligation.
In all, for both social and cultural reasons, girls show better capabilities as students than boys do. With fewer hobby-wise distractions and cultural burdens, women have an educational leverage over men in our society.
Con - Boys have their own advantages
Even though I’m a girl, I don’t think that girls are better students than boys. We all have advantages and disadvantages. Although boys are noisier than girls, and they make more trouble, they have their own advantages. 
For example, girls have lots of problems with friends. So in schools, girls often get scolded by teachers in regards to outcast problems. But boys do not have this problem. They are much cooler than girls, so they just play with anyone and become friends with others very easily. Next, boys are not as sensitive as girls. Girls in our age are very sensitive so we get mad easily. So it’s difficult for teachers to handle girls. Boys don’t care about small things like girls. They just forget even when bad or serious things happen to them. Also, they don’t sulk. I heard that this is a really serious thing to teachers. Girls pout when teachers teach them a lesson or give them advice. This means they don’t want to listen to teachers as openly as male students. 
Everyone has their own advantages and disadvantages. Sometimes girls are calmer and so easier to instruct, but boys also have their own advantages in studying.
