Jang Geun-suk fever takes over Japan
Jang Geun-suk’s single album “Let Me Cry” made a record debut on Japan’s Oricon Chart, ranking No. 1 during the first week of its release. With it, Korean actor and singer Jang became the first foreign entertainer ever to take the No.1 slot on this prestigious music chart in Japan.
 His photo collection “J Plus,” which was released on June 27 also received a fervent response from Japanese fans. “The Romance J Plus Photograph Collection” and “The Romance J Plus Photograph Collection-Favorite,” sold 11,000 and 6,000 copies each to occupy the top two spots in the Oricon book chart.
 “Jang’s DVD ranked fourth on the weekly DVD chart after selling more than 19,000 copies,” said officials from Oricon on Aug. 4.
 According to the Japanese evening newspaper Nitkangendai, “Jang Geun-suk is expected to earn more than 3 billion yen ($38 million) this year alone through commercials, record sales, concert tickets, photo collections, etc.”
 The paper stated that the actor received 800 million won ($740,000) for the Santori Seoul Makgeolli commercial and has been chosen to model in two Japanese magazines, Men’s Non-No and An An. Both of them have been selling like hotcakes in Japan.
 Jang is likely to get more than 1 billion won for several other commercials in the next year, the Nitkangendai predicted.
 The report said that Jang Geun Suk’s official outlets would open in PARCO stores in Fukuoka and Sapporo. In June, about 60,000 people visited Shibuya’s PARCO store. The second store in Aichi prefecture’s Nagoya PARCO had about 2,000 visitors. The actor’s pictures, videos and personal items are sold there.
 Jang Geun-suk is kicking off an arena tour “Jang Geun-suk Arena Tour ‘Always Close to You’” at Aichi’s Nihon Gaishi Hall on Oct. 20, and is scheduled to release a video collection titled “Doukou Budapest Diary.” At the end of this year, the heartthrob is planning a tour in Budokan, Japan. He is estimated to earn about 17 billion in sales of tickets, souvenirs and other products through this tour.
 According to a spokesman for Pony Canyon, a record label company, “Jang’s popularity in Japan grew after the drama ‘You’re Beautiful’ was aired in the country.”
