Hunting for stars
It is not easy to view many stars at night in cities such as Seoul, Daejeon, Daegu or Busan, either because of the bright street lamps or due to heavy air pollution. For youths today, the Milky Way is becoming more of an imaginary river on the sky than one they can see.
However, just moving for an hour or two out of the cities, you can see just as many stars as you want. It would be great if you could enjoy the galaxy and constellations along with early autumn breeze with family or friends. Here are some observatories in Korea where you can enjoy such activities.
Byeolmaro Observatory (Yeogwol, Gangwon Province)
Built on the peak of Bongnaesan (799.8 meters) in Yeongwol, Byeolmaro is Korea’s largest astronomical observatory.
The term “Byeolmaro” combines the words “byeol” (star), “ma” (peak) and “ro” (peaceful). Together, they collectively represent the wish to view stars in a clean and peaceful environment.
The observatory has 11 telescopes, including the nation’s largest with a diameter of 80 centimeters and 10 supplementary telescopes.
Inside the building, there is an astronomy gallery, audio and visual material room, and main and auxiliary observation rooms.
Located in a mountainous region in Gangwon-do, Yeongwol has a clean natural environment free from pollution. As such, it has an annual average of 192 days of clear skies making the county a great spot for star gazing.
The observatory which opened in 2001 is surrounded by great natural environment that is also suited for rafting and paragliding. If you are planning a trip more than 2 to 3 days, it would be a great idea to try those sports before viewing stars at night.
The observatory is open from 3 to 11. p.m. in summer (from May to August) and from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. in winter (September to April).
Admission is 5,000 won for adults, 4,000 won for children (age 6 to 18), and free for those under age 6 and the disabled.
For more information, call 033-372-8445 or go to www.yao.or.kr.
Songam Stars Valley (Yangju, Gyeonggi Province)
Songam Observatory, set against the gorgeous backdrop of Jangheung Park, is one of the largest space themed parks in Korea.
Lying on Gyeomyeongsan at around 440 meters above sea level, the observatory features a main telescope that was locally developed and allows visitors to see the stars even during the day.
The observatory is part of Stars Valley, which consists of three different buildings: the Space Center, Star House, and Songam Observatory. 
The Newton Center, the main observatory center of Songsam Observatory has a 600 mm Ritchey-Chretien reflecting telescope allowing for clear and convenient observation of the stars. 
Galilei Center, a sub-observatory, has seven telescopes including reflecting, catadioptric and refracting telescopes, as well as a CCD camera, digital camera, intermediate telescope and other observation aids.
Facilities at the observatory include the Challenger Learning Center, a Digital Planetarium, and Star House, a four-story accommodation and training facility. There are also two cable cars, each of which can hold up to 33 people.
The observatory is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. on weekdays, and on the weekends and holidays is open one hour earlier at 10 a.m.
Admission is 5,000 won for adults and 3,000 won for children.
For more information, call 031-894-6000 or go to www.starsvalley.com
Jungmisan Observatory (Yangpeyong, Gyeonggi Province)
The Jungmisan Obsrvatory is tucked inside the Jungmisan Recreational Forest which is 437 meters above sea level. The facility is 40 minutes away from Seoul. One of the biggest merits of the location is that there is no other place close to the capital city that has such clean air and offers an excellent view of space and the stars. On a clear day at the observatory, you can view as many as 3,000 stars. 
Jungmisan Observatory is the first experience learning center to provide astronomy experience programs for infants and young children. In-house instructors help children gain a deeper understanding of space and basic astronomy by leading them through a variety of programs.
The observatory has also made its mark on the community at large by introducing astronomy experience programs from advanced nations to further contribute to the public’s knowledge of this branch of science. 
The observatory has an outdoor observatory field, a forest experience center, a campsite, a water fun site and more. During the school vacation period, the observatory holds an astronomy science camp as well. 
The observatory is open all year-round, and its opening hours and admission fees vary according to programs and activities. The “One Day Constellation Tour,” for example lasts from Thursday to Sunday and costs 20,000 won per person.
To go to the observatory, you can take a bus from Sangbong or Dong Seoul Bus Terminal to Yangpeyong Intercity bus Terminal. The bus departs every 20 to 30 minutes, and takes about an hour.
For more information, call 031-771-0306 or go to www.astrocafe.co.kr.
