‘The Thieves’ breaks 10 million mark
 “The Thieves” became the sixth Korean movie to reach 10 million viewers, achieving the feat in just 22 days. 
According to the Korean Film Council, “The Thieves” brought in 10,095,387 viewers in total as of Aug. 15. Released on July 25, the movie is now showing on over 500 screens. 
Director Kang woo-suk’s “Silmido” (2003) was the first Korean film to draw 10 million viewers, followed by “TaeGukGi: Brotherhood Of War,” “The King and the Clown,” “The Host,” and “Haeundae.” 
“The Host” (2006), directed by Bong Joon-ho, so far holds the record for most viewers among South Korean films with over 13 million. The film reached the 10 million mark in 21 days. “The Thieves” is the first movie to break the 10 million barrier since “Haeundae” (2009). 
Meanwhile “The Thieves” is director Choi Dong-hoon’s fourth feature, following “The Big Swindle” (2004), “Tazza: The High Rollers” (2006), and “Woochi: The Taoist Wizard” (2009). The very latest piece was Choi’s most ambitious one according to him.
“The Thieves” tells the story of a group of 10 professional thieves who travel to Macau to steal a diamond necklace.
The movie’s casting negotiations had begun since late 2010. In less than six months, a film distributor Showbox confirmed the star-studded cast in a press release.
Director Choi is said to have emphasized to reporters: “These are the very actors that inspired me to write what I have for the movie’s script starting from its first line. I’m dreaming of creating explosive ensembles that will clash or harmonize within a single movie due to their different styles.”
Choi later confessed that the thought of directing this group of high-profile actors and actresses was “really scary.” He continued “During filming, I couldn’t take my eyes off the monitor because of the charisma of all these actors. Never did it occur to me that they needed to be handled in a certain way.”
Meanwhile, With “The Thieves” successfully breaking the 10 million mark, actor Kim Soo-hyun and veteran actress Kim Hae-sook kept their promises with fans.
In an event held on Aug. 18 at Gangnam Megabox, the two Kims presented the fans with autographed movie posters and more.
Kim Soo-hyun gave a piggy back ride to a student who made the trip to the theater with her parents.
The student who became nervous started crying, but Kim consoled her with a funny pose and finally gave her a ride around the cinema which was envied by many female fans.
