Curiosity rover to roll at first mission ground
Curiosity, the U.S. rover to Mars, was given its first destination by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on Aug. 17.
The selection came 12 days after the rover safely landed on Mars.
The target area, named Glenelg, is a natural intersection made of three different kinds of terrain, and the choice was explained by Curiosity Project scientist John Grotzinger during a press conference.
“You can only go one place for the first drilling for a rock sample on Mars. That first drilling will be a huge moment in the history of Mars exploration,” said Grotzinger.
The path to Glenelg will send Curiosity 400 meters southeast of its landing site, said NASA, and one of the three types of terrain at Glenelg is layered bedrock. NASA described the bedrock as attractive as the first drilling target.
“We’re ready to load our new destination into our GPS and head out onto the open road,” Grotzinger said to the reporters.
“Our challenge is there is no GPS on Mars, so we have a roomful of rover-driver engineers providing our turn-by-turn navigation for us.”
Meanwhile, the team in charge of Curiosity’s chemistry and camera equipment plans to give their laser and telescope combination a thorough checkout before the rover leaves for Glenelg, according to NASA. It further explained that it would be the first time such a powerful laser “has been used on the surface of another world.”
Mission engineers at NASA are reportedly devoting more time to planning the first journey of Curiosity.
In the coming days, the rover will exercise each of its four wheels, turning each of them side-to-side before ending up with each wheel pointing straight ahead.
On a later day, the rover will drive forward about one rover-length (3 meters), turn 90 degrees, and then kick into reverse for about 2 meters, NASA explained.
“There will be a lot of important firsts that will be taking place for Curiosity over the next few weeks, but the first motion of its wheels, the first time our roving laboratory on Mars does some actual roving, that will be something special,” said Michael Watkins, a mission manager for the Curiosity project.
For more information about NASA‘s Curiosity mission, visit http://www.nasa.gov/msl 
