U.S. networks’ fall lineup Part 2: Returning series (Fox and The CW)
In the U.S., new seasons of popular shows are generally scheduled to match the academic calendar. Season premieres are aired in the fall and the finale sometime in the spring. With a long summer of reruns, fans eagerly await the new seasons of their favorite shows.
With the fall schedule announced just a little over a month before the new seasons are aired – typically between August and September – the timing gives fans ample time to catch up on or recap what happened during the prior season of their favorite series. 
In Part 1 of the “U.S. networks’ fall lineup” series, we took a look at some of the returning shows of the “Big Three” U.S. television networks. Now let us look at some of the other major networks’ returning shows. 
FOX
New seasons of the very popular, multi-award winning animated sitcoms of Fox network will return in the fall. As the longest running animated program in the U.S., “The Simpsons” will return for its 24th season. The equally popular but more controversial “Family Guy” and “American Dad” will also return to the Fox network for seasons 11 and 8, respectively. 
Science fiction series “Fringe and comedy-drama crime series “Bones” will also be returning to the network with new seasons this September. In the comedy category, Fox has chosen to bring back “Raising Hope” and “New Girl” for new seasons this fall. 
THE CW
The highly popular novel-turned-teen drama series “Gossip Girl” will be returning to The CW network this fall with its sixth and final season. Similarly, teen drama series “90210” has also been renewed for its 5th season for the fall. Unlike the NYC-based Gossip Girl, 90210 is a teen drama based in the upscale Beverly Hills neighborhood of California. 
Supernatural drama series “Supernatural” and “Vampire Diaries” have also returned with new seasons this fall, much to the delight of its many fans. Both shows are wildly popular, having developed a rather dedicated following amongst its fans. 
The CW has aired “Nikita,” a television series adapted from the 1990 French film of the same name since 2010. Only in its second season, Nikita has already attracted a rather large fan base eagerly awaiting the season 3 premiere this fall. 
In a three-part series, we will take a look at the shows set to air on U.S. networks in the fall. Part 3 will look at the new shows being introduced by the five major television networks. 
