Mexico to become key tourist destination for Koreans
The Latin American nation of Mexico revealed on Aug. 9 an ambitious plan to become a hot tourist destination for Korean people.
“Korea is a strategic market for Mexico. As this year celebrates the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Korea and Mexico, we will continue to actively engage in activities to increase visitors to our country,” the Secretary of Tourism Gloria Guevara Manzo said at a Mexico tourism seminar held in Seoul.
She emphasized to the reporters: “There is a lot of reason to visit Mexico. It’s not just food and shopping but also many other experiences.”
The Mexico Tourism Board saw 15.3 percent increase in the number of Korean travelers to the Latin American country from 34,965 in 2011 to 40,303 in 2012.
The country also attracted a record 23.4 million tourists from around the world in 2011, making it the 10th most visited country in the world, according to The Korea Herald.
Lopez Negrete Coppel, another ranking official of the Mexico Tourism Board, said Mexico was a true cultural superpower with about 40,000 archeological sites. But only 200 are open to the public. 
In order to improve public access to the Mayan archeological sites of Mexico, the local government selected two of the most popular archeological sites from five states and named them as Mexico’s 10 iconic archeological sites. 
The five regions are Campeche, Chiapas, Tabasco, Quintana Roo and Yucatan -- which is home to six of Mexico’s 27 UNESCO World Heritage sites. 
Mexico has ambitiously made aggressive infrastructure investment over the last five years to further promote the tourism industry and for a goal of becoming one of the top five most visited countries in the world. 
It has invested $70 billion into developing airports, railways and highways to make more destinations in the country accessible to visitors and local people as well. 
The tourism office developed a travel program with Mexico’s land transportation company ADO to make sure visitors can have unlimited bus rides between those archeological sites. 
“We have gained the respect of the world with our beautiful beaches, but we are also a very attractive cultural destination,” said Lopez Negrete Coppel.
