Should schools allow mobile gadgets to be used as educational devices?
Pro - Mobile gadgets should be used as educational devices
With a world blossoming rapidly in the fields of technology, smartphones have become as regular as a refrigerator. So it’s really no surprise for schools to have begun to use mobile devices as educational tools. Though some people may insist that the use of mobile devices in schools can be the ultimate distraction in class, I think this is not true.
There are numerous reasons to which I find mobile devices, such as the iPad, helpful in learning. One of them is the fact that they enable us in our studies by providing us with constant access to educational applications, such as "Virtual History, ROMA" or "Math Bingo." Not only are these applications educational, but they are also much more motivating than regular lessons, with their colorful, visual images and videos. In fact, in recent studies it was proved that people find it easier to remember color rather than black and white. Furthermore, by using these mobile devices, we will be able to reduce the amount of paper we use, therefore saving school resources for other needs. 
Another mobile device that students should definitely use is a reader’s tablet such as a "NOOK" or "Kindle." With a reader’s tablet, students can download books required for lessons without schools having to supply them. Moreover, by owning these devices, it will not only reduce the amount of space books occupy in one’s bag, but students will not have to suffer agonizing back-aches.
All in all, as mobile devices provide us with much more exciting, educational applications than usual lessons, reduce the amount of paper and money used by teachers and students, and make carrying school bags much more comfortable, I think that mobile devices should be used as educational devices.
Con – School should not all using mobile devices as students may abuse them
Nowadays, Korean students have many mobile devices such as smartphones and iPods.
They use them very often. Some students even use them all the time. They chat in Kakao Talk or play games with one another. Though mobile devices have become popular, there are some problems that arise with using mobile devices in school.
I think school should not allow the use of mobile devices, even as educational devices. There will be students who use devices instructively, but there will be more students that abuse them for other purposes. 
First of all, Mobile devices are highly addictive, so they create an impulse to use them. In my experience, when my teacher gives students back their cell phones before the class is over, students do not listen to the teacher. Like this, if students can use devices in class, they will not concentrate on classes.
Some students will have no mobile devices in the classroom. They might be discriminated against by other students. Information spreads rapidly on the Internet, so the Internet is called a sea of information. Of course, there is good data, but there is a lot of harmful data too. Students are too young to judge whether the data is good or bad.
For these reasons, I think schools should not allow mobile devices to be used as educational devices.
