 Fun pages will have unusual news stories -- odd and weird ones. They will also have a section introducing most-searched online keywords of the week and a fun photo.
 Economy (p. 10)
 Stories in the section can be tough for students, but will be of great help when reading difficult economic indicators, such as GDP, GNI, trade balances, per capita income and more. This section will explain economic news in the easiest and plainest tone, and help students understand relative vocabulary and news better.
 Science (p. 11)
 Topics including nature, space, health, environmental protection, state-of-the art technologies will be introduced here.
 Culture&Sports (p. 12-13)
 This section will provide both Korean and international culture and sports stories. Items covered will include recipes, big international sporting events and highly-regarded sports stars.
 Entertainment (P. 14)
 On these pages, The Junior Herald will give you the latest news on Korean and foreign music, movies, pop stars, celebrities and the Korean Wave.
 People&Travel (P. 16-17)
 The section will cover stories on heroes for young people, such as Kim Yu-na and Natalie Portman and also on business icons, such as former Samsung and Hyundai group founders. Travel section will shed light on famous tourist attractions for kids and other aspects of Korean and international heritage.
 Student Report (P. 18-19)
 This page has been renamed from the previous “Teen Life” section. The section is reserved for students’ contributions.
 Debate (P. 20)
 The section is reserved for the enhancement of students’ logical thinking and creativity and will present conflicting opinions on social issues in a clear and succinct manner.
 Education (P. 22)
 Critical information for students’ English study and a variety of academic tests, and other self-motivation methods are provided in Korean.
 Vocabulary (P. 23)
 All the words found in the articles are assembled in three formats -- puzzles, a glossary and article reviews. The contents from the third page of the JENIE insertion has been relocated here.
 JENIE (P. 25-28)
 The new “NEAT” section is included on the first page of the JENIE. The writing page has a new sub-menu at the bottom to help with core expressions of the Korea Herald editorials.
