‘International Days’ of September, as designated by the U.N.
Every year, thousands of holidays and celebrations are observed all around the world. While many hold similar themes and motifs, they are not necessarily celebrated at the same time or in the same way around the world. While most internationally celebrated holidays tend to have its roots in religion and have become excessively commercialized, the United Nations (U.N.) and its Specialized Agencies have chosen to designate several “International Days” to mark important aspects of human life and history; in essence, to celebrate life and humanity.
The month of September holds many such significant “International Days.” 
International Literacy Day 
During the 14th session of the UNESCO General Conference in 1965, a resolution was passed to officially designate Sept. 8 as “International Literacy Day.” Although the issue of literacy has been around for decades, if not centuries, a surprisingly high number of adults are still illiterate today. It is especially surprising given the current state of information and technology. 
The goal of International Literacy Day is to highlight the importance of literacy, or lack thereof, around the world. The theme for the 2011-2012 International Literacy Day celebrations is “Literacy and Peace.” 
World Suicide Prevention Day 
“World Suicide Prevention Day” celebrations is especially important in Korea, the country with one of the highest suicide rates amongst the 34 member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). 
The goal of World Suicide Prevention Day is to promote commitment and action to prevent suicide around the world. This is especially important because suicide is one of the leading causes of premature deaths all around the world. 
Since 2003, World Suicide Prevention Day has been honored on Sept. 10 as an International Association for Suicide Prevention (IASP) initiative together with WHO.
International Day of Democracy 
In the history of civilization, no other political system has been encouraged as globally as democracy. Based on the general idea that all eligible citizens have an equal say in the decisions that affect their lives, democracy allows people to participate in the proposal, development and creation of the nation’s laws. 
Although the principles of democracy have been around since ancient times, it wasn’t until 2007 that the U.N. passed a resolution designating Sept. 15 as the official “International Day of Democracy." Specifically, the resolution “encourages Governments to strengthen national programs devoted to the promotion and consolidation of democracy."
International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer 
In 1994, Sept. 16 was officially designated as the “International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer” by the U.N., in commemoration of the date that the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer was signed. 
The main goal of the Montreal Protocol had been to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the production of substances believed to cause ozone depletion. The success of the Montreal Protocol was once hailed by former Secretary General Kofi Annan as “perhaps the single most successful international agreement to date.” 
This year’s celebration is even more special in that it marks the 25th anniversary of the Montreal Protocol.
International Day of Peace 
Celebrating “International Day of Peace” (also known as “World Peace Day”) is becoming increasingly important every year as wars continue to be fought and people continue to suffer. It was first established by the U.N. in 1981 to coincide with the opening of the General Assembly. By creating an “International Day of Peace,” the U.N. inadvertently devoted itself to promoting peace worldwide.
Being dedicated to peace, International Day of Peace is occasionally observed with a temporary cease-fire in combat zones. Officially, however, the day is inaugurated with the ringing of the “Peace Bell” at the U.N. Headquarters in New York City. In 2002, Sept. 21 was officially designated as the International Day of Peace by the U.N. General Assembly. 
World Tourism Day 
Since 1980, the U.N. World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) has celebrated World Tourism Day on Sept. 27. The goal of World Tourism Day is to raise awareness of the role that tourism plays in the international community, in particular its effects on social, cultural, political and economic values of the world. 
This year, World Tourism Day will be hosted by Spain, with the theme of “Tourism and sustainable energy.”
World Maritime Day 
The U.N. officially began observing “World Maritime Day” in 1948 with the establishment of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The focus of World Maritime Day is to celebrate the contributions of the international maritime industry to the world’s economy. 
Generally, World Maritime Day celebrations vary by year and country, though it is always on the last week of September. This year, the official celebration will be held at the IMO Headquarters on Sept. 27 under the theme “100 years after the Titanic,” focusing on safety of life at sea. 
World Rabies Day 
Despite the ease with which it can be prevented, it is surprising that rabies is still a significant health problem in many countries around the world. A rather old disease, rabies in humans is 100 percent preventable through prompt and appropriate medical care. Unfortunately, more than 55,000 people die every year from rabies, according to the WHO, with dogs being the source of 99 percent of human rabies deaths. 
Together with the Global Alliance for Rabies Control, WHO and various other international human and veterinary health organizations celebrate “World Rabies Day” by highlighting the impact of rabies and raising awareness of the simple and effective ways of preventing rabies infection. 
World Heart Day
Cardiovascular disease has long been one of the world’s largest killers, claiming 17.3 million lives a year, the WHO reports. 
Together with the World Heart Federation, “World Heart Day” has been celebrated in September since 1999. Although it used to be celebrated on the last Sunday of September, since 2011 Sept. 29 has been officially designated World Heart Day. The main purpose of World Heart Day is to organize events promoting awareness of the risk factors and ways to prevent the development of cardiovascular disease all around the world. 
