Waters become resource battleground
President Lee Myung-bak visited the easternmost islets of Dokdo for the first time as a Korean President in early August, and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda expressed discontent with the visit through an official announcement.
Only days later on Aug. 15, Japan’s coast guard captured 15 Chinese people at the archipelago lying between Japan and China. The islands are called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.
The two sets of islands are examples that show countries’ fervent attempt to control oceanic natural resources.
In fact, water covers 71 percent of Earth’s surface and it is estimated that 1.6 trillion barrels of petroleum is buried under the sea. Continental shelves, areas of seabed next to land under relatively shallow sea, are known to have countless mineral resources, such as copper, zinc, nickel and cobalt. The deep-sea burial of methane hydrate, a gas-releasing mineral sometimes called the “second petroleum,” is large enough for humans to make use of for the next 5,000 years.
The ocean floor around Diaoyu or Senkaku is perceived to carry 100 billion barrels of petroleum and 10 trillion tons of natural gas.
Spratly Islands in the South China Sea is engaged in territorial disputes with China, Vietnam, Malaysia and the Philippines. The islands are estimated to possess 200 billion barrels of petroleum, which is equivalent to the volume buried in Saudi Arabia.
The Arctic Ocean, having 13 percent and 30 percent of all petroleum and natural gas, respectively, is becoming the epicenter of “New Cold War,” as countries such as Russia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland are vying to have their slice of the resources. The resource value of the Artic Ocean continues to rise as glaciers in the area melt down with global warming and hence new sea routes are being born.
There are more resource battlegrounds on the globe that have not been covered here. For Korea, a country that has comparatively small amount of natural resources on the land, its 200-nautical-mile maritime economic zone is becoming more and more important. We should not invade into sea areas of other countries, but at the same time should do our best to protect our oceanic territory as stipulated in the international law.
