The intrepid eater Andrew Zimmern
Andrew Zimmern is an award-winning TV personality, chef, food writer and teacher, and is one of the most popular and colorful personalities in the food world. As the co-creator and host of Travel Channel’s hit series “Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern” and “Andrew Zimmern’s Bizarre World,” he travels around the world exploring and sampling foods ranging from wildly exotic to shockingly revolting. From world class restaurants to humble food carts, from hectic wet markets to backwoods cooking pits, the always affable Zimmern discovers and shares authentic, and at times disturbing, dining experiences with his viewers by imploring: “If it looks good, eat it.”
“Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern” is a documentary-styled travel and dining television show that focuses on regional cuisine from around the world which is commonly perceived by American audiences as being disgusting or bizarre. In each episode, Zimmern typically shows how a particular food is procured and prepared, where it is served, and, usually without hesitation, eats it with a wide grin on his face. In his eighth season as the host of Bizarre Foods, Zimmern has established himself as the man at the top of the food chain -- there is nothing he wouldn’t eat, and there is nothing he hasn’t tried.
Unlike his favorite catch phrase, not everything Zimmern eats “looks good.” He has an appetite all his own. While most people are familiar with eating beef, pork, lamb, chicken and duck, Zimmern prefers to eat every part of every animal. He dined on brains, sweet breads, eyeballs, tongues, internal organs (both cooked and raw), tendons, raw fat, skin and fresh blood of all kinds of animals. By his own estimation, Zimmern has eaten the reproductive organ of more than 70 different kinds of animals. True to the title of his show, Zimmern has eaten unusual meats such guinea pig, iguana, squirrel, armadillo, alligator, kangaroo, walrus, camel, donkey, pigeon, snake, rat and bat.
Bizarre Foods viewers have come to expect the unexpected from the show over the years, but nothing makes people cringe with disgust more than the sight of Zimmern munching on creepy crawlers (bugs). In the Cambodia episode, a local lady was seen frying up a batch of live tarantulas while Zimmern looked on. After taking a bite out of the crispy giant spider, he declared it as “sweet, nutty, absolutely delicious, and tastes like a soft-shell crab”. In China, Zimmern delighted in snacking on skewered cicadas, scorpions, crickets, grasshoppers, bees, beetles and worms. In educating his viewers on the merits of eating insects, Zimmern said: “They are replenishable, and they are an inexhaustible supply of protein once people get over the psychological barrier.” 
In a memorable episode of Bizarre Foods, Zimmern visited Korea to sample some of the unique cuisines the nation has to offer. He visited a kimchi factory, shopped at a seafood market, ate live octopus, tasted fresh sea squirt, tried turtle stew, and sampled cheonggukjang (dead body stew). One of the highlights of Zimmern’s culinary adventure in Korea was when he dined at a restaurant that served hongeo (fermented skate wing). The strong ammonia odor of the fish caused him to grimace and gag, but to his credit, Zimmern withstood the pungent assault of the fabled dish, ate a morsel without condiments, and thanked his Korean host for a “great day.” 
Beginning with Season 7, Zimmern’s Bizarre Foods has been re-titled Bizarre Foods America. The focus of the show has turned to the United States rather than international travel. Zimmern travels across the nation in search of unique food hubs and meets with local chefs to present authentic, and of course, bizarre, American cuisine. He said that the aim of the new show is to help viewers relate to the traditional foods passed down by immigrants to modern dishes born and bred by American innovation.
