The 2012 Summer Paralympic Games
The 2012 Summer Paralympic Games, the 14th edition of the quadrennial competition open to athletes with physical and intellectual disabilities, will be held in London between Aug. 29 and Sept. 9. It is projected to become the biggest Paralympic Games ever with an estimated total of 4,200 athletes representing 165 countries competing in 20 sports at the Games. Fifteen nations will be making their Paralympic Games debut; among them are Liberia, Mozambique, North Korea, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
The 2012 Summer Paralympics will use many of the same venues as the 2012 London Olympics; however, a great deal of work went into transforming and refreshing the existing facilities to meet the unique requirements of the Paralympics competition. The Olympic village underwent a complete makeover in order to accommodate Paralympians and their 1,800 wheelchairs and 22 guide dogs. New competition venues are added to host the Wheelchair Tennis competition and the Road Cycling events. Throughout the city, the giant Olympic Rings have been replaced by the Agitos (Latin for ‘I move’), the symbol for the Paralympic Games. 
A unique Torch Relay has been planned to kick off the 2012 Paralympic Games. Starting on Aug. 22, four National Flames will be created in the four home nations -- England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Groups of disabled and non-disabled Scouts will ascend the highest peaks of the four home nations: Scafell Pike (England), Snowdon (Wales), Ben Nevis (Scotland) and Slieve Donard (Northern Ireland). At the summits, flint will be rubbed together to create sparks to kindle a Flame. These four flames will ultimately be united to create the London 2012 Paralympic Flame at the opening ceremony.
Paralympians will compete in 20 sports; including archery, athletics, boccia, road cycling, track cycling, equestrian, football (5-a-side and 7-a-side), goalball, judo, powerlifting, rowing, sailing, shooting, swimming, table tennis, sitting volleyball, wheelchair basketball, wheelchair fencing, wheelchair rugby, and wheelchair tennis. As each sport at the Paralympic Games requires different skills and competencies, athletes are classified according to their type and level of impairment. Classification of athletes ensures that winning is determined by skill, fitness, power, endurance, tactical ability and mental focus -- the same factors that account for success in sport for non-disabled athletes.
　At the 2012 Summer Paralympics, some of the athletes who are expected to excel include:
Oscar Pistorius (South Africa, athletics) and Jerome Singleton (USA, Athletics) ?  Oscar Pistorius, aka the “Blade Runner,” recently competed against able-bodied athletes at the 2012 London Olympics in the 400-meter race. At the 2012 Paralympics, he will face off against Jerome Singleton, the first man to beat him in the 100-meter race in seven years. 
Daniel de Faria Dias (Brazil, swimming) -- Daniel Diaz is a Brazilian swimmer born with malformed upper and lower limbs. He learned to swim in 2004 at age 16 and became a swimming sensation at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing. He won a total of nine medals including four golds, four silvers and a bronze, more than any other athlete at the Games.
Natalia Partyka (Poland, table tennis) -- Natalia Partyka was born without a right hand and forearm but she competes in both Olympic and Paralympic events. She is currently 63rd in the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) world rankings. She won the singles gold and team silver at both the 2004 Athens Paralympic Games and the 2008 Beijing Paralympic Games.
Marcel Hug (Switzerland, athletics) -- Marcel Hug, nicknamed the “Silver Bullet,” competes mainly in category T54 wheelchair racing events. At age 24, he holds the world record in every T54 track distance from 800 meters through to 10,000 meters. 
Jiri Jezek (Czech Republic, cycling) -- Jiri Jezek is one of the world’s top cyclists riding in the paralympic LC2 (locomotor disabilities) category. He is a five-time Paralympics champion who has won both gold and silver medals at each of the past three Paralympic Games.
