U.S. networks’ fall lineup Part 3: New shows!
The struggle to find the next wildly successful TV show is one of the biggest challenges for both viewers and producers alike. For viewers, the joy of finding a new favorite show to replace ones we’ve lost, is like finding a new friend. For producers, it’s like finding the perfect pet to bring home and grow old with. 
While all five networks have some interesting new shows, here are some of the more promising of the bunch.
Go On (NBC)
Premiere date: Sept. 11
Go On is a comedy featuring Matthew Perry as sportscaster Ryan King who attends a grief support group after suffering the devastating loss of his wife. The return of Chandler (from the hit sitcom Friends) to the small screen is sure to delight fans everywhere. 
The Mindy Project (Fox)
Premiere date: Sept. 25
Starring The Office star Mindy Kaling, The Mindy Project a romantic comedy about a young movie-obsessed Ob/Gyn doctor looking to find love. Best known for her role as Kelly Kapoor, this will be Kaling’s first time playing a lead character after numerous stints as supporting characters and a rather successful career as writer and producer. 
Elementary (CBS)
Premiere date: Sept. 27
As a modern day take on the classic Sherlock Holmes, Elementary is a detective drama set in New York City. Jonny Lee Miller stars as recovering drug-addict Sherlock alongside Lucy Liu who plays the ever-reliable Watson. 
Last Resort (ABC)
Premiere date: Sept. 27
Last Resort is action-packed and tension-filled from the start. Set in the future, Last Resort follows the crew of a U.S. submarine who become fugitives after refusing to follow orders to fire their missiles. After being labeled as enemies of the state, the crew members find themselves seeking refuge on a nearby island and declaring themselves a sovereign nation. 
Arrow (The CW)
Premiere date: Oct. 10
Based on the DC Comics character “Green Arrow,” Arrow is one of The CW’s latest action-adventure series about Oliver Queen, a former billionaire playboy turned vigilante. After spending five years stranded on an island in the Pacific, Queen returns to make amends for his past actions. 
