Should children below 18 be allowed to join Facebook or Twitter?
Pro - I think children should be allowed to join Facebook or Twitter
I think children should be allowed to join Facebook or Twitter. 
First of all, children love the Internet and its networks. You can understand my point by seeing your friends doing Facebook, Naver, Twitter, Kakaotalk. and others.
Second, children and teens could use them to make some good memories. You can contact your friends with them. Plus, that phenomenon helps people bond, so it could make our friendship stronger. This is from my personal experience. 
Last but not least, children know the power of trends. You probably all know Mark Zuckerberg, who invented Facebook. About 900 million people know the fame of Facebook. And it keeps growing and growing. Approximately 190 million people use Twitter now. Of course, it also just keeps growing and growing because of how easily it spreads.
Con- I think we shouldn’t allow children to use social networking sites
Do you know the acronym for SNS? It is social network services; literally they help us communicate with others. The most well-known SNS are Twitter and Facebook. When SNS first came out, they received good feedback from people who were interested in using computers. Until now it’s still a craze. However, the popularity of these social networks came with some drawbacks. Because of them we shouldn’t allow children to use or get involved with these social networks.
First of all, there are some instances in which minors lack self control and it may lead them to addiction. Then it will naturally affect their studies and they won’t have enough time to study because most of their time will be spent on chatting with their friends and so on.
Moreover, there are some instances when minors may say things that are harmful or even libelous, even though they don’t mean them.
Finally, SNS use is also not healthy. Too much exposure to computers is not good. The electromagnetic waves can hurt your eyes and may lead to some illnesses like xerophthalmia. These days, it’s becoming a social problem. 
Overall, Social Networks can be useful when people use them with care. We have to be responsible for our actions and always be guided by our ethics. Thus, I think we shouldn’t allow children to use these networks.
