Cinema Paradise for Youth - ‘14th Seoul International Youth Film Festival (SIYFF)’
With the aim of discovering and supporting cinema talent and becoming a channel for future youth filmmakers’ work, the 14th Seoul International Youth Film Festival (SIYFF) was held in Seoul from Aug. 23-29. The international film festival was sponsored by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Seoul Metropolitan Government, Seongbuk-gu Office and KOFIC.
With its opening ceremony taking place in Inchon Memorial Hall at Korea University on Aug. 23, a total of 141 films from 41 countries have been screened at Arirang Cine & Media Center and CGV Sunghsin Women’s University in Seoul. At the opening ceremony, “KAUWBOY,” a Dutch film by Boudewijn Koole was shown. The movie tells about a boy named Jojo’s unconventional friendship with an abandoned baby jackdaw.
The films at the 14th SIYFF were classified into two categories: Competition and Non Competition films.
The competition category is also divided into two parts: Competition 13+ and Competition 19+. The former refers to movies that were made by teenagers aged 13-18 and the latter is made by those who are over 19 years old. Outstanding films in these groups are given awards. 
For the best short film, the SIYFF Grand Prize, the top prize in the festival’s competition section is given for both Competition 13+ and Competition 19+ films. 
The SIYFF Talents Award is offered to the film that is the most progressive and experimental in its artistic expression. The SIYFF Challenge Award is for a film that shows critical views on the real world. And last but not least, the SIYFF Eyes Award is bestowed to movies that show the most beautiful pictures. 
International Youth Jury picks the winner of the SIYFF Eyes Award in the Competition 13+ category. For the Competition 18+ category, the SIYFF jury chooses the winner. 
Here are summaries of films from the ‘competition 19+’ category. 
Ailema is a film that shows a day of a 7-year-old dyslexic girl named Amelia. This English film produced by Cecilia Frugiuele lasts only 10 minutes but it conveys a clear message. It stresses that people should not belittle others for their disabilities. In the film, Amelia could transform her shortcomings into the creativity of drawing. The drawings and colors of her bedroom wall signify that her shortcoming was nothing compared to her genuine talent in drawing. The movie’s title, “Ailema” represents the girl’s name, Amelia but in her own dyslexic, yet creative way.
This New Zealand film by Kirsten Green talks about the true meaning of empathy. The film progresses in a little girl named Bella’s point. When Bella vomits on a neighbor’s driveway, her mom and the neighbor got into a fight. Her mother, Lisa criticizes the neighbor for lack of empathy.
Later Bella asks her mom what empathy means. Lisa told her that it is a way of thinking from others’ point of view. All of a sudden, Bella begins to wonder whether her mom herself lacks empathy as she refused to see the vomiting incident from her neighbor’s point of view. 
This Korean movie by Kang Sun deals with a high school girl’s trouble with her plagiarism. After copying book reviews from the nation’s most popular search engine, Naver, a girl who is not at all a talented writer, wins her school’s book review contest. Now she has to move on to a nationwide contest. Feeling inconceivable pressure at home and school, she decides to commit suicide. Yet she has to leave a will to her family. While writing it, she is again stuck with her writing and once again turns to Naver to complete a touching masterpiece. 
The festival’s Non Competition film category is once again divided into three sections: Kid’s eye, Teen’s Eye and Strong Eye
Kid’s eye is a film section that is targeted to preschoolers, lower graders and their parents. This year’s SIYFF, 13 feature films and 14 short films were shown in the Kid’s eye.
A Korean film titled,” Tarbosaurus 3D” by Han Sang-ho (2011) was one of the featured films in this category.
Teen’s Eye is devoted to teenagers and it mainly focuses on the lives of teenagers and their troubles in different countries. In this section, 15 feature films and 7 short films were introduced to international audiences.
The film version of the Japanese hit animation series, “One Piece 3D: Straw Hat Chase” by Sato Hiroyuki (2011) was included in the section.
Strong Eye consists of R-rated cinema that entails grown up topics such as drugs, violence and so forth. Officials from the festival remarked that they hope after seeing these serious films that young and old people will be able to talk about the issues frankly.
“The King of pigs,” by Korean director Yeun Sang-ho was screened in this category. The animation, which depicted the brutal world of school violence, premiered at the 2011 Busan International Film Festival. It also won three awards at the festival.
Kyung-Min and Jong-Suk went to middle school together and for the first time in 15 years they were reunited. At school the two men were called “pigs,” the bottom rank of the class hierarchy by a ruling class called “dogs.” Then one day, Chul-yi, who Kyung-Min and Jong-Suk thought of as the king of their “pig” crew appears, and they begin to rely on him. 
The Seoul International Youth Film Festival also picks topics for special sections each year. This year, with the hope of holding a successful Special Olympics in PyeongChang in 2013, a PyeongChang Special Olympics section was created
A local film, “Marathon” was screened as a part of the special section. In the movie, Cho-won, an autistic young man with a great passion for running eventually succeeds in running a marathon.The movie shows how mentally disabled people can grow to be members of society through the help of sports.
Another side event at the festival was “Clermont-Ferrand International Short Film Festival for Kids.” Started in 1979 by college students with a hope of reviving short films, Clermont-Ferrand International Short Film Festival has helped raise the competitive of world’s short films and is now referred to as the Cannes Film Festival for short films.
The 14th SIYFF also had culture programs using media. At “Media Education Forum: School Violence Prevention,” important social issues such as school violence and bullying were discussed by participants. They sought to figure out the film media’s role on the issue. A literary night-recital concert for youths was opened at the Arirang Cine & Media Center through Aug. 24-26. Films from the festival were chosen for the occasion. Moreover, Cine Concert, which featured animation soundtracks, was held at the same venue before and after the screening.
The official poster for the 14th Seoul International Youth Film Festival was created by Korea’s topcalligrapher, Kang Byung-in. To show the beauty of Hangeul, the Korean alphabet, the poster is designed with the letter “Seoul” in Korean. Breaking down the letter shows the word is a composition of some brilliant Korean letters. The letter ‘ㅅ,’ represents a mountain, ‘ㅇ’ signifies the sun and the moon. The mid-vowel ‘ㅜ’ expresses the vigor of Korea’s youth dancing with their shoulders. The consonant ‘ㄹ’ is drawn like water flowing through the capital city. All in all, the poster tries to capture the feel of young Koreans rising up with their dreams.
