Advertisements may cause materialism in unhappy kids
New research shows that unhappy kids who watch a lot of TV advertisements may be more prone to materialism, Reuters Health reported.
In today’s undoubtedly consumerism-driven world, numerous studies have found that adults who are dissatisfied with their lives may turn to material possessions to make themselves happier; though when that fails they become even more discontent with life. The question of how it affects children’s life satisfaction, however, had not been addressed until recently. 
A recent study published in the journal Pediatrics found that unhappy children tend to become more consumed with material possessions, but only if they watched a lot of TV. In an email to Reuters Health, lead researcher Suzanna J. Opree suggested that ads on TV may “teach children that possessions are a way to increase happiness.” 
The findings are based on surveys filled out by 466 Dutch children between the ages of 8 and 11. The kids took an online survey two times, one year apart, answering questions about life satisfaction and the importance of material possessions. 
Although the study had several limitations, it did point out the correlation between level of materialism in unhappy children and regular television viewing. 
In the overall scheme of things, however, TV advertisements are just one of the many factors that affect a child’s level of materialism and dissatisfaction with life, Opree explained. 
“Children’s social environment - that is, family and peers - plays an important role,” Opree said. “Values held by family members and peers are more likely to be adopted by the child.”
Though whether parents’ values have more influence on a child’s materialism over advertisements has not yet been studied, Opree stated that parents can still counteract the influence of advertisements through education. In particular, Opree’s team suggests teaching kids to view ads with a critical eye, to be skeptical of ads that imply that a product can make life better and seek happiness from other sources -- like “love, friendship and play.”
