What’s for lunch?
 “When we send our kids to school, we expect that they won’t be eating the kind of fatty, salty, sugary foods that we try to keep them from eating at home …” – U. S. first lady Michelle Obama
In industrialized nations, childhood obesity and its many adverse effects are being recognized as a serious public health concern. The easy availability of sugar-rich soft drinks, calorie-loaded snacks, and cholesterol-laden fast foods has put many children’s health and well-being at greater risk. As governments around the world take notice of the problem, it became clear that the most effective measure, beyond education and legislation, is to ensure that children can eat a sensible, healthy meal at least once a day -- at school lunch.
In the United States, as students return to class this fall, they will likely find that their school lunch has become more nutritious and well-balanced than ever. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has established new guidelines about what can and can’t be in school lunches. School cafeterias are required to serve more whole grains, fresh produce, and fruits, while trans fats (unsaturated fats), which are known to increase the risk of coronary heart disease, are completely banned from school lunches and meals. The new guidelines also put the first ever calorie and sodium limits on what can be served in schools. 
In Korea, most elementary and secondary level students are provided with free and generally healthy meals in school. School lunch menus typically include Korean dietary staples such as rice, noodles, kimchi, bean paste-based soups or stews, sauté or braised meats, seafood, tofu, seaweed, assorted vegetables, fruit and a yogurt drink or juice. Although opinions vary among students as to the taste or quality of their school lunch, there is no doubt that they are getting a well-balanced and nutritious meal, as evident in the abundance of vegetable dishes and the near absence of deep-fried foods. 
In Japan, all elementary school students and more than 80 percent of junior high school students eat kyūshoku, or school lunch. School lunch menus are carefully planned by trained dieticians to ensure the proper mix and combination of food groups and ingredients. Modern day Japanese school lunch tends to feature both native fares as well as Asian and Western dishes. Rice, miso soup, marinated seaweeds, Japanese curry, and boiled or grilled fish are regular features on the lunch menu; but it is also common to see pasta, Chinese fried noodles, Korean cold noodle soup, Thai seafood soup, or American chowder on any given day. 
In the United Kingdom, a government decision in the 1980’s to end free meals to thousands of students forced many cash-strapped local school boards to turn to the most competitive caterer to provide school meals. Students ended up eating a lot of low quality, unhealthy, deep-fried foods. Celebrity chef Jamie Oliver launched a campaign to improve the quality of school meals in 2004, which led to the creation of the School Food Trust -a U.K. Charity and specialist adviser to the government - on school meals, children’s food and related skills.
France is known internationally for its great food, and not surprisingly, it represents the gold standard for school lunch programs. The lucky students of the French school system are served what amounts to gourmet food, a five-course meal for lunch everyday which includes salad, soup, pasta, meat and dessert, all prepared and presented as if dining in a restaurant. Children in France are nurtured at a young age to not only eat healthy, but eat well. The lunch break is usually 90 minutes long, and students take their time in savoring the sophisticated dining experience as if it is part of their academic curriculum. It’s worth noting that despite eating better than everyone else, the prevalence of childhood obesity in France is among the lowest in Europe.
