Youngest champions in sports
In the world of professional sports, Olympic sports, and other organized sports, it is not unusual to see precocious but supremely gifted athletes achieve success at the highest level of competition. Some of those athletes burst onto the scene and shine brightly for a brief moment before fading into anonymity; others continue to excel and become sporting legends that people continue to talk about long after they retire. Here’s a look at some of the youngest champions in sports.
Pele ? Brazilian football legend Edison Arantes do Nascimento, otherwise known as Pele, is perhaps the most famous athlete in the world. In 1958, Pele was selected for Brazil’s squad for the World Cup in Sweden. In the quarterfinal against Wales, he became the youngest ever World Cup goal scorer at 17 years and 239 days. In the semifinal against France, Pele became the youngest player in World Cup history to score a hat-trick. In the finals against Sweden, Pele scored two goals to become the youngest player ever on a World Cup winning team.
Tiger Woods - Eldrick Tont “Tiger” Woods became a professional golfer in 1996 at age 21. In April 1997, he won his first major, the Masters, by a massive 12 strokes to become the tournament’s youngest-ever winner. Tiger Woods was 21 years and 167 days old when he became the youngest golfer to reach the top of the world rankings on June 15, 1997. He went on to become the youngest player to achieve a career Grand Slam - winning The Masters, The U. S. Open, The British Open, and The PGA Championships. 
Martina Hingis - Nicknamed the “Swiss Miss,” the supremely talented tennis player set many records at a very young age. Hingis became the youngest player to win a Grand Slam junior title, the French Open, in 1993 when she was only 12 years old. In 1996, Hingis became the youngest Wimbledon champion when she teamed with Helena Sukova to win the women’s doubles title at 15 years and 9 months. At the 1997 Australian Open, Hingis became the youngest Grand Slam singles winner in the 20th century by winning the title at the age of 16 years and 3 months.
Mike Tyson ? Michael Gerard “Iron Mike” Tyson ? “The Baddest Man on the Planet” - holds the record as the youngest boxer to win the World Boxing Council (WBC), World Boxing Association (WBA) and International Boxing Federation (IBF) heavyweight titles at 20 years, 4 months and 22 days old. Tyson was a ferocious puncher and the ultimate “Terminator” - he won his first 19 professional bouts by knockout, with 12 of them occurring in the first round. 
Eleanor Simmonds - Eleanor Simmonds is a British Paralympian swimmer who has achondroplasia (dwarfism). She competed in multiple events at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing, China, when she was only 13 years old. Simmonds won gold medals in the 100 meters and 400 meters freestyle events to become the youngest Paralympics champion. In the 2009 New Years Honors, Simmonds was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE), making her the youngest person to receive this honor.
Lydia Ko - The 15-year-old Korean?born New Zealander became the youngest LPGA winner in tour history by capturing the title at the Canadian Women’s Open. The three-stroke victory broke the age record of 16 set by Lexi Thompson last September in the Navistar LPGA Classic in Alabama. Ko also became the first amateur player to win an LPGA event since JoAnne Carner in the 1969 Burdine’s Invitational. The glove Ko wore in the final round will be displayed in the World Golf Hall of Fame.
