Singer Psy becomes hot commodity
Singer Psy has managed to achieve a level of success that no other K-pop singer has been able to pull off yet, thanks to his music video “Gangnam Style.” Not only has Psy become a YouTube sensation, he has also become a hot commodity amongst corporate advertisers in Korea. 
The hilarious dance moves and catchy beats of “Gangnam Style” have made it an instant favorite amongst internet users, a recipe that has made it ripe for going viral. The unprecedented success of Psy’s “Gangnam Style” has corporate advertisers scrambling to sign the Korean singer in the hopes of riding the wave of his popularity.
An official at YG Entertainment has told The Korea Herald that the eccentric singer is currently in talks with at least six companies hoping to land a deal to have Psy appear in their ads. 
LG Uplus was lucky enough to be the country’s first company to have Psy star in a commercial. Performing his trademark horse-back riding dance featured in “Gangnam Style,” the advertisement parodies the song for its Long Term Evolution (LTE) commercial, aptly named “Uplus Style.” 
Following the broadcast of the “Uplus Style” commercial and release of the music video, various media outlets have speculated that Psy’s earnings from the song may have reached 10 billion won ($8.8 million), The Korea Herald reported. 
Since “Gangnam Style” was released in July, dozens of parodies have been made of the song; a quick search online will yield countless parodies, reactions and remixes done by fans all around the world. 
The global popularity of “Gangnam Style” can be attributed to YG Entertainment’s decision to use YouTube as their main media platform for featuring its artists since 2008. The YG official explained to The Korea Herald that YouTube has made it possible for people anywhere to enjoy their content by changing the way technology is used in the spread of culture across borders. 
As of Aug. 31, the official “Gangnam Style” music video has received over 74 million views on YouTube. 
