Remembering Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon
The world lost a legend on Aug. 25 when Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon, passed away at the age of 82. Despite being one of the most famous astronauts in history, Armstrong remained an enigma, choosing to stay out of the public eye. 
Born on Aug. 5, 1930, Neil Armstrong developed a love for flying as a child; attending the Cleveland Air Races with his father at age two and taking his first flight aboard a plane in 1936. He earned his student pilot’s license at age 16. 
After serving in the Korean War as part of the U.S. Navy, Armstrong successfully completed his studies on Aeronautical Engineering with a Bachelor of Science degree from Purdue University in 1955, and later a Master of Science degree from University of Southern California in 1970. 
After graduating from Purdue University, Armstrong joined the National Advisory Committee of Aeronautics (NACA), which later became the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). During his 17 years with NACA and NASA, he worked first as an engineer, then test pilot, astronaut and finally, as administrator. It was during this time that Armstrong acted as mission commander of the historic Apollo 11 moon landing in 1969, becoming the first person ever to walk on the moon. 
Shortly after the Apollo 11 flight, Armstrong announced that he did not plan to fly in space again. Armstrong resigned from NASA in 1971 after serving a year as a Deputy Associate Administrator. After leaving NASA, Armstrong served as professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Cincinnati for eight years. Armstrong remained active in his field until his death in Aug. 25, 2012 caused by complications resulting from cardiovascular procedures. He is survived by his second wife Carol and two sons from his first marriage.
Apollo 11 - “That’s one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind”
The entire Apollo 11 mission to the moon lasted eight days. Three astronauts participated in the mission, with Neil Armstrong as Mission Commander, Edwin “Buzz” E. Aldrin, Jr. as Lunar Module Pilot and Michael Collins as Command Module Pilot. Of the three, only Armstrong and Aldrin actually landed on the moon, while Collins remained alone in lunar orbit until the two completed their extravehicular activity. 
As the world watched on, Armstrong officially took his first stop onto the moon’s surface at 2:56 UTC on July 21, 1969, uttering his famous line, “That’s one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.” 
