Is obesity a disease?
Pro-
I think obesity is a disease　
In this world, many people suffer from obesity. This is partly because they eat so much fast food. If you eat a lot of fast foods, it helps cause obesity. If you are obese, you may develop many serious diseases, so obesity is a very dangerous disease. 
First, if people suffer from obesity, many diseases occur. People can get heart problems or high blood pressure. After seeing a news report, now I know that obese patients may suffer from cancer more than the general public. 
If obese patients get pregnant, the child is more likely to suffer from obesity. So I recommend obese people exercise hard and eat more vegetables than fast food.
Second, obese people are teased more frequently. If children are obese, their friends may pick on them. They may call them “pig” or “potbellied person.” So, obese students may also suffer from mental stress and when they are under stress they eat more food. 
Third, obese people run slower than normal people. I read a science book that said that it takes more energy for obese patients to walk or run because gravity affects them more. This makes it much more laborious for them to move and be active. 
I think obesity is a very harmful disease. So people need to exercise harder and eat more healthy food. 
gravity 중력 laborious 고단한
Con-
I don’t think obesity is a disease.
Obesity is a bodily condition in which a person has too much fat. Nowadays, many people are obese. Many people think obesity is a disease and even the WHO stipulates obesity a disease. But I think obesity is not a disease.
Obesity is a dietary condition. Disease is what we call it when a virus gives us a cold or when our bodies develop cancer. However, obesity is not like that. People can change what they eat. For example, if he or she eats too much fast food such as pizza, hamburgers, fried chicken and so forth, he or she can become obese. Yet they can still change their habits.
Second, obesity depends on one’s environment and habits. For example, when kids grow up, if their mom and dad like to eat fast food or pre-cooked food, it might make the kids follow suit. But that is not a disease.
Last, people who are obese don’t exercise. If people exercise, it doesn’t matter that much what they eat. People who are obese do not exercise enough and they get fatter than others. 
If people change their environment, habits and exercise, obesity decreases. So I think obesity is not a disease.
