World's 10 smartest people
Kim Ung-yong
A super smart Korean, Kim Ung-yong, whose Intelligent Quotient (IQ) stands at 210, received attention again in late August. In the 1970s, he was considered a child prodigy and was widely expected to become a Korean president.
On Aug. 29, Kim’s name topped Naver’s keyword search list. The man, in his late 40s, now works for Chungbuk (North Chungcheong) Development Corporation as a high-ranking official.
A day earlier, Kim was chosen as one of top 10 smartest people in the world by “SuperScholar,” a non-profit organization based in Texas, the United States. The organization releases various other rankings, such as “The 10 Happiest Professions,” “The 50 Most Influential Books of the Last 50 Years,” “The Top 25 Online MBA Programs” on its website (www.superscholar.org).
Among the top 10 brains released by SuperScholar was world-renowned physician Stephen Hawking, and Kim Ung-yong was described as the person with the highest confirmed IQ in the world.
But the world’s smartest man has seen his fair share of ups and downs, just like ordinary people. In fact, his life has been quite tumultuous.
The prodigy, who was fluent in four languages by the age of 2, audited college courses (Physics department at Hanyang University) at the age of 4, and appeared on Japan’s Fuji TV to solve calculus problems at the age of 6, faced an insurmountable challenge in the United States -- loneliness.
When he was 8 (1970), Kim was invited by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to work as a researcher, but before that he finished a combined master’s and doctorate program at Colorado State University (1970 to 1973). For five years from 1974, he worked for NASA, calculating how quickly humans could reach Mars, and through which routes. Back then the United States and the former Soviet Union were in a fierce competition over space development.
However, the adolescent was not good at mingling with the U.S. space scientists, Kim confessed, recalling his days at NASA. He did not belong there, and felt like a “complete stranger,” Kim said during a special MBC documentary that aired on Sept. 7. He sent numerous letters to his parents back home, talking about his loneliness.
Now, the former child prodigy, who is now almost 50, says he leads an ordinary but happy life with his wife and two sons in his homeland.
James Woods
James Howard Woods is an American film, stage and television actor. Woods is known for starring in critically acclaimed films, such as “Once Upon a Time in America,” “Salvador” and “Ghosts of Mississippi.” He won three Emmy Awards and gained two Academy Award nominations.
Woods was born to his father, who was an army intelligence officer. At school Woods was considered a genius for his age, receiving an 800/800 on the math section of the SAT, the only person to do so in his grade. At school, he was involved in science and math clubs and headed two of them. He also received a full scholarship to UCLA to study algebra.
Woods chose to pursue his undergraduate studies at MIT, where he majored in political science. He was also an active member of the student theatre group “Dramashop” where he both acted in and directed a number of plays. In order to pursue a career in acting, he dropped out of MIT in 1969. Woods said that he had become an actor because of the father of actor Ben Affleck, Tim Affleck, who was a stage manager at the Theatre Company of Boston while Woods was a student there.
Stephen Hawking
The British physicist and author, who was born in 1942, was described as having helped the general public understand the universe better while the scientist himself faced the debilitating effects of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
He is an honorary fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. Hawking was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge between 1979 and 2009. Subsequently, he became research director at the university’s Centre for Theoretical Cosmology.
He is now almost entirely paralyzed and communicates through a speech generating device. Hawking’s illness has progressed more slowly than typical cases of ALS. Survival for more than 10 years after diagnosis is rare.
The others
The other seven people on the Super Scholar’s list were Microsoft’s co-founder Paul Allen, renowned television writer Rick Rosner, the former chess champion Garry Kasparov, the British mathematician Sir Andrew Wiles, the former child prodigy and Hungarian chess grandmaster Judit Polgar, the youngest winning American at Physics Olympiad Christopher Hirata and the youngest full-time professor at UCLA Terrence Tao.
