Study suggests organic food provides no extra health benefits
Since its debut, the main selling point of the more expensive organic food is that it is safer and healthier than non-organic food. A new study, however, has found that in terms of vitamin and nutrient content, there are no significant differences between the two. 
“People choose to buy organic food for many different reasons. One of them is perceived health benefits,” said Dr. Crystal Smith-Spangler, who led the new study.
The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) classifies organic products as food produced without the use of synthetic pesticides, fertilizers, hormones and antibiotics. For livestock products, access to pastures during grazing season is an additional requirement that must be fulfilled in order for it to be certified organic. In comparison, non-organic foods are produced using pesticides to keep bugs away, with livestock being fed antibiotics to promote growth and ward off diseases easily acquired from being raised in crowded indoor conditions.
In an effort to confirm the health benefits of organic food, Smith-Spangler and her team reviewed over 2,000 studies that either compared the health of people who ate organic vs. conventional foods, or compared the nutrient levels of the foods themselves. 
The results show that contrary to popular opinion, there are no significant health benefits in buying organic over non-organic foods. Specifically, Smith-Spangler and her team found no significant difference in vitamin content, with the only difference being a slightly higher phosphorus level in organic products. 
In terms of pesticide residue, however, the study found that more than one-third of non-organic produce had detectable pesticide residue compared to 7 percent in organic food samples. Organic chicken and pork were also 33 percent less likely to carry bacteria resistant to three or more antibiotics than non-organically-produced meat.
According to Reuters Health, Smith-Spangler pointed out that “it was uncommon for either organic or conventional foods to exceed the allowable limits for pesticides, so it’s unclear whether a difference in residues would have an effect on health.”
Overall, the researchers concluded that although organic foods may not be significantly more nutritious than non-organic foods, they may reduce a person’s exposure to pesticide residues and antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
