The one and only
The 2012 Summer Paralympics Games in London had the largest number of athletes and participating nations of any Paralympic Games. More than 4,200 athletes representing 164 nations competed in the games. Host nation Great Britain had the largest contingent of athletes (288), followed by China (282), The United States (216), Brazil (189), and Russia (183). While athletes from these countries grabbed most of the headlines with record-setting performances, 44 of the participating nations were each represented by a lone athlete. Though it has been said that “one” is the loneliest number, in the case of the Paralympic Games, “one” represents the pride and dignity of a nation and its people.
Rim Ju-song, a 16-year-old double amputee, was North Korea’s first and only athlete in his nation’s Paralympic debut. Rim lost his left arm and foot in a construction site accident when he was a child. With the assistance of the British Embassy in Pyongyang, he was sent to Beijing in the spring of 2012, where he learned to swim for the first time. He made the qualifier at a meet in Germany later in the year and received a wildcard invitation to the London Paralympics. In the preliminary heats of the men’s S6 50m freestyle race, Rim came in last, trailing 17.89 seconds behind the first place swimmer. The result did not bother him at all as he said cheerfully in an interview after his groundbreaking performance: “I felt very proud and honored to represent my country, so I did my best in training.” 
Houssein Omar Hassan, a right arm amputee, is an runner from Djibouti who competed in the 1,500 meters. He became the first and only athlete from Djibouti to compete at the Paralympic Games by proudly carrying the flag of Djibouti at the opening ceremony. In the 1,500 T46 heat, Houssein suffered an Achilles tendon injury at the start, but he kept going. It took him 11:23.50, or nearly three times longer than the first place runner, to cross the finish line. His courage and determination brought the stadium crowd to its feet in a loud and prolonged ovation.
Thin Seng Hon is a sprinter from Cambodia who competed in the women’s 100 meters and 200 meters T44 (a category for lower limb amputees running with a prosthetic) events. She is the only representative from Cambodia at the London Paralympics. She received a wildcard invitation because no other Cambodian athletes qualified for the Games. She was born without a fully formed right leg and uses a J-shaped running blade prosthetic. Due to the poverty and technology gaps between Cambodia and more advanced countries, Thin Seng Hon could only afford a prosthetic that was not custom-built for sprinting. She finished last in the 100 heats and was disqualified in the 200 heats.
Edward Maalouf, a handcyclist, was the only athlete representing Lebanon at the London Paralympic Games. In 1995, while at work, he fell from the sixth floor of a building, and was left paraplegic. He began training in disability sports in 1997 and eventually became a world-class handcyclist. In the 2008 Beijing Paralympic Games, Maalouf became Lebanon’s first Paralympic medalist by winning two bronze medals. He competed in two events in London: the time trial and the road race, both in category HC B (for athletes with complete loss of lower limb function and limited trunk stability). 
Iliesa Delana became the sole athlete of Fiji at the London Paralympic Games when teammate Lusiana Rogoimuri, who qualified for the women’s 100 meters and 200 meters T36 categories, withdrew from the games due to an accident. Iliesa carried his nation’s flag at the opening ceremony. Iliesa, a left leg amputee, qualified to compete in the men’s high jump, F42 category. He won the event with an Oceania record 1.74 meters and became Fiji’s first Paralympic Games gold medalist. 
