Extracurricular activities
Extracurricular activities are student activities that are not part of the normal school curriculum. They exist at all levels of education from elementary schools all the way to universities. Extracurricular activities are voluntary in nature and may include various programs in athletics, clubs, arts, hobbies, community services and church activities. They allow students to explore their physical, social, creative, leisure, philanthropic and spiritual interests with others who share the same passion. 
Extracurricular sports programs offer opportunities for students to develop their athletic skills, improve their physical fitness, appreciate the importance of team work, and forge new friendships. Students can take part in popular sports such as football, baseball, basketball, tennis, golf, swimming, bowling, badminton and table tennis under the tutelage of qualified coaches. They can play simply for fun and exercise, and if they are good enough, they can represent their schools in competition against other schools. 
Clubs have always been a mainstay of extracurricular activities. Students can choose clubs that match their specific interests or needs. For example, at the debate club, students learn to effectively express their points of view in coherent, logical and persuasive ways. At language clubs, students interested in foreign languages can get together to practice and improve their communication skills. Drama clubs help students who are interested in acting develop poise, confidence and creativity. At the glee club, students can sing and dance to their hearts’ content -- it’s a great way to relieve stress and have fun at the same time. 
Extracurricular arts programs provide diverse choices such as painting, sculpture, animation, photography, band, choir, musical instruments, film and knitting. Art programs are vital in fostering creative expression, promoting attention to details, increasing self-esteem, and teaching problem solving skills. Since most public school curriculums include only a bare minimum of art-related classes, students who are interested in a future in arts can find much needed exposure in after school classes to supplement their art education. 
The pursuit of extracurricular hobbies is an important part of a well-balanced life. Hobbies are usually done in leisure time and undertaken for pleasure. Typical hobbies include collecting (coins, stamps, cards, stickers, comic books, action figures, dolls, toys), scale modeling (cars, train sets, boats, planes, robots), cooking and baking, computer programming, musical instruments, creative writing, camping, swimming and martial arts. Modern day students are under a lot of pressure to live up to high expectations -- to study day-and-night, excel in school, and enter famous universities. Engaging in hobbies can help students reduce stress and remain focused.
Performing community services is one of the most rewarding extracurricular activities. By doing volunteer work, students can learn valuable life lessons while helping those who are in need. Examples of community service include: helping to clean the environment, tutoring and mentoring underprivileged or special-needs children, caring for seniors at nursing homes, volunteering at local hospitals, raising funds for worthy causes, serving at shelters for the poor and the needy, and if possible, assisting in disaster-relief efforts.
Church or other religious activities are ideal extracurricular activities for students because they are usually extensions of community service projects. Most churches have on-going programs to assist the poor, the infirm, and the elderly as part of their missionary work. Church-sponsored food drives for the needy can always use volunteers to help with food gathering, preparation and distribution. Church-organized camps and retreats usually include educational programs, musical performances and athletic activities where students can contribute their time and talents. 
Participating in extracurricular activities can help students lead more interesting, fulfilling, and rewarding lives. It also has the additional benefit of making students look more attractive and desirable on college and job applications. Admissions officers and potential employers are always on the lookout for well-rounded, responsible, and generous people.
