‘Expendables 2’ - The return of old school action heroes
The legendary action heroes are back in the action-packed sequel to the 2010 film, “Expendables.” The return of some of the biggest names in action guarantees 130 minutes of action-packed excitement as the characters embark on a journey of revenge for a fallen comrade. 
As characteristic of most action-based films, the dialogue could use more creativity, though there are some memorable one-liners. In particular, Terry Crews plays the overall comic relief with his witty retorts, relieving the tension brought on by all the fighting. 
In fact, the film is filled with outstandingly hilarious punch lines -- the greatest of which came when they poked fun of each other’s catchphrases from past films. Bruce Willis’ quip about Arnold Schwarzenegger always saying “I’ll be back,” for example, was made even funnier when Schwarzenegger came back with Willis’ “Yippee Ki Yay” catchphrase from the “Die Hard” series. Of course, all of this took place in the midst of an epic gun battle between the bad guys and the good guys. 
Unsurprisingly, the action sequences are over-the-top and simply put, loud. This, however, is the major draw of “Expendables 2.” Fans of classic action films like “Rambo,” “Terminator,” “Transporter” and “Die Hard” are sure to love this movie. For such fans, the fight between Sylvester Stallone and Jean Claude Van Damme alone is worth paying the ticket price.
Although “Expendables 2” exclusively appeals to action-lovers thanks to its cast of old school action heroes, on a more thought-provoking level, it shows how the action genre has changed over the years. Compared to some of today’s popular action series like “The Avengers” and “Bourne” series, action films of yesteryear featured a lot more grand explosions and over-the-top action sequences played by super-buff action heroes. Nowadays, most action heroes tend to be on the smaller side, with the fight sequences choreographed to be quieter, deadlier and more spy-like. This difference in style is best represented in the film by relative newcomer Liam Hemsworth’s character, “Billy the Kid.” 
“Expendables 2” Cast:
Sylvester Stallone
Jason Statham
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Terry Crews
Dolph Lundgren
Bruce Willies
Jean Claude Van Damme
Scott Adkins
Chuck Norris
Jet Li
Randy Couture 
Yu Nan
Liam Hemsworth
