First African-American First Lady, Michelle Obama
On the first night of the Democratic National Convention (DNC) in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Sept. 4, U.S. first lady Michelle Obama called on the American public to give Barack Obama four more years as the country’s president.
Trying to get voters as excited as they were four years ago in the 2008 DNC, she talked about her and Barack’s lives as the embodiment of the American Dream.
Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama was born in Jan. 17, 1964, in Chicago, Illinois. She grew up on the south side of Chicago and attended Whitney Young High School. Always being an honors student, she followed her brother, Craig, to study at Princeton University. 
At Princeton, she majored in sociology and minored in African-American studies. She graduated cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in 1985. She later went to Harvard Law School and earned her Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree in 1988.
Following law school, she became an associate at a law firm, Sidley Austin in Chicago and there she met her future husband, Barack Obama.
Michelle Obama also worked at a public arena in 1991, serving as an assistant mayor and was also a board member of TreeHouse Foods, Inc., a major Wal-Mart supplier.
Since Barack Obama was elected the 44th president of the United States, her full time job has been to act as the country’s first lady and as a mother of their two daughters, Malia and Sasha.
As the Americans became more familiar with her public image, she transformed into a positive role model and fashion icon for women in America.
She launched a nationwide initiative of fighting childhood obesity, named the “Let’s Move!” movement. Michelle also worked in supporting military families, promoting the arts and arts education and advocating women’s rights through equal pay.
By her 2012 book, “American Grown: The Story of the White House Kitchen Garden and Gardens Across America,” she promoted healthy eating.
In July 2007, Vanity Fair listed Michelle among “10 of the World’s Best Dressed People. She also appeared on the cover of Vogue in its March 2009 issue.
Her “classic and confident” look has been frequently compared to Jacqueline Kennedy, yet Michelle’s style is quite affordable, as she is known to buy clothes from stores like Gap and Banana Republic.
Michelle Obama once said that she believed “that you work hard for what you want in life, that your word is your bond, and you do what you say you’re going to do, that you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don’t know them, and even if you don’t agree with them.” She told the hyped-up audience at the 2012 DNC that “it was an honor to serve as the country’s first lady.” 
