La magia de Colombia: Fun vacations and sight-seeing destinations (Part 2)
Last week, we took a look at some of the adventure holidays recommended by Colombia’s official travel website, Proexport Colombia. Now, it is time to see what Colombia has to offer in terms of fun vacations and sight-seeing destinations.
Fun vacations
There are many fun ways to celebrate the culture of Colombia. The Carnival of Barranquilla, for example, is not only a fun and exciting experience, but it was also declared a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO in 2003. Dating back to the 19th century, the carnival is a celebration of cultural diversity in which the entire city of Barranquilla participates. Simply put, it is a veritable celebration of the traditions and creativity of the people expressed through dance, music, handcrafts, costumes and parties that takes place four days before Lent.
Another city famous for its fiestas is Santiago de Cali (simply referred to as Cali). Known in Colombia as the capital of fiestas, Cali’s salsa clubs are amongst the most famous in the entire continent. Anyone interested in having a good time should consider paying a visit to this legendary city, where “salsa dancing is more common than walking.” 
Sight-seeing destinations
No doubt the coffee region of Colombia is a must-see destination for any caffeine-loving tourist in Colombia. The Coffee Triangle of Colombia produces some of the best coffee in the world. Made up of the Departments of Caldas, Quindio and Risaralda, visitors are easily seduced by the rich aroma of its coffee plantations and the beauty of its scenery. 
On the other hand, why not take a trip through history with a visit to the impressive walled city of Cartagena. Declared a World Cultural Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1984 for having the most extensive fortifications in South America, Cartagena is described by Proexport Colombia as a “fantastic city that guards the secrets of history in its walls, balconies, buildings and narrow cobbled streets.” A trip to Cartagena is a must for those hoping to understand the history and culture of Colombia. Simply walking the streets will yield Spanish colonial buildings that are both beautiful and historically significant. 
