Is studying English more important than studying Korean?
Pro - English education is more important
In education across the world, English has become the undisputed universal medium for economics, politics, and all sorts of communication. Language pursuits of non-English-speaking nations often insist that learning a secondary tongue is detrimental to the retention of one’s heritage: Some even compare English to a ruthless conglomerate that mercilessly consumes companies at will -- and Koreans are no exception.
It’s true that the widespread use of English has catalyzed the extinction of several languages, and is also causing a gradual decline in the significance of Korean. However, the fluent use of English is a crucial element to competency in the international society -- for example, in international summits, meetings or debates, English is considered the only acceptable mode of communication. It’s also true that the gradual “Americanization” and pop culture that accompanied English has eclipsed Korean heritage and culture.
The facts have been pointed out, and we must now weigh the worth of our options and select the lesser of two evils. Although the inability to speak fluent Korean is a debilitating factor, incompetence in English is fatal, since it effectively closes all communication from the outside world.
Con - Korean education is more important
Korean students today study English harder than Korean. They consider Korean easy and not think of it as a subject to study. However, Korean education is more important than English education for the following reasons.
First, many students want an occupation that is respected, such as being a diplomat. To become a diplomat you should have a great command of English. However, not every job requires you to speak perfect English. You might only have casual conversations in English even when you go abroad on a business trip. You really do not have to be perfect in English for that.
Second, many Korean students’ command of the Korean language is very poor. Even though they do badly in Korean tests, they consider studying English to be much more important than studying Korean. Specifically, they can translate some difficult Korean words into English, but not vice versa. This suggests they don’t really understand their mother tongue, which is terrible.
Lastly, many students are stressed out by studying English. When it comes to Korean, it is not as stressful, and we can even enjoy it because it comes naturally and easily. But if you want to use the Korean language correctly, it is a different story; we should make as much effort as we do when we study English.
For the reasons above, I think Korean education is more important than English education.
