U.S. ambassador to Libya killed in consulate attack
A well-coordinated attack by a mob of protesters armed with guns and grenades on the U.S. Consulate at Benghazi, Libya killed the U.S. Ambassador to Libya, AP reported.
The attack was carried out on the day of the 11th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and killed four Americans and injured 32.
The U.S. President Barack Obama strongly condemned the attack and ordered increased security at U.S. diplomatic posts around world.
“The four Americans exemplified America‘s commitment to freedom, justice, and partnership with nations and people around the globe,” Obama said during the press conference. 
Secretary of state Hillary Clinton also lamented the loss. She said she could not possibly understand how a country that America helped to liberate would act this viciously. Yet she argued that Americans must remain “clear eyed” that the attack was brought by a small group of Libyans, not those who are friends to the nation. She even mentioned that many Libyans helped rescue others, including Americans, at the time of the attack.
“We should not let the incident destroy the U.S.-Libya relations,” she opined.
Mohammed el-Megarif, the president of Libya, apologized to Washington and pledged to bring those responsible to justice.
“We extend our apology to America, the American people and the whole world,” el-Megarif stated.
Following the attack, anti-American demonstrations have spiraled out of control in several Middle Eastern countries around the world. In Egypt, angry crowds climbed the walls of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and took down the U.S. flag. The crowd replaced it with an Islamist flag.
The report speculated that a film made in the United States ignited the upheaval. The film, which was posted on YouTube, mocked the Prophet Muhammad and referred to Islam as “cancer.”
Stevens, 52, was a career diplomat who was fluent in Arabic and French. His death is the first U.S. ambassador’s death since 1979. According to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, his body was carried to the hospital by Libyans in the area. 
