Celebrating the art of music videos at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards
All the big names in the music industry gathered at the Los Angeles Staples Center on Sept. 6 to celebrate the achievements of musical artists of the past year at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs). 
Hosted by actor and comedian Kevin Hart, the night was full of glitz and glamour as musical artists -- both experienced and new -- walked down the red carpet for a night dedicated to celebrating the art of music videos. As was done in the past, the 2012 VMAs were peppered with exciting performances by top musicians from all genres, ranging from the upbeat songs of British pop sensation, One Direction, to a soulful serenade by Frank Ocean. 
Unfortunately, this year’s VMAs ranked as the least-watched since 2007, due in part to the change on the date and time of its broadcast. Normally broadcast on Sunday at 9 p.m., this year’s VMAs was aired on a Thursday at 8 p.m. to avoid competing with President Barack Obama’s speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention. 
Also, unlike past VMAs, the attendees of this year’s awards ceremony remained quite tame, especially considering that the VMAs used to be a hotbed of controversy and broadcasting mishaps. In 2009, for example, Kanye West cemented his notoriety when he interrupted Taylor Swift’s acceptance speech with the most-often-parodied four-word-sentence of 2009, “Imma let you finish.” 
Though the lack of drama may be a sign of maturity on the part of the artists, it made for less-than-exciting entertainment. Most have come to associate the VMAs with some sort of scandal, and unfortunately, the lack of any interesting events didn’t help draw a bigger audience to help boost its faltering ratings. 
Thankfully, fans of music were not disappointed by the performances of the VMAs, as well as the handful of memorable moments that made the show worth tuning into. 
Highlights:
l Kevin Hart did an impromptu stage dive onto the audience during his opening monologue. Hart explained that his spontaneous act was a show of trust toward the audience, drawing laughs and applause as he set the tone for the night. 
l Olympic gymnast Gabrielle Douglas wowed the crowd with her award-winning gymnastics skills during Alicia Keys’ and Nicki Minaj’s performance of “Girl On Fire.” Douglas attended the 2012 VMAs with her fellow “Fabulous Five” Olympic Gymnasts, Kyla Ross, McKayla Maroney, Jordyn Wiber and Alexandra Raisman. 
l Surprise guest PSY truly surprised audiences when he was brought on stage by host Kevin Hart. Hart took this opportunity to learn PSY’s trademark dance from his hit song, “Gangnam Style,” from the K-pop artist himself. The two put on a short performance before PSY returned backstage.
l “Twihards” were exceptionally excited about the 2012 VMAs, when the cast of the “Twilight Saga” presented an exclusive clip from the final installment of the film, “Breaking Dawn Part 2.” 
Musical Performances:
Demi Lovato wowed audiences during the preshow thanks to her outdoor performance of “Give Your Heart a Break.” 
Rihanna took center stage as the first main performance of the night with a medley of “Cockiness” and “We Found Love.” She began the performance with a remix of “Cockiness” featuring A$AP Rocky, and finishing up with her smash hit, “We Found Love” featuring Calvin Harris.
The energetic performance of “Blow Me (One Last Kiss)” by P!nk was considered a favorite by many viewers. The performance was made even better by her spectacular exit; strapped onto a giant pair of lips with a harness and being lifted into the sky. 
Frank Ocean was also a favorite performer amongst viewers, with his sincere performance of “Thinkin Bout You.” His performance was even appreciated by celebrities, with Lady Gaga tweeting, “Watch frank ocean steal this whole show. I’m dead.” 
Other performances included “One Thing” by One Direction; “Yuck/No Worries” by 2 Chainz and Lil Wayne; “Let Yourself Go” by Green Day; “Girl On Fire” by Alicia Keys and Nicki Minaj; and “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together” by Taylor Swift.
WINNERS!
VIDEO OF THE YEAR: Rihanna feat. Calvin Harris “We Found Love”
BEST NEW ARTIST: One Direction “What Makes You Beautiful”
BEST FEMALE VIDEO: Nicki Minaj “Starships”
BEST HIP-HOP VIDEO: Drake feat. Lil Wayne “HYFR”
BEST MALE VIDEO: Chris Brown “Turn Up The Music”
BEST POP VIDEO: One Direction “What Makes You Beautiful”
BEST ROCK VIDEO: Coldplay “Paradise”
BEST VIDEO WITH A MESSAGE: Demi Lovato “Skyscraper”
BEST ELECTRONIC DANCE MUSIC VIDEO: Calvin Harris “Feel So Close”
MOST SHARE-WORTHY VIDEO: One Direction “What Makes You Beautiful”
BEST ART DIRECTION: Katy Perry “Wide Awake”
BEST CHOREOGRAPHY: Chris Brown “Turn Up The Music”
BEST CINEMATOGRAPHY: M.I.A. “Bad Girls”
BEST EDITING: Beyonce “Countdown”
BEST VISUAL EFFECTS: Skrillex “First Of The Year (Equinox)”
BEST DIRECTION: M.I.A. “Bad Girls”
