-베스트 디렉션: M.I.A의 “Bad Girls”Finding serenity in the city’s heart
It is not easy to find a place to rest one’s mind and body in the bustle of busy urban life. Many dream of taking a short trip outside of the city but the heavy traffic that starts early Saturday mornings, skyrocketing oil prices and popular places packed with people cause even more of a headache. 
When you want to escape from the stressful city life but have a limited budget, try spending a few hours at beautiful temples surrounded by nature right here in Seoul ― a perfect getaway from the world of endless hustle and bustle.
Bongeunsa, located in Samseong-dong, offers a Temple Life, a day program offering people a chance to heal their wounded souls and experience the exquisite Buddhist culture in a short period of time.
Unlike other Templestay programs which require a stay of two days or longer, Temple Life provides the essence of Buddhist values and culture through three signature programs ― tea ceremony, lotus lantern making and meditation.
The Temple Life program is also gaining popularity with foreign tourists who are on busy schedules in Seoul but want to experience traditional Korean culture as well as Buddhist culture.
Foreign visitors from all over the world have visited Bongeunsa and participated in the program.
Bongeunsa, the biggest Buddhist temple in Seoul, is located in right next to COEX. The temple was originally built about 1,200 years ago by Ven. Yeonhoe during the reign of King Wonseong. In the Joseon era, the temple became the head temple of the Seon sect and developed Korean Buddhism despite facing political oppression by Confucian rulers and officials. Bongeunsa today serves as the center of Buddhist practice, meditation and other cultural Buddhist cultural activities like Temple Life or Templestay.
It also has cultural and historical possessions such as the Bongeunsa Incense Burner designated as National Treasure No. 321 and hanging board of Panjeon written by legendary calligrapher Kim Jeong-hee, whose penname was Chusa. The hanging board is the last known work of Kim, and was designated as tangible cultural property of Seoul, Han said.
Every Thursday at 2 p.m., the temple opens up the Temple Life program exclusively for foreign visitors. On-site registration is required at the Foreigners’ Information Center for those who wish to participate in the program. 
Bongeunsa also offers a two-day Templestay program every fourth weekend of the month. The program begins at 2 p.m. on the first day and ends at 9:30 a.m. the next day.
Reservations should be made three weeks in advance. For reservations, call (02) 3218-4895 for English language service or send an application to bongeunsa@templestay.com. The Temple Life program charges 20,000 won for adults and 10,000 won for students under 18 while a Templestay in Bongeunsa costs 70,000 won per person.
