Movies to watch during Chuseok weekend
Every year, major broadcasting stations air special movies and entertainment show specials in celebration of the Chuseok holiday. Rather than just staying home, however, why not go out and check out what’s showing at the movie theaters near you? Here are some movies that will be playing during Chuseok weekend.
Spy
Action / Drama / Comedy
Runtime: 115 mins.
The Korean film “Spy” tells the story of Agent Kim (Kim Myeong-min), who is part of a North Korean spy ring sent to South Korea 10 years ago. As a domesticated man in his late thirties with a wife and two children, Agent Kim is more worried about the rising cost of living in South Korea than filling out spy reports. Will Agent Kim and his fellow spies be able to complete their mission while struggling to make ends meet? 
Brave
Animation / Fantasy
Runtime: 102 mins.
Produced by Pixar and Disney, “Brave” is an animated story about Princess Merida, the impetuous daughter of King Fergus of Clan DunBroch. In a moment of defiance and burning desire to be independent, Merida stubbornly refuses to participate in a custom, bringing chaos to her kingdom. After her reckless choice threatens to destroy her kingdom and bring peril to her family, Merida is forced to spring into action, relying on her bravery and archery skills to set things right.
Jiro Dreams of Sushi
Documentary
Runtime: 81 mins.
“Jiro Dreams of Sushi” is a documentary about Jiro Ono, an 85-year-old sushi master and owner of world-renowned restaurant, “Sukiyabashi Jiro.” The film follows his life as pursues his lifelong quest to perfect the art of sushi. Along the way, we are privy to his relationship with his two sons, both of whom are also sushi chefs, though only one will inherit Jiro’s legacy. 
Jinsuk & Me
Documentary
Runtime: 84 mins.
The documentary “Jinsuk & Me” tells the heartwarming story of Kim Jin-suk’s 309-day protest to condemn the 2010 layoffs at Hanjin Heavy Industries & Construction in Busan. Kim spent almost a year inside the driver’s seat of a crane, 35 meters up in the air. The film tells the heartwarming tale of how the Hope Buses, filled with strangers, helped her stay sane and kept her spirits up, as well as unite strangers for a common good. 
