Trend in Chuseok gift buying in 2012
It is that time of year again; right around the corner is Chuseok holiday. 
Chuseok is one of Korea’s biggest national holidays and it is a time when people share their affection by exchanging gifts with one another. 
Recently, Ticketmonster, a social commerce site, conducted a survey on office workers in Korea on Sept. 6, asking what people’s least favorite gifts were during the Chuseok holiday. 
About 500 people aged 20-40 took part in the poll and the result is in. Of the respondents, 41 percent said that they liked items such as handkerchiefs and towels the least.
Their second least favored item chosen by 26.6 percent of participants was necessity items such as soap, shampoo, etc.
On the other hand, people favored food gift sets, including bean-paste and hot pepper paste sets and traditional Korean cookie sets as well as ham and tuna-canned items. 
Only 9-11 percent of the people picked these products as their unwelcoming Chuseok gifts. 
Trying to take a full advantage of the Chuseok festivity, companies have come up with special products to lure customers during this holiday season.
- The Body Shop
The cosmetics company has introduced a special Chuseok gift package that has its best-selling items at 30 percent off.
According to the Body Shop, the price range for the Chuseok gift sets is from 10,000 won to 30,000 won. The Musk gift set, one of its best-selling items, is offered with a 33 percent discount at 36,000 won. The set includes shower gel, body lotion, and hand-cream. 
-Caffé Bene
Caffé Bene’s gift set contains 10 sets of Mano di BENE mild and Mano di BENE dark, instant stick-coffee. The company’s best selling stainless tumbler called PPuro is also included in the set. The price for the set is 33,000 won. Officials of Caffé Bene said that they hope to offer customers affordable gifts, considering the bad economic condition. 
-Paris Baguette
The local bakery giant Paris Baguette has launched six gift sets in time for Chuseok. They hit Paris Baguette stores nationwide on Sept. 11. The so-called “Well-being products” include sweet jelly made of red bean jam, glutinous rice cakes made with chestnuts, green tea and citron-flavored chocolates and traditional flower cookies with pumpkin taste. The range for these items is 10,000-20,000 won. 
There is a marked trend for this year’s Chuseok holiday gift sets: reasonably priced and practical items.
