Sea otters can help fight global warming
A thriving population of adorable sea otters could help lower CO2 levels in the atmosphere, which in turn would have a positive impact on climate change, according to researchers at University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC). 
The new study, published in the October issue of Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, suggests that a thriving sea otter population could indirectly reduce CO2 levels in the atmosphere by keeping the kelp-loving sea urchin population in check. 
Sea urchins, a popular sea otter snack, are known to be voracious creatures, capable of reducing entire areas of kelp forest to nothing. Increasing the population of urchin-loving sea otters would significantly benefit the kelp population. This is important because kelp is known to be particularly efficient in absorbing CO2, one of the main causes of global warming. In fact, the study found that allowing kelp forests to spread and remain healthy reduced the CO2 levels in the atmosphere by up to 12 times more than if they were subject to ravenous sea urchins. 
Lead authors Chris Wilmers and James Estes, both professors at UCSC, combined 40 years of data on otter and kelp populations from Vancouver Island and the western edge of the Aleutian Islands in Alaska. 
Wilmers, an associate professor of environmental studies, described their theory as “significant because it shows that animals can have a big influence on the carbon cycle.” 
While it has long been known that sea otters provide huge benefits in the spread of undersea kelp forests, the two professors sought to find whether this had any significance to the rest of the world’s ecosystem.
“We just looked at the question, ‘Does it matter?’” Estes, a UCSC biologist, told the Santa Cruz Sentinel. “And the answer was yes.”
“We discovered that in a world with otters versus a world without otters, the effect was significant,” he added.
The authors went so far as to estimate that the value of the sea otter-kelp link in terms of carbon credits could be worth between $205 million and $408 million on the European carbon trading market. 
