Andy Murray wins the U.S. Open
 “Relief is probably the best word I would use to describe how I’m feeling just now. … You do think: Is it ever going to happen?” ? Andy Murray
British tennis star Andy Murray outlasted defending champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia in a thrilling five-set match to win the 2012 United States Open Tennis Championship. Fresh off his triumphant gold medal performance in front of a home crowd at the London Olympics last month, Murray had to dig deep in the finals to find extra stamina and mental toughness to capture his first Grand slam title. His victory snapped a personal four-final losing streak in Grand Slam events; but more importantly, it ended a long drought for England - it had been 76 years since a British man won a Grand Slam singles championship.
Prior to winning the 2012 U.S. Open, Andy Murray had a dismal record at the Grand Slam finals. At the 2008 U.S. Open Murray knocked out top-seeded Rafael Nadal in the semifinals to face second-seeded Roger Federer in the final. Federer swept aside Murray in three straight sets 6-2, 7-5, 6-2. Murray and Federer met again at the 2010 Australian Open final, and once again, Federer prevailed 6-3, 6-4, 7-6. Murray reached the Australian Open final again in 2011, only to lose in three straight sets, 4-6, 2-6, 3-6, this time to Novak Djokovic. At the 2012 Wimbledon final, Murray won the first set 6-4 against Roger Federer before succumbing 5-7, 3-6, 4-6. 
Fifth time was a charm for Andy Murray at the 2012 U.S. Open. The third seed breezed through the first two rounds in straight sets before meeting stiff resistance from Spaniard Feliciano Lopez in the third round. Murray battled his way through the grueling match and won 7-6 (5), 7-6 (5), 4-6, 7-6 (4). Murray actually won eight fewer points in the match than his opponent. The match was an omen of things to come for Murray. He was at his best when the stakes were highest - he came from behind to win all three tiebreakers. Murray won his quarterfinal and semifinal matches in four sets to secure a berth in the final.
The 2012 U.S. Open final turned into an instant classic. The match lasted 4 hours, 54 minutes, tying the record for the longest match in tournament history. Murray won the first set 7-6 (12-10). The 22-point tie-breaker, a new tournament record, saw both players hitting fantastic highlight-worthy shots. The longest rally was an incredible 55 strokes. Spectators were treated to tennis of the highest quality. Murray won the second set 7-5, and it looked like the match was well in hand; however, Novak Djokovic, who had won eight consecutive five-set matches, had other ideas. He fought back ferociously to win 6-2 and 6-3 in the third and fourth set, setting up a dramatic winner-takes-all fifth and final set. 
A deciding fifth set in a Grand Slam final is uncharted territory for Andy Murray - none of his previous appearances in a slam final had gone the distance. But no one had blown a two set lead in the U.S. Open final match since 1949, and Murray was determined not to be on the wrong side of history. He came out firing in the decider and broke Djokovic’s serve with sublime defensive play. Murray kept the pressure on the defending champion and raced out to a 5-2 lead. In the end, it was Djokovic who looked exhausted and fragile. Murray, who prior to this year was not known for mental toughness, was purposeful and confident as he served out the match and celebrated his historic victory while “Chariots of Fire” blared over the Arthur Ashe Stadium loudspeakers.
