Emma Watson steps out from Hermione’s shadow
In her first major film role since “Harry Potter,” Emma Watson returns to the big screen as an American teenager in the film adaptation of a much-read novel of the same name, “The Perks of Being a Wallflower.”
Describing the experience as “exotic,” Watson plays an American teenager who is part of a clique of hip outsiders at a Pittsburg high school. 
“It was a very voyeuristic experience,” Watson said in an interview at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) on Sept. 9. 
“Getting to go to Friday night football and Olive Garden, school dances and all of that stuff. That was really another world to me.”
Watson gained international fame at age 9 as the lovable and scholarly Hermione Granger, a character she portrayed from 2001 to 2011. By amassing great wealth and fame at such a young age, Watson had missed out on the growing up process most “normal” adolescents experience as a student at school. 
“There are some parts of me that feel very old, and then there are other parts of me that are, like, I have a sense of my own arrested development,” the 22-year-old actress said. “There are some parts of me right now that are probably going through adolescence.”
As for how she feels “Harry Potter” fans will react to her role in “The Perks of Being a Wallflower,” Watson said she hoped to give off what she may have to offer outside of the world of witchcraft and wizardry. 
“Nobody has ever seen her in this kind of role - and with an American accent,” co-star Nina Dobrev said at the movie’s TIFF premiere, adding, “She finished one chapter of her life, cut off her hair and embraced this new beginning. I think everyone is going to be very pleasantly surprised.”
Book Summary: The Perks of Being a Wallflower
“The Perks of Being a Wallflower” is a coming of age story written from the perspective of a shy and unpopular teenager heading into his first year of high school. Using the alias “Charlie,” the story is told through a series of letters he pens to an anonymous stranger. In the letters, Charlie confesses his confusion about life, growing up in the awkward phase of adolescence and his struggle with coming to terms with the sudden suicide of his good friend, Michael, and the tragic death of his Aunt Helen. This book tells the story of Charlie’s struggles to find his place in the world and understand who he is. 
