Martin Luther King, Jr.
 “I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.” – Martin Luther King, Jr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was a pastor, a civil rights leader, a human rights champion, and the youngest man to have received the Nobel Peace Prize. His tireless efforts in combating racial inequality and advancing human rights through nonviolent civil disobedience made him an international icon. He left behind a legacy that led to sweeping changes and monumental progress on civil rights in the United States.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was born Michael King, Jr. on Jan. 15, 1929, in Atlanta, Georgia, to Reverend Michael Luther King, Sr. and Alberta Williams King. He was renamed “Martin” when he was 6 years old. After graduating from Booker T. Washington high school, King enrolled at Morehouse College in Atlanta in 1944. After receiving his bachelor’s degree in Sociology in 1948, King attended Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania. In 1954, the 25-year-old King became pastor of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Alabama.
Martin Luther King Jr. made his first mark on the civil rights movement in 1955. On Dec. 1, 1955, African American Rosa Parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat to a white person on a bus. King organized and led the Montgomery Bus Boycott to protest the policy of racial segregation on the public transit system of Montgomery, Alabama. The boycott lasted 382 days, during which King was arrested, and his home was bombed. A year after the boycott started, the United States Supreme Court declared bus segregation unconstitutional.
In January 1957, Martin Luther King Jr., Ralph Abernathy, and a group of ministers and civil rights activists founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) to enhance the influence and organize the power of black churches. The goal was to expand the group’s focus beyond protesting segregation policies of the public transit system to putting an end to all forms of racial segregation across the nation. King was chosen to serve as SCLC’s first president - a post he held until his assassination on April 4th, 1968. Under King’s leadership, SCLC advocated nonviolent boycotts and protests. 
Martin Luther King, Jr.’s nonviolent tactics were put to a severe test during the Birmingham Campaign in 1963. During a mass protest for fair hiring practices and the desegregation of department-store facilities, protestors led by King were met with forceful actions by the police. High-pressure water jets and police dogs were unleashed against protesters, children included. Both King and SCLC were criticized for putting children in harm’s way. King, along with many protestors, was arrested for taking part in the protest. While in jail, King wrote the now-famous “Letter from Birmingham Jail” to refute criticisms leveled against him by a group of white clergymen.
On Aug. 28, 1963, a group of civil rights, labor, and religious organizations marched from all parts of the country to gather at the nation’s capital to call for civil and economic rights for African Americans. More than 200,000 people were there to witness Martin Luther King, Jr., standing in front of the Lincoln Memorial, as he delivered his historic “I Have a Dream” speech advocating racial harmony. King’s eloquent and passionate speech is considered one of the most significant speeches in U.S. history.
In 1964, Martin Luther King, Jr. - age 35 - was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. In his acceptance speech, King began with: “I accept the Nobel Prize for Peace at a moment when 22 million Negroes of the United States of America are engaged in a creative battle to end the long night of racial injustice …”
