Reading English is more difficult than writing English
Pro-
Reading English is more difficult
I am not sure how many of the student reporters would consider reading English more difficult than writing English, but I consider reading English more demanding for the following reasons. 
First, English is much more difficult to pronounce than Korean. As you know, in English there are many sounds that do not exist in Korean, such as “th” or “r.” Also, English language requires a different accent to the ones we use for Korean.
Second, it is hard to collect information in a language which is not your mother tongue. The purpose of reading is to collect information, and it is not easy at all to find information on a given topic in Korean. But if we have to do that in English, it is certainly more difficult.
Third, reading English is very difficult, in that we should make our classmates understand together the meaning of the English text as we read them aloud. In an English class, for example, we should read articulately the given English sentences and put many pauses in between them for our friends to follow with us, which is quite tough.
For the reasons above, I think reading English is very difficult for Korean students. But as the proverb goes, practice makes perfect. So if we make continuous efforts, we will be better at reading English for sure.
Con-
Writing English is more difficult
Korean students learn English at schools and hagwon. The first step in doing so is reading and writing it. Both are very important, but between them writing is harder than reading for the following reasons.
You should be able to imagine things which are not feasible in the real world. People‘s creativity becomes weaker as they become older, and that is why middle school students and older students have a hard time in writing classes. Writing is definitely more difficult for older students. 　
Reading is much easier than writing, because all you have to do is to read from a book and no thinking is required. It might seem hard at first, but if you get the hang of it, you will soon learn the difference between reading and writing. Do you want to learn English that gives you the direct meaning or do you want to study the language the more creative way?　
Putting sentences together in a coherent, organized fashion so that everyone understands your point is hard enough. Making your writing entertaining for people - or not boring at least - takes special talent. So, I consider writing English much more difficult than reading it.
