Design changes the world
This year’s "Re-imagine" Herald Design forum was held in a COEX (Convention and Exhibition) auditorium in Seoul from Sept. 20-21. It offered domestic design enthusiasts a rare opportunity to meet world’s distinguished designers and hear their thoughts on the vision of the design industry as well as its potential for changing the world we live in. 
Under the theme of “Design changes the world,” a total of eight renowned designers shared their insights about design. Here are some of the excerpts of the inspiring speeches at the 2012 Herald Design Forum. 
1. Tadao Ando
Born on Sept. 13, 1941, in Minato-ku, Osaka, Japan, Tadao Ando is a Japanese architect whose approach to architecture lies in the belief that architecture can change society. To him, Japanese religion and lifestyle have influenced his architectural design style tremendously. His architectural pieces put heavy emphasis on the beauty of “nothingness” and “simplicity.” As the first speaker at the forum on Sept. 20, he repeatedly mentioned the significance of emptiness in his design. 　
“Only when you have life’s objectives can you be considered young-spirited,” Tadao Ando said. He told the audience that he finds great joy in constantly communicating with students at Tokyo University where he teaches. 
2. Kenya Hara
Born in 1958, Kenya Hara is a Japanese graphic designer who has served as art director of Muji since 2001. He is well known for designing the opening and closing ceremonies of the 1998 Nagano Winter Olympic Games in Japan. Just like the previous speaker, he too noted the importance of “emptiness” in Japanese design. 
“The role of design in companies is not only to create corporations’ identities but also to offer the vision for the whole industry,” Kenya Hara said.
“I believe when we draw locally proven design to the global platform, there arises good design.”
“Simplicity in Japanese design allows individual users to make his or her own purpose and interpretation of the product. Thus simplicity gives freedom and flexibility to the recipient and is not bound by the trend of the time. “Designers should be able to capture the accumulated wisdom of nature,” he added.
3. Oh Joon-sik 
Born in 1969, Oh Joon-sik graduated from École Nationale Supérieure des Arts Décoratifs (ENSAD) in France, majoring in furniture design.
He currently works as art director at Hyundai Card. 
During the forum, he talked about design management. “The success of design lies in the balance between business management and design. 
“The brand design contributes immensely to companies yet the main role of each corporation’s design department is to inspire the company.”
"Good design is unique, creative, unconventional, fun and distinctive," he said. 
4. Zhang Xiaogang
Zhang Xiaogang is a Chinese contemporary surrealist painter. He uses ordinary Chinese people in his paintings. He closely watches people’s lives and incorporates those observations into his art. This is well depicted in his paintings, such as his "Bloodline" series. 
5. Park Seo-won
Park changed his major four times while attending university. First, he was expelled from Dankook University because he did not attend most of his classes. Later he dropped out of Michigan State University by his own will. Finally he moved to New York and majored graphic design at Walnut Hill School for the Arts, yet this time, he graduated with straight As. Park Seo-won won a host of international advertisement festivals. Now it has been six years since he launched his own design firm, “Big Ant International.”
Park said that his creativity comes from the experience of traveling. “Travel is a profound source of creativity for my work till this day,” he said. “The impression I get from traveling lingers in me and constantly stimulates me.”
At the forum, he criticized the domestic advertisement industry, saying it depends too much on star power instead of ideas of the ads as it is easier to bring instant responses and profits to clients. He said he tries his hardest to distance himself from this industry norm and create ads that rely purely on brilliant ideas. 
He also asserted that people should donate at least 10 percent of their talent to society in their lifetime. In that vein he said that he would like to spread positive messages through his works. He ended his session by sharing the vision for his company. He said that he wants to live a joyful life by working with great people. 
6. Chris Bangle
Chris Bangle is a celebrated American automobile designer who is best known for his work as chief of design for BMW Group. Now he has transformed into an industrial designer while living in an Italian vineyard with his family. 
Chris Bangle was born on October 14, 1956, in Ravenna, Ohio, and raised in Wausau, Wisconsin. He attended the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California, earning a Bachelor of Science degree. Currently he is a master designer at Samsung.
Before beginning his speech, he praised the Herald Design Forum, in its second run this year, as “super inspiring.” 
Chris Bangle noted that good design can turn what’s inspirational into reality.
He said today’s young designers focus too much on researching before actually designing something. This is completely opposite from him, he said. In his case, his designs are conceived by adding what is necessary and making improvements. 
He added that “ideas come from studying people” and designers must always remember humanity and be motivated by the idea of making things better for others in their design. Thus the objective of his company, Chris Bangle Associates, is to empower people around the world. 
Chris Bangle insisted that creativity is something that is natural to everyone. Yet, in certain work environments, this quality is triggered and stimulated more often. Thus, he pressed that one can develop creativity in their lives. 
Chris Bangle gave three tips for good design:
-Craftsmanship: the quality of design
-Function: workable, useful things which bears meaning in life 
-Narrative: designs that tell stories
7. Steve Jung
Steve Jung is American concept designer. He graduated from Art Center College of Design, or ACCD, majoring in illustration. Jung explained that concept design is the design field that is in between industrial design and illustration. His latest works include Hollywood blockbuster films such as "The Avengers" and "Battleship." He said that it took six months to complete the robot designs for "Battleship." 
“Many talented Korean artists work in the video game and animation industries in the U.S. but there are few in the movie industry,” Steve Jung noted. "Countries like the U.S. offers tax incentives for artists and Korea should further promote this system to develop its art industry." Steve Jung pointed out that young designers make mistakes by adding too many details on their artwork whereas it is more important to make it simple by shedding unnecessary details. Keeping this in mind would be the first step in developing successful design, Jung argued.
8. Bruce Duckworth
Bruce Duckworth is a British advertisement design guru who now works as creative director at Turner Duckworth. He founded Turner Duckworth with his fellow designer David Turner.
At the forum, he cautioned the influence of bad design in our society. According to Bruce Duckworth, bad design is something that is “complicated” and “without focus.” When asked what good design is, he responded that good design respects the environment; it entertains, creates wealth and jobs, and above all, makes life more beautiful and enjoyable. He said making good design is the responsibility for the today’s designers.
He mentioned Amazon, Coca-Cola, Levi’s, Chanel and the iPhone as examples of good, iconic design. He says that these designs are emotionally resonant and carry overall simplicity in them. 
The brand logo of Johnny Walker represents progress and the Nike logo symbolizes speed. The Toyota brand logo signifies peace. These designs understood their audiences and carried universal values, he claimed. In his argument, good designs are able to create purchases by the design itself not by the product.
“’Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand,’” Herald Corp. CEO Hong Jung-wook said at the conference, quoting Albert Einstein. 
He said that he strongly believes in the idea that design can change the world and until the power of design brings originality and uniqueness to the Korean culture, the company will continue to host this annual forum. 
