Shin Jiyai wins her 2nd British Open title
 “It was a long, very, very tough day out there, but I kept my focus and concentrated on every shot, and when I made the winning putt, it was great.” ? Shin Jiyai on winning the British Open
Atlanta-based Korean golfer Shin Jiyai won her second British Open title in five years on a historic day for ladies golf. Her victory marked the first time in LPGA history that Asian players have won all four of the women’s major championships in the same season. She joined fellow countrywomen Yoo Sun-young (Kraft Nabisco winner) and Choi Na-yeon (U.S. Women‘s Open winner), and China’s Feng Shanshan (LPGA Championship winner) in stamping their authority on the LPGA tour. Asian players have won seven straight, and nine of the last twelve major championships.
Shin Jiyai secured her record-setting nine-stroke victory after a marathon 36-hole final day at a windy and wet Royal Liverpool Golf Club at Hoylake. Shin began the final day with a five-stroke lead after a near-perfect performance in the second round where she carded a stunning 64 ? four strokes better than the lowest score of any round in the tournament, and the lowest competitive round ever at Hoylake. During the third round action in the morning, Shin saw her advantage trimmed to one stroke after ten holes. She rebounded quickly with three straight birdies and carried a three-shot cushion entering the final round action in the afternoon.
Weather conditions continued to deteriorate in the afternoon as strong winds and heavy downpour battered the golf course and sent scores soaring. Shin Jiyai began the final round with a triple-bogey; however, her nearest competitors were also feeling the wrath of the weather and were unable to close the gap. Shin widened her lead to seven shots with long birdie putts on the 6th and 7th holes. After a brief suspension of play due to gale-force winds and torrential rain, players returned to the course, but no one could challenge Shin as she cruised to victory. Park Inbee of Korea and Paula Creamer of the United States finished second and third, respectively.
In an interview after the final round, shin told reporters that her goal entering the British Open was to be at 1-under par in every round because she believed that a final score of 4-under par would be good enough to win the tournament. She said that her record setting score under such difficult conditions gave her confidence that she can play well on any other course. She attributed her victory to all the hard work she put into practice in the months after she had surgery on her left wrist. Shin also gave credit to her new caddie Florian Rodriguez for keeping her relaxed on the course. They are 2-for-2 in tournament wins.
Shin Jiyai’s victory at the British Open is her 2nd title of the year following her triumph at the Kingsmill Championship a week earlier in Virginia. It is also her 10th title overall on the LPGA tour. The ￡266,143 first prize pushed her yearly earnings to $1,168,932 and catapulted her to number 5 on the 2012 LPGA tour money leaders list. She is currently the number 1 ranked player in scoring with an average of 70.14. 
Shin began playing golf professionally in 2005. Now, at only 24 years old, she has already accomplished a great deal in her career. She was awarded Korean LPGA’s Best Amateur (2005), Rookie of the Year (2005) and Player of the year (2007 and 2008). She had a breakout year on the LPGA tour in 2009 with 3 wins, 1 second-place, and 3 third-place finishes. She won Rookie of the Year and was the tour money winner. She was also named by the Golf Writers Association of America as the Female Player of the Year. 
