Tim Cook
In a November, 2008 interview, Tim Cook told Fortune Magazine: “Come on, replace Steve? No. He’s irreplaceable. That’s something people have to get over. I see Steve there with gray hair in his 70s, long after I’m retired.” 
On Aug. 24, 2011, Tim Cook was named the Chief Executive Officer of Apple, succeeding the inimitable Steve Jobs. Since then, the soft-spoken and humble 14-year Apple veteran has guided the company smoothly through major policy changes and new product launches. Under his leadership, Apple became the most valuable company in history.
Prior to joining Apple, Tim Cook spent 12 years with IBM where he last served as the director of North American Fulfillment. After leaving IBM, Cook served as the chief operating officer (COO) of the computer reseller division of Intelligent Electronics. He later served a seven-month stint as the vice president for corporate materials at Compaq Computer Corporation. In 1998, he was hired by Steve Jobs as senior vice president for worldwide operations. Cook was instrumental in helping Apple reduce inventory levels, streamline supply chain, and increase profit margins. Cook was appointed the acting CEO for two months in 2004 while Jobs was recovering from pancreatic cancer surgery.
Tim Cook was promoted to the position of chief operating officer in January 2007. He was responsible for all of Apple’s worldwide sales and operations, including the management of the company’s supply chain, sales activities, and service and support in all markets and countries. He also headed Apple’s Macintosh division. In 2009, Cook again served as Apple CEO for several months while Jobs took a leave of absence for a liver transplant. In January 2011, Steve Jobs took a third medical leave of absence as his health deteriorated, and Cook took over the responsibility for most of Apple’s day-to-day operations.
Six weeks before his death, Steve Jobs stepped down as Apple’s CEO. Tim Cook was officially appointed as the new CEO of the company. Despite some initial market jitters and skepticism about the future direction of Apple without Jobs, Tim Cook skillfully implemented necessary changes while maintaining the company’s unique corporate culture and paying homage to Steve Job’s legacy. Cook honored one of Job’s dying requests -- that Apple’s management not ask “What would Steve do?” and instead do what’s best for Apple -- by boldly taking action to address some of Apple’s long-standing problems. 
In January 2012, the New York Times ran a prominent article critical of the working conditions in China at Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer that assembles most of Apple’s products. Cook went to China to visit the manufacturing site, something Steve Jobs has never done, in support of better working conditions for workers. Apple also joined the Fair Labor Association, an industry-financed third-party monitoring group that has the ability to visit factories and report its findings independently. 
One of the most remarkable achievements of Apple under Tim Cook’s leadership is the rise of the company’s value. On his first day as CEO, a share of Apple was trading for $376; now, it is trading for around $700. Apple is now the most valuable company in history with a market capitalization (total value of all its tradable shares) in excess of $655 billion. Tim Cook has been richly rewarded for his part in Apple’s success. In early 2012, he was awarded a compensation package of 1 million shares, valued at $376.2 million at the time they were issued. At the current price of Apple’s stock, Cook’s total compensation is worth $700 million.
