Is exercise or eating right more important for being healthy?
Pro-
Exercise is more important
How often do you do exercise in a week, and what do you do to improve your health? Many students are busy and their parents are busy working. In fact, students do not have enough time to take care of their health. But we should do our best to maintain our health, and here are reasons why exercise is important in doing so.
First, exercising is a great way to relieve stress. When we exercise, it helps us gain confidence. We can even get rid of all those gloomy feelings and feel refreshed.
Second, exercising helps you control your weight. Many people want to be thin. If you are one of them, you should exercise every day. While exercising, you will burn a lot of energy and reduce body fat.
Lastly, you can protect yourself from contracting diseases by exercising regularly. Exercising strengthens the immune system. In my own experience, I was very weak before starting taekwondo. But after doing the sport, I became much stronger than before.
I would like you to join me in exercising regularly and maintaining your health.
Con-
Eating right is more important
Did you know that one in 10 adolescents have an eating disorder? I think eating right is much more important than exercising for the following reasons.
First, we must have regular meals. Skipping meals is not a very good habit, especially for active people such as the youth. Irregular eating can invite diseases when we are older. We might not feel it now but it will become a great problem as we get old.
Second, by eating a balanced and proper diet we will be able to acquire all the essential vitamins and nutrients that our body needs in order to function well. Carbohydrates, proteins, minerals, vitamins and fat give us energy, keep us active and also keep us from getting sick. Eating right will help us acquire all these essential nutrients for our bodies.
Proper eating habits can extend our life span. According to Time magazine, there are 10 foods that can help us live longer, including tomatoes, spinach, garlic, broccoli, salmon, nuts and others.
Nowadays, young people, especially young women, go on diets to get thinner or skinnier. Most of them do not eat right when they go on diets. They acquire bad eating habits which lead to illnesses such as anorexia. In that sense, eating right is very important for youngsters to maintain good health.
