Return of Kang Ho-dong and SM Entertainment
Kang Ho-dong makes comeback
“Is this a place where people have their minds completely read through even before they get their knees down to the ground?” That was the phrase visitors used to ask Kang Ho-dong as they entered the set for MBC talk show “The Knee-Drop Guru.”
The talk show provided TV celebrities and stars with time and space to talk about their problems and straighten out rumors. In a word, the show used to be a place where people could heal their wounded souls.　
Now, it is Kang’s turn to get his wounds healed. He is set to return to the show in November. “The Knee-Drop Guru,” once part of a bigger TV program, “Golden Fishery,” will become an independent program with Kang’s comeback. The talk show will air at 11 p.m. every Thursday. “Radio Star,” which was another section of “Golden Fishery” will be broadcast each Wednesday just as it used to be.　
Kang, 42, is a presenter and comedian who became famous as a top Korean traditional wrestler. After his long stint as an entertainer from 1999 to 2010, he announced his retirement in late 2011 and withdrew from all his TV shows due to a scandal related to tax evasion.
TV shows Kang appeared in the past
Open Comedy Show (KBS/1997), Joyful Super Sunday TV (KBS/2002), Kang Ho-dong’s Soulmates (MBC/2002-2003), Beautiful Sunday (SBS/2002-2004), Ya Shim Man Man (SBS/2003-2008), Good Sunday (SBS/2004-2006), Golden Fishery (MBC/2006-2011), Star King (SBS/2007-2011), 1 Night 2 Days (KBS/2007-2011), Strong Heart (SBS/2009-2011)
On Sept. 9, 2011, Kang held a press conference to announce his retirement from the entertainment industry, but he was not charged with tax evasion as his annual tax bill did not exceed 500 million won. About a year later, on Aug. 17, 2012, Kang signed an exclusive contract with SM C&C, a subsidiary of S.M. Entertainment.
S.M. Entertainment - S.M. Entertainment is an independent talent agency founded by Lee Soo-man. “S.M.” was an abbreviation of the agency founder’s name. However, the company now says it stands for “Star Museum.” 
The agency is one of the “big three” record companies of Korea along with YG Entertainment and JYP Entertainment. S.M. Entertainment is known for having started the pop music side of the Korean Wave or Hallyu throughout Asia and internationally.
Once the home to the original Korean Idol groups like H.O.T., S.E.S., and Shinhwa, its current artists include Kangta, BoA, TVXQ, Super Junior, Girls’ Generation and f(x). It is also home to actors Go Ara, Kim Min-jong, Lee Yeon-hee and Kim Ian.
Latest growth of S.M. Entertainment
Kang Ho-dong is only one of many who recently joined S.M. Entertainment. 　
Top actors and actresses including Jang Dong-gun, Kim Ha-neul and Han Ji-min have become part of the entertainment agency as SM C&C took over the company to which these stars belonged.
Presenter and comedian Shin Dong-yup also singed a contract with SM C&C along with Kang Ho-dong in August this year.
SM C&C also signed exclusive contracts with comedians Lee Soo-geun and Kim Byung-man recently.
Kim Young-min, CEO of SM C&C told reporters in a recent interview that his company planned to expand its entertainment businesses, making great use of S.M.’s global network and infrastructure.
S.M. Entertainment held in August the “SM Town Concert” in Jamsil, Seoul, which was a demonstration of the company’s ambition to grow even bigger.
