Europe wins Ryder Cup
Europe stunned the United States with a dramatic come-from-behind victory to retain the coveted Ryder Cup trophy at the Medinah Country Club in Chicago, Illinois. On the final day of the biennial golf competition featuring elite players, the Europeans stormed back from a record four-point deficit and dominated the Sunday singles to win 14 ½-13 ½. The European side won the match while wearing the colors of the late Seve Ballesteros, the Spanish golf legend who helped Europe to five Ryder Cup victories in an illustrious career as a player and captain.
The European team, captained by Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain, included the hottest player on the PGA Tour, World No. 1 Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland; the reigning European Tour golfer of the year, world No. 3 Luke Donald of England; the three-time European Tour golfer of the year, world No. 4 Lee Westwood of England; the reigning World Golf Championship-Cadillac Championship winner, world No. 5 Justin Rose of England; Ryder Cup veteran and world No. 19 Sergio Garcia of Spain; and 2010 PGA Championship winner Martin Kaymer of Germany.
On the first day of the Ryder Cup competition, Europe and the U.S. were tied at 2?2 following the morning session featuring four “foursome” (also known as “alternate shot”) matches. In the afternoon session featuring four “fourball” matches (also known as “better ball”), the U.S. team won three of the four matches and took an overall 5-3 lead heading into the second day of competition. Tiger Woods, once the most dominant player in the world, failed to secure a single point as he and his playing partner Steve Stricker lost both their morning and afternoon matches. 
The U.S. team played inspired golf in the morning session on the second day of competition and took three of the four matches to increase its advantage to 8-4 over the Europeans. In the afternoon session, the U.S. won the first two matches and threatened to turn the 2012 Ryder Cup into a rout. Europe closed the gap slightly when the team of Sergio Garcia and Luke Donald defeated Tiger Woods and Steve Sticker to slow the U.S. momentum. In the final match of the afternoon, Ian Poulter saved the day for Europe with five straight closing birdies in a shock victory over Jason Dufner and Zach Johnson.
The U.S. team had every reason to be optimistic entering the final day of competition featuring 12 singles matches with a 10-6 lead - no team has ever overcome so large a deficit without home-course advantage. The European players, however, had other ideas. They began the day with four straight victories to tie the score at 10-10. Luke Donald, Paul Lawrie, Rory McIlroy and Ian Poulter each secured a point for the rampaging European team. Dustin Johnson halted Europe’s surge with a win over Nicolas Colsaerts to regain the lead for the U.S. at 11-10. A seesaw battle ensued with the lead changing hands several times until the score was tied at 13-13.
In the pivotal 11th match, it was Martin Kaymer of Europe against Steve Stricker of the United States. In a close encounter with neither player able to gain more than a one-hole advantage, it was all square entering the 17th hole. Kaymer dropped in a four-foot putt to take a 1-stroke lead into the 18th hole. After Steve Stricker found the hole from eight feet for par, Kaymer calmly sank a five footer to complete the most amazing comeback in Ryder Cup history and set off a wild and jubilant celebration.
Speaking at the closing ceremony, an emotional Jose Maria Olazabal said: “The 12 men of Team Europe … you believed, and you delivered, and I am very proud that you have kept Europe’s hand on this Ryder Cup.”
