Kim Gu
If god asked me what was my wish; I would reply unhesitatingly, “Korean independence.” If he asked me what was my second wish; I would again answer, “My country’s independence.” If he asked me what was my third wish; I would reply in an even louder voice, “My wish is the complete independence of my country, Korea.” – Kim Gu in Baekbeomilji
Kim Gu is one of the most beloved, respected, and important men in modern Korean history. He was an educator, a writer, a politician, a leader of the Korean independence movement against Japanese occupation, and the founding father of the Republic of Korea. He dedicated his life to fight for the freedom of Korean people, the independence of his country, and the peaceful reunification of Korea. 
Kim Gu was born to a farmer in Haeju, South Hwanghae Province in 1876. His given name at birth was Kim Changahm, which was later changed to Kim Changsoo in 1893. Kim Gu began to study Chinese classic texts when he was 9 years old. At age 16, he took but failed the Gwageo, the last imperial examination of the Joseon Dynasty. He joined the Donghak Movement (Eastern Learnings), a rebellion against government and foreign oppressions in 1893, and was appointed a district leader. 
On Oct. 8, 1895, Japanese assassins killed Empress Myeongseong in what became known as the infamous Eulmi Incident. In the following February, Kim Gu was traveling in Hwanghae province when he came upon a Japanese man named Tsuchida Josuke, who was disguised as a Korean while carrying a concealed sword. Believing that the Japanese man was involved in Empress Myeongseong’s assassination, Kim Gu took his sword and killed him with it. Three months later, Kim Gu was arrested and sentenced to death; however his execution was suspended by the emperor. In 1898, Kim Gu broke out of prison and entered priesthood at Magoksa temple.
In 1910, Kim and a group of independent activists were arrested by the Japanese colonial government for plotting to assassinate Governor-General Terauchi Masatake. The severe torture he was subjected to left permanent damage and scars on his body. While in prison, Kim changed his name from Kim Changsoo to Kim Gu and adopted the pen name of Baekbeom – meaning “ordinary person.” In his autobiography, Kim Gu stated that the changing of his name signified his breaking free from Japanese nationality records.
In the aftermath of the nationwide resistance movement known as the March 1st movement in 1919, Kim Gu exiled himself to Shanghai, China and joined the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea to continue the effort to liberate Korea from Japanese occupation. In 1927, he became the president of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea. When the Japanese invaded Manchuria in 1931, Kim Gu relocated to Chongqing and established the Korean Liberation Army (KLA). After the Pacific War broke out, Kim Gu declared war on Japan and Germany on Dec. 9, 1941. He committed the KLA to fight on the side of the Allies. 
After the Japanese surrender in 1945, Kim Gu returned to Seoul and immediately set upon the task of unifying the newly independent country. He led a delegation of independence activists to discuss unification with North Korean leader Kim Il-sung in Pyongyang; however the talks failed to produce desired results. During the inaugural National Assembly of South Korea in 1948, Kim was nominated as a candidate for the office of the first President of the Republic, but he lost to Syngman Rhee. 
On June 26, 1949, Kim was assassinated in his office by Ahn Doo-hee. Kim was posthumously awarded the Republic of Korea Medal of Order of Merit for National Foundation, as well as the National Reunification Prize.
