Tourism body announces 99 hot spots II - Gangwon Province
Gangwon Province is bounded on the west by Gyeonggi Province and on the south by the provinces of North Chungcheong and North Gyeongsang. The province’s landscape is dominated by the Taebaek Mountains, making the coast very steep. The main cities in the province are Chuncheon (the provincial capital), Gangneung, Sokcho, Wonju, and Donghae. Let’s take a look at some of its beautiful tourist attractions, as recommended by the Korea Tourism Organization (KTO).
Namiseom
This island is 30 minutes’ drive from Chuncheon and an hour away from Seoul, making it a great getaway destination for couples and families. The island formed as a result of the construction of the Cheongpyeong Dam, and is named after General Nami, who led a victory against the rebels during the reign of King Sejo. The tiny half-moon shaped island is 430,000 square meters in area and just 4 kilometers across. After a 5-minute ferry ride, guests meet a forest of tall trees and open grassy areas where ostriches, rabbits and squirrels welcome visitors in the midst of wild flowers. Also on the island, artists from all over the world show off their talents and share the beauty the island creates.
Jeongdongjin
The highlight of a trip to Jeongdongjin is the sunrise. The early morning sun reaching out over the ocean and outlining the silhouettes of Jeongdongjin station is outstanding. During the New Year, Jeongdongjin Sunrise Park hosts the Sunrise Festival. The festival seeing in the new millennium in 2000 was an especially grand event. Jeongdongjin gained wider popularity after being chosen as a filming location for the popular soap opera “Moraeshigae (Hourglass)” in 1994 and has since become a favorite spot for drama lovers on the weekends.
Donggang
The Donggang area is formed by limestone layers formed about 450 million years ago. The river flows through Gangwon Province and is a tributary to the South Han River. The river area is left untouched due to the strong current of the waters and the rugged geography of the mountains. The area remains the cleanest river and region in South Korea. Tourists visiting this place have a great opportunity to view rare animals such as otters and Mandarin ducks and go rafting in the river as well.
Goseong Unification Observatory 
The observatory is the closest place in South Korea to Geumgangsan in North Korea. The closest part of the mountain is 16 kilometers away and the farthest part is about 25 kilometers away. On clear days, you can see various peaks of Geumgangsan from here, such as Ilchulbong, Chaehabong, Jipseonbong, Yukseonbong, Gwaneumbong, and even the greatest peak, Birobong. Many people who visit this place on holiday are those who had to leave their home and were separated from their families during the Korean War. You can see monuments built in the hope of reunification here as well. 
