Myths and legends of the moon
“Slowly, silently, now the moon walks the night in her silver shoon.” - Walter de La Mare 
 During Chuseok, the Mid-Autumn Festival, many people like to go to high vantage points to gaze at the bright, shimmering full moon. Throughout history, humans have been fascinated by the moon, as evidenced by the rich and colorful myths, legends and folklores associated with it. In many cultures, people see the moon as a goddess rather than what it actually is - a natural satellite that orbits the Earth. Let’s take a look at some of the moon legends and deities.
 Daltokki (달토끼) – According to Korean moon legend, a heavenly deity came to earth disguised as an old man begging for food from a fox, a monkey and a rabbit. The fox gave him a fish and the monkey offered fruit. The rabbit, however, offered himself. To reward the selfless act of the rabbit, the deity took the rabbit with him to the heavens. Daltokki, or the moon rabbit, can be seen pounding the elixir of life (or glutinous rice to make rice cake, depending on the version of the story), in a mortar beneath a laurel tree on the moon. 
 Chang’e – Chang’e is a goddess of the moon in Chinese legend. She and her husband Houyi were immortals living in heaven, who were sent to the earth to live as mortals by the Jade Emperor as a punishment.  In order to bring back their immortal life, Houyi appealed to the Queen Mother of the West who gave him a pill of immortality but warned against taking it whole. However, in her desire to become immortal again, Chang’e swallowed the whole pill and floated into the sky, towards the moon.  Chang’e and Houyi became forever separated. Chang’s is seen during full moon, accompanied by a rabbit that makes the elixir of life. 
 Chandra - Chandra is an Indian moon god. He rides his chariot, the moon, through the night sky pulled by 10 white horses. He carries a club and a lotus flower. Chandra married the twenty seven daughters of Daksha, the creator god. For his neglect of all but one of the daughters, Daksha cursed him to die of consumption. As Chandra weakened, so did all things on earth. Daksha relented and turned the curse into a monthly waxing and waning of the moon. 
 Selene – In Greek moon legend, Selene is the beautiful, glamorous and romantic goddess of the moon. She rides a silver chariot pulled by white horses. Her brother is the sun god, Helios. Helios passes through the sky during the day and as night falls, Selene follows him to meet her sister Eos, goddess of the dawn.
 Chup Kamui – In Japanese moon legend, Chup Kamui was a moon goddess who found it too painful to look on the adultery that took place on the earth at night. She asked her brother, the sun god, to change places with her, and he agreed.
