Social networking sites are good for the society
Pro - 
Merits of SNS
Social networking sites (SNS), including Facebook and Twitter, are well known for facilitating the growth of social networks among people in a positive manner. There can be disadvantages of these sites for sure, but I think their merits outnumber the demerits for the following reasons. 
To begin, SNS is one way to instantly report natural disasters or other unexpected incidents. SNS helps a message spread rapidly between people in different parts of the world. This new and interactive reporting helps other people prepare for similar outbreaks, whether they are political or natural. The reporting of this type on civil uprisings in the Middle East, for example, helped people recognize the power of SNS as a new powerful medium.
Second, SNS helps normal people communicate with celebrities and key political figures. So-called “followers” have a great chance to understand how those famous and renowned people see certain social incidents. This indirect understanding based on SNS helps foster communication between well-known and ordinary people, which would otherwise have not been possible.
In conclusion, I consider social networking sites to be beneficial to society, as they help people from all parts of society share important information which should not be missed. Furthermore, these sites strengthen the links between the privileged and non-privileged classes, making overall social communication more lively and balanced.
Con - 
Side effects of SNS
People make new friends through social networking sites (SNS) such as Twitter and Facebook. Also, they use them to communicate with friends who live far away. Although there are some positive effects of SNS, they also have serious side effects, including witch-hunts and infringements of privacy.
Social networking sites are often used as a space for witch-hunts. A witch hunt is a word used to describe a situation where a group of people collectively criticize a person with regards to his or her trivial mistakes. This is a serious problem because people usually criticize the person with little concrete evidence. For a recent example, a pregnant woman wrote on SNS arguing that a restaurant employee had sworn at her and kicked her stomach, which later proved to be false.
Furthermore, SNS can cause infringements of privacy. People often post stories about other people’s lives on SNS without their knowledge, which lead to irreversible tragedies. In one case, a sports TV host committed suicide after rumors ran wild about her relationship with a professional baseball player. She argued against the rumor, but not many people believed what she said. Many people kill themselves following groundless verbal attacks on SNS.
In conclusion, not all functions of SNS are beneficial. We must always be careful when we post stories on SNS, especially when they are not proven with hard facts. We should remember that some comments that we post for fun can lead to the end of someone’s life.
