Taliban attacks girl who advocated women’s right for education
A bounty has been put up for the arrest of the attackers of Malala Yousafzai, a teenage rights campaigner, in the Pakistani city of Peshawar. 
Mian Iftikhar Hussain, information minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province announced a 10m rupee ($105,000) reward for the arrest of the attackers. He referred Yousafzai as “an icon of peace” and urged the world to pray for her recovery.
Malala Yousafzai, 14, has been recovering in a Peshawar hospital after undergoing a surgery from a gun shot. The shooting occurred on Oct. 9 when she returned home from school in Mingora, in northwestern Swat Valley. Two other girls were also injured by the attack. 
The Taliban said they had shot her because she had “promoted secularism.” 
The brutal attack on the teenagers has been widely condemned across the world with scores of protests followed by. Schools in the Swat Valley closed a day in protest. Protests were held in Peshawar, Multan and in Malala’s hometown of Mingora and in Lahore. “All Pakistanis should come together and raise their voices against such acts,” Saeeda Diep, an organizer of the Lahore protest argued.
President Asif Ali Zardari stressed that the incident would not weaken Pakistan’s resolve to fight Islamist militants or the government’s determination to support women’s education.
Pakistani Interior Minister Rehman Malik urged its people to stand up against “propagators of such barbaric mindset and their sympathizers.” 
Gen Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the country’s army chief, vowed to fight against the “cowards who attacked Malala and her fellow students.” 
“It has shown time and again how little regard they have for human life and how low they can fall in their cruel ambition to impose their twisted ideology,” he said.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton also praised Yousafzai at a gathering of the American Girl Scouts movement, saying, “She had been very brave in standing up for the rights of girls and that the attackers had been threatened by that kind of empowerment.” 
When only 11, Yousafzai started writing to a foreign media outlet about her life in Pakistan’s Swat Valley. Writing under the pen-name Gul Makai, she shared her struggle to continue learning under the Taliban control, which forced girls’ schools in the region to close down. 
