　 Happy Halloween!
Every year, millions of people around the world come together to celebrate what is undoubtedly one of the most exciting and fun holidays of the year: Halloween. 
Though Halloween - also known as All Hallows’ Eve - is generally associated with fun costumes, somewhat scary decorations and free candy, this now widely celebrated holiday is believed to have originated from a more serious past; an ancient Celtic harvest festival. 
Ancient origins of Halloween
Scholars believe that Halloween’s origins date back to ancient Celtic celebrations some 2,000 years ago; specifically the festival of Samhain (pronounced sow-in). 
In the past, the Celts - who lived in the area now known as Northern and Western Europe - celebrated the new year on Nov. 1, also known in many cultures as All Saints’ Day. This date coincided with the end of summer and the harvest season, thus marking the beginning of the dark and cold winter, which was often associated with human death. 
The Celts believed that on the night before this new year, the border between the world of the living and that of the dead became blurred. In fact, it was believed that the ghosts of the dead had returned to earth to cause trouble and damage their crops on the night of Oct. 31. It was because of this belief that the festival of Samhain - simultaneously a harvest festival as well as a festival of the dead - was celebrated on the day now known as Halloween. 
Not only did the Celts believe that the ghosts of the dead caused problems with their harvest, but they also believed that the presence of otherworldly spirits made it easier for the Druids, or Celtic priests, to make predictions about the future. As an agricultural society highly dependent on the volatility of the natural world, such predictions were taken very seriously. 
Typically, the festival of Samhain was celebrated with the lighting of sacred bonfires where crops and animals were sacrificed to the Celtic deities, wearing costumes consisting of animal heads and skins to ward off the roaming ghosts, and attempting to tell each other’s fortunes.
Halloween etymology
The name “Halloween” was not coined until much later, when the Roman Empire conquered much of the Celtic territory in 43 A.D. and the resulting influence of the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church had long since designated Nov. 1 as All Saints’ Day in honor of all saints. Derived from the Middle English word Alholomesse, meaning “All Saints’ Day,” the term “Halloween” was not used until the 16th century as an eventual contraction of “All-hallows Eve,” or the “evening before All Saints’ Day.”
Modern celebrations of Halloween
Although superstitions and otherworldly spirits are a major part of modern Halloween celebrations, it is, for the most part, now associated with more child-friendly activities such as trick-or-treating. 
Halloween celebrations vary around the world, but many of them share the same elements. Dressing up in costumes is a major aspect of most Halloween celebrations, as well as featured entertainment like haunted houses, parades and monster movies. 
Here are some of the more popular modern traditions of Halloween:
　Trick or treat!
Trick-or-treating is a favorite among children, as it provides a chance to receive free candy with the added joy of getting dressed up in fun costumes. Typically, children go from house-to-house, knocking on doors asking, “trick or treat?” The “trick” part is meant to be an idle threat to play a trick on the person or their house if no treat is given. However, some mischievous children tend to use this day to play pranks on others, such as decorating a house with toilet paper, hiding behind doors to scare people and other such harmless “tricks.” 
　Jack-o’-lantern
Jack-o’-lanterns are another popular aspect of Halloween, typically done in the West. Vegetables, usually pumpkins, are carved to make lanterns with faces on them, which can vary from scary to comical. On the night of Halloween, the lanterns are typically lit and placed outside for decoration. 
　Haunted attractions
In the days and weeks leading up to Halloween, many entertainment companies begin preparing simulated haunted attractions. Often, areas with a dark history or rumored to be haunted will be exploited to attract more people and create a bigger, spectacularly scary event. Other times, however, a very simple, basic setup will be put in place for the younger crowd and adults who don’t enjoy having nightmares. 
