The hidden link between chocolate and the Nobel Prize
A study recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, one of the world’s most prestigious medical journals, suggests a positive correlation between the amount of chocolate a country eats and the number of Nobel laureates per capita.
Many studies have found health benefits of chocolate, and this study serves to show some empirical statistics that most people can relate to. It finds that, unsurprisingly, the Swiss have both the highest rate of chocolate consumption and Nobel laureates, followed by Sweden and Denmark. 
The amount of chocolate consumption required to produce the same number of Nobel laureates as Switzerland, however, is astonishing. Franz Messerli, the author of the study, tells Reuters: “The Swiss eat 120 bars - that is, 3-ounce bars (85 grams) - per year, for every man, woman and child. That’s the average.”
Messerli came up with the idea after seeing a study that linked flavonoids, a type of antioxidant present in cocoa and wine, to higher cognitive test scores. He began plotting the relationship between chocolate consumption and Nobel laureates per capita in 23 countries.
“I started plotting this in a hotel room in Kathmandu, because I had nothing else to do, and I could not believe my eyes,” he told Reuters Health. The graph clearly showed that countries with higher chocolate intake were also home to more Nobel laureates.
Although the statistics are legitimate, Messerli admits that the idea that eating a lot of chocolate could help earn more Nobel Prizes is silly. In fact, Messerli points out that this study helps to point out the fallibility of science, with particular emphasis on the significance between correlation and causation. 
Specifically, this is not the first time scientists have found correlations that seem to defy logic. The number of storks across Europe for example, has been linked to birth rates, while sunspot formations have been tied to suicides in men, Reuters reported. 
One Nobel laureate, however, does attempt to explain this link.
“National chocolate consumption is correlated with a country’s wealth and high-quality research is correlated with a country’s wealth,” Eric Cornell, an American physicist who shared the Nobel Prize for physics in 2001, told Reuters.
“So therefore chocolate is going to be correlated with high-quality research, but there is no causal connection there.”
In other words, the link is real but meaningless.
