Chinese author Mo Yan wins Nobel Prize for Literature
Chinese author Mo Yan has been announced as the winner of this year’s Nobel Prize for literature by the Royal Swedish Academy in Stockholm, Sweden which announces Nobel Prize laureates annually.
Describing his work as “hallucinatory realism merges folk tales, history and the contemporary,” the Academy’s head Peter Englund pointed out that Mo has such a unique writing style that people can instantly identify it as his.
The 57-year-old prolific writer is the first Chinese resident to be honored with the prize and he will be the award’s 109th recipient.
“He has a large readership and he addresses the human condition in a way in which the Nobel Committee likes to see,” Michel Hockx, Professor of Chinese at the University of London, commented.
Mo Yan began writing while serving in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). His first international fame came in 1987 with the book, “Red Sorghum: A Novel of China.” Through the piece, he illustrated the brutal violence in the countryside of eastern China during the 1920s-1930s. The book was later made into a film and won the Golden Bear at the Berlin Film Festival in 1988.
Other acclaimed work by him, “Life And Death Are Wearing Me Out” and “Big Breasts and Wide Hips,” depicts the class struggle contrary to the Chinese Communist Party line and caused a huge controversy in1988. 
With his latest novel, “Frog,” in which he criticizes China’s “one child” population control policy, he won the Mao Dun Literature Prize -- one of most prestigious literature prizes in mainland China.
Contrary to his pen name Mo Yan, which implies “don’t speak” in Chinese, the writer has been vocal about exposing the dark side of society and the human nature. With that, he is considered one of the foremost contemporary authors in China.
He will receive the prize along with a whopping $1.33 million in prize money at a formal ceremony in Stockholm and Oslo on Dec. 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel’s death in 1896. 
