Slow Start for Park Ji-sung and QPR
Queens Park Rangers spent a busy summer retooling and upgrading in anticipation of the upcoming Premier League season. The newly promoted club added a dozen new players, including highly-coveted midfielder Park Ji-sung from Premier League powerhouse Manchester United. QPR fans were particularly excited about the signing of Park, who was known for his winning attitude, big-game experience, tireless running and high work rate. Manager Mark Hughes, a self-proclaimed admirer of Park for many years, named him the captain of the team. Unfortunately, things have not worked out as planned once the season got underway.
The Queens Park Rangers got off to a nightmarish start when they hosted Swansea City. It was obvious from the outset that the new-look Rangers had no clue as to how to deal with the visitor’s precision passing and counter attacking. Offensively, QPR had 20 shots on goal -- 8 more than their opponent -- but was unable to score. Poor defense and critical mistakes doomed the home club, and a halftime 0-1 deficit quickly turned into an embarrassing 0-5 blowout as the team completely collapsed in the second half. For QPR fans, the result was eerily similar to the club’s comprehensive 4-0 opening-day loss to Bolton in August of last year. 
In the club’s second league game, QPR managed to secure the first point of the season against Norwich -- also the victim of a 0-5 defeat in its season opener -- to a 1-1 draw. A week later, it was back to losing ways again in a 3-1 defeat to Manchester City at The Etihad; however, the game remained close until the final minutes. In the fourth game of the season, QPR played its best match of the season and secured a second point by battling powerful Chelsea to a 0-0 draw. The Rangers suffered three straight defeats thereafter, all closely fought matches, to Tottenham (1-2), West Ham United (1-2), and West Bromwich Albion (2-3). 
Seven games into the season and QPR fans find their club in familiar territories ? winless and dead last on the Premier League table -- with a dismal record of five losses and two draws. The club’s horrendous start was far below everyone’s expectations and prompted calls from many fans for manager Mark Hughes to be fired. However, QPR chairman Tony Fernandez quickly came to his embattled manager’s defense in a tweet: “For all QPR fans … I am not changing anything. And all shareholders agree ... Mark is the right man.” Hughes, for his part, insisted that his club is improving and that QPR will be able to revive their fortunes in the near future.
Amid all the losing and finger-pointing, team captain Park Ji-sung was inevitably singled out by critics for not performing up to expectations. Park, who started every game this season, has yet to score a single goal. Lee Cook, a former QPR player currently with Leyton Orient, openly criticized Park’s inconsistent play and questioned if his heart was in QPR. 
Although Park continued to play his high-energy style game, some observers pointed out that he seemed uncomfortable, and looked lost at times, playing both in the heart of midfield and on the left. The most likely reasons for Park’s struggles are that the team has yet to gel as a cohesive unit, and that he is no longer surrounded by the same caliber of teammates as he was when he played for Manchester United. 
Despite the team’s poor performance and his personal struggles, Park Ji-sung remain upbeat about the team’s fortunes. After the disappointing 1-2 defeat by Tottenham, Park said: “We deserved to win and were the better side. … Results will come soon. I am confident of that and so are my team-mates.”
