 Sejong the Great
“Because the speech of this country is different from that of China, it does not match the [Chinese] letters. Therefore, even if the ignorant want to communicate, many of them in the end cannot state their concerns. Saddened by this, I have [had] 28 letters newly made. It is my wish that all the people may easily learn these letters and that [they] be convenient for daily use.” – Hunminjeongeum, King Sejong
Sejong the Great, the fourth king of the Joseon, or Yi Dynasty of Korea, is widely considered one of the greatest kings in the history of Korea. During his reign from 1418 until his death in 1450, Sejong committed the government and society to Confucian moral principles, promoted advancements in science and technology, strengthened diplomatic relations with neighbors, and more importantly, promulgated the creation of Hangeul - the native alphabet of the Korean language. 
Upon his ascension to the throne, Sejong accelerated a process originally started by the founding fathers of the Joseon Dynasty to end the dominance of Buddhism over Korean life. Determined to rid the country of government mismanagement, economic deterioration and moral decline that plagued the previous dynasty (the Goryeo era), Sejong implemented broad reform measures. He appointed people from different social classes to government posts; conducted official government functions in Confucian rituals; educated and encouraged citizens to adhere to Confucian values in their daily lives; and instituted land reforms in line with the Confucian notion of honoring farmers as the backbone of society. 　
Sejong’s reign was a period of great advancements in science and technology in Korea. He supported the endeavors of Jang Yeong-sil - a prominent inventor from the bottom of the social class. Jang went on to create significant works such as water clocks, armillary spheres (miniature representations of the Earth, Moon, and planets in the form of skeletal globes), sundials, and Cheugugi - the first rain gauge in the world. Important technological advancements during Sejong’s rule included the publication of the nongsa jikseol - a farmer’s guide on various techniques necessary for the newly-adopted methods of intensive, continuous cultivation. A new Korean calendar, with Seoul as the primary meridian, was also created during that period.
Joseon Dynasty under the rule of Sejong was a period of relative peace and stability. He reached mutually beneficial agreements with the court of China’s Ming dynasty. He oversaw the building of four castles and six military posts in the northern part of the Korean Peninsula to guard against the Jurchen people. To the South, he sent troops to Tsushima Island to fend off seaborne attacks from pirates. Sejong maintained amicable relations with Japan by opening three ports and allowing commercial trading with the Japanese. Diplomatic efforts were supported by the strengthening of military capabilities. Advanced weaponry such as fire arrows, cannons, mortars and gunpowder were tested and employed to safeguard the country.
Sejong’s greatest legacy to Korea was the introduction of Hangeul. Prior to the creation of Hangeul, only members of Korea’s upper class were literate, and Hanja, the complex system of writing in Chinese characters, was typically used in writing. Sejong wanted to create a system that would allow people from all classes to master the Korean language. He directed the Chiphyonjon (Jade Hall), a royal institute that conducted research on behalf of the king, to introduce a new script. The result was the 28-letter Korean alphabet, each based on a simplified diagram of the patterns made by the mouth, tongue and teeth when making the sound related to the character. With it, a native phonetic alphabet system was born, and a new cultural identity was established.
Few other people have had a greater impact on Korean history than King Sejong. Fittingly, he is one of only two rulers in Korean history to have been honored with the title “the Great.”
