Curse of the cover in Daegu Championships
The official slogan for the IAAF World Championships in Daegu is “Dream. Passion. Challenge.” As it turned out, “Expect the Unexpected” would have been a more appropriate motto. Although record-shattering performances were hard to come by in Daegu, there was no shortage of jaw-dropping surprises and shocking outcomes throughout the competition.  From day one, gold medal favorites in marquee events were swept aside with regularity in an unbelievable chain of upsets, blunders and misfortunes. The domino-effect of failures by superstar athletes even gave rise to a theory known as “the curse of the cover”. 
 Each day the IAAF published a program previewing the upcoming events. It naturally featured a superstar athlete most likely to win the highlight event of the day on its cover. Unfortunately, the athletes who were chosen to grace the covers of the program almost always met their demise during competition later in the day. 
 On the first day, Steve Hooker, the reigning Olympic and World pole vault champion from Australia, was on the front cover. He crashed out in qualifying, failing to clear the initial height of 5.50 meters. As a matter of fact, he didn’t even succeed in any of his attempts.
 On the second day, Usain Bolt, the undisputed marquee athlete of the Championships, appeared on the cover. With the absence of his nearest rivals Asafa Powell and Tyson Gay, Bolt was expected to win the 100 meters gold with ease. Prior to the race, Bolt was at his magnanimous best, clowning for the cameras, striking his trademark pose, and whipping the crowd into frenzy. Then disaster struck - Bolt jumped the gun and false-started. He was automatically disqualified under the new zero-tolerance rule. The packed stadium was in shocked, hushed silence as Bolt left the field in dismay. Fortunately, Bolt redeemed himself a few days later when he won the 200 meters in 19.40 seconds and anchored Jamaican team’s world record setting performance in the 4x100 meter relays on the last day.
 On the third day, Dayron Robles of Cuba was on the cover. He is the reigning Olympic champion and the world record holder in men’s 110 meters hurdles.  In the dramatic finals, Liu Xiang of China was gaining fast and looked set to catch the leaders when he was interfered with by Robles a few meters from the finish line.  Robles won, and an off-balance, stumbling Liu Xiang finished third. Robles was stripped of his gold medal later.  
On the fourth day, Yelena Isinbayeva, the world record holder in women’s pole vault, was on the cover. She failed to clear the height of 4.80 meters and was left off the medals podium. The eventual winning jump of 4.85 meters, achieved by Brazil‘s Fabiana Murer, was 21 centimeters below Isinbayeva’s world record.
 Leery of all the talk about “the curse of the cover”, the publishers of the daily program tried a new tactic by featuring two athletes on the cover for day 7 -- Americans Allyson Felix and Carmelita Jeter, co-favorites in the women’s 200m race. So who won the gold medal? Veronica Campbell-Brown of Jamaica, of course!
