9 hot spots announced by KTO Part 3: South Chungcheong Province
Located halfway up the west coast, South Chungcheong is full of plains. Top inland destinations here include Gyeryongsan National Park, the Independence Hall of Korea, and Hyeonchungsa, while popular coastal sites include the Taeanhaean National Park, lined with Mallipo and Kkotji Beaches and Anmyeondo. Also, the famous Boryeong Mud Festival takes places on Daecheon Beach every summer.
Anmyeondo
This is the sixth-biggest island in Korea. A bridge that connects the island with Taean-gun was built in 1970. The island’s coast is lined with some 14 beaches as well as abundant pine trees which are symbols of the island. The island also has Anmyeondo Natural Forest. Nearby Kkotji Beach is 3.2 kilometers long and 300 meters wide. The beach makes a perfect attraction with its gentle slope, clear water and its comfortable water temperature. You can enjoy fresh fish from the nearby port of Bangpohang, as well as see the legendary Halmibawi and Halabibawi rocks. The beautiful view of the sunset here attracts photographers throughout the year.
Boryeong Mud Festival　
The Boryeong Mud Festival is held every year during the summer in Boryeong, a town about 200 kilometers south of Seoul. The first Mud Festival was staged in 1998. The mud is taken from the Boryeong mud flats and trucked to the Daecheon beach area, where it is used as the centerpiece of the “Mud Experience Land.” The mud is considered rich in minerals and used to manufacture cosmetics. The festival was originally conceived as a marketing vehicle for Boryeong mud cosmetics. Although the festival takes place over a period of around two weeks, it is most famous for its final weekend, which is popular with Korea’s Western population.
Independence Hall of Korea
The Independence Hall of Korea displays Korean historical documents and relics from the past to the present, focusing on the independence movements of the Japanese Colonial Period. Originally the interim Government Building of Korea in China, the building was brought over to Korea after it was liberated from Japanese colonial rule in 1945. The Independence Hall officially opened on the anniversary of Independence Day on Aug. 15, 1987.
