Watching news is better than dramas and movies to practice listening skills
Dramas and movies are better
I think listening to dramas and movies is better than listening to news if you want to improve your listening skills.
First, watching dramas and movies provides us with informal sentences that native speakers use, which will also help us get used to the language used in real life. So, I believe listening to the language that is used by native speakers in a natural setting improves our listening skills. 　Second, actors and actresses in dramas or movies speak very fast and their pronunciation is not very articulate. So, many people think these materials are not ideal for studying. But I think the opposite. If you expose yourself to fast and unclear pronunciation and train with them, understanding news clips will be a piece of cake. 
Third, dramas and movies are much more fun than news. If we exclude some men and elderly people, almost everyone prefers to watch dramas or movies. Information given in news is boring and hard to attract attention of the youth.
So, I believe if we start out with dramas and movies when training ourselves, it would be more fun and easier. Once we get used to speedy conversations of them, we will more likely spend more time listening to it while also enjoying it. This will lead us to expose ourselves further to such contents as “breaking news” in the long run.
News is better
For those who want to enhance their English listening capabilities, watching news is strongly recommended. While American dramas or movies outrank news in terms of their entertainment values, aspiring learners should opt for news because words and sentences there would be much more helpful for studying.
First of all, news reporters use advanced vocabulary that is essential for an English learner. Often, the words invoked in their speech are formal words used by people who work for an English-speaking company or study at an English-speaking university. Different reporters also have different repositories of vocabulary that they prefer, providing learners with a growing list of useful vocabulary that will never fail to challenge them. In contrast, the vocabulary one can learn from dramas is limited largely to slang and colloquial terms. The unchanging informality of drama content also means that no new vocabulary will be provided to the learner at every episode.
Moreover, news is targeted for a variety of viewers. In order to inform all of its viewers around the world, it has to cater to their level of understanding. For this reason, the sentences in news reports are easier to understand than the quick, disjointed vernacular phrases in dramas; dramas assume that their audience is already conversant with American culture and language. For a fledgling learner, a news program will be easier to comprehend.
