 Branksome Hall Asia opens in Jeju
Branksome Hall Asia, the first branch campus of Branksome Hall, a prestigious private girls’ school based in Toronto, Canada, was opened in Jeju Global Education City on Jeju Island. The opening ceremony was held on Oct. 15 at the campus, located inside the Jeju Global English Education City, in Daejeong-eup, Seogwipo. Classes begin starting Oct. 29.
The campus was built with a gross floor area of 81,525 square meters and includes state-of-the-art facilities such as an indoor swimming pool, auditorium, gym, theaters and dormitories. It also offers STEM-V Center, an institution for science, technology, engineering, math and visual arts.
Since its construction completed in September, the school has finalized recruiting 46 instructors from North America, Asia and Europe. Some 300 students have registered for this year, the Jeju Office of Education said.
Branksome Hall Asia offers the International Baccalaureate (IB) program through all grades from kindergarten to grade 12. It consists of 60 classes and can teach up to 1,212 students. Boys will be accepted through grade 3 but from grade 4, classes are only for girls. The school’s exchange program, the Branksome Advantage Exchange Program, will be offered to students from grade 7. 
Established in Toronto, Canada in 1903, Branksome Hall is known as one of the top three all-girls boarding schools in the world and its students have a high acceptance rate at world’s top universities. Branksome Hall is also the only girls’ school that runs its curriculum by the IB program. 
Branksome Hall Asia is the second private international school in Jeju Global Education City, following North London Collegiate School (NLCS) of the United Kingdom, which opened its campus on Jeju in September last year. 
The two international schools are a part of a project to develop nation’s largest island into an educational hub in Northeast Asia, through the Jeju Global Education City (JGEC), says Jeju Office of Education. With an investment of some $1.59 billion, the Jeju city seeks to attract foreign students from around the world and to reduce the number of Korean students going overseas to study.
In that vein, Jeju Free International City Development Center (JDC) has designated six groundwork projects to foster and support education. JDC aims to turn Jeju into a Free International City by 2015 via enhancing Korea’s national competitiveness with the provision of global education. 
The principal of Branksome Hall pledged to maintain the school’s 110 years of tradition and educational philosophy with students in Jeju at the opening ceremony. 
“Branksome Hall Asia will reflect the very best of Branksome’s programs and philosophy,” Karen Murton said. “Branksome Hall Asia will share the mission and traditions, of its sister school. At the same time, it will honor the unique culture and environment of Jeju. Students here will enjoy the same benefits and honors as their counterparts in Toronto,” she said. 
She expects the number of students to grow to 1,200 within the next five years, as well as the school’s international students’ numbers.
In terms of the school’s admission process, she insisted that the school also “looks at what a student is interested in- her involvement in life outside academics- as Branksome Hall really believes in a well-rounded education.” 
The Ministry of Land, Transport and Marine Affairs (MLTM) forecasts the population of Jeju Island to rise by 22,988 in 2015 in tandem with the city’s Global Education City project .
For more information, go to the official website of Branksome Hall Asia at http://branksome.asia.
