America tackles obesity problem ... in dogs
With obesity coming to the forefront of health care around the world, fitness companies in the United States have come up with an interesting way to tackle the growing epidemic in the form of weight-loss equipment made for pudgy pets. 
Just like their owners, unhealthy weight gain affects the longevity and quality of life of animals. According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention, about 53 percent of adult dogs in the U.S. are classified as obese by their veterinarians. 
Dr. Dennis Arn, a veterinarian from Las Vegas, Nevada, explained that “If you can’t lay your hands on them and feel the ribs pretty easily, they’re obese.”
“As a blanket statement, a dog needs at least 30 minutes (of exercise) a day,” Geralynn Cada, a dog trainer for more than 30 years, told Reuters. “A dog who is less active is less happy and has more health problems.”
Cada provides classes for overweight dogs, such as dog yoga, puppy Pilates, and a canine interval training course known as Retrieve and Burn.
Arn also warned, however, that a lack of exercise isn’t the only cause of overweight pets. In fact, he explains that many pet owners tend to reward their pets with treats too often, resulting in obese pets.
In light of this trend in overweight pets, many fitness companies have begun to create exercise machines geared towards pets. DogPACER, for example, has developed a line of dog treadmills, while Snaptracs Inc. created a special line of pedometers for pets. 
DogPACER CEO David Ezra claims to have “run 1,000 dogs” since he began selling his canine treadmill seven months ago, which comes in regular and mini sizes and sells for $500.
Snaptracs Inc., on the other hand, developed an activity monitor to go along with their pet location device, Tagg, making it possible for owners to monitor their pet’s exercise. 
“Tagg’s combination of activity monitoring and GPS location tracking puts pet parents in control of their pet’s well-being,” Dave Vigil, president of Snaptracs Inc. which created Tagg, said in a statement. 
Cada explains that physical problems aside, dogs that do not engage in adequate exercise tend to develop behavioral problems.
“A tired dog is a happy dog,” Cada said. “If your dog gets bored, they’ll search for purpose and that purpose will be to chew up your wallet.”
