The 2012-2013 NBA Season
The 2012-2013 NBA Season, the 67th season of the National Basketball Association, is set to begin on Oct. 30. After a busy offseason filled with blockbuster trades, free agency signings, and fine-tuning moves involving superstars and veteran players, the new season promises to be full of intrigue and excitement. Let’s look at some of the more notable player movements and their likely impact on the season.
“Jesus” appears in Miami ?  Miami Heat, the reigning NBA champions, are in excellent shape as they begin the quest for a second consecutive title. As if the all-round excellence of league MVP LeBron James and all-star guard Dwayne Wade is not enough, the team will also benefit from the presence of “Jesus.” Ray Allen, nicknamed “Jesus”, is the NBA’s all-time leading three-point shooter. He left the Boston Celtics and signed with bitter rivals - the Miami Heat. Allen’s shooting prowess from anywhere on the floor means that LeBron and Wade will be able to attack the rim more frequently with their high-flying antics. The Heat will be a matchup nightmare for their opponents all season long. 
Superman flies to Hollywood - The Los Angeles Lakers significantly upgraded the team during the offseason. They added a lot of muscle by bringing “Superman” to Hollywood -- Dwight Howard, the most dominant center in the NBA - came over in a trade from the Orlando Magic. The Lakers also desperately needed a legitimate point guard to provide better flow to the offense and lessen the burden on Kobe Bryant, and they found a perfect one in Steve Nash. Nash is a two-time league MVP known for his excellent court vision and creativity. His presence will mean less isolation plays and more involvement from the team’s talented big men. The Lakers are well-equipped for a run at the title.
“Linsanity” moves to the West - The Houston Rockets used some creative math to pry “Linsanity” away from the New York Knicks. Last season, Jeremy Lin, the undrafted Harvard graduate who came off the bench to breathe new life into an underachieving Knicks team, became an international sensation. In the offseason bidding war, the Rockets structured their contract offer in a way that made it very difficult for the Knicks to match. Jeremy Lin became a Rocket and has been named the starting point guard. As a relative newcomer to the NBA, Lin might find it difficult to duplicate “Linsanity” while trying to lead Houston’s young and inexperienced players.
Young guns assemble in the “Big Easy” - The New Orleans Hornets, one of the worst teams in the NBA last season, had a wonderful offseason. The team drafted power forward Anthony Davis of the University of Kentucky (No. 1 pick overall), and two-guard Austin Rivers of Duke University (No. 10 pick overall). Both players are considered among the best in the nation. The team successfully re-signed their best player, shooting guard Eric Gordon, to a four-year contract. They added small forward Ryan Anderson, NBA’s reigning Most Improved Player. The young Hornets could become one of NBA’s most exciting teams in a very short time.
Center of attention in Philadelphia ? The Philadelphia 76ers acquired center Andrew Bynum from the LA Lakers via a four-team trade. Although they had to give up the talented Andre Iguodala, the addition of an elite player such as Bynum makes the 76ers a force to be reckoned with in the East. Andrew Bynum is only 24 years old but is regarded as the second best center in the league behind Dwight Howard. He averaged 18.7 points and 11.8 rebounds last season (both career highs), while adding 1.9 blocks per game. Many experts picked the 76ers as the third best team in the East, behind Miami Heat and the Boston Celtics.
