A sweet start to November: The 2012 Cafe & Bakery Fair
The 2012 Café & Bakery Fair is set to open on Nov. 1 at the Korea International Exhibition Center (KINTEX) in Ilsan. Lasting for four days, this is the first time that World Coffee Events (WCE) has brought the World Latte Art Championship and World Coffee in Good Spirits Championship to Korea; both of which are set to be held in conjunction with the 2012 Café & Bakery Fair. With these events coming up, the first weekend of November promises to have a sweet and interesting start. 
With over 100 businesses and 300 booths, the 2012 Café & Bakery Fair will be an exciting opportunity for anyone interested in either learning the art of being a barista or merely looking at pretty things made of either foam and frosting. 
Here are two of the more exciting events to take place at the 2012 Café & Bakery Fair:
World Latte Art Championship
The World Latte Art Championship provides an opportunity for baristas to express themselves artistically as well as to put their skills to the test.
Participating baristas are judged in two separate rounds for their visual attributes, creativity, identical patterns in pairs of cups, contrast in patterns and overall performance. In the first round, baristas must produce a single creative latte pattern at the Art Bar. On the second round, they must create two identical free-pour lattes and two identical designer lattes. The barista with the highest combined score is declared the World Latte Art Champion. 
For more information, visit: http://www.worldlatteart.org/
2012 Sugarcraft Contest
Although not an official WCE event, the third Sugarcraft Contest will be held by the Korea Association of Sugarcraft. The goal of the contest is to discover and develop the talents of up-and-coming sugar artists in the art of sugarcraft, also known as sugar sculpture. The 2012 Sugarcraft Contest will not only feature the many talented sugar artists as they show off their skills, but will also have a sugarcrafting experience session for anyone interested in trying their hand at this delicious art form. 
For more information, visit: http://sugarcraftkorea.com/ 
For more information about the 2012 Café & Bakery Fair, visit: www.cafenbakeryfair.com 
