Jimmy Carter: President, Statesman, Humanitarian
 “We can choose to alleviate suffering. We can choose to work together for peace. We can make these changes – and we must.” Jimmy Carter
Jimmy Carter was the 39th president of the United States and the recipient of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize. His term in office, however, was marred by a series of tumultuous events -- some beyond his control; others of his own doing. In the 1980 U.S. presidential election, he was overwhelmingly voted out of office in a humiliating defeat. While most former presidents retire to a life of comfort away from the limelight, Jimmy Carter embarked on a new journey that turned him into a highly-respected statesman and a much-admired humanitarian around the world.
Jimmy Carter was a naval officer, a farmer, and a businessman before he entered politics. He became a community leader while serving on county boards supervising education, the hospital authority, and the library. He was elected to the Georgia Senate and served two terms from 1962 to 1966. In 1971, he became the 76th governor of the state of Georgia. He rose quickly within the Democratic Party and became the Democratic National Committee campaign chairman for the 1974 congressional elections. He won his party’s nomination at the 1976 Democratic National Convention and was elected president on Nov. 2, 1976. 
Jimmy Carter’s presidency was highlighted by his efforts which led to the signing of a peace treaty between Egypt and Israel known as the Camp David Accord. He also signed the Panama Canal Treaty and formalized diplomatic relations with China. However, his administration’s inexperience in politics, persistent economic problems, a severe energy crisis, the taking of American hostages during the Iranian revolution, and his controversial decision to boycott the 1980 Moscow Olympics caused his popularity to plummet. In the 1980 presidential election, he barely survived a hard-fought campaign against Ted Kennedy for the Democratic Party nomination, only to lose to the Republican candidate Ronald Reagan in a landslide.
After leaving the white House, Jimmy Carter immersed himself in causes for social justice and human rights. He and his wife Rosalynn Carter created the nonpartisan and nonprofit Carter Center to address national and international issues of public policy, and focus attentions and take actions to resolve conflicts, promote democracy, protect human rights, and prevent disease and other afflictions. A great deal of the center’s efforts were directed at improving health care and advancing agriculture in third world countries and developing countries. Carter travelled extensively around the world and worked tirelessly to engage in conflict resolutions in Africa, South America, North Korea, Haiti, and Bosnia.
Jimmy carter cemented his legacy as a great humanitarian for his work in building and providing affordable housing for poor people all over the world. In 1984, he established the Jimmy Carter Work Project (JCWP) -- an annual home-building blitz for Habitat for Humanity. The first project was a 19-unit apartment complex in Brooklyn, New York. In 1990, JCWP expanded its efforts internationally with a project involving 2,000 volunteers to build 100 homes in Tijuana, Mexico. In 2001, Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter joined President Kim Dae-jung and 9,000 volunteers in 6 sites across Korea to build 136 Habitat houses. By 2009, JCWP was involved in numerous building projects throughout Asia, including the Mekong Region covering Thailand, China, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. 
Although Jimmy Carter’s presidency is viewed by many people as a failure, his post-White House efforts in peace-keeping and humanitarian assistance endeared him to millions of people around the globe. He may not have ranked highly as an effective head of state, but he is undoubtedly the most successful and productive former president in the history of the United States.
