Taste Korea's best rice at Icheon festival
Icheon in Gyeonggi Province, famous for producing high-quality rice, held a rice festival in late October to celebrate the harvest. 
The city held its 14th rice festival from Oct. 25-28 where they offered a variety of activities related to rice and Korean agricultural traditions and customs. 
Korea’s traditional activities and performances held during the harvest season were recreated to celebrate the successful harvest season this year despite frequent typhoons and rains in summer. 
Six themed sites offered hands-on experiences for children and families, where they participated in traditional entertainment activities and experienced old ways of farming, traditional weddings and many other events. 
The highlight of the festival was a rice cooking event. Enough rice for 2,000 people was cooked in a huge iron cauldron. A bowl of rice was served with kimchi and gochujang. 
Another popular event was the rice cooking competition which selected a master rice cook on the last day of the festival. A group of rice experts and culinary professors judged based on taste, cooking technique and procedures and even the cook‘s attitude.
The festival also featured an international food competition, offering a variety of traditional dishes of many countries around the world, all cooked with Icheon rice. 
“Icheon has several geographical advantages in producing rice. The longest hours of sunshine and the biggest temperature difference between morning and evening make nutrient-rich rice. As the Icheon region has plenty of underground water, it has never worried farmers about droughts,” Yoo Sang-gyu, director of Icheon-si Agricultural Technology Service Center, told The Korea Herald. 
The center manages the quality and taste of Icheon rice scientifically by evaluating soil and water to guarantee consistent taste year after year. It developed a rice cultivation manual so that rice grown by different farmers can have uniform taste and quality. 
Icheon rice has long been known as the country’s best, as it was reserved for kings in the old days. 
