Newspapers will disappear soon
Pro 
I think newspapers are going to disappear soon. Nowadays, there are many smart gadgets, such as smartphones, smart notepads and smart PCs. We read more online and less offline articles, and I think newspapers look awkward in the current information age for the following reasons.
First, Internet articles are more convenient to read than newspapers. If the letters are too small to read, you can enlarge them in online articles. But you cannot do this with newspapers since they are printed. Moreover, you can find Internet articles anytime and anywhere you want.
Second, newspapers are expensive and waste paper and ink. They can also be harmful to the environment. Meanwhile, we can read many Internet articles for free. This is another reason why people prefer Internet articles to newspaper articles.
Third, the delivery of newspapers requires a lot of labor and time. Sometimes, the news changes rapidly, but newspapers cannot deliver the change in time. On the other hand, Internet articles give us real-time news.
In summary, Internet articles are more convenient, cheaper and faster than the newspapers. Because of these advantages, more people prefer Internet articles to newspapers. It is clear that newspapers will disappear soon.
Con 
Some people fear that newspapers will soon disappear due to rapid development of the Internet and smartphones. However, I believe the future of newspaper will be even brighter for the following reasons.
First, newspapers give us much more diverse information than the Internet. Some people think they will find much more information online, but this is not really true. When we read online we read limited information by clicking with the mouse. However, when we read offline, we are indirectly led to read the other news stories on the page, which gives us much more information in the end.
Second, in newspapers we do not have to worry about constant advertisement pop-ups. Newspapers do have ads but we can choose not to see them, and they are usually on the last page of the paper or at the bottom of each page. It takes unwanted clicks to close those online pop-ups. Also, many online ads are very annoying.
Lastly, newspapers can be recycled. You cannot imagine Korean market places which do not make use of newspapers - be that for wrapping up fruit, displaying products, or other things. The government also ordered people to stick wet newspapers to windows to stop them from breaking during typhoons.
In conclusion, the future of newspapers is positive. Although Internet news can be faster and easier to read, high ranking politicians and CEOs of companies are still reading newspapers every morning. This may be because of the great advantages of newspapers.
