Youth heroes of the time
The Korea Scout Association (KSA) has named five young “heroes of the year” who contributed to the country’s societal development with expertise in their own fields. 
The “Youth Hero Prize” recipients of year 2012 are Hwang Se-hyun, Na Nu-ri, Lee Yo-han, Kim Young-joon and Kim Hyo-joon. The awards ceremony took place at the Korea Press Association building in Seoul on Oct. 22. Each winner received a winning certificate and 5 million won ($4,600) in prize money.
The Youth Hero Prize was first established in 2007 by the KSA to support young talented people who are expected to lead the nation in near future. This was the sixth year that the prizes were given out, and 16 “heroes” have so far received the award. 
The five prize categories are “academic performance,” “culture, sports and arts,” “community service,” “career building” and “exemplary scout member.” The judging committee included a ranking KSA official, a pastor, a high school principal and others.
The judging committee chairman Moon Yong-rin told the press that this year’s prize winners had all overcome difficulties and made progress. The KSA President Hahm Jong-han said that it is KSA’s pride to nurture Korea’s future leaders. He emphasized: “We hope the young heroes will do their best to promote themselves and their motherland worldwide.”
The 16 heroes who have been awarded with this prize include the figure-skating legend Kim Yu-na, pianist Kim Sun-wook, weightlifter Yoon Jin-hee, archer Kwak Ye-ji and disabled swimmer Kim Se-jin.
Here is a brief introduction to this year’s winners:
Hwang Se-hyun (in the area of Academic Performance)
An aspiring scientist who wants to improve science education, Hwang received the Presidential Award at the National Science Fair in 2011 in recognition of his superb explanation as to why aircraft tend to lean left while flying in the air. As a young boy, he enjoyed science kit assembly and simulation flying games. The third grader at Posung High School said he wished to become an aerospace scientist and contribute to enhancing the quality of people’s lives.
Na Nu-ri (Arts)
The young violinist acclaimed as “the second Sarah Jang” is now studying at a prestigious music school in Moscow, Russia. Born in Kazakhstan, Na says she loves both Korea and Kazakhstan at the same time. She won the grand prize at an international competition held in Astana, the Kazak capital in 2010. She also has held her recital since she was only 6 years old. She hoped that she would be loved both in Korea and Kazakhstan as a professional musician.
Lee Yo-han (Community Service)
The second-generation Korean in Australia, Lee has been an active volunteer worker in the local community since he was young. He has led a series of charity fund-raising events since middle school. He is also working as a mentor for young Koreans who chose to live in Australia. The first grader at New South Wales University said he wished to study at Australia’s Military Academy and enhance the image of Korean people in the country.
Kim young-joon (Career Building)
The young chef who attends Gyeongju University says that a dish of a true chef should reflect his soul. Kim won the gold medal at the 35th WACS (World Association of Chefs Societies) Congress. He won the grand prize at Busan International Food Fair in 2011, and with his reputation he showed up in the 265th episode of SBS talent-finding program “Star King” in 2012.
Kim Hyo-joon (Exemplary Scout Member)
The third grader at Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies, Kim Hyo-joon has a variety of unique experiences considering her young age. He has led the movement to preserve the demilitarized zone at the inter-Korean border for wild animals, publishing two books on the subject as a high school student. She showed great interest in protecting the country’s easternmost islets of Dokdo, and also worked as the youngest intern for “Vogue Korea,” a fashion magazine.
