Grandmothers may be the reason for longer human lifespan
Though grandmothers have always held a special place in all our hearts, did you know that they may have played a major role in the evolution of humans?
A new study published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B journal claims to back up the theory that grandmothers may have been the key to why humans live much longer than other primates; a theory known as the “Grandmother Hypothesis.”
“One of the things that’s really different about us humans, compared to our closest living relatives, the other great apes, is that we have these really long lifespans,” University of Utah professor Kristen Hawkes, the senior author of the study, was quoted as saying by Voice of America.
The Grandmother Theory suggests that grandmothers have been helping mothers by babysitting their children for millions of years, and that this action has led to longevity in people, particularly women. 
Hawkes suggests that this trend was caused by climate change. When savannahs began replacing forests in Africa, it began affecting food supplies. Unlike forests, savannahs had a limited amount of food that little kids could feed themselves on. 
As forests began disappearing, mothers would have to simultaneously find food and care for their offspring. This would mean that women would not have had as many children and, more importantly, that their children’s survival would depend almost entirely on the mother’s survival. If the mother died, so would the child. 
As a result, women whose fertility was coming to an end began helping their daughters feed those grandchildren. Since these ancestral grandmothers began to help take care of their grandchildren, it meant that grandmothers that live longer and are healthier could pass their genes on to more descendants. This led to an increase in the number of women who survived beyond childbearing age. 
Hawkes states that such behavior from grandmothers also led to “a whole array of social capacities that are the foundation for the evolution of other distinctly human traits,” such as having bigger brains, learning new skills and our tendency toward cooperation. 
