2012 Korea Money Fair
The “2012 Korea Money Fair” was held from Oct. 26 to 28 at the third exhibition hall of SETEC (Seoul Trade Exhibition & Convention).
Under the theme of "Story of currency - Art meets Science," the fair allowed visitors to see money from all over the world and get a grasp of the history of world currencies. 
The exhibition was hosted by KOMSCO (The Korea Minting, Security Printing & ID Card Operating Corp.) and was sponsored by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the Bank of Korea, and Shinhan Bank.
Fifty-two exhibitors from 18 countries took part in the nation’s biggest currency exhibition. Seven currency minting countries - England, Singapore, China, South Africa, Russia, Spain and Austria - also came to the venue and introduced histories of their currencies. 
Opening ceremony of the 2012 Korea Money Fair began at 11 a. m. on Oct. 26 at a special stage set up in the third exhibition hall. SBS anchorwoman Park Eun-kyung hosted the event.
The ceremony was attended by around 200 people, including prominent public figures such as the governor of the Bank of Korea and the minister of strategy and finance. 
The fair was made up of two parts: the exhibition programs and activity programs.
The exhibition programs
1. The story of money 
: Art (design) and science in countries’ currencies 
: 3,000 years’ history of currencies
2. The evolution of anti-counterfeiting methods
: Tips to discern fake money 
3. Money from different countries and periods
: Big gold and silver coins 
: “Sangpyeongtongbo,” the money from the Sangpyeong period in Korean history
4. Rare currencies
: Banknotes of world’s renowned personalities such as, Marry Curie, Albert Einstein, and Antoine du Saint-Exupéry
: Examples of faulty banknotes
: A collection of money (400 pieces)
Activity programs
1. Making model paper money, coins and medallions
2. Auction of 50 won notes from the old days of Korea
3. Discovering the money-counting guru: Competition for counting 1,000 won notes
The 2012 Money Fair is designed to help KOMSCO become the world’s most distinguished anti-counterfeit agency. The organization boasts world-class printing and anti-forgery technologies and is eager to share its knowledge with others. The organizer said that KOMSCO’s ultimate goal is to “make a world without counterfeits.” 
