Fall of cycling legend
 “Lance Armstrong has no place in cycling, and he deserves to be forgotten in cycling. … Make no mistake, it’s a catastrophe for him, and he has to face up to that.” - Pat McQuaid, president of the International Cycling Union 
For seven years from 1999 to 2005, Lance Armstrong stood atop the cycling world and the sporting world as the all-conquering hero. His story as a cancer survivor who went on to win an unprecedented seven consecutive titles at the grueling Tour de France inspired millions of people around the world. Throughout his amazing seven-year run, there have been whispers and rumors that Armstrong was using illegal performance enhancing substances and blood transfusions to gain a competitive advantage. Armstrong and his legal team aggressively defended his reputation both in the court of law and in the court of public opinion. 
Lance Armstrong and his legal advisers often employed aggressive tactics in his defense against doping allegations. They repeatedly emphasized that he has never failed a single drug test among the hundreds of tests he was subjected to throughout his career. They belligerently went after his accusers, many of them his ex-teammates, depicting them as untrustworthy individuals, unreliable witnesses, serial perjurers, disgruntled teammates and jealous rivals. They also attacked the credibility of the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), depicting its case against Armstrong as a one-sided hatchet job and a taxpayer-funded tabloid piece. 
Lance Armstrong received a great deal of sympathy and support from the American public in his battles to defend himself against doping allegations. Many people wanted to believe in him. They wanted to believe in the feel-good, fairytale story ? that of an amazing athlete who overcame stage three (advanced) testicular cancer that spread to his lungs, abdomen and brain to reach the pinnacle of his sport. They wanted to believe in the sincerity and integrity of a man whose charity Lance Armstrong Foundation promoted awareness of cancer and raised more than $325 million for cancer research from the sale of yellow Livestrong bracelets. In a culture that sometimes reveled in the fall from grace of celebrities, he was the kind of hero that people did not want to see taken down. 
In August, 2012 The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency dropped the axe on Lance Armstrong. After years of painstaking investigations, the USADA imposed a lifetime ban from cycling on Armstrong and stripped him of his seven titles in the Tour de France. In early October, USADA released its evidence against Lance Armstrong, as required by the World Anti-Doping Code, in a massive report containing more than 1,000 pages of sworn testimony from people, including cyclists (eleven of them Armstrong teammates) with direct knowledge of Armstrong’s doping activities on the U.S. Postal Service Cycling team. The report contained “direct documentary evidence including financial payments, emails, scientific data and laboratory test results that further prove the use, possession and distribution of performance enhancing drugs by Lance Armstrong and confirm the disappointing truth about the deceptive activities of the U.S. Postal Service Team.” 
Finally, after years of suspicions, allegations, accusations and denials, the saga of cycling legend Lance Armstrong was brought to a sad and shocking end. The International Cycling Union (UCI) - the world-wide governing body of the sport - upheld the decisions by the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The widespread and systematic cheating in cycling was fully exposed, and Lance Armstrong was declared a cheat and a fraud who doped and lied his way to cycling glory.
In the aftermath of the punitive actions against him, Armstrong has stepped down from his post as the CEO of his charity Livestrong, and sponsors have dropped him en masse. He will likely have to pay back his Tour de France winnings totaling $3.85 million. Armstrong’s reputation is destroyed, and the sport of cycling is left in ruins.
