Exploring dreams and values with Bada
Bada is a well-known Korean singer and a member of one of the first K-pop idol group, S.E.S. Since her debut, she has gained recognition as an outstanding musical actress as well, thanks to her superb singing skills and her ability to capture the audience’s attention. Taking time out of her busy schedule as both a singer and a musical actress, - not to mention preparing for her new single, "Together with me," which came on the air on Sept. 7 on KBS Joy - Bada has granted the Junior Herald an exclusive interview.
 (Junior Herald) From your debut in the idol group S.E.S. to your current role as a musical actress, what do you find most memorable about your career so far? 
(Bada) Until now, I have had the opportunity to sing numerous songs, and perform on a variety of different stages. 
I have always been adamant about singing live and so the preparing for the actual performance has left me with a lot of great memories. Even when I used to perform dance songs, I always insisted on doing it live. For me, preparing for the performances themselves has been the most memorable part of my career. 
 (JH) Any thoughts on your transition from singer to musical actress?
 (B) Singing my own songs and doing a musical have very different feels. Actually, in going back to your first question, performing in my first musical “Peppermint” was also quite memorable, because when I was younger, I had two dreams. The first was to become a musical actress and the second was to be a singer. Though I became a singer first, I think my ultimate dream was to become a musical actress. So for me personally, transitioning from a singer to a musical actress felt very natural. 
In a cultural sense, however, as someone who used to sing pop songs for one section of the general public, and who is currently acting in a musical for another, I want to play a sort of hybridizing role by bringing the two worlds together. 
 (JH) So it seems safe to say that you have achieved your dreams. Maybe it is time for you to relax?
 (B) (laughs) The important thing to remember here is that there are way too many competitive people here [for that]. 
I’ve found that in order to have a truly successful performance, I need to constantly be studying and developing my acting and singing skills. That requires performing and learning as much as I can while working alongside a variety of truly talented, gifted and more experienced actors. I’ve noticed that it takes a lot of effort [to achieve and continue living my dream]. 
In my opinion, working in any artistic field requires the same sort of hard work. In order to stay on top in a particular field, you need to be diligent and focused on staying balanced. I think that having a dream and the passion to work towards that dream is also a very important attitude to have
 On another note, I don’t think it is accurate to say that someone has accomplished their dream. In my opinion, I think it is more accurate to say that we are walking alongside or standing in front of our dream. To say that someone has accomplished their dream seems somewhat unlikely, because the shape and quality of our dreams are constantly changing. As we grow, so do our dreams. 
 (JH) Speaking of dreams, you are currently preparing for the Asian tour of the musical “200 Pounds Beauty,” whose main theme of beauty being prized over musical talent is something that probably hits home for you.
 (B) Of course. It is a message that I think everyone in the world can probably relate to. 
 (JH) Could you elaborate?
 (B) Well, let’s see. It is about a very fat and ugly girl, Kang Han-byul (Kang Han-na in the film) who has a beautiful singing voice. Unfortunately, because of her physical appearance, she is unable to stand on stage as a singer, but instead, has to sing off-stage for a lip-syncing singer. She ultimately chooses to undergo full-body plastic surgery. After the surgery she is given the opportunity to go on stage and live out her dream as the beautiful singer, “Jenny.” 
The important thing to remember is that what gave her value as a singer did not come from her extensive surgery, but rather it was inside her all along. Her beautiful voice, an innate, natural quality, is what gave her value. 
The point of the story is that we all have our own insecurities, but such insecurities are nothing compared to our inner value. This story teaches us to learn to love ourselves for who we are. 
 (JH) So other than the overseas performance of “200 Pounds Beauty”, what else are you working on?
 (B) Well I am coming out with a new single, and much like what I mentioned earlier about dreams, the song is about the differences in people’s values.
 As part of the concept, the music video features an eastern woman and a western male as a couple, as well as a very tall woman with a very short man. As you know, everyone places values on different things. 
I believe it is a concept that the whole world can kind of relate to, so for this single, I’ve chosen to work with an all-foreign cast - including Marco Tessiore the director, the actors taking part in the music video and other staff members. In fact, for the most part, I was the only Asian person on set. 
Although I know many Korean directors who could have done a great job with the concept, my producer, J-Path suggested and introduced me to Marco Tessiore to provide a fresh perspective. As a Korean singer, my producer and I wanted to create a product with a global concept that is clear to everyone, something that transcends nationality.
 While working with Marco, I’ve noticed that he was able to take an ordinary and make it an extraordinary, creative idea. Through working with him, I have found that I learned a lot, and through this experience, this particular project became more fun and special to me. 
 (JH)Any special message you’d like to share with our readers?
 (B) Of course! I would like the Junior Herald readers to know that it is important to be aware of your dreams and using your innate value to work toward your desires. I hope that by watching my new music video, it helps you realize your dream so that you may achieve your fullest potential. 
