Masayoshi Son
 “Anything you can think of, I have thought about. ... Don’t rule out anything” - Masayoshi Son, SoftBank CEO
Masayoshi Son (Korean name: Son Jeong-ui), the founder and Chief Executive Officer of SoftBank, recently announced the acquisition of a 70 percent stake in Sprint, the third-largest wireless carrier in the United States. The deal, worth more than $20 billion, is the biggest and the boldest move yet by the brash entrepreneur known for his calculating strategic thinking and maverick managerial style. Under Son’s guidance, SoftBank reached exhilarating heights and crushing depths in its 30-year existence. When explaining his latest business venture, the unflappable Son declared, “I am a man, and every man wants to be No. 1.”
Masayoshi son was in fact very close to being No. 1 once -- on the world’s wealthiest list. During the peak of the worldwide dotcom boom in the late 1990’s, SoftBank was worth $180 billion, and Son’s personal wealth was estimated at $78 billion, second only to Bill Gates of Microsoft. In the dotcom crash of 2000, Son lost $70 billion and became the person who lost the most money in history. Like a phoenix rising from ashes, Son and SoftBank persevered. Today he is the second richest man in Japan with a personal fortune in excess of $8 billion. 
Masayoshi Son was born in 1957 in Tosu on the southern Japanese island of Kyushu. His family was Zainichi Korean, which refers to Koreans who have “temporarily” settled in Japan, even though they have lived there for more than two generations. Son’s family adopted the Japanese surname Yasumoto in daily life as a first step toward obtaining citizenship and to avoid discrimination. As a child, Son suffered intense racism and prejudice that he later said “left a blackness inside” him. In 1990, Son became a Japanese citizen without taking on a Japanese surname. He had his Japanese wife legally change her surname to “Son” so that it could be entered into the national surname registry as a Japanese surname; with that, Son kept his Korean surname as he became a Japanese citizen.
Son attended the University of California in Berkeley and majored in economics and studied computer science. As an undergraduate, he partnered with Forrest Mozer and developed a sound-translation device capable of converting Japanese into English and German. He sold the technology to Sharp Corporation for $1 million and used the proceeds to start a company that would eventually become SoftBank. In 1981, Son returned to Japan to build his telecommunications empire.
Son started Softbank, Inc. -- a business that distributed software and computer-related publications -- to provide services in response to the emergence of small computers. By using computer magazines to explain and introduce his products to potential buyers, SoftBank became the top software distributor in Japan. By the early 1990’s, Son became a major computer industry power broker with control over a third of Japan’s software market, and a media mogul with the world’s leading technology publishing company.
Son expanded SoftBank rapidly and aggressively through mergers and acquisitions with the goal of turning the company into a dominant broad band service provider and a digital technology giant in Japan and beyond. He acquired a substantial stake in Yahoo and profitably sold off pieces of it to finance other deals, including Japan Telecom, Nippon Credit Bank, and Vodafone K. K. After the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, Son started to invest in a nation-wide solar power network for Japan.
Masayoshi Son is actively engaged in philanthropy; in fact, he was the biggest individual donor to the earthquake relief efforts after last year’s Fukushima disaster. He gave $125 million to several organizations including Japanese Red Cross and pledged all his future Softbank salaries to support earthquake orphans. He also promised that SoftBank would cover the living costs for 1,200 residents of Tamura, a city severely affected by the nuclear disaster. 
