Violence is necessary for political change
Pro 
There is a phrase “necessary evil,” to describe something that is not desirable but is preferable to any other option. The same goes with violence, and this has been proven throughout history.
Gandhi or Martin Luther King Jr, for example, would not have risen against power if they had not met with some sort of violence. What they needed was not a peaceful transition, but a tougher one, and violence from those with vested interests initiated the revolution. In that sense, violence did not block the change but instead accelerated it.
Furthermore, development -- be it political, social or historical -- has always been met with violence. In other words, many significant changes have been brought about, not by peaceful protest, but by violence. I am not saying I consider violence to be good, but saying that it cannot be avoided.
People in the Middle East -- Libya, Syria and more -- are vanishing these days with violence waged by the government. It is not ideal, but for a regime change there, violence is a realistic and plausible option.
Con 
In this age of pretense, governments with hidden agendas and machinations pull adroit guises, appearing to be progressive and faithful to civil rights. However, it is the unfortunate, unflinching truth that most governments use violent aggression to neutralize any dissidents. 
Violence, of course, is effective, some might even say integral, to ensuring order and at least a veil of peace. However, in this era of growing human rights, some question its role in political change.
To alter any organization or ideal, force is needed; however, when the use of violence is acceptable is controversial. Violence is often used in law enforcement, and to counter the seemingly aggressive government, dissident groups also have a tendency to use violence. This can easily escalate into a crisis with higher casualties on both sides, greatly exaggerated statements, and extreme levels of tension. Such an environment is fatal to proactive change.
Simply put, both sides lose. Neither party gains anything, possibly with the exception of a weak third party that might take advantage of the weakening of both sides. Mutual concessions are impossible. But in the case for passive resistance, if you deprive a dystopian society of expendable party members and laborers, it will rapidly decline, forcing the government to accept the demands. 
Nonviolent resistance seems highly inert and ineffective, and admittedly is rather slow starting, but as it gains momentum, the population will realize that there are things which are worth fighting for without violence. 
