Nov. 14: Cookie Day
Every month on the 14th, Koreans have a different way of expressing their love for friends, family and significant others. It all began with the celebration of Valentine’s Day in February. Soon, people began celebrating different themes on the 14th of every month. White Day in March, Black Day in April, Rose Day in May, etc.
In November, there are two ways to celebrate with friends and loved ones; Movie Day and Cookie Day. Movie Day is easy enough to celebrate; all it takes is going to a theater. For a more personal celebration, why not make your own cookies for Cookie Day? Who wouldn’t love a delicious cookie from a friend or loved one, especially if it is hand-made? 
To that end, here are some easy-to-follow recipes you can try out:
S’mores
A tasty and easy alternative to cookies are s’mores! An American camping tradition, s’mores are usually made and consumed around a campfire but are easy enough to make from the comfort of your house!
Ingredients:
　8 digestive biscuits
　16 squares chocolate
　1 packet of marshmallows
Instructions:
　1. Place 8 biscuits on a plate. 
　2. Place 2 pieces of chocolate on each biscuit and fill the gaps with marshmallows. 
　3. Microwave each biscuit for about 15 seconds until the chocolate has melted. 
　4. Top with another biscuit and serve. Make sure the chocolate has cooled before eating. 
3-ingredient peanut butter cookies+
These simple cookies can be made with just three ingredients! For a little variety, you can also spread some Nutella (a chocolate-hazelnut spread available at E-Mart) on one side and create a cookie sandwich.
Ingredients:
　1 cup peanut butter
　1 cup white sugar
　1 egg
Instructions:
　1. Preheat oven to 180 degrees Celsius. 
　2. Line a baking tray with baking paper and set aside.
　3. Place all ingredients into a bowl and combine well. (If your mixture is a little too dry you can add a few drops of milk to moisten it.)
　4. Roll tablespoon sized balls and place on the tray. Push down each one with a fork.
　5. Bake for 10-15 minutes at 180 degrees Celsius. Leave to cool on the tray for 5 minutes and then further cool on a wire rack.
Sugar Cookies+
It is hard to go wrong with the classic sugar cookie. Easy enough to make, sugar cookies are a delicious treat that everyone can enjoy. From themed cookies to plain ones, these cookies can be made all-year-round for any holiday or special occasion celebration. You can decorate these cookies to suit your tastes using cookie cutters, colored sugar sprinkles, frosting and more! 
Ingredients:
　1 cup softened butter or margarine
　1 cup sugar
　1 egg
　1 teaspoon vanilla extract
　2 cups flour
　2 teaspoons baking powder
Instructions:
　1. Preheat oven to 200 degrees Celsius.
　2. In large mixing bowl, cream butter, sugar, egg and vanilla extract, until blended. 
　3. Add flour and baking powder and mix well. 
　4. Once mixed you can choose what shape you want your cookies to be. To make traditional round sugar cookies, scoop out teaspoons full of dough, roll into small balls and flatten with fork to about 1/4-inch thickness. 
　5. Sprinkle lightly with sugar or colored sprinkles for fun. Bake 7-8 minutes until just starting to brown around the edges.
Easy Butter Cookies!+
Although these aren’t the healthiest of options, butter cookies are delicious all the same. Similar to sugar cookies, these rich, buttery cookies are great as either a dessert or snack. 
Ingredients:
　1/2 cup of butter (or margarine)
　1 cup flour
　5 tablespoons of sugar
　1/4 teaspoon salt
　1 teaspoon vanilla
Instructions:
　1. Preheat oven to 180 degrees Celsius.
　2. Mix ingredients together and roll into balls.
　3. Press down with a fork.
　4. Sprinkle a little sugar on top of each cookie.
　5. Bake for about 10 minutes.
+ requires oven
EASY CONVERSION CHART:
Butter:
　1 cup = 225 grams
Sugar
　1 cup = 201 grams
Flour:
　1 cup = 128 grams
HOW TO SOFTEN BUTTER
The best way to soften butter is to leave it at room temperature for 30 to 45 minutes. To speed up the process, you can cut up the butter into smaller pieces. Softened butter should yield slightly when you press on it gently. Over-softened butter can lead to flat and shapeless cookies.
