Study offers new method of keeping weight off after diet
One of the biggest obstacles people face after losing weight is keeping it off. While most people tend to learn how to avoid regaining the weight after losing it, a new study suggests learning how to do so before actually shedding any pounds may be more effective in the long run.
Known as “yo-yo dieting,” people who have successfully lost the desired amount of weight tend to have a difficult time keeping the weight off for extended periods of time. 
“Long-term maintenance [of weight loss] remains elusive,” the researchers wrote.
According to WebMD, people typically regain 30 to 50 percent of the weight lost in the first year after stopping their weight loss program. 
Though most dieticians and trainers tend to provide helpful information about keeping the weight off after successfully losing it, researchers considered what would happen if people were given a chance to practice the skills needed to maintain their weight loss before worrying about actually losing weight. 
The study involved enrolling 267 overweight or obese women into two separate weight loss programs; one was “maintenance-first,” and the other “weight loss-first.” 
Both groups met for 28 weeks and had identical weight loss methods. The only difference between the two groups was that the maintenance-first group spent the first eight weeks learning how to keep the weight off by learning problem-solving skills while the weight loss-first group did so in the last eight weeks. The maintenance-first group was also told not to lose any weight during the first eight weeks. 
“Losing a significant amount of weight requires a lot of focused attention to what you’re doing, and most people can’t keep up that intensity over the long term,” the study’s lead author Michaela Kiernan, Ph.D. told ScienceDaily. 
“For weight maintenance, we wanted something that would make the day-to-day experience positive while not requiring overwhelming amounts of effort.” 
The study found that at the end of the 28-week program, both groups lost a similar amount of weight. When they were weighed a year later, however, the maintenance-first women had only regained 1.35 kilograms on average, while the weight-loss-first women regained 3 kilograms on average. 
