Free lunch for all?
I think free lunch should be provided to all elementary school students.
First of all, if free lunch is provided to only a fraction of students, it is discrimination against students who do not get the free lunch. Just because they have parents who earn fair amount of money, it does not mean these students are okay to skip the free lunch unlike many of their friends. The situation will eventually create a gulf between students who receive the free lunch, those who only get part of the lunch fees paid for and those who get none. It would cause unnecessary tension between students and would hamper class unity. 
Secondly, at the moment, the Seoul Metropolitan city is offering partial free lunch program to only students in elementary grades 1-4. I think this is discrimination against fifth- and sixth-graders. Therefore, to make the policy fair and maintain equality in the implementation of the program, we need comprehensive adoption of free lunches. 
Last but not least, the Korean government’s spending on child welfare is around 12 trillion won a year and this is 8 trillion won less than the average spent by nations with per capita income over $20,000. Korea is a developed country with per capita income over $20,000. It needs to increase its welfare spending in tandem with its elevated status in the global economy. 
Therefore, I believe the Korean society should choose free lunches for all students. 
By Um Yoon-sun (uys@heraldm.com) 
I think free lunch should only be provided to some elementary school students.
 The universal free meal program may sound good in theory, but in reality, it is highly impractical. First of all, providing free lunches to all students will cost taxpayers too much money. The money used to pay for the free meals will come out of citizens’ pockets, which means that taxes will be raised. In today’s cash-strapped economy, who can afford to may more taxes?
 A second reason is that students from wealthier families do not need the benefit of free lunches. 
The free meal program is meant to lessen the burden on working-class or jobless parents who are unable to provide packed lunches for their children. Students from the more wealthy families do not have this problem. They can afford to send their children off to school with well-packed lunches. 
A third reason why the universal free meal program is a bad idea is that by focusing on quantity over quality, the students may end up suffering from unhealthy diets.
 If we reduce the number of children receiving free meals, we could ensure that the quality of the lunches would remain high. If too many students’ lunches have to be paid for, the cost of having to supply that much food could cause administrators and the government officials in charge to choose to choose cheaper, less healthy food.
 Therefore, for the sake of our children’s health and tax payers’ pockets, the free meal program should be available to only those who truly need it. In other words, it should be selective, not universal. 
