Athletes who became politicians
Professional athletes rely on their physical skills and mental toughness to thrive in competition; but great athletes have something extra. They possess certain qualities that make them stand out among others -- they value teamwork, they know how to overcome adversity, and they have the unique ability to lead and inspire others. Some athletes have been able to parlay those qualities into successful political careers after their playing days were over.
Bill Bradley - Bradley was one of the first high-profile professional athlete to enter politics in the United States. The Princeton graduate was an All-American basketball player, an Olympic champion, and the College basketball Player of the Year while he was in school. He studied two years at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar and served in the U.S. Air Force Reserves before becoming an NBA player. He played for the New York Knicks for 10 seasons, won two championships, and was elected into the NBA Hall of Fame. Bradley was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1978 and served nearly 20 years. He ran for the U.S. presidency in 2000 but lost the Democratic Party nomination to Al Gore.
Sebastian Coe -  Coe was one of the greatest British middle distance runners in the 1980’s. He won four Olympic medals and set numerous indoor and outdoor world records in 800-meter and 1,500-meter events.  Following his retirement from athletics, Coe entered politics and became a Member of Parliament for the Conservative Party from 1992?97.  He headed the successful London bid to host the 2012 Summer Olympics and became chairman of the London Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games. 
Arnold Schwarzenegger - Most people know him as the Hollywood superstar of the “Terminator” movies, but Schwarzenegger was also one of the most successful professional body builders in history. He won the Mr. Universe title at age 20 and went on to win the Mr. Olympia contest seven times. In 2003, he was elected in a special re-call election as a Republican candidate and became governor of California, the largest state in the U.S. He was re-elected to a second term in 2006 and served out his term in January 2011.
Manny Pacquiao - The national hero of the Philippines is considered the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world. He is the first eight-division world champion (ten titles overall) in boxing history. He is a three-time winner of the “Fighter of the Year” award, and was named the “Fighter of the Decade” for the 2000’s. Pacquiao ran for the Philippines’ House of Representatives in 2007 but lost to the incumbent. In 2010, he ran as a member of the Nacionalista Party in the Sarangani Province and won a landslide victory.
Sachin Tendulkar - The Indian cricketer is considered by some to be the greatest batsman in the history of the sport. He is the only cricketer to score a hundred centuries (a score of 100 or more runs in a single inning by a batsman) in international cricket, which includes 49 one-day international cricket (ODI) and 51 Test centuries. In April, 2012, Tendulkar accepted an appointment by the president of India and became the first active sportsman and cricketer in India to be appointed to the Rajya Sabha, India’s upper house of parliament. 
Gianni Rivera The former star of Serie-A side AC Milan played on four Italian World Cup teams from 1962 to 1974. He was also on the team that won Italy’s first European Football Championship in 1968. In 1969, he won the prestigious Ballon d’Or award (the Golden Ball) as the European Footballer of the Year. After retiring from football, Rivera became the first Italian footballer to join parliament as a member of the leftist L’Ulivo Party. He later served as the under-secretary of defense and is currently a member of the European Parliament. 
