Osamu Tezuka’s ‘Jungle Emperor Leo’ returns!
On Nov. 8, 2012, a digitally remastered, Korean-dubbed “Jungle Emperor Leo” was released into theaters nationwide, much to the delight of fans both old and new. 
First released in 1997, “Jungle Emperor Leo” is an animated film focusing on the last half of Osamu Tezuka’s beloved manga series, “Jungle Taitei” (known in the United States as “Kimba the White Lion”). The series was loved by many fans worldwide, its TV show adaptation having been translated into numerous languages. 
The 1997 film itself has been digitally remastered following a recent trend toward reviving past popular films for new audiences. Disney’s “The Lion King,” for example, was re-released in 3-D in 2011. Much like these Hollywood classics, “Jungle Emperor Leo” has also been revamped to keep up with the HD quality of modern films to appeal to a new, younger audience while allowing its older fans to reminisce about when they first fell in love with Leo and his life in the jungle.
The plot of this film follows the adult life of Leo as he attempts to maintain his rule over the jungle while also helping his wife, Lyra, raise their two cubs, Lune and Lukkio. The beginning of the film shows grand celebrations in the jungle world as the animal kingdom welcomes Leo and Lyra’s cubs into the world. 
In the human world, on the other hand, a man named Ham Egg is shown trying to sell a special stone he found in the jungle to various jewelers and pawn shops. The stone, it turns out, is called the “Moonlight Stone,” and is made of a valuable mineral that could be used as a power source and save the world from an impending energy crisis. Upon discovery of the Moonlight Stone’s special powers, Ham Egg gets hired to help lead a scientific group to find the source of the Moonlight Stone to salvage and be used to help humanity. Once they arrive in the jungle, however, the greedy Ham Egg only cares about destroying the jungle and shooting any animal he comes across. As Leo struggles to protect the animals of the jungle from Ham Egg’s sinister actions and a deadly disease that seems to be affecting the animals, his family begins to fall apart as well.
Will Leo be able to keep his family safe while also bringing peace to the jungle and the humans? Or will all hope be lost?
