 Ahn Jung-geun
Ahn Jung-geun is one of the most revered figures in modern Korean history. He was an independence activist who earnestly resisted Japan’s suffocating and brutal controls over the Korean peninsula following the signing of the Eulsa Treaty. Ahn was best known for assassinating Itō Hirobumi, the first prime minister of Japan and the first Japanese Resident-General of Korea. He was also a visionary whose idea for the formation of an East Asian Union between Korea, China, and Japan to fight off the encroachment of Western powers was ahead of its time.
Ahn was born in 1879 -- during the waning years of Korea’s Joseon Dynasty -- in Haeju, Hwanghae-do. He studied Chinese classic literature, neo-Confucian thinking, and sciences as a child. He converted to Christianity in his teenage years and was baptized into the Catholic faith in 1897, receiving the baptismal name Thomas. Ahn worked several years as a Catholic missionary and was active in protesting Japan’s increasing influence and control over Korea. In 1906, he founded two schools -- the Donghee School and the Samheung School -- and served as principals in both. 
After the signing of the Eulsa Treaty in 1905, Korea became a protectorate of Japan. Itō Hirobumi, the architect of Japan’s Meiji Restoration, was appointed the first Japanese Resident-General of Korea. Independence activists and nationalists like Ahn found life under Japanese control increasingly detestable and unbearable. In 1907, Ahn exiled himself to Vladivostok to join the armed resistance against the Japanese colonial rulers. He was appointed a lieutenant general of an armed Korean resistance group and led several missions against Japanese forces without much success. 
In the autumn of 1909, Ahn discovered that Itō Hirobumi was traveling to Harbin, Manchuria, for a meeting with the Finance Minister of the Russian Empire. A plan was hatched to assassinate the Japanese statesman as he stepped off the train at Harbin Station. On October 26, 1909, Ahn, dressed as a civilian and carrying a Browning pistol concealed in a lunch box, waited for his chance. As Ito stepped off the train, Ahn slipped past the guards, approached to within 5 meters and emptied his gun on Ito and his entourage. Ahn, an expert marksman, did not waste a single bullet -- Ito was hit three times, and four accompanying officials were each hit once, accounting for all seven bullets the gun held.
After the shooting, Ahn did not attempt to escape. He unfurled a Korean flag with “Korean Independence” written in blood. He shouted “Корея! Ура!” -- a cheer for Korean independence in Russian -- as he was arrested by Russian guards. Two days later, Ahn was turned over to the Japanese, charged as a criminal assassin, and sentenced to death. Ahn never pleaded for his life in prison; instead, he only asked to be treated as a prisoner of war and be executed by firing squad. In court, Ahn listed 15 crimes Ito had committed which compelled him to kill Ito. His list of charges against Ito included the plundering of Korean resources, the massacre of innocent Koreans, and the assassination of the Korean Empress Myeongseong.
While in prison awaiting execution, Ahn laid out his vision for restoring peace in Asia. In his essay “On Peace in East Asia,” he envisioned a union of the three great countries in East Asia -- Korea, China and Japan -- banding together to counter the “White Peril” of European colonialism. His writings, though never finished, demonstrated the kind of forward thinking similar to those that led to the formation of ASEAN and the European Union. On March 26, 1910, Ahn was executed by hanging in Port Arthur. The Japanese buried his remains in secret, and his grave has never been found.
In 1962, the Korean government bestowed the nation’s most prestigious civil decoration -- The Order of Merit for National Foundation -- posthumously, on patriot and national hero Ahn Jung-geun.
