99 hot spots announced by KTO Part 4: South Jeolla Province
South Jeolla Province in the southwest of the Korean Peninsula is bounded by the Yellow Sea on the west and by the Jeju Strait on the south. On the east it is bordered by South Gyeongsang Province. There are approximately 2,000 islands along the coastline, which stretches about 6,100 km. The land in the province is warm and fertile with much farmable land, making agriculture one of the major industries. The annual food festival in Suncheon highlights some of the best foods in Korea.
Suncheonman
Suncheonman (Suncheon Bay) is a coastal wetland, which consists of a 3.5 km long river, a 2,221 ha wide tideland and 230 hectares of reeds. The bay is best known for the Suncheon Bay Ecological Park, which is a protected natural area having the biggest reed bed in Korea. In autumn in particular, reed blossoms and migratory birds make the area a hot tourist attraction.
Boseong Green Tea Field
Boseong County (Boseong-gun) is a county famous for its green tea leaves. Green tea produced in the region was recognized as a special beverage suitable for an astronaut‘s diet, after having passed strict quality inspection of the Russian Medical Biology Lab. About 40 percent of the nation’s tea is produced in Boseong County. Boseong Green Tea Festival, which is held in May each year, celebrates and promotes the local tea. The festival features tea leaf picking, green tea making and the Miss Tea pageant.
Ttangkkeut Village
The local town is located at Songho-ri, Songji-myeon, Haenam County in South Jeolla Province. Ttangkkeut (땅끝) is the southernmost area of the Korean Peninsula. It is also called Tomal, which means the edge of the land in Korean. A lot of tourists, both Korean and foreign, visit this village to say they have reached the end of Korea. Accordingly, this village has long become a hot destination in Haenam County. At the Sajabong peak, you can have a panoramic view of the whole land-end area at an observatory which stands 38 meters tall.
