Should your desk always be neatly arranged?
YES - Students have their own desks at school, but they use them in their own way. Some students prefer to leave their desk clean, while others would leave it dirty. I think, the desk should always be neatly arranged for better study.
First of all, it is evident that you can study better with a clean desk. If you keep your surroundings neat, you will be able to concentrate more on studying. In my class, students who keep their desks tidy are really good at studying, whereas those who do not show lower performance.
In addition, tidy desks make the will for study stronger. So, a neat desk is a must for those who want to sit there and do it for a long time.
Lastly, there will no space to arrange learning tools unless the desk is kept organized. You should move unnecessary items to drawers or wall lockers and have items that are really needed at the time, making work more efficient.
In summary, work at your desk should start when everything is ready in its place. So you should make a habit of cleaning up your desk. I hope you will feel refreshed every time you open up your book at your desk.
By JH Student Reporter Lim Hyo-jin
(2nd Grade, Shinheong Girls’ Middle School)
NO - Some people might insist on keeping everything neat and tidy when they are studying. But did you ever think that this idea could actually distract you before and while studying? Here is why I think keeping your desk neat is not the best way to improve study.
First, you may be distracted even before you start if you choose to clean up your surroundings. You might locate an object that you have been looking for for a long time. Chances are that you will forget about your plan for studying. Even when this is not the case, you might have already lost your appetite for study.
Second, you will remember studying as a more difficult job than it actually is, because you will have spent all your energy making things neat and tidy. You are likely to lose your interest in studying.
So we must find a balance between studying and cleaning. Try to keep your desk clean when you have spare time, for example before you go to sleep. Then, the next day, you will find studying more enjoyable.
