Obama’s victory in U.S. presidential election
The U.S. President Barack Obama won over Mitt Romney on Nov. 7 and became the country’s 45th President.
Obama’s victory was confirmed with wins in Ohio and the President’s home of Iowa, and then people gathered around the White House chanted “four more years” and “O-bama, O-bama.”
News reports said that Hollywood stars took to Twitter en masse to welcome Obama’s victory.
“I’m proud of where I come from ... but I’m even more proud of where we are going,” said singer and producer will.i.am, one of Obama’s most vocal supporters, to AFP.
The pop diva Lady Gaga wrote in her tweet: “CONGRATULATIONS MR. PRESIDENT @BarackObama We are so proud to be American tonight! YES!!! YES! YES!!”
President Obama’s victory tweet makes history
According to the U.K. daily The Independent, Obama’s tweet including a picture of him embracing his wife Michelle, went global almost instantly, and within just a couple of hours it became the most retweeted message since Twitter began in March 2006.
At the time of writing the tweet has received 562,917 retweets and 189,381 "favourites" on Twitter, said the daily.
Another tweet from the President’s account also gained worldwide attention, with over 225,000 retweets, the daily explained.
Meanwhile, Republican nominee Romney called the U.S. leader to concede and congratulate Obama’s team.
Obama said in his speech in return that the Romney camp had chosen to give back to the country through public service, which the president called a legacy that people honor and applaud.
Obama won re-election with a fiercely negative campaign, as he branded Romney, a former multi-millionaire, as indifferent to the woes of the middle class, AFP explained.
Experts believe that the re-elected President will face a significant economic task upon his new inauguration.
The biggest challenge of all is “to put the U.S. economy back on track.” The government debt has recently topped $16 trillion and keeps growing due to the continued fiscal deficit. Another major challenge for him is job creation, say the experts.
Bloomberg Businessweek even posted a picture of “aging Obama” at its cover, explaining how harsh the new task given to him is going to be.
Part of the victor’s speech - The best is yet to come
Tonight, in this election, you, the American people, reminded us that while our road has been hard, while our journey has been long, we have picked ourselves up, we have fought our way back, and we know in our hearts that for the United States of America the best is yet to come. ...
I just spoke with Gov. Romney and I congratulated him and Paul Ryan on a hard-fought campaign. We may have battled fiercely, but it’s only because we love this country deeply and we care so strongly about its future. ...
Our economy is recovering. A decade of war is ending. A long campaign is now over. And whether I earned your vote or not, I have listened to you, I have learned from you, and you’ve made me a better president. And with your stories and your struggles, I return to the White House more determined and more inspired than ever about the work there is to do and the future that lies ahead.
