Eating in restaurants = more calories
For kids, eating out in restaurants leads to higher calorie intake, say researchers at the University of Illinois. 
Although most people know that eating at fast-food restaurants will most likely lead to unhealthy eating, a recent study found that regularly eating at full-service restaurants can be equally bad for your health.
Researchers at the University of Illinois used data from nationally-representative health surveys conducted in the United States between 2003 and 2008. Using the data collected from more than 4,000 children and 4,700 teenagers, researchers found that adolescents ate and drank an extra 310 calories on days they ate at a fast-food restaurant and 267 calories on days they ate at a full-service restaurant. On average, younger kids consumed 126 and 160 calories more, respectively. 
Lead researcher Lisa Powell told Reuters Health that “The additional calories and the additional sugar and saturated fat and sodium that are taken in and consistently taken in will have some longer-term consequences,” such as increased risk of obesity and diabetes. 
In fact, eating out resulted in the consumption of 13 percent more sugar, 22 percent more total fat, 25 percent more saturated fat and 17 percent more salt than recommended. 
Powell stressed the need for “policies that promote healthier food choices, rather than one[s] that promote unhealthy food choices.”
“We also need to change the environment in the restaurant,” Powell added. Such changes include not offering free refills on soda and adding healthier food options in the menus. 
The study also found that on days when kids went to a fast food or sit-in restaurant for a meal, those from lower income families tended to get the most extra calories.
“This is something that we really should be worried about, because this is going to increase health disparities among different socioeconomic groups,” Powell said. 
The study was published on Nov. 5 in the Archive of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. 
