Temporary blackouts put Korea in darkness
South Korea experienced blackouts across the nation on the afternoon of Sept. 15 due to a sudden increase in the nation’s energy demand, government authorities claimed. 
 The bounce in demand forced the country’s sole electricity provider Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEPCO) to temporarily cut the supply of its power in many parts of Korea. The blackouts caused jitters all across the nation; mobile phone services, including Internet and wireless-fidelity networks were interrupted and several traffic lights in Seoul went off.
 The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, a government agency that handles energy-related affairs commented that the power failures were caused as many power plants, such as nuclear reactors, were temporarily closed for regular maintenance and energy demand skyrocketed due to unusually warm weather. 
 “Thirty minutes of temporary power cuts were inevitable,” Choi Joong-kyung, Minister of Knowledge Economy explained during a meeting at the National Assembly on Sept. 16. He apologized for the national blackout and promised that the administration would try its hardest to prevent future power shortages.
 KEPCO pointed out that around 1.62 million households had experienced temporary blackouts around 6:30 p.m. on Sept. 15. In addition, operations at 417 bank branches were disrupted along with the services of automated teller machines temporarily halted by the power failures. 
 According to the Financial Supervisory Service, only 304 branches’ operations were back to normal by 7 p.m. and thankfully, no serious damage was reported from most companies. Some financial institutions made good use of their emergency programs during the blackout. 
 The state-run power distributor, Korea Power Exchange (KPX) cut power supplies for approximately half an hour from 3:30 p.m. because the country’s electricity reserve rate plunged to as low as 6 percent, below the marginal level of 7 percent. KPX pledged to secure additional power through demand control and voltage adjustment to keep the electricity reserve rate at 8 percent.
 Ministry officials warned that if further power reserve shortages broke out, days or even weeks of repair would be needed, and requested citizens and companies to limit their power usage as much as possible in the following days and remain vigilant against future power shortages. 
