‘La Luce’ concert by Jo su-mi greets local opera lovers
Soprano Jo Su-mi filled the night of Nov. 6 at the Seoul Arts Center’s Opera House with her shining arias. 
The concert, “La Luce,” was held at 8 p.m. in southern Seoul. A wide range of music, from arias, classic orchestra performances and musical numbers, to choir, tango and jazz pieces embellished the serene autumn night. 
At the concert, the singer-turned musical star, Ok Ju-hyun and famous musical singer Im Tae-kyung performed. Im sang a duet with Jo while Ok joined them for a trio performance. Korea Herald English Youth Choir (KHEYC) also participated in the concert, singing alongside the world-class coloratura, Jo.
Jo sang pieces from her latest album, “La Luce,” which contains classic songs by Russian composer Igor Krutoy. He wrote the song that Jo sang at the opening of the 11th Winter Asian Games in Kazakhstan, 2011. She also presented well-known songs from her repertoire such as, “Music of the Night” from the musical “Phantom of the Opera,” as well as other favorites from the musical, “Elisabeth,” and operetta “The Merry Widow.”
The show was a true combination of “classic meets pop.” 
The soprano once shared her hope of embracing both classical music fans as well as fans of other music genres. “(People) instantly think that classical music concerts will be boring or require an extremely stiff sitting posture. But I hope people will enjoy my concert and return with joy and fun.” 
The singer has been working as the cultural ambassador of the new wave of Korean classical music, known as K-Classic. She recently finished “We are Friends Concert with Sumi Jo,” successfully in Hanoi, celebrating Korea and Vietnam’s 20 years of diplomatic relations. She also performed at Paraguay and Argentina in September to mark diplomatic ties with the two nations. 
Established in 2011, the Korea Herald English Youth Choir has offered the participating students an invaluable chance to develop their characters through a form of music.
The choir carries out music lessons and practices in English and last year it recorded the theme song of Yeosu Expo, “Memories of the Sea.”
