Unsportsmanlike conduct
Most sports celebrities live charmed lives. They are gifted, famous, wealthy and adored. They reach the top of their chosen sports through a combination of sheer talent, mental toughness, tireless work ethic, and single-minded dedication. Many of them serve as role models for millions of their admiring fans. However, sports celebrities are human, too. They make mistakes, and sometimes, they run afoul of the law just like everyone else. While some of them experienced legal troubles that result in nothing more than a slap on the wrist; others faced more far-reaching consequences. 
Pete Rose (Baseball) ? Rose is the all-time Major League Baseball leader with 4,256 base hits -- a record unlikely to be broken anytime soon. He won three World Series rings, three batting titles, one Most Valuable Player Award, two Gold Gloves, the Rookie of the Year Award, and made 17 All-Star appearances at an unequaled five different positions. In 1990, he was sentenced to five months in prison for income tax evasion. He was also banned from baseball and the Baseball Hall of Fame for gambling on baseball games while playing for and managing the Cincinnati Reds.
Floyd Mayweather Jr. (Boxing) ?  Mayweather is undefeated as a professional boxer and is a five-division world champion who has won eight world titles. He is also rated as the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world by many sporting news and boxing experts. He tops the Forbes list of the 50 highest-paid athletes of 2012 with $85 million.  In December, 2011, he was sentenced to six months in jail for misdemeanor battery, domestic violence and harassment relating to a 2010 incident with the mother of his children.  
Michael Vick (American Football) ? Vick is an American football quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League (NFL). He became the first African-American quarterback to be selected first overall in an NFL Draft when the Atlanta Falcons made him their number one pick in 2001. In 2007, federal authorities charged Vick with operating an unlawful interstate dog fighting ring. He was accused of financing the operation, directly participating in organizing dog fights, and personally executing dogs that did not fight well. He was sentenced to 23 months in prison. 
Guus Hiddink (Football) ? Hiddink is a Dutch football manager and former player. He is currently the manager of the Russian side FC Anzhi Makhachkala. He is one of the best and the highest-paid managers of his generation. He is a beloved figure in Korea for guiding the Korean National Team to a Final-Four appearance in the 2002 World Cup. In 2007 Hiddink was given a six-month suspended jail sentence and fined 45,000 euros after a Dutch court found him guilty of tax fraud.
Kim Dong-hyun (K-League) ? Kim was a former K-League, J-League, Portuguese Liga, Russian Premier League, and Korean National Team football player. The talented striker was nicknamed “Korea’s Vieri” for his combination of speed and power. In June 2011, Kim was arrested on charges of accepting bribes from brokers to fix the outcome of football games. He was sentenced to a three-year jail term, suspended for five years. In May 2012, Kim was arrested for abducting a woman in an attempt to collect a ransom. He was later sentenced and sent to prison for six years. 
Nan Yong/Xie Yalong (Chinese Football) ? Nan Yong, the former director of the Chinese Football Administrative Center, was charged with 17 counts of taking bribes worth 235,000 U.S. dollars to fix outcomes of matches. Xie Yalong, the former Director of the Football Administrative Center and Executive deputy chairman of the Chinese Football Association, was charged with 12 counts of accepting bribes totaling $273,000, also for fixing matches. Both were high-ranking officials in Chinese sports who wielded a lot of power and influence; both were caught up in the nation’s anti-graft campaign; and both were sentenced to 10-1/2 years in prison.
