Yu Gwan-sun
 “We herewith proclaim the independence of Korea and the liberty of the Korean people. We tell it to the world in witness of the equality of all nations and we pass it on to our posterity as their inherent right…” - Proclamation of Korean Independence, read on the morning of March 1, 1919
The March First Movement, or the Samil Movement, was a watershed event in Korean people’s struggles to gain independence from Japanese colonial rule. The reading of a proclamation of Korean independence signed by 33 nationalists at the Taehwagwan Restaurant on March 1st, 1919 touched off a series of pro-independence demonstrations nationwide that eventually involved more than 2 million people. One of the most remarkable participants and organizers of the Samil Movement was a teenage girl named Yu Gwan-sun.
Yu Gwan-sun was born in Cheonan, South Chungcheong Province on Nov. 17, 1902. She spent her childhood in Jiryeong-ri, Edong-myeon, Mokcheon-gun in the province where she attended the nearby Maebong Presbyterian Church. She was recognized early on as an outstanding student and was encouraged by an American missionary to attend the Hakdang Mission School for Girls in Seoul. She entered Methodist Ewha Woman’s University affiliated high school in 1915. When the Japanese ordered all schools closed after the outbreak of independence demonstrations, Yu Gwan-sun returned to her home in Jiryeong-ri to fulfill her destiny.
Back home, Yu Gwan-sun immersed herself in the independence movement. Together with her family, she helped with the organization of a rally to be held in the Aunae Marketplace in Byeongcheon-myeon on Apr. 1, 1919 – March 1 on the lunar calendar. On the night before the rally, she lit a beacon on the top of Maebongsan to gather people from the region to join the demonstration. Between two to three thousand people gathered at the marketplace for the reading of the Proclamation of Korean Independence. Yu Gwan-sun led the crowd in cheering “Long live independence.” The Japanese then turned the non-violent rally into a bloodbath.
The Japanese military police opened fire indiscriminately into the crowd of peaceful demonstrators and killed 19 people, including both of Yu’s parents. Scores of people were wounded, many of them seriously. Yu Gwan-sun was arrested and detained at the Cheonan Japanese military police station along with her uncle and many others. The Japanese torched Yu’s home in retaliation for her family’s role in the demonstration. Yu was tried and convicted in the district court in Gonju and sentenced to seven years in prison. 
On Aug. 1, 1919 an appellate court in Seoul reduced Yu’s prison sentence to three years and transferred her to the Seodaemun Prison in Seoul. While in prison, Yu continued to defy Japanese authorities and engaged in pro-independence activities. She organized a prison demonstration in commemoration of the first anniversary of the Samil Movement. She was subjected to severe beatings and brutal tortures by the Japanese prison authorities. On Sept. 28, 1920, Yu Gwan-su died from injuries sustained as a result of the inhumane treatment she received at the hands of the Japanese. She was only 17 years old.
Japanese prison authorities initially refused to release Yu’s body for burial. They relented after Ehwa Woman’s School principals Lulu Frey and Jeannette Walter threatened to expose the details of Yu’s death to the world. On Oct. 12, 1920, Yu’s brutalized remains were turned over to Frey and Walter. Two days later, Yu was unceremoniously buried in a public cemetery in Itaewon. Her remains have not yet been found since the cemetery was destroyed during the Japanese occupation.
On March 1, 1962 the Korean government posthumously awarded Yu Gwan-sun with the Order of Merit for National Foundation. The brave teenage girl who lit a beacon for her country’s independence has taken her rightful place among Korea’s greatest national heroes. 
