99 hot spots announced by KTO Part 5: North Gyeongsang Province
North Gyeongsang Province, the homeland of the ancient Silla kingdom, is bounded on the east by East Sea, on the west by North Jeolla Province and North Chungcheong Province, and on the north by Gangwon Province. With a series of mountains in its region, North Gyeongsang also has a good many cultural heritage sites, such as Andong Hahoe Village and Mungyeongsaejae. It is also home to Buddhist cultural sites including Bulguksa Temple and Seokguram Grotto.
Dokdo - The country’s easternmost group of islets has Dongdo and Seodo, which are 90 meters and 168 meters above sea level, respectively. Hyeongjegul Cave separates the two in between. The islets were created by volcanic eruptions over 2.5 million years ago, and they have steep cliffs and jagged rocks. Korea Tourism Organization (KTO) explains that cold and warm currents converging in the surrounding sea around Dokdo create an ideal environment for an abundance of marine life to come and thrive.
Homigot - The point of land which jutts out into the East Sea is placed to the east of Pohang in Daebo-myeon. Homigot is one of the easternmost points on the Korean Peninsula, making it a hot tourist attraction every year for those who would like to greet Korea’s first sunrise of the New Year. Hand-shaped bronze sculptures, a land mark here, are installed at the waterfront and beachfront. The palms of the hands face each other, symbolizing harmony and coexistence. Also, Homigot Lighthouse and Lighthouse Museum are great attractions to check out.
Andong Hahoe Village - The UNESCO World Heritage site, which was listed in 2010 along with Yangdong Folk Village, is a valuable part of Korean culture as it preserves Joseon period-style folk traditions, architecture, books, and old tradition of clan-based villages. Hahoe Village, literally meaning “village enveloped by water” had its name from Nakdong River, which flows around the town. At the center of the village are tile-roofed houses made with thatched roofs.
Mungyeongsaejae - Mungyeongsaejae which overlays nearby Joryeongsan is a high and dangerous mountain pass. The route was cleared under the reign of King Taejong (1400-1418) of Joseon Dynasty, and was used until a new road was built. The boundary gates and castle walls were built here after the Japanese invasion of Korea, according to the KTO. Hyeguk Temple in the region is at the edge of Juheulsan. If you go past the temple where King Gongmin stayed and walk for about a kilometer, you will reach the sacred peak of Juheulsan, which commands a spectacular view.
