Do you support home schooling?
YES
People around the world think that teaching children at school is more efficient as it helps students enhance their academic performance. However, personally I think home schooling is much better for the following reasons.
First, children’s strengths and weaknesses are all different, and when we teach them at school they receive the same education regardless of their aptitude and ability. I suppose home schooling will make up for such losses, so making it an efficient alternative.
Also, when we educate students at hagwon, the kids are highly likely to be distracted by their classmates. By contrast, one or two students studying at home will not have to worry about such distractions, so they can focus more on their work.
I personally support the idea of home schooling because it can help students follow through academic routes which are more appropriate for them than collective schooling. Moreover, children studying at home will spend time more efficiently than those at schools. So for those reasons, I think home schooling can replace regular schooling in a positive way.
NO
There are many people who believe that home schooling can protect students from school violence, but I object to that idea.
Let’s say they can avoid school violence at school, but what about afterward? When they grow up and become part of society, who will protect them further from external aggression? Chances are that there will be more people who do harm to others than in the classroom.
So I believe that people should adapt themselves to new circumstances. We say people “succeed” when they realize their dream out in society. But if you said you had realized your dream at home, not many people would agree.
Kids staying at home would not even know what success is supposed to mean, since they will not have enough chance to socialize with others out there in society. However efficient or effective home schooling may be, I do not personally agree with the idea because it cannot teach the students lessons on how to mingle with others and become part of society.
