Judy Garland's Wizard of Oz dress sold for $480,000
A dress worn by Judy Garland in the movie, “Wizard of Oz” was sold for $480,000 at the two-day Hollywood Icons auction held in Beverly Hills.
The blue and white gingham pinafore dress actress Judy Garland wore in the movie was sold at Julien’s Auctions. It was made by the famous MGM costume designer Adrian Greenberg. The buyer of the classic piece has not been identified, said Reuters.
A similar dress worn during tests for the classic 1939 film fetched $910,000 last year.
Auctioneer at Julien’s Auctions, Darren Julien said the difference in price depends on the rarity of the dress. He said that there were fewer versions of test dresses than the ones that had been actually used in the film.
Besides the Judy Garland’s dress, other items from the wardrobes of classic films made headlines. The green floral dress worn by Julie Andrews in “The Sound of Music” fetched $38,400. A racing jacket belonging to Steve McQueen sold for $50,000 and a purple wool skirt worn by Marilyn Monroe during the making of the 1954 film “River of No Return” went for the same amount. 
To absurdity, $1,375 was paid each for a slice of wedding cake from both Prince William and Kate Middleton’s wedding and the 1981 wedding of Prince Charles and Princess Diana.
In the previous auctions in 2011, the white “subway dress,” which Marilyn Monroe wore from the 1955 film The Seven Year Itch were sold at whopping $4.6 million in 2011. Audrey Hepburn’s Ascot dress from “My Fair Lady” fetched $3.7 million.
The Wizard of Oz is a 1939 American fantasy adventure film. The movie is based on the 1900 novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and stars Judy Garland, Ray Bolger and Jack Haley. It is notable for its use of special effects, fantasy storytelling and unusual characters and has become, over the years, one of the best films representing American pop culture. 
The film was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture and won Best Original Song for “Over the Rainbow.” Often ranked among the Top 10 Best Movies of All Time, the film offers many memorable quotes often referenced in modern culture. 
