Film’s love story turns into real life romance: ‘Robsten’ from Twilight Saga
The much-anticipated "Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2," a romantic fantasy film directed by Bill Condon hit theaters nationwide on Nov. 15, 2012. 
The final installment of the Twilight Saga series, “Breaking Dawn” was divided into two parts and the first part of the film, "Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 1," was released last year.
Three main characters, Bella Swan (Kristen Stewar), Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson), and Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner) along with Renesmee, Bella and Edward’s child played by Mackenzie Foy, once again stole Twilight fans’ hearts the world over. The film is based on the novel by Stephenie Meyer. 
The storyline of “Breaking Dawn – Part 2” 
Bella went through a near death experience when giving birth to her and Edward’s daughter, Renesmee. Trying to save her life, Edward injects Bella’s heart with his venom and this inevitably turns her into a vampire. Now reborn as a vampire and mother of her newborn child, Renesmee, life seems rosy to Bella.
Still, the luck did not last long. A member of the Denali coven misinforms the Volturi, the most powerful Vampire Covens, that Renesmee is an immortal child and a human infant who has been bitten and transformed into a vampire. The Volturi thinks the Cullens have betrayed the vampire “code of conduct” and sets out to destroy the Cullens. 
Fighting for their survival, Cullens begin to gather a large group of Vampire clans and nomads, including the Denali, the Amazonian, the Egyptian, the Irish and Romanian Covens, with European and American nomads, to prove their innocence to Volturi.
About the previous film, “Breaking Dawn – Part 1”
The first part of the last episode of the Twilight series, “Breaking Dawn – Part 1” was released in theaters on Nov. 18, 2011 in the United States. The film raked in $705 million worldwide.
The highlight of the film was the wedding of Bella and Edward. Even though Edward warned Bella that he had murdered people in the past, she shrugs it off and goes ahead with the wedding. This angers her friend Jacob.
The couple spends their honeymoon on the Cullens’ private Brazilian island. Two weeks into the honeymoon, Bella finds out that she is pregnant with a baby that is growing at an exponential rate. The baby threatens Bella’s life and everyone suggests that she give up her baby. Bella stoutly refuses the idea.
Thinking the child is a demon, Sam Uley’s plans to kill both Bella and her child.
However, Jacob comes to the Cullens’ to protect Bella, whose health severely deteriorates and she now needs to drink blood to maintain her life. Finally, Bella gives birth to Renesmee, named after Bella’s mother and Edward’s adoptive mother. 
Werewolves keep trying to kill the baby but realized they could not harm her as Jacob has imprinted on Renesmee, a proof that she is Jacob’s soul mate.
Behind the film’s mega-success, there are not only great plot and special effects, but also the real life romance of the film’s two main characters, Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson. Here is how their love story evolved over the years.
A Romantic Timeline of “Robsten” -- Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart 
Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart cozy up while filming Twilight in Jan. 2008. 
At the time, Kristen Stewart had boyfriend, a fellow actor, Michael Angarano 
After shooting Vanity Fair shoot in Nov. 2008, the couple’s romance rumors heated up. In Nov. 2009, Pattinson and Stewart appeared on the cover of Harper’s Bazaar. During the interview, Rob told the reporter that “You really don’t meet many people like Kristen.” 
Finally, on Nov. 2009, paparazzi pictures of the couple holding hands at a Paris airport went viral both on and off-line.
Soon, Pattinson and Stewart reunited during Oprah’s Twilight special, and they reportedly confirmed their relationship on the backstage. 
In Oct. 2011, Kristen made first official acknowledgement of her relationship with Pattinson in British GQ. She said, “My boyfriend is British.” Then she added: “I mean, it’s like, come on guys, it’s so obvious!”
On May 23, Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson were spotted kissing on a balcony during an after party of the Cannes Film Festival.
In July, News broke out that the actress cheated on Rob with “Snow White and the Huntsman” director Rupert Sanders.
Kristen later releases an official statement apologizing her boyfriend Robert Pattinson for the infidelity, saying it was a “momentary indiscretion has jeopardized the most important thing in my life, the person I love and respect the most, Rob.”
Robert Pattinson moved out of the couple’s home and cut off contact from his girlfriend that month.
However, the couple dramatically mended their relationship right before the promotion of “Breaking Dawn -- Part 2.” Photos of the movie premieres in Europe and in America show that their relationship, despite rumors that it is fabricated for the sake of the film’s success, seemed more robust than ever. 
