L.A. Dodgers wins bid for Ryu Hyun-jin
 “We have watched Ryu pitch for a long time and he is another option to consider as we look to improve our team in 2013 and beyond...” - Ned Colletti, L.A. Dodgers General Manager
The Los Angeles Dodgers of Major League Baseball (MLB) have won the bid for left-handed pitcher Ryu Hyun-jin of the Hanhwa Eagles. The winning bid of $25.7 million is a record for a Korean player, and is the third highest in history for an Asian player, behind the Texas Rangers’ bid for Yu Darvish ($51.7 million -- 2011), and the Boston Red Sox’s bid for Daisuke Matsuzaka ($51.1 million -- 2006). Ryu is represented by super agent Scott Boras, and the two sides have 30 days to work out a contract. If an agreement is reached, Ryu will follow the footsteps of another high-profile Korean pitcher -- Park Chan-ho -- and join a club rich in baseball lore and tradition.
The system that makes it possible for Ryu, an active player under contract with a Korean Baseball Organization (KBO) team, to move to a Major League Baseball team is known as the posting system. The posting system started a a baseball player transfer system between the United States’ MLB and Japan’s Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) and has since been expanded to include Korea’s KBO. The system is designed to prevent NPB and KBO teams from losing star players to MLB teams without proper compensation; at the same time, it protects players from being sold to MLB teams against their will. 
Under the posting system, when Ryu Hyun-jin was “posted” by the Hanhwa Eagles, MLB held a four-day-long silent auction for interested MLB teams to submit sealed bids to try to win the exclusive rights to negotiate with Ryu and his agent for a period of 30 days. If the MLB team (the L.A. Dodgers, in this case) with the highest bid and Ryu can agree on a contract within 30 days, Hanhwa Eagles will receive the bid amount as a transfer fee. If the L.A. Dodgers and Ryu should fail to reach an agreement within 30 days, then no fee is paid, and Ryu returns to the Hanhwa Eagles. 
It is no surprise that Ryu Hyun-jin attracted such attention and financial commitment from the L.A. Dodgers. He has been the most dominant pitcher in the KBO since he turned professional straight out of high school in 2006. He has compiled a 98-52 win/loss record, with a very respectable career earned run average (ERA) of 2.80 - very impressive statistics considering he played on a relatively weak team. He also played a vital role in Korea’s march to the gold medal podium at the Beijing Olympics by going 2-0 with a 1.04 ERA in two starts. 
Ryu became a major baseball star as soon as he entered the KBO in 2006 as a member of the Hanhwa Eagles. In his first season, Ryu went 18-6 with one save and a 2.23 ERA while striking out 204 batters in 201 2/3 innings. He became the first pitcher in 15 years to win the pitching Triple Crown -- leading the league in wins, ERA and strikeouts. At the end of the season, he was named the Rookie of the Year and the Most Valuable Player ? becoming the first player to win both awards in the 25-year history of KBO. There was no “sophomore jinx” in 2007 for Ryu, as he posted a record of 17-7 with a 2.94 ERA and led the league in strikeouts again. In his 7-year career with the Eagles, Ryu has averaged 15 wins and more than 181 innings pitched per season. 
With the L.A. Dodgers, Ryu will have to fight for a spot on a starting rotation loaded with established, but often-injured star pitchers such as Clayton Kershaw, Josh Beckett, Chad Billingsley, and Ted Lilly.
