‘Rise of the Guardians’
Based on the book series “The Guardians of Childhood” by American author William Joyce, “Rise of the Guardians” is a DreamWorks animated film about the playful Jack Frost, a young boy who brings winter wherever he goes, and the Guardians, a group of magical beings tasked with protecting the children of the world. 
Young Jack has not a care in the world until the Guardians - North, Sandman, Tooth and Bunny - reach out to him in the hopes that he will help them fight against Pitch Dark. Pitch is the king of nightmares whose goal of making sure that no children believe in the Guardians threatens to plunge the world into darkness.
On Nov. 19, actors Lee Jong-hyuk (“Pitch,” originally voiced by Jude Law), Yoo Hae-jin (“Bunny,” originally played by Hugh Jackman), Han Hye-jin (“Tooth,” originally voiced by Isla Fisher) and Ryu Seong-ryong (“North,” originally voiced by Alec Baldwin) attended a press conference to discuss their experiences while working on “Rise of the Guardians.”
Ryu Seong-ryong confessed that he had always thought that animation films were meant just for kids, but after participating in this film, has come to realize that they can be for adults as well. 
In fact, he pointed out that Han Hye-jin cried during the movie, causing laughter amongst the attendees. 　
“While recording for the film, I only watched my scenes,” Lee Jong-hyuk said of his reaction to watching the entire film for the first time during the press conference. “After watching the entire film today though, I finally realized what a bad guy my character is.”
“I’m worried that even though my son knows I’m playing the bad guy, he might take the Guardians’ side and get mad at his dad,” he joked when asked how he felt his family would react to his bad character. 
In terms of their experience with working on “Rise of the Guardians,” actors Lee Jong-hyuk and Yoo Hae-jin agreed that the hardest part of voice-acting was matching the Korean dialogue with the intonation and gestures of the Hollywood-produced film. 
Lee Je-hoon (“Jack Frost,” originally voiced by Chris Pine) did not attend the event due to having begun his mandatory military service on Oct. 25. 
“Rise of the Guardians” opens in theaters across the nation on Nov. 29. For the Korean release, the film will be available in both dubbed and subtitled versions.
