President Barack Obama
 “There is not a liberal America and a conservative America - there is the United States of America. There is not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America - there‘s the United States of America.” – President Barack Obama
Barack Hussein Obama II is the 44th and current President of the United States. He became the first African-American to be elected to the nation’s highest office when he defeated Republican candidate John McCain on Nov. 4, 2008. Obama won a second term in office by defeating Republican Mitt Romney on Nov. 6, 2012. 
Barack Obama was born on Aug. 4, 1961 in Honolulu, Hawaii. His mother, Ann Dunham, was a Caucasian woman from Wichita, Kansas; his father, Barack Obama Sr., was a black man from Kenya. Dunham and Obama Sr. divorced in 1964, and in 1965, Dunham remarried, this time to Lolo Soetoro, an Indonesian graduate student at the University of Hawaii. From the age of 6 to 10, Obama lived in Indonesia with his mother and step-father and attended schools locally. In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, where he attended a private college preparatory school until his graduation from high school in 1979. 
In 1983, Obama graduated from Columbia University with a degree in political science with a specialty in international relations. He worked as a community organizer, a consultant and an instructor in the Chicago area after graduation. In 1988, Obama entered Harvard Law School. He was selected as an editor of the Harvard Law Review at the end of his first year. In the following year, he became the first black president of the prestigious journal. He graduated Harvard in 1991 with a J.D. magna cum laude. 
After graduating from Harvard, Obama taught at the University of Chicago Law School, served as a director of voter registration campaign, wrote a personal memoir “Dreams From My Father,” and worked as a civil rights attorney. His political career began in 1996 when he was elected to the State Senate from Illinois’ 13th District. In 2000, Obama ran for the United States House of Representatives but lost in the Democratic primaries. In 2004, Obama was elected to the U.S. Senate in a surprising landslide victory. He became a rising star within the Democratic Party when he delivered a rousing, eloquent keynote speech at the 2004 Democratic National Convention.
On Feb. 10, 2007, Obama announced his candidacy to become President of the United States. The theme of his campaign centered on “Hope and Change”, with special emphasis on providing universal health care, ending the unpopular war in Iraq, and reducing energy dependence on foreign oil. His campaign was well-planned, well-organized and well-executed. He chose Delaware Senator Joe Biden as his vice presidential running mate. He defeated Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to win the Democratic nomination and went on to defeat Republican candidate Senator John McCain in the presidential election.
Obama entered the White House amid an economic downturn, with rapidly increasing national debt, rising unemployment, and a declining housing market. He signed a massive economic stimulus package - the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 – to aid the economic recovery. He proposed a controversial health care reform that called for the spending of $900 billion over 10 years. On the international front, Obama vowed to end combat operations in Iraq within 18 months, but he also increased America’s military presence in Afghanistan. In the 2010 mid-term election, the Democratic Party lost 63 seats in, and the control, of the House of Representatives. Most observers viewed it as the American people’s repudiation of Obama’s policies. 
Many people believed that Obama was vulnerable in the 2012 presidential election due deteriorating economic conditions and record federal deficits during his first term in the White House. However, he handily defeated Republican Mitt Romney to secure a second term in the Oval Office. 
