Explore the beauty of Jeju’s geological wonders
Whether it be the abundance of prehistoric volcanic remains, lava tubes or caves, Jeju Island is truly a geological wonder. The surreal scenery of the island will undoubtedly make for an unforgettable trip. 
The island of Jeju itself is one giant extinct volcano, created by a massive eruption almost 2 million years ago. It is also home to 368 mountains and more than 160 lava tubes. The natural geology of Jeju Island is like none other in the world. 
The island, which was declared one of the seven natural wonders of the world by the New7Wonders Foundation in 2011, has a famous abundance of three things: rocks, wind and women. The abundance of rocks and rubble originated from the volcanic activity of Hallasan, the mountain located in the center of the island. 
The abundance of heavy winds and storms here often result in typhoons sweeping through the island. This ties in to the final abundance of women, which originated from the fact that many of the island’s men were lost at sea, resulting in a larger population of women. 
One of the most iconic symbols of Jeju is the ancient rock statues known as dolharubang, or stone grandfather; “dol,” meaning rock, and “harubang,” meaning grandfather in the Jeju dialect. A dolharubang is a statue sculpted out of volcanic rock from the island. These statues are scattered all over the island and are generally designed with a somewhat human looking face, with large and circular eyes.
Jeju Island offers a long list of unforgettable sites, views and activities. Some of must-see attractions include Seongsan Ilchulbong or sunrise peak and Hallasan National Park. 
Seongsan Ilchulbong is one of the top tourist destinations of the island. One of the island’s UNESCO World Heritage sites, the peak is a 90 m high crater that formed after a volcanic eruption more than 100,000 years ago.
Located at the heart and center of Jeju, Hallasan is the tallest mountain in Korea. The climb to the top of this mountain will give one a spectacular view of a crater lake that is located at the peak. Hallasan National Park is open all year round and offers a wide-range of varied hiking trails and courses.
