Electronic voting is needed in terms of the voting’s efficiency
PRO
“Electronic voting” is a system that uses computers to vote. Countries including the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom and Brazil now have the system in place. Is electronic voting needed to improve voting efficiency? I think it is.
To begin, the money spent to run elections decreases dramatically. When using the old way of voting, a country has to prepare polling stations, which cost more money than electronic voting requires.
Also, voter turnout would soar among young people. Most young people may not have time to go to a particular place and vote, but if they vote using their computers, they can cast votes easily and quickly.
Lastly, the ballot counting time could be reduced and the citizens could see the results more quickly. When voting starts, the citizens wait nervously for the results while officials manually count them, which wastes so much time. However, electronic vote counting does not take much time.
For these reasons, I think electronic voting is needed to improve voting efficiency.
CON
A few days ago, the United States finished their presidential election using electronic voting. The overall election ran smoothly, but there were some problems. With feedback regarding the country’s electronic voting system in hand, there are several areas they need to develop.
First of all, in Pennsylvania, the touch-screen on the voting machine caused errors. One example was that a voter tapped on the selection of Obama for president but the result showed that the voter had voted for Romney. These errors were said to have often occurred.
Next, electronic voting can be manipulated. One video shows that it is easy to manipulate the voting software using a clip and a coin. By using this we can take out the software and tamper with the results. This sort of malicious technology will be developed further as time passes. Talking about the present, we are using papers when we vote and we are not able to change the results easily and can trust the results.
Finally, electronic voting is not suitable when there are natural disasters around. This problem occurred in San Diego. A hurricane stormed the region and voting machines failed to work. Many voters had to wait for a long time, and some of them returned home.
In conclusion, looking at the latest U.S. election, there were many problems that should be fixed. The presidential election, for example, is crucial for the future of a country. So, it should be free of errors or glitches. I suppose we will have to wait quite some time until the electronic voting system is fully ready.
