2012 Mnet Asian Music Awards brings world together
The 2012 Mnet Asian Music Awards, (MAMA,) is one of Korea’s biggest music awards ceremonies. The-end-of-year music awards ceremony took place on Nov. 30 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center (HKCEC). 
The awards have grown as Asia’s music awards ceremony, attended by many well-known K-pop artists as well as international musicians. At the 2012 Mnet Asian Music Awards, Adam Lambert, the runner up in season 8 of American Idol, a U.S. reality TV singing competition, came to celebrate. His song “Trespassing” reached No. 1 on the Billboard chart and he has sold more than 2 million albums worldwide.
Other performances included PSY, Super Junior, Big Bang, and SISTAR. Big names from the entertainment industry, actors Jung Woo-sung, Song Joong-ki, Yoon Eun-hye, and Park Shin-hye also participated in the event.
MAMA is an international music ceremony which allows fans from all over the world to choose their favorite singers and songs of the year. The winners are selected based on evaluations in six categories -- online voting, research, expert judges (national and overseas), single sales, album sales, and selection committee. Artist of the Year Awards by artist, Song of the Year Awards by genre, Album of the Year, Best MV Award Special Award and Global Category awards are up for grabs.
According to Han Dong-cheol, the Director of the Mnet Asian Music Awards, MAMA attempts to bring people from the world together, as its 2012 slogan clearly states, “Music Makes One.”
History of MAMA
The event was created in 1999 under the name “M.net KM Music Festival” (MKMF) and in 2009 was renamed “M.net Asian Music Awards.” The 2010 MAMA’s was broadcast live in China, Japan, Hong Kong, and Southeast Asia through Channel V International. The following year, the awards were held outside of Korea, at the Venetian Resort Macao in Macau, China, for the first time.
In 2011, MAMA took place in the Singapore Indoor Stadium with global music stars such as will.i.am from The Black Eyed Peas, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, and Japan’s Koda Kumi and Jane Zhang attending.
