Reminding the world that records are made to be broken: Guinness World Records Day
The Guinness World Records have always inspired thousands, if not millions of people around the world to attempt the unbelievable. Though holding a world record used to be reserved for athletes competing in world events, Guinness has made it possible for anyone to achieve a world record. 
Some are highly impressive, while others are just downright weird. 
One way or another, however, there is no denying that everyone has thought about breaking a world record at one point in their lives. To that end, Guinness World Records has designated Nov. 15 as “Guinness World Records Day” to challenge anyone from around the world to attempt to break a world record. 
“Guinness World Records Day is a chance to celebrate not just the incredible individual achievements but also civic and national pride,” Guinness World Records editor-in-chief Craig Glenday told the Huffington Post. 
“Whether it‘s trying to squeeze into the ultimate British icon, the Mini, or an Aussie holding the longest note on the didgeridoo or thousands coming together to perform a symbolic dance, this year it seems to be all about bringing records back home to the people who are most passionate about enjoying their culture and national identity.”
According to Guinness World Records, an estimated 420,000 people took the bait this year, coming together for “one very special celebration of the weird, wacky and downright astonishing.” During this year’s annual event, almost half a million people from around the world attempted to break various world records to become officially recognized as a world record holder. 
Some records are just wacky. Some records are delicious. Some records, however, are harder to break than others.
In a feat that required extreme flexibility, 28 women from Eastbourne, England, successfully broke the Guinness World Record for the most people stuffed into a Mini Cooper. 
In one that required equal parts endurance and balance, Tone Staubs from Stamford, Connecticut, broke the world record for most jumps on a pogo stick in one minute with 265 hops. 
In celebration of Guinness World Records Day, Steve Jacobs from Australia attempted to beat his previous record for most underpants worn. In 2011, Jacobs held the record with 247, and this year, he was able to beat that record by wearing a whopping 266.
Another world record was beaten in Australia by 15-year-old Lachlan Phelps, who held the world’s longest didgeridoo note for 65.66 seconds. 
An iconic Aussie symbol, the didgeridoo is a wind instrument developed by the indigenous Australians around 1,500 years ago. Typically, the didgeridoo is played with continuously vibrating lips to produce the sound while using a special breathing technique called circular breathing. 
In order to break the record, however, Phelps was not allowed to use circular breathing. While 30 seconds is generally considered a phenomenal achievement in the didgeridoo world, surpassing the 60-second mark earned Phelps a Guinness World Record. 
The record for longest duration of spinning a basketball on a toothbrush was attempted and broken by 18-year-old Michael Kopp of Germany with 26.078 seconds. 
In another rather wacky world record attempt, two people from France successfully broke the Guinness World Record for the most shaving cream pies thrown in one minute with 62.
Master chocolatiers in Italy broke the record for largest chocolate coin on Nov. 15. Created during an event at the Cioccoshow Exhibition in Bologna, Italy, the edible coin weighed approximately 658 kg and measured 196 cm in diameter and 17 cm in height. 
While Olympic runner Usain Bolt of Jamaica may hold the world and Olympic record for fastest 100-meter run with 9.58 seconds, Japan’s Kenichi Ito attempted -- and succeeded -- in breaking his own world record for fastest 100-meter run on his hands and feet. Shaving over one second off of his own time, Kenichi Ito completed the distance in 17.47 seconds, continuing his reign as the Guinness World Record holder for the fastest sprinter on all fours.
