 Georges St. Pierre
“I don’t have the knockout power of a ‘Rampage’ Jackson, I don’t have the athletic ability of a Jon Jones, I don’t have the accuracy of an Anderson Silva, I don’t have the wrestling of a Chael Sonnen, but I use my body with the tools I have the best I can and that’s why I win fights.” ? GSP
Georges St. Pierre, one of the greatest fighters in mixed martial arts (MMA) history, made a triumphant return to the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) after a long absence. At the UFC 154 event in front of his hometown fans in Montreal, Canada, St. Pierre defeated Carlos Condit to unify the 170-pound welterweight title belts. With the victory, St. Pierre returns to the top of the best pound-for-pound fighter rankings and looks ready for a lucrative super fight against fellow UFC superstar - middleweight champion Anderson Silva of Brazil. 
Georges St. Pierre’s MMA record stands at 23 wins and 2 losses. His two losses were to Matt Hughes and Matt Serra, both of which he avenged in subsequent fights with devastating TKO victories. St. Pierre won his first welterweight title at UFC 65 in November 2006. He defeated the defending champion Matt Hughes by technical knockout (TKO) in the second round. He lost the title to Matt Serra in UFC 69 in April 2007 but regained it eight months later at UFC 79. St. Pierre has successfully defended the title seven times since then.
Prior to his encounter with Carlos Condit, St. Pierre was on a 19-month hiatus from the UFC as the result of a serious leg injury sustained during training. He dispelled all skepticism about his physical fitness and fighting form in a masterful performance that showcased not only the full arsenal of his MMA skills, but also his trademark game planning and strategic thinking. He used his wrestling skills to negate Condit’s powerful kicks and punches; he recovered quickly from punishing shots to his head; and he controlled the fight with lightning-quick takedowns and relentless ground-and-pound execution.
Georges St. Pierre is widely-regarded as the best all-around fighter competing in the UFC today. He possesses an encyclopedic mind for various martial arts techniques. At age seven, he started learning Kyokushin karate, a style of stand-up, full-contact karate founded by Korean-Japanese karate master Masutatsu Oyama (Choi Young-eui). He also studied boxing, Muay Thai, and Gaidojutsu. He is a black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, but more importantly, he excelled in wrestling. St. Pierre has used his wrestling skills to out-maneuver, frustrate, and dominate fighters with impressive wrestling pedigree.
St. Pierre’s all-around physical skills are greatly complemented by his ability to think and adapt strategically during the course of a fight. He is known as one of the most cerebral fighters in the world of MMA. He is not the kind of fighter who can knock out opponents with a thunderous punch or a devastating kick, instead he relies on his full range of martial arts skills and knowledge to neutralize his opponents’ strengths and exploit their weaknesses. He is intuitive, efficient, precise, and opportunistic in the Octagon. Most of his title fights do not end in crowd-pleasing knock-outs or submissions; they usually go the full distance. It is the substance of his fights - his thorough dominance of, and control over his opponents - that UFC fans cherish the most. 
After St. Pierre’s successful come back from injury, there has been talk of a mega fight pitting him against the great middle weight champion Anderson Silva. If the fight were to become a reality, it would feature two of the greatest MMA fighters in history in perhaps the biggest UFC events ever. Silva, who is virtually unbeatable, holds the longest winning and title defense streak in UFC history, with 16 consecutive wins and 10 title defenses. 
