Psy continues to take the world by storm
He has done it again. Korean pop sensation Psy has been busy since his hit song “Gangnam Style” went viral on YouTube, and despite his hectic globetrotting schedule, he has added the title of “Guinness World Record holder” under his belt. 
Nowadays, it would be difficult to come across someone who doesn’t know Psy’s “Gangnam Style.” The song, along with its music video, has taken the world by storm, breaking down cultural and geographical barriers with its simple yet addictive dance moves as well as catchy beats and lyrics. 
Since the music video was first uploaded onto YouTube in July, “Gangnam Style” has been viewed over 800 million times and “liked” by over 5 million users. This incredible feat has earned Psy the title of Guinness World Record holder for the “most watched video online”; a title he took from none other than internet pop sensation, Justin Bieber. 
On Nov. 26, Justin Bieber’s “Baby” lists 805,287,672 views while Psy’s “Gangnam Style” lists 823,617,399 views. 
Until recently, Justin Bieber was the record holder for “most watched video online,” thanks to his hit song, “Baby.” Though both songs have more than 800 million views, it is interesting to note that it took “Baby” more than two years to reach the 800 million mark, whereas it only took four months for “Gangnam Style.” 
Guinness World Records community manager Dan Barrett posted his predictions of the potential of “Gangnam Style” to break more records on the Guinness World Records website. 
Barrett stated that with the current rate of increase in views for “Gangnam Style,” it could be the first online video in history to have been watched 1 billion times. 
To compare, Bieber’s “Baby” is being watched an average of 403,228 times a day whereas “Gangnam Style” is logging more than 7 million views a day.
Barrett writes, “My best guess is that “Gangnam Style” will reach the 1 billion landmark sometime between the 18th and 20th of December, (for comparison, at the current view rate, Justin Bieber’s “Baby” will reach 1 billion views in March 2014), marking a third Guinness World Records title for PSY’s video.”
Keep in mind that whereas English is spoken and understood by a lot of people in the world, only about 0.01 percent of the world’s population (about 75 million) speaks or understands Korean. This means that despite its phenomenal popularity, only 0.01 percent of the world actually understands the lyrics of “Gangnam Style.”
