Georgia O’Keeffe
 “I get out my work and have a show for myself before I have it publicly. I make up my own mind about it -- how good or bad or indifferent it is. After that the critics can write what they please. I have already settled it for myself so flattery and criticism go down the same drain and I am quite free.” - Georgia O’Keeffe
Georgia O’Keeffe was a major figure in American art best known for her vivid depiction of magnified blossoms and stunning southwestern landscapes. She was a prolific painter who continued to create works of art well into her 90’s. Her unique artistic vision and individual style remained unaffected by changing artistic trends throughout her long and illustrious career. She was awarded the National Medal of Arts -- the highest honor conferred to an individual artist on behalf of the people -- for her lifetime achievement in, and contribution to the arts.
O’Keeffe was born on Nov. 15, 1887, on a farm in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin. She received some art lessons as a child and her talents were recognized by many of her teachers. She pursued art studies at the Art Institute of Chicago from 1905 to 1906. In 1907, she went to the Art Students League in New York and studied under William Merritt Chase -- a famous exponent and teacher of Impressionism. O’Keeffe quit art in 1908 when she felt that she could not distinguish herself in imitative realism.
In 1912, O’Keeffe attended a class at the University of Virginia Summer School and was introduced to the revolutionary ideas of renowned artist and art educator Arthur Wesley Dow. O’Keeffe was inspired by Dow’s idea that rather than copying nature, art should be created by elements of the composition, like line, mass and color. She went to the Teachers College of Columbia University to study under Dow from 1914 to 1915. Dow’s influence on O’Keeffe was evident in the series of innovative abstract charcoal drawings she produced during that period.
In 1916, a former Columbia classmate took some of O’Keeffe’s drawings and showed them to Alfred Stieglitz, an American photographer who often featured avant-garde artists in his New York art galleries. Stieglitz was so impressed by what he saw that he exhibited ten of O’Keeffe’s drawings in his internationally famous 291 art gallery. A year later, O’Keeffe was given a one-person exhibit at the 291, featuring her drawings, oil paintings and watercolors. In 1918, O’Keeffe accepted Stieglitz’s invitation to move to New York and concentrate on her art. O’Keeffe and Stieglitz, who was 23 years her senior, fell in love, and they got married in 1924. 
During their marriage, which lasted from 1924 until his death in 1946, Stieglitz organized annual exhibitions of O’Keeffe’s works at important galleries throughout New York. O’Keeffe’s works during that period -- mainly large-scale portrayals of flowers in close-ups, New York City skyscraper buildings, and natural landscapes and desert sceneries of New Mexico -- made her very famous in the art world. She came to be recognized as one of the most important and successful artists in America. In 1946, the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) held a one-woman retrospective for O’Keeffe. It was the first of its kind held for a woman artist.
Three years after Stieglitz’s death, O’Keeffe moved to New Mexico permanently. She continued to paint in oil until deteriorating eyesight forced her to switch to pencil and watercolor from 1972 to 1984. Some of her most famous works were produced during her stay there. They dramatically captured the richly-colored landscapes, the vast blue skies, the unusual architectural forms and various natural wonders of Northern New Mexico. She finally stopped painting in 1984. On March 6, 1986, Georgia O’Keeffe died at the age of 98. In accordance with her wishes, her body was cremated and her ashes were scattered to the wind at the top of Pedernal Mountain.
