Salvation Army bells ring on in December
Even people who are busy working with smartphones in hands in the winter cold might have once or twice heard a bell ringing at street corners, especially in December. Those who fight the cold weather to stand by the red kettle are members of the Salvation Army.
Called “gusegun” in Korean, it means the army trying to save the world. The Salvation Army, operating in 126 countries around the world, was founded in 1865 in the United Kingdom by William Booth, a British Methodist preacher.
In 1880, the Salvation Army began its work in Australia, Ireland and the United States, and the following “Salvationists” emigrated to other countries and started operating in their respective territories.
The army‘s target groups in the 1800s included alcoholics, morphine addicts and other unwelcome members in Christian society, which made Booth determined to start his own church. One of the Army’s beliefs is that its members should refrain from drinking alcohol, smoking, taking illegal drugs and gambling.
The Salvation Army operates worldwide and provides services in 175 different languages. The Army divides itself geographically into territories, which are again sub-divided into divisions. Each of these territories is led by a territorial commander who receives orders from the Army‘s international headquarters in London.
According to the army record, its membership includes almost 17,000 active and 9,000 retired workers, over a million soldiers and more than 4.5 million volunteers worldwide. The Army’s leader General Linda Bond was elected to the position in January 2011.
The Army’s bell has been ringing in Korea for 84 years now. The Salvation Army Korea has held an annual “Red Kettle Campaign,” in which people can toss spare change into the kettle or secretly leave larger donations.
Things people donate include not only coins or bills but other items. Bell ringers are said to receive some unusual items, including blood donor cards, transportation cards, gift certificates and even dentures. They sometimes receive piggy banks full of coins and a gold ring which was used to celebrate a baby’s first birthday.
The red kettle campaign in Korea started in Myeong-dong in 1928 to provide the homeless with meals. Donations to the campaign increased every year -from 848 won 84 years ago to around 4.5 billion won in 2011, according to statistics of the Salvation Army Korea.
The campaign in Korea carries on the original spirit of 1891 when the red kettle campaign was first launched in San Francisco to provide Christmas meals for the poor. The money collected from about 300 kettles nationwide is used to help fund Salvation Army programs and help the underprivileged throughout the following year.
The donated money goes to the socially or economically underprivileged in Korea as planned, but when an unexpected disaster occurs, for example the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March 2011, part of it can be spent to help the victims.
The Salvation Army runs many charity programs all year round with the red kettle campaign being the most iconic. The Army’s first charity work in Korea began at an orphanage for homeless children living in an underground tunnel in Myeong-dong. It continued to grow, and the Army built schools for them, founded social enterprises to help poor mothers earn money and set up a rehab center for alcoholics and the homeless.
Park Man-hee, the Korea territorial commander of the Army, once said in an interview with The Korea Herald that the Army‘s work in Korea had never ceased to evolve, and that he took pride in the Korean branch’s activity in new projects that the government or other social workers had never tried.
If you have not had a chance to drop some change in the red kettle, now is the time to do so. For more information about the donation, visit the website of the Salvation Army Korea Territory at www.salvationarmy.or.kr.
