Live encyclopedia of restored animals: ‘World Grand Animal Expedition’
"The world grand animal expedition" is held in War Memorial of Korea in Yongsan, Seoul from Dec.1, 2012 to March 3. 2013.
The exhibition, sponsored by the Ministry of Environment, the Korea Broadcasting System (KBS), the Korea tourism Organization and Belgium’s Masai gallery, was opened on the 1st and 2nd floor of the memorial building. "The world grand animal expedition" offers visitors a rare opportunity to take a close look at the world’s restored animals. It introduces local viewers with world’s 220 restored animals owned by the Masai gallery.
For the grand exhibit, 10 containers of restored animals from Belgium’s Masai gallery were transported to Korea, the only OECD country member that does not have its own natural history museum. 
The sheer size of the exhibit was larger than exhibits in New York, Washington, and Paris’ natural history museums combined, the expedition’s organizer said.
It took 14 days to complete arranging the animals, and many of the country’s exhibit experts chipped in their expertise for the project. 
On the 1st floor of the exhibition, restored animals from the globe are on display according to their origin of continents. Animals from Africa, Oceania, Asia, America, and Europe filled the first floor. Animals featured in animation films such as “The Lion King” were also displayed. 
On the second Floor of War Memorial of Korea, a part was devoted to endangered animals. Penguins from the North Pole made a part of the section.
The level of restoration by the Masai gallery was so delicate that even a hair from a lion, hyena, gazelle and wrinkles of a 3m tall and 3.5 ton elephant from Africa’s wide Serengeti grassland were vividly seen, making it easy to mistake them as alive. 
It was a true “live encyclopedia of world’s animals.” 
Belgium‘s Masai gallery 
It follows the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, also known as the Washington Convention. This multilateral treaty aims to protect more than 34,000 species of wild animals and plants.
The gallery only uses animals that died of natural causes for its restoration and it also runs an environmental movement to raise awareness of the endangered animals. 
