Sebastian Vettel becomes youngest 3-time F1 world champion
 “You do this job not because you really care what is written on the check you get at the end of the month. I think you do this job because you just love Formula One; you love motor sport; you love the excitement here.” ? Sebastian Vettel
Sebastian Vettel, the 25-year-old German Formula One racing driver, overcame an early crash to finish sixth at the season-ending Brazilian Grand Prix to become the youngest three-time F1 world champion. Vettel, who drives for the Austrian racing team Red Bull Racing, is accustomed to setting Formula One “youngest” records. He was the youngest driver to become the World Drivers’ Championship runner-up in his debut season with Red Bull in 2009; the youngest driver to win the World Drivers’ Championship in 2010; and the youngest driver to win a second, and consecutive, World Drivers‘ Championship in 2011.
Prior to the Brazilian Grand Prix in Sao Paolo - the final race on the 2012 F1 calendar - Vettel held a slim 13-point lead (273 - 260) over title contender Fernando Alonzo of Scuderia Ferrari. Vettel could claim the title by finishing no worse than fourth, irrespective of Alonzo’s result, while Alonzo had to finish on the podium to have any chance of overtaking Vettel in the standings. The weather was a mess on race day, and the stage was set for an eventful and exciting showdown between Formula One’s two brightest stars.
Heavy rain and slippery conditions turned the 2012 Brazilian Grand Prix into complete chaos from the beginning. Vettel got off to a nightmarish start on the first lap when he was bumped by Bruno Senna of the Williams Team. He was spun around - facing on-coming traffic - and immediately dropped to last place. With a damaged car and unable to communicate by radio with his pit crew, Vettel began the difficult task of playing catch-up. He steadily passed slower cars at the end of the pack and moved into the sixth position by lap 15. 
Fernando Alonzo had his share of difficulties early in the race too. His front tire locked and he ran off the track at the first corner. However, the two-time Formula One champion managed to stay out of further trouble amid changing weather conditions and more crashes involving other cars. With 14 laps to go in the race, it appeared that Alonzo had the title in his hands when he moved up to third place while Vettel dropped to 11th place after a botched pit stop to change tires. After all cars pitted, Alonzo moved into 2nd, and Vettel emerged in 6th place. This turn of events did not favor Alonzo; he needed Vettel to drop further back.
When Paul di Resta of Force India Team crashed just before the final lap, it took the drama out of an otherwise thrilling race. All cars approached the finish behind the safety car, with Jenson Button of McLaren in first place, followed by Fernando Alonzo in second, and Felipe Massa of Ferrari in third. Alonzo received 18 points for finishing second, bringing his season points total to 278. Vettel received 8 points for finishing 6th, giving him 281 points - enough to win the 2012 Formula One World Drivers’ Championship.
After the race, the retiring seven-time Formula One champion and racing legend Michael Schumacher was the first to congratulate Vettel on his historic accomplishment. Vettel was effusive in praising everyone associated with Red Bull Racing - from management to engineers to pit crew - for working together to create a winning formula. Summing up his performance at the Brazilian Grand Prix that made him a three-time F1 world champion, Vettel said: “Everything that could go wrong went wrong. Just look at the stuff that went wrong. It was for sure the toughest race. We kept believing. It was never game over.” 
