Ian Fleming
 “When I wrote the first one in 1953, I wanted Bond to be an extremely dull, uninteresting man to whom things happened; ... when I was casting around for a name for my protagonist I thought by God, (James Bond) is the dullest name I ever heard.” - Ian Fleming, author of James Bond novels
Ian Fleming was an English author best known for his James Bond series of spy novels. He utilized his experience while serving as a British naval intelligence officer during World War II to create the fictional character that would make him famous around the world - British Secret Service agent James Bond (code name 007). His Bond novels have sold more than 100 million copies worldwide and are among the best-selling fictional series of all time. Movies based on his novels - 23 and counting - have become cultural icons.
Ian Fleming was born in 1908 in Mayfair, London, into an influential, upper-class family. His father was a Member of Parliament, and his grandfather was a wealthy Scottish banker. In his early years, Fleming attended Eton College, where he excelled in athletics but failed to impress in academics. He was forced to leave Eton a year short of graduation over disciplinary issues. He attended the Royal Military College at Sandhurst but left shortly without gaining an officer’s commission. He continued his education in Europe by attending schools in Austria, Germany and Switzerland.
Upon completing his education, Ian Fleming worked brief stints as a journalist, a financier, and a stock broker. In 1939, Fleming joined the Naval Intelligence of the British Royal Navy and served as a personal assistant to one of Britain’s top spymasters, Admiral John Godfrey. He distinguished himself as an intelligence officer by conceiving creative ideas to confuse, trick and spy on the Germans. He travelled extensively to plan, supervise and carry out intelligence missions. In 1941, Fleming travelled to the United States and helped in the writing of a blueprint on how to set up the Office of Strategic Services - the forerunner to the CIA. 
Following the war, Fleming became foreign manager for Kemsley newspaper group, which owned the Sunday Times. His contract stipulated that he be allowed to take a three-month vacation each year from January to March. During that period, he would travel to Goldeneye - a house he had built in Jamaica - to concentrate on his writing. In 1952, Fleming completed Casino Royale, a fictional account of the exploits of James Bond, a spy in the British Secret Intelligence Service commonly known as MI6. The book was a success and required three prints to meet demand. 
Ian Fleming wrote a total of 11 novels and 2 short stories in the Bond series, averaging one per year until his death in 1964. For the name of the title character, Fleming - an avid bird watcher - took the name of the famous American ornithologist James Bond, an expert on Caribbean birds. He used various secret service agents (including his brother Peter Fleming) and commandos he met during the war to create the character of Bond. It is believed that Bond’s flair, charm and looks contained traits of Ian Fleming himself. Many of the names of villains in the books came from people Fleming knew, and disliked, in real life.
Ian Fleming’s James Bond became a full-blown cultural phenomenon when the books were made into movies. In 1961, Fleming sold the film rights to his published and future Bond books to Canadian theater and film producer Harry Saltzman, who then formed Eon Productions together with Albert Broccoli to produce all the Bond films. Scottish actor Sean Connery was signed to play James Bond. In 1962, Dr. No, the first Bond movie, was released. It was a critical and financial success. Many more Bond films would follow; and 50 years on, Ian Fleming’s legacy lives on in Skyfall. The Bond franchise is better and stronger than ever.
