Today is more important than tomorrow
PRO 
People who want to succeed try to work hard and do their best. They want to be better today than yesterday, and what we do today decides our tomorrow.
Time does not go back; it only goes forward. If you cannot turn back the hands of time, the only thing you can do is to do your best at every moment. Also people have different desires and goals, and they should make their best choices to reach such targets in any given time.
Another case in point is that the harder you work today, the further you will develop tomorrow. You cannot be a better person if you always say “I will try next time.” You have to do it now, not tomorrow.
Great people did not postpone their daily routines. There is a famous saying “Don’t put off till tomorrow what you can do today.” People do not get a good result and success for free. They do things today which other people do tomorrow. Everyone can be great if they stop wasting time today.
“Just this once I will do it tomorrow.” That is a start of getting lazy. If you want to be successful, don’t ever postpone the work given for today.
CON 
People know that “the early bird catches the worm.” The more effort you put in, the better result you get. Since the competition for success these days is so fierce, we should use our time more efficiently. One of the most important things we should keep in mind is how to schedule our days. There are two types of schedules you can come up with: Today-oriented and tomorrow-oriented schedules. Each of them has its good and bad points, but I prefer the tomorrow-oriented one.
Being busy means we always have a lot of work to take care of. We need a well-organized plan for such work. When people go with a today-oriented schedule, they might finish the day’s work better, but they might not be able to prepare well for tomorrow. When tomorrow is not ready to be taken care of, things will naturally get mixed and delayed soon. But in the tomorrow-oriented schedule, 60 percent, let’s say, would be dealing with today’s work while the rest of 40 percent would be tomorrow’s work. It is obvious that the latter is more efficient and well-balanced than the former.
A person who can finish work faster, in other words, a person who can carry out their tasks more efficiently, has higher chance of success. Why don’t you go with the tomorrow-oriented daily plan, like me?
