World Santa Claus Championships
From Nov. 30 to Dec. 1, the ski resort Samnaun in eastern Switzerland celebrates “ClauWau,” the World Santa Claus Championships. 
At the World Santa Claus Championships, teams of four, dressed from head to toe in red and white play several holiday-themed games, vying to be crowned as the world’s best Father Christmas.
The two-day contest, known as the ClauWau, marks the opening of the winter season in this Swiss ski resort. The resort is located at the meeting point of three European countries: Switzerland, Austria and Italy.
In this annual event, challenges include gingerbread decorating, chimney climbing, sleigh driving, sprinting, snowshoe obstacle course relays and the “Santa Clauben,” in which each team crawls under a giant Santa hat to pick up gift-like packages. 
The four teams with the highest running time qualify for the final round.
The team that finishes the obstacle course the fastest wins the title of Santa Claus World Champion, along with 1,500 Swiss francs in prize money. 
Less athletic teams also have a shot at winning 300 Swiss francs at the World Santa Claus Championships for best costume during the Santa Parade on Dec .1. A jury evaluates each team’s costumes on the level of its originality, authenticity and overall appearance. 
For the chimney-climbing contest, Santas, while carrying a sack, must climb a chimney-shaped wall, reach the top of the chimney and ring a bell in the quickest time possible.
What’s more, “Santa’s Journey,” a geography quiz show, challenges teams of global Santas to identify global landmarks from pictures, as navigation is a vital skill for any Santa. 
The participation for this event-part international Christmas party, part alpine sports medley-is open to anyone who is over 18, in a team of four and dressed as St Nicholas.
The ClauWau is a mad but magical Christmas-themed festival, where you can meet Santas from all over the world and play tons of exciting games. Next year’s ClauWau (clauwau.ch) will be on Nov. 23-24. 
History of Santa Claus
The American version of Santa Claus was inspired by the Dutch legend of Sinter Klaas, which was brought by settlers to New York in the 17th century.
The name appeared in the American press as “St. A Claus” in 1773, but it only became popular after author Washington Irving gave the first detailed information about the Dutch version of Saint Nicholas. 
In his “History of New York” published in 1809, Irving described the arrival of the saint on horseback on Eve of Saint Nicholas. 
The image of Santa Claus was further elaborated on by illustrator Thomas Nast, who depicted a chubby Santa for Christmas issues of Harper’s magazine from the 1860s to the 1880s. 
Nast added details such as Santa’s workshop at the North Pole and Santa’s list of the good and bad children of the world. The modern versions of Santa Claus that includes toy-shop working elves and Rudolph, the ninth reindeer, with a red and shiny nose, was invented in 1939 by an advertising writer for the Montgomery Ward Company. 
