Successful relationship may depend on ability to smell
Most people understand that our ability to smell plays an important part in our nutrition and safety. Our noses are responsible for such simple things as making our food taste better, to more important things such as alerting us to when there is a fire nearby. 
The ability to smell plays an undoubtedly important part of our physical safety, but did you know that our ability to smell has other significant value as well? Not only does our sense of smell help us discern between something sweet and bitter, but according to new research, it may also play a vital role in developing and maintaining successful relationships.
A recent study published in the journal Biological Psychology found that an impaired sense of smell can result in having trouble maintaining relationships for both men and women. In their study, researchers looked at the association between people suffering from anosmia, the inability to smell, and their ability to maintain healthy, long-term relationships with significant others. 
In men, the inability to smell resulted in far fewer romantic relationships than those with a normal sense of smell. Women, on the other hand, showed no difference in the number of romantic partners. Instead, researchers found that women suffering from anosmia tended to be more insecure in their relationships than their non-disabled counterparts. 
“A lot of social signals are transported through the olfactory channel,” said lead author Ilona Croy, a psychologist at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden. 
Croy explains that by having an impaired sense of smell, people with anosmia grow to be insecure after a lifetime of missing social cues. Croy theorizes that this insecurity leads to men to lose confidence when seeking new partners. In women, this social insecurity translates into insecure relationships. 
“It may well be that we are exchanging much more information through body odors than we are aware of,” study co-author Thomas Hummel told LiveScience. “We are governed by our noses in some ways.” 
