 Athletes turned actors
Many famous athletes have tried their hands at acting either during the height of their careers or when their playing days were over. Some of them dabbled in one or two acting projects and were quickly forgotten while a select few went on to become respected actors and enjoy successful careers. Let’s look at some athletes who made the transition from sports to acting.
Arnold Schwarzenegger -  He is perhaps the most successful example of a famous athlete who achieved greater fame as an actor. The Austrian bodybuilder, who won the Mr. Universe title and the Mr. Olympia contest seven times, became the top Hollywood action star and worldwide box office sensation by starring in blockbuster movies such as “Conan the Barbarian,” “The Terminator,” “Total Recall,” “True Lies” and “Batman and Robin.” He was among the highest paid actors in history and was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 
Chuck Norris - He is a renowned martial artist who won multiple world titles in karate. He was the undefeated world middle weight champion from 1968 to 1974. Norris got his big break in acting in 1972 when he played the villain opposite Bruce Lee in “The Way of the Dragon.” His memorable duel with Lee in the Roman Colosseum is still considered the best fight scene ever. Norris went on to star in successful action films such as “Missing in Action” and “Delta Force.” He also played the title character in the popular TV series “Walker, Texas Ranger” for 10 seasons.
Michael Jordan ? He is considered the greatest basketball player of all time. He was a five-time NBA Most Valuable Player, a six-time NBA champion, and a fourteen-time NBA All-Star. In 1996, Jordan teamed with famous Looney Tunes character Bugs Bunny in the live action/animated movie “Space Jam” - a fictional story set during his first retirement. The movie was a commercial success, opening at No. 1 in the United States, and grossing over $230 million worldwide.
Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson ? He was a college football player on the 1991 University of Miami‘s national championship team. He followed the footsteps of his grandfather and his father, and became a professional wrestler in the WWE, where he was wildly popular as the trash-talking champion “The Rock.” The charismatic wrestler made a successful transition to acting by appearing in TV comedy shows and children’s programs. He starred in several action movies and was one of the very few athletes turned actors to be praised for his acting skills.
Michael Gerard “Mike” Tyson ? He is the former undisputed heavyweight champion of the world known for his savage punching power in the ring and all sorts of legal troubles outside the ring. In 2009, Tyson appeared in the hit comedy movie “Hangover” as a caricature of himself. His performance was widely praised and his comedic flair was much appreciated. In 2012, Tyson appeared in a one-man show on Broadway - “Mike Tyson: The Undisputed Truth” ? in collaboration with film director Spike Lee. 
Vinnie Jones ? He is a former midfielder who played for English Premier League teams Leeds United, Sheffield United, Chelsea, Wimbledon and Queens Park Rangers. He extended his tough guy image as a footballer into playing aggressive and intimidating roles in movies. He made his 1998 feature film debut in Guy Ritchie’s “Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels,” and has remained one of the busiest and the most in-demand actors in show business.
Sonja Henie - She was a three-time Olympic ladies figure skating Champion (1928, 1932, 1936), and a ten-time World Champion (1927?1936). In 1936, she signed a long term contract with Hollywood studio Twentieth Century Fox that made her one of the highest-paid actresses at the time. Her first film “One in a Million” was a major success and she went on to make 13 movies in her 22-year movie career.
