Steven Spielberg
 “There are three movies that I am exceptionally proud of in my life, and I rarely commit to a list of films that I like, that I‘ve made... but these are the three films that I was passionately connected to. The first was ET, the second Schindler’s List, and third is Saving Private Ryan.” – Steven Spielberg
Steven Spielberg is one of the most recognizable and influential film personalities in the world. He has numerous critically acclaimed and box-office hits to his credit as a director, a writer, a producer, and studio entrepreneur. His movies - ranging from horror-thriller to science fiction to action adventure to historical drama – have entertained audiences the world over and won him countless nominations and awards. 
Steven Spielberg was born on Dec. 18, 1946. He started making films when he was 12 years old to fulfill a requirement for the Boy Scout photography merit badge. At age 16 he made his first full-length film - a science fiction adventure called “Firelight.” It later became the inspiration for his hit movie “Close Encounters of the Third Kind.” While working as an unpaid intern at Universal Studios, Spielberg made his first short film for theatrical release, “Amblin.” The movie led to his becoming the youngest director ever to be signed to a long-term deal with Universal. 
Spielberg’s work at Universal, mostly directing TV episodes and TV movies, earned him recognition as a talented and promising director. In 1975, he became a superstar for his directorial effort in “Jaws.” The movie was based on the Peter Benchley novel about an enormous man-eating great white shark that terrorized beachgoers. It grossed more than $470 million worldwide at the box office, making Spielberg famous and wealthy, and in the process, giving him a great deal of autonomy for his future projects.
In 1977, Spielberg wrote and directed the UFO drama “Close Encounters of the Third Kind.” The film was a critical and financial success and received numerous nominations and awards. In 1981, he teamed with Star Wars creator George Lucas on “Raiders of the Lost Ark” – the first of the Indiana Jones adventure series. In 1982, Spielberg directed the all-time favorite science fiction classic, “E.T. the Extra Terrestrial.” The story of a young boy who befriends an alien became a worldwide sensation, and it became the top-grossing film of all time. 
With his credentials as an A-list director firmly established, Spielberg switched from making summer blockbusters to set his sights on tackling literary adaptations. In 1985, he directed “The Color Purple,” based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Alice Walker about a generation of empowered African-American women during depression-era America. The film earned 11 Academy Award nominations. In 1987, Spielberg made “Empire of the Sun” – an adaptation of J. G. Ballard‘s novel about a young boy who goes from living in a wealthy British family in Shanghai, to becoming a prisoner of war in a Japanese internment camp during World War II.
In 1993, Spielberg directed “Schindler’s List” - the story of Oskar Schindler, a German businessman who saved the lives of more than a thousand Polish-Jewish refugees during the Holocaust. It was a huge box office success, and Spielberg won an Oscar for Best Director. The film was listed No. 8 among the greatest American films ever made. In the same year, Spielberg returned to the adventure genre with “Jurassic Park” – the special effects-laden film about a theme park with genetically engineered dinosaurs. It set a new standard as the highest grossing film of all time. 
In 1998, Spielberg won his second Oscar for Best Director with “Saving Private Ryan” - an epic war film set during and following the invasion of Normandy in World War II. His new film ”Lincoln” - a historical drama covering the final four months of Lincoln’s life - has received widespread acclaim and is considered one of the Academy Award favorites. 
