Fun learning at the Gwacheon National Science Museum
On the same subway stop as Seoul Land is the ever-impressive Gwacheon National Science Museum. Most students in Korea have had the pleasure of visiting, or at the very least heard of, the museum since it opened in 2008. A popular destination for school and family trips, the Gwacheon National Science Museum easily transforms learning into a fun experience.
The museum is divided into outdoor and indoor exhibitions, with the main building - called the Scientorium - housing five separate exhibition centers. With over 50 percent of its exhibitions being interactive, the Gwacheon National Science Museum is impressive not just for its sheer size, but also its ability to provide visitors with the chance to learn through practical, first-hand experience.
Here are some of the more fun exhibitions available at the Scientorium:
Understanding natural disasters
Two of the more popular interactive experiences at the Scientorium are the Earthquake and Typhoon Experience rooms, found in the Basic Science Hall. In each of these exhibitions, visitors may not only learn about the science behind their occurrences, but also experience what it feels like to be part of one. The Earthquake and Typhoon Experience rooms provide visitors an opportunity to safely experience the powerful gusts of a typhoon and the teeth-chattering rumble of an earthquake. 
Understanding brainwaves
The first floor of the Advanced Technology Hall has a variety of very cool exhibitions; though the coolest might be the exhibition on brainwaves. Visitors can try different exercises using brainwaves. One of the more popular games is the Mind Racing Car, which uses focused brainwaves to make the car go faster. 
Understanding aerospace
The second floor of the Advanced Technology Hall features exciting experience opportunities for those interested in aerospace. Not only can you see what it is like to be in the cockpit of an airplane or in the command center during a rocket launch, the Scientorium also provides you with a chance to see what it is like to undergo training as an astronaut. 
The aviation simulator allows visitors to experience what it’s like to be in the cockpit of a plane during boarding, takeoff, flight and landing. The five-minute space camp exhibition allows visitors to experience astronaut training as well as life inside a spaceship by riding on the gyroscope and manned maneuvering unit (MMU). 
