Looking back on some of the funnier, more absurd news reports from around the world in 2012
The year 2012 was memorable for everyone in a lot of different ways. Countless tragedies and global events will undoubtedly make it into future history books. Though it is easy to remember some of the major events of the year, it is also important to remember the small, sometimes heartwarming and sometimes hilarious moments of 2012 as well. To that end, here are some of the funnier, more outrageous and absurd instances of 2012 as reported in the Fun section of The Junior Herald this year. 
1. Kim Jong-un reported to be sexiest man alive
In November, the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party became the butt of an international joke when it cited a joke article posted by a popular news satire website, The Onion, as news. The Onion article jokingly reported that North Korean Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un was voted the “Sexiest Man Alive For 2012.” Unfortunately for the Chinese newspaper, they reported it as true. When The Onion heard about the incident, they called out the editors at the Chinese newspaper for their failure to fact-check their sources. 
2. A lesson in why older does not always mean weaker
Never judge a person by their age. A 71-year-old former army boxing champion had had to resurrect his old talents when he discovered a 34-year-old man was harassing his neighbors. Using his skills to defend himself, John Cokeley managed to beat up a man more than half his age. Cokeley was watching TV in his home when he heard 34-year-old Mark Pearce fighting with a neighbor outside. After going outside to ask Pearce to calm down, the young man began to get physical. By the end of the fight, Pearce was knocked out after two or three hits while Cokeley only ended up with broken glasses and a black eye. A true lesson in the dangers of judging a book by its cover. 
3. What is big, gray, lives in Austria and speaks Korean?
Researchers at the University of Vienna were surprised to learn that an elephant in their care had the ability to mimic human speech. What was even more surprising was that it could say words in Korean well enough that could be understood by Koreans! Although no one can be sure whether or not he understands what he’s saying, Koshik the elephant can say five words in Korean: “hello,” “sit down,” “no,” “lie down” and “good.” Researchers believe Koshik learned these words during his five years as the only elephant at Everland Zoo in Korea. To watch a video recording of Koshik “speaking” Korean, check out BBC News’ audio clip at http://bbc.in/VePx35 
4. Twitter to the (pet) rescue!
Ever since social networking site Twitter was introduced to the world, millions of users have used it to post inane updates about their lives, follow celebrity updates and even bully other users by taking advantage of its anonymity. So when reports of an Irish pet owner who was reunited with her lost dog through Twitter made the news, many found this story heartwarming. Deirdre Anglin had noticed her dog, Patch, was missing while she was at the Kilcock train station in Ireland. When station workers at Pearse Station - an hour away from Kilcock - found the dog, they used the Irish Rail Twitter account to post a “lost dog” tweet that included his picture. More than 400 retweets and 32 minutes later, Anglin responded to the tweet, saying “That’s my dog!” and the two were soon reunited. 
5. Quite possibly the world’s most unlucky man
In February, an unlucky man had to watch as his entire village celebrated winning the annual Spanish national lottery. The Greek filmmaker, Costis Mitsotakis was the only resident in the small Spanish village of Sodeto to not purchase a lottery ticket. While the rest of the residents enjoyed a minimum payout of $130,000 per person, Mitsotakis was left watching from the sidelines. 
6. Escaped penguin mocks zoo officials
Much like the troublesome penguins from the “Madagascar” franchise, one daredevil penguin successfully escaped from the zoo and was photographed smiling and waving. Making his daring escape from the Tokyo Sea Life Park sometime in early March, the 1-year-old Humboldt penguin was later spotted swimming in Tokyo Bay. A photograph snapped of the daredevil penguin shows it waving to the dumbfounded authorities as it enjoyed its new-found freedom. 
7. How to honor Beyoncé: Discover new horsefly species and name it after Beyoncé
What other way is there to show your love and respect for Beyoncé than to name an entire species after the superstar singer? That, at least, is what seemed to go through Australian researcher Bryan Lessard’s mind when he decided to name a horsefly species with a distinctive golden butt after the pop diva. Lessard told AP that he “wanted to pay respect to the insect’s beauty by naming it Scaptia (Plinthina) beyoncaea.”
8. WARNING: do NOT underestimate this 90-year-old grandmother
In another instance that proved age is just a number, a 90-year-old grandmother from California successfully chased down her mugger; 27-year-old Damarea Johnson, who stole her purse from outside of a convenience store. With the help of a good Samaritan standing nearby, the woman was able to chase down and recover her purse by following Johnson into the backyard of a home. The two were able to hold Johnson down until the police arrived. 
9. Who needs to go to an arcade when you can make your own?
A 9-year-old entrepreneur inspired many when news of his determination and spirit hit the Internet. Caine Monroy became an overnight sensation after a local filmmaker discovered his love for arcade games had prompted him to build his very own cardboard arcade set. A short film made by the filmmaker, entitled “Caine’s Arcade” had gone viral, racking up more than a million hits shortly after it was uploaded on YouTube. Caine’s efforts had paid off when an owner of a local pinball shop invited Caine to check out her store. The owner even offered Caine one of several pinball machines, valued between few hundred to a few thousand dollars for free. 
10. An elephant with more musical talent than a lot of people
Anyone who has ever tried will know that playing a harmonica is harder than it seems. This is why news about an elephant with the ability to play the harmonica became a sensation in May. This musically talented elephant is named Shanti and is currently living at the National Zoo in D.C. Adorably, Shanti is also known to occasionally take requests from visitors. A short video clip of Shanti playing the harmonica can be found at http://bit.ly/IKn36d 
11. The cat that lived
This heartwarming tale of a seemingly-indestructible stray cat went viral in January, when despite two separate attempts at euthanasia at an animal shelter, the cat managed to survive. The cat, named Andrea, had not been adopted for 30 days when officials at the animal center decided to put her down. After the second failed attempt at euthanasia, officials decided her will to live was admirable and stopped trying to put her down. Thankfully, Andrea wa
