TV in bedroom increases children’s risk of major health issues
Research has long-established the link between TV viewing and obesity rates in both children and adults. In light of the upcoming holidays - and unfortunately for children who hoped Santa would bring them a TV this year - a new study warns parents that there are ways that televisions can be even unhealthier for children.
Published in the January 2013 issue of the American Journal of Preventative Medicine, a study has taken a deeper look at the relationship between TV viewing and obesity in children by studying the effects of having a TV in their bedrooms. 
The study looked at 369 children and adolescents aged five to 18 in Baton Rouge, Florida between 2010 and 2011. Each person was evaluated for a variety of health factors, including waist circumference and resting blood pressure, as well as levels of fasting triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, glucose, fat mass and stomach fat. The factors were then compared between children who had a TV in their bedrooms compared to those who did not. 
The study found that even if two children watched TV for the same number of hours a day, those with a TV in their bedrooms were found to have bigger waist sizes and higher levels of overall fat. Additionally, a TV in the bedroom was associated with an increased risk of developing heart disease and diabetes, even if two kids had roughly the same diet and same level of physical activity. 
“A bedroom TV may create additional disruptions to healthy habits, above and beyond regular TV viewing,” notes study co-author Amanda Staiano, PhD. “For instance, having a bedroom TV is related to lower amounts of sleep and lower prevalence of regular family meals, independent of total TV viewing time. Both short sleep duration and lack of regular family meals have been related to weight gain and obesity.” 
In an interview with the Los Angeles Times, Vicky Rideout, a consultant specializing in health communication, social marketing and youth and media, warned parents that merely removing a TV from the kids’ bedrooms is not enough. 
“Keep an eye on your child’s smartphone and computers too, because food companies are now marketing games, websites and mobile apps designed to boost consumption of foods kids should be eating less of, not more of,” she said. 
