Most Valuable Sports Teams as chosen by Forbes
Forbes’ annual list of the 50 most valuable sports teams in the world proves beyond doubt that big sport is big business - the total value of the 50 teams combined is worth a staggering $53.69 billion. American football teams dominate the list, with all 32 NFL franchises included in the top 50, followed by soccer (7), Major League Baseball (7), Formula-1 Racing (2), and the National Basketball Association (2). 
At the top of the list is English Premier League club Manchester United.  The 19-time English Premier League champion, with approximately 659 million fans around the world, is valued at $2.23 billion, 19 percent more than the second most valuable team - Spanish Primera Liga powerhouse Real Madrid.  Manchester United is owned by the Glazer family of the United States. The team has lucrative sponsorship deals with insurance corporation Aon plc, sporting goods giant Nike, and express mail service company DHL. A new shirt sponsor deal with General Motors, scheduled to take effect in the 2014-2015 season, is worth $559 million over seven years. 
In third place of the list is the Dallas Cowboys of the American National Football League, with an estimated worth of $1.85 billion. Nicknamed “America’s Team” due to its popularity, the Cowboys shares the record for most Super Bowl appearances (8) and most National Football Conference championships (8). The team has a streak of 160 consecutive home sell-outs in regular and post-season games since 1990. The team plays in Cowboy Stadium, a state-of-the-art venue with a retractable roof, which generates more than $100 million annually from premium seating. The team’s overall annual revenue from tickets sales, sponsorship deals and television rights exceeds $260 million. 
Sharing third place on the list is Major League Baseball (MLB) club the New York Yankees, with a value of $1.85 billion. The legendary baseball team, founded in 1901, is the most successful baseball team in history. The Yankees have won 18 division titles, 40 American League pennants, and 27 World Series championships, all of which are MLB records. Forty-four Yankees players and 11 Yankees managers have been inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. It is the most profitable team in MLB with more than $300 million in annual ticket revenue. The team’s YES Network generates another $200 million in annual operating income. Clothing and assorted merchandises bearing the NY Yankees logo are among the best selling items in all sports. 
Scuderia Ferrari, the Formula One racing team division of the Italian sports car manufacturer Ferrari S.p.A., is 15th on the list with a value of $1.1 billion. It is one of two non-ball sports teams, along with McLaren Racing, on the list. It is the most successful F1 Racing team in history with a record of 16 constructor’s championships and 15 drivers‘ championships, seven of which were won by Michael Schumacher. The team has many lucrative sponsorship deals, including an extension with Marlboro, worth as much as $500 million over three years; and a $52 million-a-year agreement with Spanish bank Santander. 
The Los Angeles Lakers is one of two National Basketball Association teams, along with the New York Knicks, to be included on the list. The team is 35th on the list with a value of $900 million. The Lakers won 16 NBA championships, second only to the 17 titles won by the Boston Celtics. The fortune of the Lakers is tied to television broadcast revenues. The Lakers have by far the largest audience on TV, averaging 258,000 households on Fox Sports West in 2011. The team signed a new deal with Time Warner Cable beginning with the 2012 season that is valued at an average of $200 million a year - a significant increase over the old agreement of $35 million. 
