Young Niko returns in ‘Little Brother, Big Trouble’
Young Niko returns to the big screen this Christmas with his second holiday adventure in the 2012 film, “Little Brother, Big Trouble: A Christmas Adventure.” 
The story follows the adventures of Niko as he struggles to accept his new family and cope with the realization that his mother and father will not be getting back together. Set right before Christmas, the story begins with Niko joining his father, Prancer, during a training session of Santa Claus’ “Flying Forces.” With his hopes high of a reunion between his parents, Niko returns home to his mother, only to learn that she plans on getting re-married to a different reindeer named Lenni. Niko’s disappointment is exacerbated when he learns that Lenni will be moving in along with his little son, Johnny. 
After being forced to include little Johnny in his games, Niko becomes resentful. In the middle of playing hide-and-seek, Johnny gets kidnapped by White Wolf’s evil minions, the eagles. With the help of his flying squirrel friend Julius, Niko takes off to rescue his brother, and thus his adventure begins. 
Directed by Kari Juusonen and Jørgen Lerdam, “Little Brother, Big Trouble” is a sequel to the 2008 film, “The Flight Before Christmas.” Originally a Finnish film, the Korean release of “Little Brother, Big Trouble: A Christmas Adventure” has been dubbed by three very famous people; actor Joo-won (Niko), comedian Kim Won-hyo (Julius) and singer Narsha of the Brown Eyed Girls (White Wolf). During a press conference on Dec. 13, the three celebrities reflected upon their experiences with dubbing for the film. 
When asked about his experience with voice-acting for the animated series, first-time voice actor Joo-won stated that he felt very uncomfortable and embarrassed while in the recording studio. 
“In movies or dramas, the surrounding environment helps me get into character, but since dubbing is done in a recording studio, not only was it awkward, but I had a hard time having to exaggerate my voice inflections compared to what I’m used to in general acting,” he explained. 
Narsha, who plays the antagonist in the film, spoke of her reaction when she got the call about being cast as White Wolf.
“When the director told me I was perfect for the role of the villain, I was quite surprised,” she said. “I wasn’t sure whether to be happy or offended” to be considered perfect for the role, she added.
For Kim Won-hyo, “Little Brother, Big Trouble” was his third time voice-acting. When asked why he thought he kept being asked to dub animated works, he drew laughter with his response of, “I think it’s because I haven’t raised my fee [as an actor].”
Joking aside, however, Kim guessed that the reason directors are eager to cast him is because of the friendly image and bright character he portrays in the comedy show, “Gag Concert.”
“Little Brother, Big Trouble” opened in theaters across the nation on Christmas Day, Dec. 25. 
