Prominent people of 2012
As 2012 draws to a close, it is customary for some media outlets to present lists of events and people that shaped and defined the year. Notable examples of such lists are: Time 100 -- an annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world; People Magazine’s “Most Beautiful People in the World”; CNN Heroes- a salute to “Everyday People Changing the World”; and Sports Illustrated’s “Sportsman of the Year.” Let’s look at a few of the people who appeared on some of those lists.
Adele Laurie Blue Adkins –  The English singer, songwriter and musician is undoubtedly the brightest star in the music industry in 2012. Her album 21 earned her six Grammy Awards in 2012, including the coveted Record of the Year, Album of the Year, and Song of the Year. Her six Grammys won in one night equaled the record set by Beyoncé in 2010. Adele also wrote and performed “Skyfall,” the eponymous theme song of the 23rd James Bond film. The song is widely touted as the best James Bond theme song ever and has been nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. Many experts believed that it will likely win an Oscar as well.
Lionel Messi – In an Olympic year that featured incredible sporting feats and record-breaking performances by some of the best athletes in the world, it was Messi’s masterful performance on the pitch that stood tall above the rest. The reigning European Footballer of the Year Award (Ballon d‘Or) winner exceeded himself in 2012. He scored twice in the first game of the season, and the goals kept coming. On Nov. 11, Messi scored twice against Mallorca, his 75th and 76th goals, to pass Pelé’s record of 75 goals (set in 1958) in a calendar year. On Dec. 9, Messi scored twice against Real Betis, his 85th and 86th to break Gerd Müller’s 40-year-old record of 85 goals scored in a calendar year. 
Daniel Craig – The English actor chosen as the sixth to play the role of British secret agent James Bond took the superspy franchise to new heights in 2012 - the 50th anniversary of the first Bond film “Dr. No.” “Skyfall,” the 23rd in the series, has earned $920 million worldwide and is the highest grossing Bond film of all time. When Craig was first introduced as the new 007 in 2005, many Bond fans and film critics were not very receptive. He did not fit the “tall, dark and handsome” image of Bond that people had come to expect. Since then, Craig has won over fans and critics alike with his acting prowess, physical presence and box office results.
Xi Jinping – At the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Nov. 15, 2012, Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping was elected to the post of General Secretary of the Communist Party and Chairman of the CPC Central Military Commission. The new leader of the world’s most populous nation and the second largest economy is often described by those who know him as “pragmatic, serious, cautious, hard-working, down to earth and low-key.” He takes power amid concerns over economic uncertainties and territorial disputes with neighboring nations. 
Julian Assange – The controversial editor-in-chief and founder of WikiLeaks, which publishes submissions of secret information, news leaks, and classified media from anonymous news sources, found himself a wanted man in 2012. In June, the Supreme Court of the U.K. dismissed Assange’s appeal against enforcement of the European Arrest Warrant to extradite him to Sweden to face questioning. The recipient of the 2009 Amnesty International Media Award and Time magazine’s 2010 Person of the Year currently resides in the Ecuadorian embassy in London, where he has been granted diplomatic asylum.
