Cruising into the New Year
Not sure where to go during winter vacation? Why not consider going on a cruise with your family to watch the first sunrise of the year? 
In celebration of the New Year, Risabu Cruise is offering patrons the chance to watch the first sunrise of 2013 from as close as you could possibly get in Korea; the East Sea. With a boarding time of 6 a.m., a downside of this trip is the need to wake up at dawn. That, however, is a small price to pay for the chance to be one of the first in the country to welcome the New Year.
If rising at the break of dawn is not your cup of tea, Risabu offers a wide variety of other cruise options you may want to check out. 
For people who enjoy being out when it’s light out, for example, Risabu offers daily “Tour of the Sea” cruises, which includes performances by a Ukrainian dance group, Chinese circus troupe and a live performance by a Filipino singer. 
For night owls, Risabu offers a “Dinner Cruise” every Saturday night, which includes international performances, a delicious buffet and a breathtaking fireworks display. 
Worried about motion sickness? 　
Worried about getting sea sick while on a boat? Don’t like taking medicine? No need to worry! Check out these easy home remedies to combat motion sickness! All you need is one trip to the grocery store.
Non-citrus juices ? Drink a glass of juice before the journey. Having a bit of sugar and fluids before the trip will help prevent you from getting sick. Once you do start feeling sick, however, taking small sips can also help you feel better. Remember to drink non-citrus juices because citrus fruit can irritate an already unstable stomach.
Ginger ? Ginger has long been known as a herbal remedy for queasiness, and science has helped prove its effectiveness against motion sickness; more so than some over-the-counter medications. Just make sure to pack some warm ginger tea for your trip and take sips when you start to feel ill.
Saltine crackers ? Saltine crackers are another way to help ease nausea from motion sickness. Eating them in small amounts will help decrease the saliva and fluids in your stomach, helping relieve your motion sickness.
Peppermint ? Peppermint-flavored candies or lozenges can also help ease any queasiness. Not only will it help with motion sickness, but it will also give you minty-fresh breath!
Ice ? If all else fails, ask a staff member for some ice chips. Sucking on some ice chips can also help calm your stomach and distract you from the misery of motion sickness.
Sunrise Cruise schedule: 　
6:00 Boarding time
6:00 ~ 7:00 Breakfast of rice-cake soup (Tteokguk) onboard
7:00 Cruise departs harbor
7:00 ~ 9:00 Performances by a Ukrainian dance group and a Chinese circus troupe
9:00 Return to harbor
