Do beauty pageants do more harm than good?
Pro - We have a variety of beauty contests which show a parade of women with unique clothes. Some think it is great for models to show their beauty in different ways but, on the other side, there are people who are opposed to the idea. I am one of those opponents. 
Above all, beauty contests disregard individuality. Each contestant is one valuable person. The contest requires women to wear extremely short or gaudy clothes, even when they don’t want to.
Second, the contestants tend to try to lose weight excessively. Judges want thin women more than chubby women. Of course thin and slim can look better, but being too slim can invite anorexia, which is a serious disease. 
Moreover, ranking women is shameful. Women are not commodities that can be divided up and ranked. All women have their own characters, which people cannot really rank. 
I think it is good for women to show their attractiveness, but giving them scores is something we should refrain from. I hope that people will bear in mind that women are not a product that we can rank, but individuals who must be treated with respect.
Con - There are some groups of people who think beauty pageants are harmful. But, quite a few other groups think beauty pageants can function positively. I support the latter group for the following reasons. 　
First of all, the purpose of beauty pageants is to define the standard of beauty. People usually think that beauty pageants will commercialize the “beauty,” but looking from the contestant’s perspective, it would be a great chance to promote and improve their appearance. Abolishing the contests would be the same as taking away people’s chances to seek beauty and diversity.　
Also, beauty pageants could be used in many positive ways. It could work as a competition field where judges rank the participants’ intelligence and social responsibility as well as their beauty. Beauty pageants are not about rating physical appearance only. Many winners of the beauty contests devote their time doing community service work. The winners also give youngsters hopes that they could achieve their dreams depending on their efforts.
So, for the reasons above, I believe that beauty pageants should continue and that people should be given chances to seek their dreams and 
work toward their goals.
