Presidential visits worldwide
The itinerary of a head of state always includes numerous countries, and for President Lee Myung-bak, it was no exception. The 17th president of Korea visited a total of 84 countries during his 49 overseas visits over the last five years. Through the trips, he set foot in over 100 regions, and he has spent 232 nights outside the country. The total distance he has traveled is about 760,000 km, equivalent to circling the globe 19 times.
The countries or groups of states which Lee visited include the United States, China, Japan, Russia, the European Union (EU) and the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). He expanded Korea-U.S. ties from a security alliance to a comprehensive economic collaboration, boosted Korea-China economic trade to $200 billion annually, and clinched a number of deals with Indonesia, the United Arab Emirates and Russia in the fields of energy resources cooperation. The following are major countries Lee has visited over the last five years and the summary of his achievements he made there.
The United States
The president stepped on U.S. soil eight times between 2008 and 2012, which can be interpreted as a sign of ever-strong trust between the two heads of state. The Korean president held 11 rounds of high-level talks during the last five years, and seven of them were with President Barack Obama. The bilateral talks between Lee and Obama include those held in Seoul: the summit talks in 2009, the G20 Summit in 2010 and the Nuclear Security Summit in 2012.
The 2011 summit between the two presidents in the United States was significant in that the two leaders agreed to expand their ties from the previous security alliance to further economic collaboration. They also agreed at the summit to include global agenda items, such as nuclear non-proliferation, in their discussions.
China
The country that Lee visited the most was the United States, but the city he visited most frequently was Beijing. Korea and China inked a “Strategic Cooperative Partnership” in 2008, after which they expanded bilateral ties in politics, the economy, society and culture.
Lee held 11 rounds of Korea-China summits, and visited the Chinese territory twice during his term of office, the most among all Korean presidents. Through such diplomatic efforts, bilateral trade between the two countries topped $200 billion in 2012. The two aim to raise the volume to $300 billion by 2015. The trade volume in 2008 was only $160 billion.
