Lee Woon-jae retires from football
 “My body will leave the football pitch, but my heart will always be there. I‘ve been able to accomplish the things I did during my career thanks to the love and support of my fans.” ? Lee Woon-jae 
Veteran goalkeeper Lee Woon-jae recently announced his retirement from football after a stellar career in the K-League and on the Korean national squad. The 39-year-old Lee, whose football career spans nearly 20 years, chose to retire after his team the Chunnam Dragons decided not to offer him a contract for 2013. The decorated goalkeeper, known as “Spider Hands” to his fans, made 132 appearances on the national team, in which he conceded only 114 goals. He was part of Korea’s 1994, 2002, 2006 and 2010 World Cup campaigns. 
During his retirement ceremony at the Ramada Hotel in Seoul, the normally forthright and emotional Lee kept his composure as he discussed the highlights of his playing career and his aspirations for the future. He fondly recalled the overwhelming support from fans and the feeling of friendship and camaraderie among teammates and coaching staff during the Korean national team’s euphoric run to the semifinals in the 2002 World Cup. He expressed a desire to stay in football in some capacity to help develop young players if the right opportunity presents itself. 
Lee also spoke candidly about the situation that led to his decision to retire. He started thinking about leaving the sport he loved when his mentor Jung Hae-seong resigned as Chunnam’s head coach in August, as the team was plummeting in league standings. He admitted to having struggled with weight problems during the latter part of his career. Under new coach Ha Seok-Ju, Lee was relegated to backup goalkeeper and had to go on a crash diet to lose between 5-6 kilograms. He jokingly referred to his playing career as a long and continuous “war on fat.”
Lee Woon-jae started his international career at age 19 as a member of the Korean U-23 team at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. He became a member of the Korean national team at the 1994 World Cup in the United States and saw limited action as a substitute goalkeeper. In 1996, Lee turned professional and joined Suwon Samsung Bluewings of the K-League. He made 267 appearances and helped the team to four K-League titles, two FA cups, and the 2001-2002 Asian Club Championship. He was voted to the K-League Best 11 -- an acknowledgement of the best eleven players in the league -? four times. In 2008, he became the only goalkeeper in K-league history to win the Most Valuable Player award.
The highlight of Lee Woon-jae’s career is undoubtedly the 2002 World Cup co-hosted by Korea and Japan. Chosen by Korean coach Guus Hiddink as the starting goalkeeper, he repeatedly made critical saves during the group stages and in the round of 16. In the quarterfinal between Korea and European powerhouse Spain, the game ended in a draw and went to penalties. In the pulsating shootout, Lee Woon-jae made a decisive save on Spain’s fourth shot, taken by the 21-year-old winger Joaquin, and paved the way to a 5-3 upset victory that propelled Korea into the semifinals. 
At the 2006 World Cup in Germany, the 33-year-old Lee was once again chosen as the starting goalkeeper of the Korean national team. He started over the highly-touted Kim Young-kwan because of his vast experience and track record in big games and international tournaments. Lee made the Korean World Cup squad in 2010 and became one of two players in the world (the other being Rigobert Song of Cameroon) to be selected for the 2010 World Cup that were also selected for the 1994 World Cup. 
