‘Wreck-It Ralph’: A movie about a bad guy who wants to be good
Released in time for the holiday season, Disney’s “Wreck-It Ralph” brings to life the characters of arcade games in a story about finding your identity and fighting against conformity. 
Directed by Rich Moore, the story of “Wreck-It Ralph” revolves around Ralph, an arcade game villain, who rebels against his role and dreams of becoming a hero. Tired of being ostracized by the other video game characters, Ralph confesses his desire to stop being the bad guy during a support group for video game antagonists.
As the titular villain of an arcade game called “Fix-It Felix, Jr.,” Ralph soon decides to run away from his role in the game in the hopes of earning a medal and becoming a hero. In doing so, however, he manages to wreak havoc to the entire arcade. 
For the Korean release of “Wreck-It Ralph,” Ralph’s character was dubbed by all-around entertainer Jeong Jun-ha. Jeong, along with presenter Park Ji-yoon, attended a press conference on Dec. 5 to discuss the film. 
When asked about his decision to venture into voice acting, Jeong Jun-ha said, “I took up the challenge of dubbing in order to become a more a dad my child could be proud of.” 
Regarding his character, Ralph, Jeong Jun-ha explains that “not all villains are the same. [Ralph’s] character has a good heart and an innocence that is as big as his size.” 
True to character, Jeong Jun-ha did not miss an opportunity to make jokes. In describing the plot of the film, Jeong Jun-ha compared himself to actor Won Bin, drawing laughs from the audience.
“‘Wreck-It Ralph’ is the animated version of ‘The Man from Nowhere’,” he explained. “Vanellope is Kim Sae-ron and I am Won Bin.” 
Though it isn’t clear what similarities Jeong Jun-ha’s character and Won Bin’s share, “Wreck It Ralph” is truly an enjoyable film for all ages. 
“Wreck It Ralph” opened in theaters across the nation on Dec. 19.
Throughout the film, audiences can catch glimpses of their favorite arcade and video game villains like Bowser from the Super Mario series, the ghosts from the classic Pac Man games and Dr. Robotnik from Sonic the Hedgehog. 
