Global female leaders
“I suppose leadership at one time meant muscles; but today it means getting along with people” – Indira Gandhi
Park Geun-hye’s victory in the 2012 presidential election means she will join an elite group of women who are entrusted with the awesome responsibility of leading their respective nations. Her contemporaries include such influential figures as Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Dilma Vana Linhares Rousseff of Brazil, Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia, and Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark. As Korea welcomes its first femake president, let’s look at some of the most prominent elected female national leaders in history.
Indira Gandhi -- Indira Gandhi served as the third prime minister of India for three consecutive terms from 1966 to 1977, and a fourth term from 1980 to 1984. She was the first woman to become prime minister of India, and the second woman in the world to be elected as the head of government. She was the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru - the first prime minister of independent India and a central figure in Indian politics for much of the 20th century. Under her leadership, India fought and won a 13-day-long war against Pakistan in 1971, forged close ties with the Soviet Union, and became a nuclear power in 1974. On Oct. 31, 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated at the prime minister’s residence by her bodyguards in retaliation for ordering the deadly Operation Blue Star raid against a Sikh temple. 
Golda Meir – Golda Meir served as the fourth prime minister of Israel from 1969 to 1974. She was the first woman to become prime minister of Israel, and the third woman in the world to be elected a national leader. She was one of 24 signatories (two of them women) of the Israeli Declaration of Independence on May 14, 1948. She was a strong-willed, straight-talking leader who guided Israel through some of the most tumultuous times in the nation’s history, including the Munich massacre of 11 Israeli athletes and coaches at the 1972 Summer Olympics, and the victorious Yom Kippur War against a coalition of Arab states. 
Margaret Thatcher – Margaret Thatcher served as the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990. She was the longest-serving U.K. prime minister in the twentieth century and the only woman to hold that post. She became one of the most powerful and influential leaders in the world for her stand against communism during the Cold War and for her leadership during the brief Falklands War against Argentina. However, her term in office was plagued by economic woes. Her domestic policies often proved unpopular, and her job approval ratings suffered accordingly. Her uncompromising politics and leadership style earned her the nickname of “Iron Lady.”
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf - Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is the 24th and current president of Liberia. She won the presidential election in 2005 and took office in January 2006. She was re-elected for a second term in 2011. Sirleaf holds the distinction as the first elected female head of state in Africa. Upon taking office, the Harvard-educated Sirleaf immediately went to work to reduce the national debt, and she did so with great effect. She established a truth and reconciliation commission to investigate more than 20 years of civil conflict in the country. She appointed opposition leaders into her administration in an effort to promote national reconciliation. She also promised a “zero tolerance” policy on corruption within the government. In 2010, Newsweek listed her as one of the 10 best leaders in the world. Sirleaf was awarded the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with Leymah Gbowee of Liberia and Tawakel Karman of Yemen. The women were recognized “for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women’s rights to full participation in peace-building work."
