Yoo Byung-eun, the alleged owner of Sewol operator Chonghaejin Marine Company and a self-proclaimed leader of a Christian sect, is heading in the opposite direction of the path Jesus followed.
The 73-year-old seems to be in good condition.
The fifth-grade Taekwondo black-belt holder has left the Geumsuwon residence he lived in for years and has been on the run for more than 20 days now.
His escape from Geumsuwon and his refugee attempts are all very unusual.
The path Yoo has taken is pathetic.
The police said, “Yoo had promised to cooperate with the investigation, but he abandoned his status and sense of honor as a religious leader and a tycoon and is at large like a common criminal.”
When police investigators stormed into his vacation house in Suncheon, all they could find were water bottles and a Bible.
The Salvation Sect, which Yoo had led, cites Bible verses to propagate their beliefs, and many of the cult members are known to be intellectuals.
But Yoon was in such a hurry that he left his Bible behind.
Yoo is supposed to be a man of power.
After the Odaeyang mass suicide in 1987, his Semo Corporation filed for bankruptcy.
But using loopholes in the legal process, he not only took back most of his subsidiaries but also expanded his business further.
His company was supported by catchy ideas, business tactics and the devotion of 100,000 believers across the country.
With the offerings contributed by believers, he founded a farming cooperative producing and distributing organic products.
Using experience operating cruises on the Han River, he got into the passenger ferry business, becoming a major ship owner.
His path has been far from ordinary.
While living in seclusion in Geumsuwon and making money in business, he used the pseudonym Ahae and held photography exhibitions.
His finale was disobeying a prosecution summons and taking flight.
The prosecutors’ tactics were to investigate his children first and collect solid evidence, summoning Yoo last.
But he rejected common sense.
When his three children, Dae-gyun, Gyeok-gi and Seom-na, disobeyed their summons and hid, he also ran.
Now he claims that the public authority is repressing religious liberty.
The longer Yoo hides, the worse the situation will be for him.
The prosecutors will begin to feel more anxious than Yoo.
But if Yoo believes he is innocent, he should respond to the summons and clarify his position.
He has now become prey for bounty hunters.
He should abandon the way of a runaway and bear his cross.
He should make the abnormal normal.
In the Last Supper, Peter asked Jesus, “Where are you going?” Yoo must know what it really means.