In 2007, Virginia Tech student Cho Seung-Hui, a permanent resident of the United States, shot and killed 32 people and wounded 29 others.
The Blue House held a meeting at the time and discussed whether the President needed to express regrets and apologize to the U.S. government and its citizens.
Ultimately, it was decided that an apology from the President was not appropriate, but instead the Korean Ambassador to the United States should express condolences.
However, even this response seemed to confuse the U.S. State Department.
Cho was an individual living in America, so why should the Korean government apologize for his actions?
Similarly, Korean sports announcers and commentators often take credit for the accomplishments of LPGA golfers Michelle Wie and Christina Kim, referring to them as “our players” even though both are American.
The ethnic connection seems to come before nationality.
However, the current administration’s stance on the Yoon Chang-jung sexual harassment scandal is completely different - and once again U.S. State Department officials are puzzled.
The president called for a thorough investigation, but no further actions have been taken.
One of them recently asked me why the Korean government was not seeking diplomatic immunity for Yoon - after all, he was part of the summit delegation, so it is possible he could be covered by that designation.
When CNN reported the case last month, Yoon was referred to as a “Korean spokesman.”
As he was serving as the press spokesman for the president of Korea, that made him a spokesman of Korea.
So if Yoon is indicted and a trial is held in a U.S. court, the case would be labeled as sexual harassment by a Korean spokesman.
American legal specialists say that it is hard to understand why the Korean government voluntarily gave up the right to claim diplomatic immunity for the Blue House spokesman charged with a misdemeanor.
If this sets a precedent, the Korean government would not be able to protect Korean ministers or representatives accompanying the President for summit meetings, even if they were framed.
The government may have hoped to avoid public criticism when it withdrew itself from the case.
The second act of the Yoon Chang-jung case is just beginning.
The Washington D.C. police department is to announce its investigation results by the end of July and prosecutors could decide whether to indict Yoon soon after.
Washington could be stirred up once again.
The United States is a nation of lawsuits.
Over the weekend, CNN broadcast the George Zimmerman trial live all day.
A trial of a wife who killed her husband was also broadcast live.
If Yoon’s case becomes a media issue, Korea’s drinking culture and relaxed concept of sexual harassment may be broadcast all over international television.
I don’t want to argue that sexual harassment is not bad.
A person who commits that crime is at fault for sure.
But I doubt whether this scandal is important enough to determine the dignity of the Republic of Korea.
I don’t want to see Yoon justifying his act as a “cultural difference” at a court in Washington.