The scandal over Yoon Chang-jung, the sacked Blue House spokesman who brought disgrace to himself and the nation with alleged sexual misconduct during President Park Geun-hye’s first official visit to Washington, has shocked the nation.
Yoon’s audacious and shameful misconduct has severely damaged the reputation of this government and the national dignity to boot.
But the unsavory incident is generating another embarrassment for the country.
Personal details and photos of the Korean-American intern alleged to be the victim of Yoon’s sexual misdemeanor have been spreading around the Internet and on mobile social networking platforms.
Some people are spreading all kinds of rumors, gossip and stories about the victim and her family.
The photos that are supposed to show the young woman, who was hired by the Korean embassy to assist the entourage of the president, are actually four different people, none of whom are related to the incident.
It is obnoxious that people are exchanging and spreading personal information and rumors about the victim of sexual abuse instead of offering sympathy and comfort to her.
It is demeaning to learn that society takes pleasure in gossiping about a sex crime victim, even a misdemeanor.
All the tale telling is further damaging Korea’s reputation.
One member of a conservative Web site claimed that he hacked MissyUSA, a site for Koreans in the U.S. that first reported Yoon’s sexual advances toward the Korean-American intern.
Other people cheered the act saying the Web site should be punished for disgracing Yoon, who was a conservative journalist before he was named Blue House spokesman.
Such behavior driven by ideological fervor is harmful to society.
Sexual misconduct is a hazardous crime and has nothing to do with ideological issues.
Law enforcement authorities must weed out these scandalmongers and teach them justice and morality.
Anyone with a conscience should immediately stop trading personal information and rumors about the victim.
Even the Korean Embassy is avoiding contact with the victim while a U.S. investigation is underway.
That shows respect to U.S. law and for the victim, who has been traumatized by an ugly incident.