Prime minister-designate Kim Yong-joon’s withdrawal is not simply an appointment fiasco.
President-elect Park Geun-hye must carefully investigate her style of communication.
If she does not change it now, she is bound to err over and over again during her term.
She must ask herself if she is ready and open to considering opposition voices in her choices of people and policies.
Does she listen to other opinions?
Are there people around her who tell her she is wrong?
From what we have seen so far, we are unsure.
The issues about Kim’s sons - exemption from mandatory military service and ownership of vast real estate wealth - could have been answered during an investigation.
Someone should have raised questions about Kim’s ability to govern due to his old age and hearing problems.
Park’s aides are said to have had doubts, but no one challenged her.
This top-down management is underscored in transition committee meetings.
When Park speaks, others are busy making notes.
There are no discussions and only lectures from Park.
Who among the note-takers could dare to question her?
This is why Park’s order - “When I promise something, you carry it out” - came about naturally.
And this is why no one challenges her on the feasibility of her promise to deliver welfare packages worth 135 trillion won ($124 billion).
We cannot help returning to the Sejong City problem.
If Park had agreed to President Lee Myung-bak’s proposal to replace the administrative city project with a plan to turn Sejong into a hub for science, technology and innovation, she could have helped save the trouble and cost of moving the government.
If some of her aides dare to tell her about the problems, Sejong City could have had a different future.
But few have put forward their arguments.
The Saenuri Party produced a president, but the leadership remains at the periphery.
The president-elect is largely blamed for refusing to accept opposing ideas.
When an objection is raised, she sends out chilling vibes.
Her voice over the phone turns stiff and she no longer asks for a dissenter’s opinion.
Park does not socialize much, but she should at least keep her ears open.
If only she listened, she could have avoided making her first appointment  blunder.