When you run to the bathroom urgently, you may sit on the toilet without realizing that the toilet cover is lifted up.
Then you feel upset and wonder, “Do men have to stand to relieve themselves?”The different body structure is not the reason, since men do not stand up during a bowel movement in order to urinate.
Standing position does not make it any faster or easier, because some button-fly pants take time to unbutton.
I read an article about two months ago.
A political party in Sodermanland, Sweden, requires men using office restrooms to sit, rather than stand, while urinating.
It is more hygienic since sitting on the toilet would reduce puddles and residues no one likes to see.
Also, it is considered healthier, as the habit can lower the risk of prostate cancer and makes the bladder healthier, reported the local Folket newspaper.
Japan’s Mainichi Shinbun reported that 33.4 percent of Japanese men sit when urinating and the number is on the rise.
So some underwear has no opening in the front.
Sitting while urinating is a common practice among men in Europe, including Germany and Norway, and Islamic countries.
Bathroom floors in other countries are often covered with carpet or hardwood, unlike Korean bathrooms that have tile flooring.
In Korea, the practice is spreading among young men.
I heard a man in Gwanyang is advocating the practice, giving out a name card that says, “A man who sits when urinating.”
Some may argue that standing while urinating is manly and prohibiting the practice discourages masculinity.
But in fact, masculinity is enhanced by sitting down.
Standing, invisibly small drops of urine may splash and land on your toothbrush.
Also, you can completely empty the bladder, reducing the risk of prostate cancer.
Also, it makes sex life healthier.
Your wife would also appreciate it.
With so many pros, you will only feel cleaner, healthier, sexier and more considerate.
In fact, the pride and spirit of men do not come from peeing in a standing position.
It may feel awkward at first, but you will get used to it soon.
You get to sit down and rest for a moment while using the bathroom.
If you don’t want to pollute the entire bathroom, if you love your family and if you want to make your bladder and prostate healthier, you may want to give it a try.
* 
By Eom Eul-soon