Household debt exceeded 900 trillion won ($800 billion) at the end of last year.
If loans 
Fortunately, however, the figure is not yet large enough to jeopardize the health of financial institutions.
But if it continues to hover around such a dangerous level, it could eventually take its toll on the domestic economy.
Ominous signs are already appearing on the horizon.
People are cancelling their deposit accounts before they mature, and legions of low-income earners are seeking loans just to make ends meet.
Huge numbers cannot afford to repay the principal on their loans before they mature.
As a result, consumer spending has become even more sluggish, with real consumer spending contracting in the final quarter of last year.
At this rate, the economy could well fall short of its growth target of 3.6 percent this year, suggesting that household debt needs to be reined in one way or another.
The Financial Services Commission has decided to put limits on such loans at nonbanking financial institutes like cooperatives and credit union banks.
Consumers have turned to these smaller lenders after banks were told to reduce their fresh loan issuances last June.
Bank loans to individuals rose 5.6 percent in the final quarter of last year, while comparable loans in the nonbanking sector increased 13.6 percent.
Authorities have ended up making the situation worse  for many households, in fact, by forcing them to switch to lenders who charge higher rates of interest, thus increasing the risk of them defaulting.
The new regulations will only aggravate the problem as working-class people will have to turn to unlicensed private lenders to find ways of easing their financial woes.
In sum, while the government’s moves are designed with the best of intentions, they also risk triggering an economic crisis in Korea.
What is needed to solve the problem is a new way of stimulating the economy.
Incomes must be raised to ease the debt load, and the real estate market should be revitalized so that households face less pressure from mortgages.
But the problem cannot be solved if authorities put more of a priority on increasing welfare spending.
The government must be aware that household debt could explode at any time, while also increasing the availability of fixed-rate loans and those with longer maturities.