The National Assembly is still reeling after the extremely violent incident that occurred last Thursday.
The Grand National Party insists that Christmas Day is the deadline for solving the crisis but the Democratic Party is blocking the committee room.
As the crisis continues, people are saying, “The National Assembly is about as good as a bunch of gangsters.”
The ruling and opposition parties should strive to restore parliamentary democracy through all possible means of communication.
First, the parties should urgently find ways to initiate negotiations that convey a more cooperative approach.
The “Christmas” deadline of the Grand National Party is very tight, and Democrats insist that the president apologize.
This demand is probably irrelevant at this point, and it would be better if  the parties initiate dialogue on which bills to deal with and how.
The Grand National Party unveiled 114 law drafts that need to be passed during this session.
It ruled out two “ideological drafts” - such as a class action lawsuit by victims against illegal demonstrators and the merger and abolition of committees on history.
These drafts were strongly rejected by the opposition parties, who also still object to the enactment of some law drafts relevant to conglomerates, social order, media, public corporations and local development.
They suggest that laws concerning the lives of civilians, such as proper residences for the elderly, lending and the prevention of the illegal collection of bonds, are still matters for debate.
In addition, parties should reach a compromise, bearing in mind the importance of boosting the economy.
The National Assembly has to confront multiple rounds of negotiations and pass some law drafts.
The ruling party should be more patient at the negotiating table.
More importantly, opposition parties should accept reality.
The Democrats have failed to hold on to political power and win the required number of seats in the National Assembly in the past elections.
They should accept the majority’s decision.
They insist that the government has enacted the “seven evil laws on media” or a “civilian dictatorship.”
However, this is a vague ideological struggle that overlooks the importance of reality and principles.
This final session should pass smoothly and deal with some harsh items on the agenda.