“Ruling party members locked the windows of room 146 in the National Assembly as some 60 party assistants blockaded the entrance, locking themselves in with a couple of staff members from the legislature.
The ruling party unilaterally passed next year’s budget and other pending bills in just 60 seconds.
Angry opposition party members forced into the room, unleashing a furor of foul words and fisticuffs.”
No, this isn’t a description of Thursday’s melee, when the Grand National Party attempted to submit a bill to ratify the free trade agreement with the United States at the National Assembly without the consent of opposition parties.
It is from the lead story of the 
Finger-pointing and insults among politicians ensued after the violence, causing the then 
But, as if two consecutive years of witnessing such second-rate politics wasn’t embarrassing enough, we have had to write the same stories and editorials two decades later.
The key difference between then and now, however, is that Korea’s brawling politicians now make headlines in the international press.
Secret raids by the ruling party to fulfill the will of the majority of the people to pass a bill and violent obstructionist moves by the opposition politicians do take place in other countries.
Filibustering is a deliberate political move in the United States.
Intentional slow-walking to the voting booth to buy time is a tactic favored by Japanese politicians.
But politicians physically blockading opposition parties from ratifying a bill and the use of sledgehammers and fire extinguishers is a rare find in the foreign media’s political coverage.
It was no wonder that the scenes of our politicians clashing with fists and power tools made news in other countries.
International humiliation has now been added to the list of disgraceful incidents by Korean politicians through their violence and lack of decorum.
This in a country known, or so we claim, to have accomplished democratization and modernization in record time.
What a wake-up call.
What a shame.