The recently released autobiographical novel by a female teacher with 35 years of experience was shocking to read.
The authority of teachers at sixth grade classes in elementary school has completely eroded.
Students swore when they were scolded by teachers.
Some threatened to call the police when their cellular phones were confiscated in class.
The situation boggles the mind.
Five percent of students in every class are problematic, often making fun of their teachers and disrupting classes, the teacher said in her book.
It is lamentable how our education system has deteriorated.
The parents are to blame - those who kick up a huge fuss to insist that their children learn English and math, but don’t think basic manners are important.
Teachers are also responsible.
Some teachers explicitly asked parents for money or reacted emotionally to wayward students.
This has made parents distrust teachers.
The author argued that it has become tough to keep problematic students in line as corporal punishment is now banned in schools.
She said teachers, students and parents should share the blame for the situation.
There cannot be any education in classes where there is no trust, affection and respect for each other.
Elementary schools are the starting point of public education.
If the situation is already so bad in elementary schools, middle and high schools must be worse.
Some middle and high schools students sleep in class and only do their studying at private academies after school.
They trust the teachers at private academies more than teachers at school.
This seems irrational but it is reality.
And it cannot be overlooked.
Teachers should think about whether they have, in any way, caused the situation.
They should try to become responsible educators.
Parents should realize that learning etiquette and basic courtesy are just as, if not more, important, than grades.
The author insisted that physical punishment should be allowed at schools, despite its controversial nature.
A while ago, parents of students at a regional school decided to allow corporal punishment.
The decision was taken to prevent a minority of students from interrupting lessons and disturbing their classmates.
It is about time that we discuss more effective ways to educate children, including using physical punishment.