A dinosaur comes to life from a mosquito trapped inside a fossilized amber charm in Michael Crichton's novel "Jurassic Park."
This intriguing  beginning of the novel is not really absurd because 200 million years ago mosquitoes might well have lived on dinosaur blood.
Mosquitoes have survived for a long time and human beings have had to struggle with mosquitoes all their lives.
This lengthy and bloody relationship between humans and mosquitoes is shown in the fact that "Lucy," a 3.6 million-year-old human skull found in 1974 in Ethiopia, and known as Australopithecus afarensis, died of malaria transmitted by mosquitoes.
The human beings who did not overcome disease transmitted by mosquitoes died, and the humans who survived gained immunity against the disease.
Competing with each other, mosquitoes and human beings moved out of Africa and settled down all over the world.
Mosquitoes have adaptation abilities just as human beings do, for mosquitoes can inhabit the same regions where human beings live.
In the tundra of Siberia, mosquitoes' eggs can endure freezing cold winters, and during the short summers they hatch and turn into pupae and later larvae.
Then they became mosquitoes.
After eating blood from reindeer passing by, they lay eggs in barren fields.
In the desert, the eggs wait for rain, which can fall just once in several years.
When it rains, the eggs are hatched in the water pools sculpted by the rainfall.
The mosquitoes that live in Korean apartments  show year-round hostility and propagation powers.
Since mosquitoes often live in the warm basements of apartments, the seasonal changes do not mean anything to them.
They are able to ride elevators and they do not care on what floor they dwell.
Korea's National Institute of Health disclosed recently that the population of mosquitoes in designated areas has doubled in comparison with last year because this year is warmer and more humid.
After World War II, the United States government launched an ambitious plan to exterminate mosquitoes and sprayed billions of tons of dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane,   known as DDT,  for several years.
DDT was praised for its excellent extermination abilities but it proved to be hazardous to human beings.
Curiously, the recent increase of mosquitoes is due to human error.
Human beings have ruined the environment and heated up the earth.
It is time for mankind to look back on what it did to the environment by looking at mosquitoes.