My American friend, J, is a Princeton graduate.
He’s tall, humorous and charming.
What he lacks is a sexual attraction to women.
He came to Korea to “learn more about Asia,” and we met at work in 2003.
One day, he confessed, “I am gay.”
It was quite awkward, as I had suggested setting him up with one of my female friends.
Until then, I’d only seen homosexuals in movies, and now my dear friend was in front of me, coming out.
I was confused.
He smiled as if he understood what was going on in my mind and said, “You can tell me if you don’t want to be friends anymore.”
As I got closer to J and his friends, my only complaint was that they were all so attractive yet unavailable for women.
In April, J got married to a Chinese-American doctor, also an Ivy League graduate.
At his wedding, there were no protesters picketing with signs.
J was wearing sneakers, and as the officiator read from his iPad, he exchanged rings with his partner and kissed.
To his beloved, he quoted lines from Shakespeare’s “King Lear.”
“That’s how we’ll live - we’ll pray, we’ll sing, we’ll tell old stories, we’ll laugh at pretentious courtiers, we’ll listen to nasty court gossip, we’ll find out who’s losing and who’s winning, who’s in and who’s out.
We’ll think about the mysteries of the universe as if we were God’s spies.”
Then they were officially wed.
They hugged their family members, danced with friends and drank wine.
I’m embarrassed to admit I cried a lot at the wedding.
J wanted a quiet ceremony.
He knows very well that his sexual orientation may not be welcomed by everyone, and he would not want to force his choice on anyone else, although he was marrying another man.
On June 26, same-sex marriage became legal in the United States, and many supporters modified their Facebook profile photos with a rainbow filter.
But J’s photo remains unchanged.
The legalization of same sex marriage is a controversial topic in Korea.
In a country literally divided into North and South, people are also divided on their views of homosexuality.
We all have the right to come out as gay and the right to oppose homosexuality.
Being different is not wrong, so how about we respect and understand the difference?
Just as Shakespeare said more than 500 years ago, the world is full of mysteries, and life is too short, so let’s love.