According to a survey by Gallup Korea last year, 66.4 percent of this country's adult male population   smoke, ranking us highest internationally.
Many statistics show that the rate of death of smokers is 2.5 times higher than that of nonsmokers and the length of smokers' lives  is shortened by 10 to 12 years.
 What would happen if no one smoked?
Various pension funds would be unable to pay what we expect now because of the many pensions owed to those people who live longer by quitting smoking.
The National Pension Corporation currently has over 50 trillion won ($4 billion) in its fund.
However, the number of pensioners increases by 300,000 every year and the Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs predicts that the fund will run out by 2049.
The Korea Teachers Pension expects to go into the red starting in 2007 and the fund is expected to be emptied in 2029.
The Government Employees Pension Corporation revised its laws at the end of last year, with  the corporation planning to increase pension holders' share of the contribution to 8.5 percent and to receive 80 billion won in government funding annually.
The government has supported the military pension fund with more than 5 trillion won  so far.
Because smoking shortens the period in which pensioners receive benefits, it certainly helps pension corporations' finances.
That is why life insurance companies in England request lower pension payments from smokers.
One insurance company there provides a discount rate of 8 percent to smokers.
The company is also considering  discounts to drinkers and overweight people.
 Non-smoking is unfavorable to the financial condition of the medical insurance sector.
A German medical scientist has said that medical insurance accounts for smokers  seem to be extremely advantageous to the companies.
Because smokers die early, expenses for treating such illnesses as  cancer and bronchial problems, were paid to medical insurance cooperative.
Nonsmokers live longer than smokers, but have a very high possibility of dying from various illnesses including heart disease, where treatment costs more than for lung cancer.
Seen from the narrow perspective of public health and welfare, non-smoking never reduces the cost of treatment.
The Regional Health Insurance Cooperative of the National Health Insurance Corporation will need  1.97 trillion won from the national treasury this year.
The government plans to increase the tax on cigarettes to follow President Kim Dae-jung's order  "to prepare a measure to ban smoking."
Cigarette consumption goes down temporarily when prices go up.
However, it tends to go back to what it used to be as time goes on, fortunately for those pension funds and health insurance companies.