Hong Seok-chun, an actor who became famous after revealing his homosexuality, recently published a memoir.
ieI am in a dark room lighted with candle light together with my lover, listening to a song, Time to say goodbye.
?We are in heaven, only for us.
Everything in this room cleansed our souls.ld Except for the fact that his lover is Tony, a Dutch man shar- ing homosexual love, his story is no different from the sweet love stories of many ordinary men and women.
Let us think about the Netherlands, the homeland of Mr. Hong's lover Tony, for a moment.
The Netherlands legalized prostitution last October and legalized euthanasia in December for the first time in the world.
Furthermore, the Dutch parliament passed a bill to legalize the marriage of homosexual couples and allow married homosexual couples to adopt children at the end of last year.
Therefore, homosexuals in the Netherlands will have the right to get married starting next month, and adopt children starting from April.
Although the status of gay rights in many countries is not comparable to the condition in the Netherlands, most of the states in the United States also provide consideration in their laws that homosexuals may not be discriminated against in employment and promotions.
Last year, a female homosexual couple was given the same legal rights as married heterosexual couples for the first time.
In April last countries to provide equal rights to homosexual couples.
England reduced the punishment against anal intercourse from the death penalty to life imprisonment in 1861, and homosexuals clashed with police who raided the ihStone Wall,le a gay bar in New York City in 1969.
Considering such events and changes, I feel I am living in a quite different age.
The issue is that the law is a framework reflecting social conditions.
Just because many other developed countries are taking measures for homosexuals, we do not have to follow all those changes.
However, it seems clear that our society generally has became aware that it is unfair to discriminate and disadvantage people who do not harm others.
Koreans are now paying attention to a human rights bill recently prepared by the ruling and opposition parties.
The bill proposes to prohibit discrimination against homosexuality or sexual identity.
Its purpose is to treat people who have different sexu- al identities equally, as is the case for those of differing religions and skin color, according to Lee In-ki, a lawyer and GNP lawmaker.
The bill submitted by the Ministry of Justice also includes the same language, and it is highly likely that the bill will obtain National Assembly approval without any difficulties.
Have we succeeded in narrowing down the difference between our and Tony's country?