As people have to eat, sleep and wear clothes, selling food, shelter and clothes will continue despite changes in the world.
But in addition, selling people has become one of the four major businesses in our world.
In fact, selling people is the most profitable business among those four occupations, despite the great risk of suffering a business loss.
Headhunters and matchmakers are all in the business of selling people, but the finest example of all businesses of selling people may be the World Economic Forum, held at Davos, Switzerland around this time every year.
The basic concept of selling people at the World Economic Forum is inviting famous and influential speakers on world politics, economics, finance, culture, the arts, the press and academia  to induce a large number of participants to pay admission fees to attend the forum.
Last year, the forum succeed in attracting 33 national leaders, including U.S. President Bill Clinton and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
In addition, the heads of various international organizations, CEOs of world-renowned multinational companies and leaders of the world mass media are on the list of World Economic Forum participants to tempt other guests to attend.
The real know-how of selling people at World Economic Forum lies in factors other than the list of influential figures.
The core of the organizers' expertise is the ability to accurately read changes in the world in many areas and shape an agenda to take advantage of those changes.
During the one-week forum, individual sessions are planned according to hundreds of agendas, and the foremost authority in the field devoted to each session introduces the topic and leads the discussion.
Paid participants attend sessions in their field of expertise and both teach and learn, get new business ideas and meet new people.
The real specialty of the World Economic Forum is coordinating meetings for which no participant will regret paying tens of thousand dollars in admission fees.
Klaus Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum, has made profits in the tens of billions of won for 31 years through such business, and he is definitely a leading people-seller.
Various rumors are circulating as to why Jin Nyum, minister of finance and economy, canceled his plans to attend the forum.
The World Economic Forum is not an official international conference, even if it is still rare － but not unknown － for a participant to cancel his attendance at the last minute.
There is nothing to criticize in Mr. Jin's cancellation.
Rather, we should regret that so many politicians and businessmen rushed to attend the U.S. presidential inaugural, making large contributions, while not  many want to attend the World Economic Forum and pay money to learn something new.