Even in the United States, where the system of separation of the three government branches - administrative, legislative, and judicial - has been established for a long time, a president always stands without peer when making official statements.
The leaders of the legislative and judicial branches have to make their comments after going through internal discussions or respecting legal procedures.
In contrast, a president is free to speak out at any time, and is certain to get keen attention from the public.
He is solely responsible for the consequences of his words.
A scholar once analyzed the inaugural addresses of U.S. presidents throughout history and pointed out some distinctive characteristics.
According to the analysis, inaugural addresses of U.S. presidents appeal to timelessness, promote unity, show the president himself as just one of the people, recall America's  founding fathers, emphasize American perspectives and advocate a new beginning.
George W. Bush said in his inaugural address Saturday, "We have a place, all of us, in a long story- story we continue, but whose end we will not see,l, invoking the theme of timelessness."
And even after nearly 225 years, we have a long way yet to travel,ls he said, pointing out what the new president and the people have to do for the future of the United States, in the light of timelessness.
"And sometimes our differences run so deep, it seems we share a continent, but not a country,le said Mr. Bush, hinting his intention to assuage divided national opinion and promote unity.
Mr. Bush also said, iaThrough much of the last century, America's faith in freedom and democracy was a rock in a raging sea,lg in order to emphasize the American perspective.
Many other U.S. inaugural addresses share those six characteristics.
Thomas Jefferson said, iaWe are all republicans, we are all federalists,l.
showing his intention to advocate unity.
inTo us there has come a time, in the midst of swift happenings, to pause for a moment and take stock; to recall what our place in history has been, and to rediscover what we are and what we may be,ls said Franklin Roosevelt in his third inaugural speech, appealing to timelessness.
Although both ruling and opposition politicians of our country also often speak of unity, bipartisanship, and a new beginning, the real problem lies in putting those principles into practice.
Recently, President Kim Dae-jung and the opposition party president Lee Hoi-chang disappointed the public by consistently blaming each other at their press conferences at the beginning of the year.
I hope they have calmed their minds during the Lunar New Year holidays.
I urge them to refine their language and live up to their words of unity and reconciliation from now on.