North Korea is suffering from a severe electric power shortage.
Visitors to Pyongyang, the capital city of the North, often experience blackouts in their hotels.
Some say that streets are dark at night because there are no street lights burning, and elevators in highrise apartments rarely work in North Korea.
It seems that there are many factories abandoned in dust because they have not been operating for a long time.
Such stories about the North may sound as different as day and night for residents of the South, because we do not worry about electricity at all today.
But the conditions of the electrical power supply in the South and the North immediately after liberation from Japan were exactly the opposite of what we see today.
At noon on May 14, 1948, the North unilaterally stopped its supply of electric power to the South, now referred to as the "May 14 blackout."
With that loss of power from the north, the south was plunged into an electricity crisis.
Sixty percent of the total electric power consumed in the South was suddenly no longer available; factories shut down and some households had electricity only one third of a day, or on every other day.
At the time of liberation, power generating facilities on the Korean Peninsula produced 1.72 million kilowatts of electricity and 88 percent of the generators were located in the North.
Remembering the pain of the May 14 blackout, the North's request to the South to aid in supplying electric power is quite an aboutface.
In industrial societies today, people normally pay no attention to electricity because they think it naturally exists in their lives just like air and water.
Only when lights are turned off and refrigerators and TVs stop working because of blackout do people realize the importance of electricity in our lives.
The U.S. state of California is going through a power crisis.
When reserve generating capacity fell under 1.5 percent, the state declared an emergency and power transmission has been controlled.
The ridiculous crisis is a result of freezing the consumer price of electricity even though the state of California decontrolled the wholesale electric power market in 1996.
Utility companies in California had been purchasing electricity from power plants in neighboring states at low prices, but wholesale prices of electricity started to rise along with higher oil prices and increasing demand.
Unable to pass those price increases along to customers because of price controls, utilities saw their supplies cut off and Californians were plunged into the dark.
If such a crisis continues, the U.S. economy will be seriously damaged and the contagion could spread to the world economy.
We may need to supply electric power to the United States instead of the North if the power crisis in California further deepens.