"I am extremely annoyed.
However, I do not grumble at snow," said a passenger who was trapped in an express bus in the middle of Chupungnyeong, the highest mountain pass in Korea,  on Sunday.
 The bus, which  left Pusan at 11 a.m. on Sunday, arrived in Seoul past 4 a.m. the next day because of the blizzard.
The snowfall in Chupungnyeong was recorded at 32.8 centimeters, the deepest it has been  since 1935.
When people stepped out of the bus, which was stuck on the highway for hours, the snow reached to their knees.
Some  passengers left to seek alternative transport, such as trains, since the highway was blocked.
The passengers who remained in the bus grew restive, close to the limit of their endurance.
But they eventually calmed down and became absorbed in the snowy landscape.
An old saying goes that people only appreciate a pine tree's greenery when snow falls.
Remembering this proverb, the passengers started to engage in conversation with each other, with bright smiles on their faces.
They discussed ideas and shared stories about winter.
I think many of those folks may have felt a warm comfort even though they were stuck in the unexpectedly heavy snowfall that covered the whole country.
Lee Je-hyeon (1287-1367), a government official in the late Koryo Dynasty,  wrote a poem describing the interaction between people and their hometown that he noticed during a heavy snowfall: "At first, I thought the Milky Way was falling down.
Soon after, I was afraid that the mountaintop might collapse.
As I entered a tavern and wiped the snow from my clothes, the tavern-keeper greeted me and opened a 10-year-old bottle of wine.
Because of that heartwarming gesture, I felt at home."
At the rest areas on the highways that have replaced the oldtime taverns, people queued up for bowls of warm noodle soup, not aged wine.
They returned to the bus with snacks that they shared.
As they exchanged heartwarming conversation, the bus seemed transformed into the tavern described in Mr. Lee's poem.
Snow, which blankets entire mountains in white, also brings people closer together.
Human beings can feel a warm personal connection with each other in a world covered by snow.
As our hearts are uplifted when we look at snow, it is easy to feel a closeness with others ?just as snow covers the world's sordid dreariness.
Although power struggles among our politicians weighed heavily on our minds at the start of the new year in Korea, the  snowfall brought us a bright consolation.
I hope we can bury, under this snow, the political battles by politicians who are engaged in hurting each other.
I urge them to turn their eyes to Mount Bukhan, which has now been turned white.