On May 7, 1966, Mao Zedong, who had confined himself in his house in Hangzhou in Zhejiang Province, secretly sent his servant to deliver a letter to then-Defense Minister Lin Biao in Beijing.
In this letter, Mr. Mao asked Mr. Lin to play a major role in the revolution, in which Mr. Mao planned to seize power by removing Liu Shaogi and his followers, who then dominated the nation.
Mr. Mao adopted five goals in this secret letter to Mr. Lin, triggering the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, which is often compared with the famous burning of Confucian books ordered by the first emperor of the Chin dynasty.
Mr. Mao, who regained power through an upheaval reminiscent of a military coup, intended to sweep away all the residue of bourgeois culture and ideology through the  Cultural Revolution.
Mr. Mao induced  teenagers, mobilized as "Red Guards," to lead the revolution with a slogan that they had "the right to revolt against the existing order," providing them with an indulgence for their revolutionary action.
From then on, Chinese society turned into a bloodbath.
In one extreme case, a student who beat his teacher to death was not found guilty by claiming his "right to revolt against the existing order."
Although Mr. Mao succeeded in creating great turmoil in China, he failed to accomplish his goal of governing the country with  great success.
Scholars feel that Mr. Mao's power struggle, in which 30 million  lives were sacrificed in 10 years, forced Chinese history to step back more than 50 years.
Toward the end of last year, Kim Jong-pil, the honorary president of the United Liberal Democrats,   puzzled people with his comment that "changing the existing order does not stand to reason."
Now, the true meaning of  this comment has been revealed.
He announced that his intention was not to oppose  coalition with President Kim Dae-jung.
As if replying to this interpretation, three lawmakers from the Millennium Democratic Party joined the ULD, freezing the political circle.
However, the ULD leader seems to have made a serious mistake.
Although it is meaningful to respect the coalition with the MDP, how could he possibly not understand that such an act goes against the will of the people?
As the world becomes chaotic, it is  best to go back to and respect the most basic principles.
Rather than a complicated comment, difficult to interpret, I recall the basic lessons I learned from an old Chinese textbook often studied by young students in the old days in Korea.
It said, "The one following divine will obediently would succeed, while the one going against  divine will would fail."
Since the old days, the will of people has always been the divine will.