Famous modern sculptor Kwon Jin-kyu(1922-1973), who was remembered as a sculptor in misfortune, was known to have a deep interest in Sumerian civilization while he was alive.
In fact, "Pregnant Venus," one of Mr. Kwon's terra-cotta pieces completed in 1967, shares a great similarity to the sculptures of a Sumerian goddess of fertility.
The Sumerian civilization belongs to the period of the Mesopotamian civilization, which is the oldest among the four major human civilizations.
The Sumerian civilization dates back to the 32nd century B.C.
Sumerians had then already started using characters, and exchanged receipts and contracts written on clay plates.
Symbolic characters, engraved on the clay plates became hieroglyphs and then cuneiform characters.
Around the 26th century B.C., Sumerians even produced literary works by writing lines on the plates.
The Code of Sumer is the earliest written law and was the origin of the Code of Hammurabi.
Experts explained that Sumerians loved to use a method of depaysement in their sculptures.
"Depaysement" is a term used for a practice of removing an object from its natural position and rearranging it in an unexpected location where the characteristics of the object do not belong.
They explained that Sumerians creatively transformed the shape of the human body in their sculptures using that principle.
Sumerian sculptures had an enormous impact on modern Western sculptures.
Japanese sculptor Shimizu Takashi, who was the teacher of Mr. Kwon, was once a student of master artist Antoine Bourdelle.
Keeping in our mind this connection, we can trace the path of the modern Western artistic interest in Sumerian civilization down to Mr. Kwon.
Mr. Kwon worked in Japan and Korea and committed suicide in 1973.
His work was influenced by various disciplines, including Buddhist and ancient Japanese art, so it is impossible to explain his art only through a link to the Sumerian civilization.
All of faces he sculpted, including "Face of Jiwon" and "A Biguni - a Buddhist nun," show expressions desperately longing for something -  I wonder if it might be the time in ancient human history between the Neolithic era and the Sumerian civilization.
This year will end in a few days, and we are getting older with the new year.
At year-end, it is meaningful to view the works of humans of thousands years ago and think back to our own past days, putting aside our humdrum daily lives.
"Exhibition of the Ancient Mesopotamian Civilization," currently at the Seoul Arts Center, Seocho-dong, Seoul, would be the best place for such contemplation.
Many pieces of Sumerian sculptures are on display, and the exhibition is open during the holidays.