The Korean poet Park Yong-cheol, who became radicalized in his youth under Japanese colonization, once wrote in a poem that oblivion had a certain charm.
Do we agree with the young poet that there is anything charming about the act of forgetting?
Everywhere in our society, we see year-end parties where the goal seems to be to forget the suffering accumulated during the year by getting drunk.
The traditional Korean way of celebrating the end of year in Korea was completely different from the recent drunken revelries.
Our ancestors calmly reflected on moments in the year and repaid whatever they owed to other people.
In addition to the material and financial debts, they often prepared a meal to serve friends and neighbors with whom they shared a bond.
They repaired their homes and cleaned their barns to start the New Year afresh.
On New Year's eve, our ancestors lighted their houses brightly and stayed up all night to watch sunrise.
They braced themselves to let the old year go and greet the New Year like a breath of fresh air.
The recent year-end parties, in which people drink to the parting year, was brought over to Korea from Japan.
In Japan, families, relatives and friends have gotten together to drink, sing and dance at their year-end parties for 1,400 years.
This ritual has continued until now, but the level of drinking recently became dangerous.
Therefore, a warning is being issued by the authorities against drinking in excess over the holiday season.
And a hotline to report incidents of drunkenness was launched in Japan.
The hotline also provides counseling to those wanting to avoid year-end parties where excessive drinking was required.
In North Korea year-end parties are held at the homes of friends and co-workers, where they prepare food together.
According to the Korean language dictionary published in the North, the year-end party is described as a social gathering where good food is prepared and served to let the old year go and greet the New Year.
No one can argue about these kinds of happy and casual gatherings between members of families, relatives and friends to celebrate the New Year in very moderate manner.
It is a serious problem in our society that people drink so much at year-end parties to show off the personal connections built through school ties, home town affiliations and blood relationships.
What we really have to forget are those personal connections that lead the nation to the brink of another economic crisis and the year-end binge.
We should be aware that our ancestors had never celebrated in such an unseemly fashion.
We can learn from our ancestors, who had always settled their debts and remembered everything that happened in the old year, while preparing for the New Year with a clear mind.