Whenever the end of the year approaches, aspiring novelists and poets anxiously await word on whether their submissions have won literary contests.
Many Korean newspaper companies maintain their long time tradition of sponsoring literary contests.
Evaluations on the submissions are currently taking place at major newspapers.
Reportedly, there are some literary works that show great promise, while  others seem rather slapdash or self-aggrandizing .
The new generation of writers, accustomed to writing on computers, exhibit a tendency to write in a frivolous manner, as if they were posting messages on the Internet.
Honore de Balzac, a master of realism in 19th century French literary circles, provides an example of the unfortunate consequences frivolous writing can have on a writer.
While he was young, he established a so-called novel factory for financial gain.
Balzac was the employer and the sole employee of the factory.
He was a prolific writer, producing cheap popular novels to and pamphlets to satisfy the range in tastes of his customers.
He used up a bottle of ink and ten pens in three days at "the factory," which gives some indication of the volumes of work he churned out.
At one point, he wrote a book on how to avoid crooks and how to fend off creditors without paying money.
He even wrote a book on how to tie the necktie.
After he shut down the factory and started his serious literary career, he failed to shake off the stigma of being a frivolous writer.
In "Balzac," a critical biography, the Austrian writer Stefan Zweig points out the remnants of trite writing in Balzac's later work.
He wrote that the remnants of Balzac's past were akin to the scent of cheap perfume picked up from the brothel of literature Balzac once visited regularly.
Out of despair, Balzac tried his best efforts to cut out any trace of his past writing in his later work, but he could never succeed to rid them of the scent entirely.
Mr. Zeweig criticized that it was the result of abusing one's talent, ability and identity as a writer during his formative period when a writer should hone his own literary style.
The act of creation is not always a joyous and happy act.
It is a laborious and intensive undertaking,  in which one's experience and imagination must come from the heart and brain.
The famous Korean novelist Park Bum-shin, who poured out bestsellers after wining a literary contest in the early 1970s, once said he would give up writing.
"The light of my imagination has gone out, and I am like a sorcerer who lost his magic."
The writer said he had to put down his pen because he wrote too much too fast.
"Language cruelly exacts revenge on the artists who fail to pay full attention to it.
Those who do not seek love with true patience, and treat the language like a prostitute in writing will ultimately suffer," wrote Mr. Zewieg.