King Yao and King Shun are regarded as having been the ideal rulers of ancient China.
They presided over a period that is accepted as the Golden Age in ancient China.
Some say that the two rulers were mythical, but if we apply their standards to the situation in Korea today, we can surmise who in our society would be esteemed and who would be cast out.
  Soldiers and policemen would be the first to go, followed by judges, prosecutors and lawyers.
Because, as in the mythical Chinese Golden Age, there would be nothing to argue about or fight for,  nothing to judge right or wrong, and nothing to defend.
Judges, prosecutors and lawyers maintain their lives based on greed and discord among the people.
The strife and conflicts in our lives allow judges, prosecutors and lawyers to assume positions of importance.
As the world becomes more corrupt and the numbers of legal cases increases, the burden on judges and prosecutors becomes increasingly heavy.
However, lawyers benefit when a society becomes overly litigious.
They take on more cases and the amount of money they make multiplies.
The court battle between President-elect George W. Bush and Al Gore, which lasted for over one month,  benefited the lawyers involved.
Lawyers should balance the ideal of their calling － to fight in the cause of justice by standing on the side of the weak and defenseless － with their need to make a living.
On Tuesday, the French courts were paralyzed due to the strike by lawyers.
It was reported that 35,000 lawyers held a demonstration against the government over public defender's payment, which amounts 570 French francs ($78) per a case.
Although the public defender system serves people who can not afford to private lawyers, it seems that lawyers in France do not earn as much as they used to.
The number of lawyers in France increased in proportion to increases in crime, according to the police statistics.
A few days ago, the Korean government announced a list of 801 applicants who passed the state bar exam.
The number increased by 100 compared to the last year.
The government selected 500 applicants in 1996,  and continued to increase 100 applicants every year since then.
Some say that the plan is to eventually increase the number of people passing the exam to 1000 per year.
Although the government says their goal is to improve the legal service by increasing the number of capable lawyers, I sometimes worry about the possible negative impact of the increase.
The general public still resorts to force before consenting to bring their grievances before the courts.
If the government continues increasing the number of lawyers, someday we may see lawyers demonstrating on the street.