"How can the Hanbo Group, favored by the people, go bankrupt?
Don't you know who will back us up?"
said Chung Tae-soo, the group's chairman, in February 1997, referring to the support he thought would come from his fellow countrymen.
When Kia Motor Company was faced with a financial dilemma the same year, the company invoked a similar patriotism, implying that Kia was a "national company."
Although foreigners were the large shareholders of the company, it still held itself out as a "national company."
By using nationalism as their rally call, a movement was initiated by forming an official organization to revive the company again in the name of the nation, and labor unions urged the government to reform Kia Motor Company by adopting a system in which the company would resolve its financial insolvency by offering more shares to private domestic shareholders.
In addition, the famous actress Choi Jin-sil agreed to be filmed in Kia Motor Company commercials for free in order to help the company "favored by the people."
Kim Dae-jung, then a candidate for president, also hoped Kia Motor would become a sound "national company."
However, Kia Motor had entered court receivership and later was sold to Hyundai Group.
Putting out its best efforts, the company finally graduated from receivership early this year.
Kia Motor was brought back to life not because it was a so-called "national company," but because it downsized management and raised profits by diligently producing and selling cars.
In 1998, people organized a fund to support Hannsoft, a Korean word processing software company, which faced a take-over 
From then on, Hannsoft became so-called "national company," since more than 100,000 private investors stepped in to make investments.
During the process of reviving the company, the management stepped down, and Medison, a company run by the representative of the Hannsoft support fund, became the majority shareholder of the company.
Ironically, Medison announced a few days ago that will sell its Hannsoft shares to a foreign buyer.
It seems that the term, "national," has been a magic in our society.
However, companies, especially private companies, are nothing more than economic entities.
From the beginning, the use of the term "national company" has been an attempt to beat capitalism with patriotism in a market economy.
"National" is a fabulous term, but history teaches us that it is extremely dangerous to use the word in inappropriate places.
Maybe we are too accustomed to resolving any predicament by appealing to national sentiment.
We all have to admit that competitive private companies are more beneficial than shoddy "national companies.
"