I recently met Park Geun-hye, the vice president  of the Grand National Party, in Berlin.
I asked her, "Do you know how your father, former President Park Chung-hee, felt about Germany?
What the country meant for him?"
"Of course, I do," she said.
"He planed to build Kyongbu Expressway after seeing the German autobahn, and mapped out the Saemaul (New Community) movement inspired by German farm villages."
In December 1964, then President Park Chung-hee visited Germany and drove on the autobahn, the extensive highway network providing drivers with a fast route from city to city at speeds of up to 160 kilometers per hour.
In the middle of the drive, he stopped the car and stepped out to touch the road.
He firmly determined to build freeways in Korea as soon as possible to develop economy.
His determination was realized four years later.
Kyongin Expressway, the first four-lane freeway in Korea, was completed in 1968.
Moreover, Kyongbu Expressway was opened on July 7, 1970, connecting the entire nation.
No one can deny the fact that the Kyongbu Expressway was an integral part of the growth in Korean economy in 1970s.
The German autobahn, the expressway admired by the former president, is still the best in every aspect among all freeways in Europe.
Personally, I love the German freeways, because they do not charge tolls.
I felt irritated when encountering toll gates on expressways in France and Italy.
I not only hate paying tolls, but also resent the waste of time and the traffic jams they create.
Following the citizens' movement against paying tolls at Bundang tollgate, residents again initiated an action opposed to tolls on the Kyongin Expressway.
Citizens' organizations argued that the tolls, which had been collected since the opening of the expressway, have already exceeded the highway's construction costs.
Although people are demanding that the government discontinue the tolls for Kyongin Expressway immediately, the government has no plans to do so.
People also raised their voices that the recently announced tolls for the  newly built Inchon International Airport expressway were too expensive.
It is time to reconsider the issues related to expressway tolls.
Let us recall the example of German expressways.
It may be difficult to give up the income, over 1 trillion won every year, raised by tolls.
But we should review the benefits to be derived from discontinuing tolls, such as reduction in logistics expenses, labor costs and most importantly the traffic congestion they cause.
Under the German system, the government covers 30 percent of road construction and maintenance expenses through fuel taxes.