Beatles fever is sweeping  the world again.
"1," the newest Beatles album was released in mid-November and has sold like hotcakes around the world.
The album, which was released 30 years after the Beatles broke up,  contains 27 singles that  topped British and American  charts in  the 1960s.
Among its songs are  "Hey Jude," "I Wanna Hold Your Hand," "Come Together" and "The Long and Winding Road."
"1" was the best-selling album in 19 countries in the first week of its release.
In England, the homeland of the Beatles, so many hundreds of thousands of copies were sold during  the first week that it has already become the best-selling album of this year.
People in the music industry forecast that  "1" will be the record-breaking  album in sales history.
If John Lennon, who died 20 years  ago, were still alive, he would have been 60 years old this year, the same age as Ringo Starr, who played drums for  the legendary "Fab Four."
Paul MacCartney, who has become one of the richest musicians in England, is now 58 years old and George Harrison is a year younger.
They were all born during  World War II and spent their childhood suffering through German  air raids.
Lee Mi-ja, one of the most well known and popular singers in Korea, was born about the same time as the Beatles.
 Now 60 years old, she  spent her childhood in the darkness of the Pacific war.
While the Beatles performed as the Quarrymen, the band's first  name, on the strip show stages of Liverpool, she  sang on the stage of a circus troupe touring Korean villages and towns.
When the Beatles, already famous in 1965,  released "Yesterday,"  which has been selected as the most popular song of the 20th century, she  released "Camellia Girl" in 1964.
While her songs, including  "Camellia Girl," have been banned by the censor,  the Beatles' "Revolution" and "Power to the People"  were also banned in Korea because of their  political notions.
Time has passed, and those people who neglected  Lee Mi-ja's songs but went wild with enthusiasm over the Beatles, have now reached the age of gray hair.
That is also a time at which one can understand the true and in-depth value and taste of an elegy.
Along with the news that the Beatles have heated up the world in the first year of the millennium with songs more than 30 years old, the Korean press has widely reported that Ms. Lee will perform onstage in Pyongyang in the middle of next month.
 We sincerely hope that her touching voice will become the bridge linking the South and North by warming  frozen hearts.