Many presidents of the United States had nicknames.
Thomas Jefferson was called the Red Fox, and Franklin Pierce was called Handsome Frank.
Honest Abe was the nickname of Abraham Lincoln.
Nicknames were usually drawn from special characteristics of a leader's personality, appearance, achievements or interesting events in their lives.
Since the turn of the 20th century, initials of presidents' names have become widely used.
Theodore Roosevelt, elected in 1901, was called TR in addiiton to his diminutive, Teddy.
Franklin D. Roosevelt was called FDR, John F. Kennedy JFK and  Lyndon B. Johnson LBJ.
Koreans also started using English initials as nicknames for politicians after the 1961 military coup.
Young military officers were known by the English initials of their names because it was somewhat difficult to call the military officers in their 40s by noms de plume, which were reserved for people of old age and great experiences.
At that time, JFK was extremely popular in the United States and that usage had an effect on Koreans.
Kim Jong-pil, the current leader of the United Liberal Democrats, was called JPK, later shortened to JP.
Lee Hu-rak, then the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, was called HR.
As time went on, Kim Dae-jung and Kim Young-sam, then the two strongest presidential candidates of opposition parties, were also called DJ and YS respectively.
There were some politicians who were disappointed at being not called by English initials, feeling that they might have been excluded from the core of power and popular attention.
During Park Chung-hee's presidency, a politician made strong efforts to get news writers to call him by his initials, but was unsuccessful.
Chung Ju-yung, the founder of Hyundai, once insisted on being called CY while running for the presidency, but it did not catch on.
Later, however, people did call his two sons, Chung Mong-hun and Mong-ku, by their initials MH and MK during the recent Hyundai Group management struggle.
Lee Hoi-chang, the leader of the opposition Grand National Party, also has a non-initial nickname, Split Bamboo, suggesting an upright personality.
People also think of pronunciation when nicknaming politicians.
To call Mr. Lee "HC" just sounds strange.
Reportedly, Kim Jung-kwon, a leader of the ruling party, recently unveiled a personal logo using JK, his English initials, in an attempt to stimulate more public popularity, but a nickname cannot be imposed; it must be widely accepted.
Instead of using nicknames which remind me of airline codes,  how about using elegant pseudonyms such as Unam ("good news from the south") or Mongyang ("dreaming of sunshine")?
They sound much better on the tongue.