In the "Shih chi," the authoritative record of ancient China 
According to this classic work the emperor of the Han Dynasty issued a royal edict extolling the virtues of agriculture.
Other historical records confirmed the importance of agriculture, noting that it not only nourishes a nation, but also plays an important role in the affairs of states.
In the East, agriculture in general, and the cultivation of rice in particular, has long been a central factor in formulating national policy.
In contemporary Korean society, agriculture has become just another industry, and its importance has been diminished.
Unlike radicalized university students and unionized workers in large cities, Korean farmers have not, until recently, staged demonstrations to promote their causes － primarily because they were not organized.
It was not until February 13, 1989, that Korean farmers staged a demonstration in Youido where the National Assembly is located.
At the time, 12,000 farmers gathered and demanded the government discontinue its tax on water, purchase entire harvests and erase farmers' debts.
Farmers, who had been relegated to the margins of society, finally stood up to voice their dissatisfaction with the status quo.
Surprised 
The law eased the debt of 1.5 million households working in the agricultural and fisheries industries by providing support of 160,000 won($136) for each household from the national budget.
On four subsequent occasions, the government enacted stopgap measures to reduce farm debt.
But throwing money at the farmers simply perpetuated the problem without looking for its root causes.
A policy needs to be formulated and reform measures instituted to stop the cycle of dependency on government handouts in the form of farm subsidies and debt cancellation.
The government and ruling party are again looking for an easy way out, another stopgap measure - the sixth since the demonstration in 1989 - as farmers began another strike this week.
The inability of the government to stick to a budget and mediate disputes is troubling.
The administration is not showing any inclination to come up with a viable solution, and will undoubtedly follow the weak-kneed precedent set by previous administrations.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry published 1.6 million copies of a booklet last February maintaining that rural villages had been transformed into utopias based on government policies.
If that was true, what is the reason for the recent farmers' demonstration?