Japanese director Iwai Shunji screened his film "April Story" in Korea not long ago.
In the film,  Matsu Takako, a Japanese actress who plays the lead role, attends a university because an upperclassman she has been in love with since high school goes there.
It is an unrequited love.
Out of boredom and loneliness, Matsu spends time at a movie theater.
The movie that Matsu watches as the audience watches her is a fictionalized account of the death of an actual historical figure, Oda Nobunaga, a hero of the Warring States period in Japan.
The historical fact is that Oda was attacked by his most trusted general, Akech Mitsuhide, at the Honmo Temple in Kyoto on June 2, 1582.
Realizing the futility of fighting against the general's 13,000 troops with less than 100 bodyguards at his disposal, Oda committed suicide by disembowelment.
The movie inside the movie plays with the truth and has Oda asking his aide Tokukawa to remain at Honmo Temple to die in his stead.
The distortion of fact reflects the nostalgia felt by the Japanese people regarding Oda, who died at the age of 49.
Japanese people regard Oda's death at the Honmo Temple as one of the most significant events in Japanese history, as historically important as the assassin of Julius Caesar.
Many Japanese people believed that if Oda had not died and had been able to unify Japan, the history of the nation would have been dramatically different.
The death of Oda is so etched in the minds of the Japanese that an expression － "the enemy is in Honmo Temple" － came into being.
The expression is used when someone has an unstated ulterior motive － as was the case with the disloyal Akech, the general who revolted and turned against his master, Oda.
In a broader sense, it is a metaphor to describe an act of betrayal.
However, not all enemies are dangerous.
When a society is beset with problems, when its members are divided and disgusted, the enemy within may not be an enemy at all.
Rather, it may be a person with the courage to step up to speak out about the problems, a person who is accused of being the enemy but is, in fact, a hero.
Yet it is difficult to find individuals with the sense of duty and fearless resolve to risk the charge of disloyalty within our society.
We have the potential to be our own worst enemies and our own saviors.
As the economy spirals downward and employees at financial institutions, who are entrusted to manage our money, embezzle and illegally use company property for personal purposes, they betray society and are the true enemies of the people.