France has won the most number of Nobel Prize in Literature in history.
Gao Xingjian, this year's recipient, is a Chinese dissident with French nationality and writes in French.
Including Jean-Paul Sartre, the 1964 Nobel literature winner who refused to accept the prize, and Mr. Gao, 13 French writers have won the Novel Prize in Literature to date.
The 30-year period surrounding World War II was the golden age of French literature in the 20th century.
Starting with the award to Henri Bergson, a French philosopher, in 1927, Franch writers won the award every 10 years through 1957.
Roger Martin du Gard and Andre Paul Guillaume Gide won the prizes in 1937 and 1947, respectively and in 1957, Albert Camus was the winner.
Another French writer, Francois Mauriac, was the recipient in 1952.
Among the 13 great French writers, Roger Martin du Gard is one who has not been as famous as the other winners in either Korea or France.
Martin du Gard pursued an extremely aesthetic and experimental literary style which was often difficult for his contemporaries to understand.
Some of his works used remarkable styles such as purely conversational or a "collage" writing method.
But French intellectuals in the next generation ignored him because he had a dim view of what his successors called "engagement."
He scoffed at the trends of the times, and looked at the world with a keen and coldly objective, rational sense of reason.
The pinnacle of his 20 years of work was the saga, "Les Thibault" (The World of the Thibaults).
He started writing the eight-part novelistic cycle in 1920 and completed it in 1940.
A well-known scholar of French literature, Chung Ji-young, translated the voluminous work into Korean, a translation said to have taken 20 years.
"I am used to translating French expressions into Korean, but I can not translate into Korean my feelings after completing the translation," he said.
Honore de Balzac, the French in 19th century writer, used to sleep during the early evening and worked on his pieces while other people were sleeping.
His working hours were from midnight to eight in the morning, the time when no one would disturb him, including debt collectors who were on his trail for his entire life.
It was a work style that he maintained even while visiting his lover who lived a long distance away.
He completed "La Comedie Humaine," which is made up of 97 separate works including 74 full length novels, because he had steely self-discipline.
"If you do not have an will to stay at your desk writing for at least five hours every day, do not even dream of becoming a writer," Ha Il-ji a Korean writer dreaming about his own Nobel prize, advised literary aspirants.