The winter winds have begun to blow.
Cold rain falls like icy needles.
When the rain stops, the temperature will plummet and the snow will come.
Soon, many people will lose their jobs due to restructuring and some will find themselves on the frozen streets of the city.
Without job prospects, some university graduates will huddle alongside laid-off workers on the wind-swept desolate streets.
The National Assembly is frozen not by the cold, but by partisan bickering, as audits and inspections are planned in several sectors of society.
As winter nears, the last words of a senior Buddhist monk warms our hearts and implicitly asks us to examine our own lives.
"When I am dead, do not tell anyone.
Please burn my body and scatter the ashes on a mountain quietly.
Do not have any ceremonies or a memorial service on the 49th day after death.
Cremation has become too ostentatious, and the true meaning of Buddhism and offerings to the temple have been lost.
If you are monks first in line to succeed me, you should respect my last words."
The last wishes of the Reverend Eungdam, a senior monk of the Korean Buddhist Chogye Order, who died at the age of 87 on Tuesday, Nov. 14 at Sudoksa Temple, were carried by his fellow monks.
Until the last day, he refused the help of other monks and his followers and did everything for himself, from cleaning his rooms to washing his clothes.
He saved offerings and specified that they be used for other people.
He was a true "Unsunapja," a priest who goes about in rags just like a floating cloud and flowing water.
In Buddhism, wearing rags has a great deal of significance.
By wearing rags, one rejects the materialism of the temporal world.
One can sit and lie down anywhere at anytime in such humble attire.
A person dressed in rags can mend a tear in the cloth without worry.
It is the spiritual, inner being that matters, not what a person wears.
In Buddhism, the body and life are considered to be similar to clouds drifting across a broad sky, a trickle of water flowing toward a stream.
Cremation is a ceremony to return to nature after death, without leaving behind material possessions.
After putting the corpse on the pyre, the body clad in rags is engulfed in flames, the ashes scatter and returned to universe.
Because he was born with nothing, the Rev.
Eungdam died without leaving a material mark in our world － no trace, other than in our memory － that he had come and gone.
If our lives were similar to the Unsunapja, would we fear the cold winter?
If we believe that our lives would flow like water toward a stream and race across like clouds in the sky, would our society still rush to attain material wealth 