Male circumcision was introduced in Korea after liberation in 1945 when the country was exposed to American culture.
The United States military influenced Korea in many respects, and their presence on the peninsula advanced circumcision in Korea.
Despite the medical view in the West that retention of the foreskin on the male sexual organ was safe, Koreans believed the foreskin impaired sexual performance.
Doctors insisted that only a small number of men with foreskins, about one in 100, would suffer some type of dysfunction.
An accepted practice today, most men with foreskins are said to enjoy problem-free sexual relations.
In the Bible, the Book of Genesis recounts how Abraham, along with male members of his family were circumcised.
Mummified remains unearthed in Egypt － some dating back 6,000 years － indicate that male circumcision has a long history.
In the Jewish and Moslem faiths, circumcision is carried out as religious ritual.
The operation gained wide acceptance in England and America by the late 19th century.
But while male circumcision has achieved a large degree of acceptance, the same cannot be said for female circumcision.
According to international organizations including the UN, more than 2 million women undergo painful, amateur circumcisions － performed to decrease their ability to derive pleasure from the act of intercourse － in Africa and Middle East.
Although Kenya, Egypt and Senegal have laws prohibiting female circumcision, it is still practiced.
Amnesty International has designated female circumcision as a form of persecution, and is seeking to incorporate it as such under the UN Convention on the Status of Refugees.
Amnesty International has also urged the international community to grant asylum to women fleeing countries where the procedure is practiced.
Sweden and the United States have already signed on, and French courts have ruled that African immigrants in France may not perform female circumcision on French soil.
Although Korea does not have a religious or cultural tradition of male circumcision, the procedure is widely practiced today.
Fortunately, female circumcision is not.
Yet there are some grounds to object to male circumcision.
To see a newborn undergo the procedure is disquieting,  as is the sight of an elementary school student walking uncomfortably after a belated procedure.
Three Koreans who oppose circumcision on human rights grounds were selected to be the recipients of an award from the National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers, a non-governmental organization with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nation.
They presented a report asserting that circumcision is a form of genital abuse.