A long time ago, Cheonggye-cheon (a clear stream) divided Seoul into two parts, the South andNorth.
During the Chosun Dynasty, the village of Nam-cheon was south of the stream and Buk-cheonwas the area to the north.
In the 1970s, the stream was covered with concrete and a grand development project was carried out south of the Han River.
As a result, the era of Kangnam - south of the river - and Kangbuk - north of the river - began in modern-day Seoul.
The Korean poet Shyn Se-hun once sang that frogs were crying in Chamshil all night long becausethey were losing their homes as more apartments were built.
But things were better for the frogsback then than they are now.
Today it is hardly possible to see a frog in Chamshil.
Another famous Korean poet, Kim Kwang-kyu, sang bitterly of apartment complexes in Kangnam.
He sang that the people who had never heard voices selling buckwheat jelly on late winter nights and pickled shrimp in May and June were living in the New Town apartments.
He wrote gloomily that those who had never heard a gong struck by chimney sweepers were living in the apartments, enjoying hot dogs and coke and envying American football players.
For some reason, the word Kangnam gives the impression of something new, fresh, Westernized and sleek.
Maybe it is similar to the image that people nrural areas have of Seoul.
Although Kangnam and Kangbuk are parts of the capital, people say that there is a large gap between the environments of the two districts.
The average budget this year for all 25 district offices in Seoul is 130.5 billion won ($115.5 mil-lion), but Kangnam-gu's budget is 225.4 billion, more than 70 percent higher than the average.
General hospitals, performance halls and the rate of road pavement vary widely among the districts.
It is not only a gap in living environment.
Of students from Seoul admitted to Seoul National University last year, 50.6 percent were from high schools in Kangnam.
A few years ago, a dis-trictoffice in Kangnam used its large budget to change the paving tiles on pedestrian roads, and it thendonated the used tiles to a poorer district office.
That story became a major topic of conversation.
But the most important cause of the differentamount of money available to district offices is the difference in tax revenue from the integrated land tax.
So the residents of Kangnam have paid more in taxes, and they could have felt mistreated by the jealousy of people in Kangbuk.
The national government and the Seoul metropolitan government should pay more attention in the differences between Kangnam and Kangbuk before it is too late.
But the issues should be resolved in terms of differences rather than hierarchy.