Slander is defamation by oral utterance rather than by writing and pictures.
Libel is a term used for defamation by written or printed words, pictures or the like, rather than by spoken words.
It is also the crime of publishing such matter.
If someone says, "The president of our company is unfair" to his or her friends, it can be considered  a slander against the president.
If someone sends a written piece, criticizing a specific politician as corrupt, to a newspaper, that person can be charged with  libel against the politician, even if the piece was not published.
Brian Martin, a famous Australian jurist, has recommended that one speak only the facts to protect oneself from appearing in court under a charge of slander or libel.
For example, he suggested saying that politician X did not answer my question about corruption, rather than saying politician X was corrupt.
But others have provided a legal interpretation that those who are responsible for reporting information as a part of their duty can be exempt from charges of defamation.
The most wellknown example is the privilege of exemption from liability for lawmakers who speak in the National Assembly.
The British believed that freedom of debate and speech in a parliament was the cornerstone of parliamentary democracy.
That freedom, the single-most important parliamentary privilege, was enshrined in Article Nine of the Bill of Rights of 1689.
The article provided "That the freedom of speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament ought not to be impeached or questioned in any court or place out of Parliament."
The privilege of exemption from liability for lawmakers is again recognized in the U.S. Constitution, Article One, Section Six.
Moreover, the Constitution of the Republic of Korea states in  Article 45 that no member of the National Assembly shall be held responsible outside the Assembly for opinions officially expressed or votes cast in the Assembly.
On Tuesday, the ruling party submitted a proposal to strike  Rep. Lee Ju-young of the opposition Grand National Party off the rolls of the National Assembly.
As a part of his question during an Assembly hearing session, Mr. Lee  identified  four figures closely tied to the ruling camp as being implicated in the illegal-loan scandal.
The  ruling party insisted that Mr. Lee had slandered those identified by providing a false impression, while the opposition party argued  that he had performed his duty as a lawmaker.
  Mr. Martin, the Australian jurist, once said that the heaviest punishment for defamation was not the legal consequence, but the loss of trust in the ones involved.
If  politicians believe  this simple statement, do they still have a reason to be stirred only because their names have been mentioned?