At the end of 1912, England was in festive mood.
Newspapers were excited that Britain had been found to be the birthplace of ancient civilizaton.
The story began when amateur paleontologist Charles Dawson unearthed skull fragments in Piltdown, England in 1908.
Mr. Dawson informed the famous archaeologist Arthur Smith Woodward, and full-scale excavation started in 1912.
Soon, parts of an outthrust jaw and a large braincase were excavated; the fragments were thought to be human skulls.
Those fragments were dated as 5 million years old.
The skull was named Piltdown Man, and was thought to be the missing link-a common ancestor of men and apes.
For the next 40 years, more than 500 people received doctoral degrees for research on Piltdown Man.
But later in the 1940s, new dating methods using fluorine showed that critical fragments of the original discovery were from different periods.
In November 1953, the British Museum officially announced that Piltdown Man was a paleontologic hoax.
The braincase was actually only 600 years old, and the jaw was from an orangutan which died only five years before excavation.
Mr. Dawson had chemically aged the fragments to make them appear ancient.
In the 18th century, the origin of fossils was still a matter of some dispute.
German paleontologist Johann Beringer believed that fossils were artifacts of God, not of nature.
A fellow professor and a librarian who did not agreed with Mr. Beringer's belief sculpted fishes, birds and insects on pieces of limestone and buried them at an archeological site.
Mr. Beringer became the star in paleontologic circles in 1726.
However, when Mr. Beringer excavated pieces with his name sculpted on them, the affair ended up as a farce.
Extreme nationalism was the background of the Piltdown Man incident rather than a simple hoax.
as was the case in the Beringer incident.
In 1856, Neanderthal Man was found in Germany, and Cro-Magnon Man was found in France in 1868.
Java Man was found in 1890 and Peking Man was found in 1903.
Therefore, the British were thirsting after relics to prove the long-time tradition and superiority of the British Empire.
The recent report on fabricated relics found at the Kamitakamori site in Japan can be viewed in a similar light.
Those blind intellectuals of ultranationalism who wanted to lengthen the history of Japan dated back to 700,000 years ago and believe Japan hosted an ancient civilization as significant as Egypt's sustained the recent fabrication.
A new history textbook prepared 