"Those preachers of indulgences are in error who say that by the indulgences of the Pope a man is loosed and saved from all punishment."
"Christians should be taught that he who sees anyone in need and, passing him by, gives money for indulgences is not purchasing the indulgence of the Pope, but calls down upon himself the wrath of God."
"Vain is the hope of salvation through letters of indulgence, even if a commissary － nay, the Pope himself － were to pledge his own soul for them."
Martin Luther, a Roman Catholic monk, nailed his 95 Theses against the practice of selling indulgences － papal absolution of sinners － to the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg 483 years ago.
It was an act that put his life at risk, but one he felt compelled to perform.
This marked the beginning of Protestantism － a branch of the Christian church that rejects the ornate trappings of Catholicism and believes the Bible is the sole source of revelation.
Martin Luther made clear in his theses the distinction between a kingdom of heaven ruled by God and a country ruled by secularists.
It is now a well-established fact that the German church cooperated, albeit only tacitly, with the Nazis during the World War II.
The historical significance of the religious reformation, triggered by Luther, cannot be damaged by one historical incident.
The anniversaries for religious reformation were varied at the beginning, including  Luther's birthday (Nov. 10), the day of his death (Feb.  18), the day when the Augusburg Confession was submitted (June 25) and others.
However, in 1617, or 100  years after  Luther's 95 Theses, the anniversary was agreed to be Oct. 31.
In 1667,  or 150 years later, the religious reformation anniversary was officially announced to  honor Luther.
A few days ago, a Seoul district court became the focus of a dispute within a church.
The court dismissed a case raised to annul the outcome of an election to select a chairman for a denomination.
The court advised that "It is not acceptable that the religious sector raise a corrupted legal dispute.
These problems  should not be brought into  court, but resolved in the spirit of forgiveness and reconciliation."
Before this court case, there were arguments about  the hereditary position of the pastor.
There were also disputes about church  financing.
The Bible warned against "in gathering the weeds, you root up the wheat along with them.
Let both grow together until the harvest."
Maybe the true nature of these unfortunate incidents are different from what we have heard.
Still, Christians should go back to the reformation spirit of Martin Luther to contemplate the role of the church.