There was a time when the Korean people used to buy winter underwear for their parents with their first monthly pay check.
Passing a bitter cold winter without hunger was the major goal back then.
But, during the severe midwinter, old people had a hard time getting through the season.
When children came home with presents of normally red-colored winter underwear to celebrate their first salary,  parents melted into tears.
That  became just a tale of the old days since apartments today are so well-heated that people often wear short sleeves even during  midwinter.
Those red winter underwear were  back again during the foreign exchange crisis a few years ago.
This time,  civic organizations  encouraged the Korean people to wear winter underwear to save energy.
 Underwear has varied functions, such as  keeping the body warm, absorbing sweat and shaping the figures.
Among those functions, underwear in Korean society has been developed mainly to keep the body warm.
Even in murals at ancient tombs from the Koguryo era,  signs of underwear are found.
It was first mentioned in Samguksagi (History of the Three Kingdoms), written 
Here, the words "Naeui" and "Naesang" were used to describe an undershirt and underskirt.
In 1363, the 12th year of King Kongmin of the Koryo dynasty, a royal court envoy, Mun Ik-chom, returned from a journey to  China with the first cottonseeds  in Korean history.
Those 10 seeds triggered a revolution in clothing:  Cotton  fabric replaced the loose fabric of ramie and linen, and people were for the first time able to pass the winter easily.
 The project to support the North Korean people by providing winter underwear seems to be up in the air.
It is impossible to understand who came up with the idea of manufacturing  the enormous amount of 10 million pieces of underwear - and under what circumstances.
The procedure of placing orders with underwear companies is also unclear.
 In fact, subcontracted companies, mostly small and medium firms, are going  to pass  a bitter cold winter this year because there are 7.5 million pieces of underwear, worth  45 billion won, piled up in warehouses with no clue to where and to whom they can be sold.
    It is known that millions of won worth of energy can be saved when we lower a room's temperature  by just one degree Celsius.
We can maintain the same body temperature with winter underwear when room temperatures are lowered by six or seven degrees.
One way or another,  we all may need to wear heavy underwear to get through  this winter.