An old saying goes that flour becomes finer after  passing through a sifter, while words become rougher the more they are spoken.
This year again, the quality of words exchanged at National Assembly hearings became a focal topic.
At the Transportation and Construction Committee, Millennium Democratic Party lawmaker Song Young-jin and Grand National Party lawmaker Kwon Gi-sool used abusive language such as "motherless" and "rude and spoiled."
Some argued that those two lawmakers should be referred to the National Assembly's Special Committee on Ethics.
However, the ruling and opposition parties are busy criticizing and blaming each other.
In fact, the Chairman of the Special Committee on Ethics earlier made an offensive remark to an executive of an institution which was being examined by the Assembly, commenting on the level of the witness's intelligence.
On the other hand, flattery flowed like water at the Assembly examination of the National Tax Service.
"We pay respect to the head of National Tax Service for his profound political sense, leadership and ability to unite employees."
"Shouldn't the tax service employees be given special bonuses?"
"It is nonsense that ministries other than the National Tax Service have the right to track down account records."
And there are other examples.
When the Korea High Speed Rail Construction Authority and the Korea Land Corporation, both headed by former Assemblymen, were questioned at a hearing, lawmakers were eager to please them.
"I send belated congratulation on your inauguration."
"Because you have great administrative ability in politics, you certainly provided clear and honest answers."
"The working level authorities can answer this question instead of the president."
People often enjoy the shock effect of curses and insults.
In ancient Egypt, official documents always ended with a curse to the effect that any person who does not respect the document would be sexually abused by a donkey.
In modern English, four-letter words are often used deliberately for emphasis, and the Korean language also has a rich and varied vocabulary of curses.
But it is important to know where and when to use them.
Flattery is similar to insults and curses in a sense that both are "words misplaced."
Neither is it uncommon for flattery to be followed by curses, either from the flatterer or the recipient.
Machiavelli once advised that in order to protect oneself from flattery, a person  should make it clear that he appreciates hearing blunt truths.
When it comes to the right to curse and insult, it is clear that ordinary citizens have every right to use foul words to criticize the current political scene.