The French navy led by Commodore P. G. Rose occupied Kanghwa Island on October 16, 1866.
At that time, there were two royal archives on Kanghwa Island where books and records of the royal families of the Chosun Dynasty were stored.
One was "Woe-kyujanggak," located inside the Kanghwa fortress, and the other was "Jangsagak," located in the Jongjok mountain fortress, 15 km to the south of Kanghwa.
Jangsagak also had an additional archive called "Sunwonbogak."
Commodore Rose was attracted to the mysterious books with colorful covers and illustrations stored at Woe-kyujanggak, and catalogued the treasures to be shipped back to France.
That list included 340 volumes, some in white wooden boxes, one map, one celestial map, seven hanging scrolls and pictures, three gray marble plates with Chinese character inscriptions, three sets of armor with helmets and one mask.
French army was chastened by the Chosun soldiers at the  Jongjok mountain fortress later, and the French navy withdrew from Kanghwa Island on November 11, 1866.
Thus the books and records stored at Jangsagak and Sunwonbogak, escaped seizure by the French army.
Upon his return to France, the commodore donated most of the plundered cultural treasures to the French imperial library, now the French National Library.
Among the books from Woe-kyujanggak now in France, 297 volumes are records of ceremonies of the Korean royal family.
The return of those books has been the most divisive issue between Korea and France for seven years.
The Korean government asked that those royal books be returned unconditionally because they are war booty.
Despite that official request, the French government said firmly that the books can not be returned without appropriate compensation.
France has been seriously worried about setting a precedent, because the Louvre Museum and many other art galleries and museums would be emptied if the return of the books to Korea led to demands from other countries for repatriation of their plundered treasures.
After French President Jacques Chirac's visit to Korea, the French government evidently will return 64 volumes of court ritual records under a permanent lease arrangement.
Korea currently has no copies of those documents.
In return, the Korean government apparently plans to lend to France historic documents of similar value－but only when Korean archives contain more than one copy of those documents.
Because France moved one step back from its formal position that those 64 volumes would not be returned to the Korean government, Seoul seems to have accepted the "mutually beneficial exchange," which the French government demands.
It seems that the two countries have found a way around the problem, through which France can maintain its precedent while Korea has the actual benefit.
Some people, of course, may protest against a plan in which France's plunder seems to be condoned.
But do we have any other alternative to accepting the current realities?