Consumer prices, which had dropped for the past two consecutive months, rose sharply in June, casting a shadow on the recent trend of price stability.
According to the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the state-run Bank of Korea Friday, June consumer prices edged up 0.5 percent from the previous month, and 2.2 percent year-on-year.
Producer prices also rose 0.7 percent from the previous month, marking a 2.6-percent increase from the same period last year.
The price increase rate during the first half of this year as compared to the end of last year, however, reached 0.8 percent for consumer prices and 0.2 percent for producer prices - a relatively low increase rate compared to previous years, which marked an average of 4-percent increase from 1990-1999.
The rise in consumer prices in the month of June, after decline in April and May, is attributed to the increase in international oil prices and the price jump in manufactured products.
Oh Dong-hwan, manager of price policy at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, explained: ＂Out of the 0.5 percent rise in consumer prices in the month of June, oil products accounted for 0.4 percent.＂The government is convinced that there will be no problems in attaining its inflationary target of about 2.5 percent, however, even though consumer prices are likely to rise more sharply in the second half than the first half to reach 2-3 percent.
Oh said, ＂International oil prices (based on Dubai-produced oil) reached $27 per barrel in June, up $1.5 from the previous month＇s $25.5, which is likely to act as an inflationary pressure on domestic prices next month.
However, key research institutions expect prices to remain under $27-$28 per barrel.＂ He also predicted, ＂The current price stability trend will continue, unless the prices of agricultural products are pushed up, due to, for example, natural disasters.＂He explained that the government believes ＂it is not yet time to worry about demand pressure caused by a rapid growth of the real economy.＂Key private research institutes also predict that it will still be possible to attain this year＇s inflation target.
Inflationary pressures are expected to intensify in the second half of the year and next year, however, and they are accordingly calling for thorough preparatory measures.
Kim Sung-shik, a researcher at LG Economic Research Institute, said, ＂Although oil prices are not likely to rise much higher than at present, the increase in oil prices will begin to affect public utility prices in the second half.
Beginning next year, prices of light oil and LPG are expected to even double current prices due to the government＇s revision of energy tax rates.＂ He also stated that the government must come up with appropriate policies in advance to prevent the psychological pressure on price increases.
Nevertheless, he diagnosed, ＂It is not yet necessary to implement belt-tightening policies in preparation for inflation.＂Hong Soon-young, a researcher at Samsung Economic Research Institute, said, ＂We must take note of the economy＇s continued growth, despite the recent cash crunch in the financial sector.＂ He stated, ＂Although it is still early days, the government may have to monitor economic growth trends closely and prepare countermeasures to lower demand pressure.＂