"The successful South-North Korea summit heralds the improvement of human rights for people both in South and North Korea.
It can significantly further the resolution of conflicts sparked by the superpowers, and help to usher in the age of reconciliation."
Human rights advocate Adolfo Prez Esquivel (69) was the Argentine Nobel Peace Prize laureate in 1980.
He arrived in Korea on June 26 at the joint invitation of the Korea Human Rights Foundation (president Shin Yong-suk) and the Korea Press Foundation (chairman Kim Yong-sool).
Esquivel stressed at a June 27 press conference that improving relations between South and North Korea is directly linked with the expansion ofhuman rights on the peninsula.
 "If the meetings of separated families are realized as a result of the summit, the pain evoked by the tragic division will begin to heal.
We can envisage that the quality of life for the people of the North will improve, along with the recovery of their economy."
Esquivel explained that the enhancement of relations between the divided nation is an auspicious sign that will inspire the Korean peninsula with liberty, a principal factor and indicator of human rights.
 Esquivel has lately been focusing his energies on the subject of human rights for children.
He holds that the reality of life for children is an accurate gauge of social atmosphere; when children commit minor crimes or when they are degraded to the status of slaves or prostitutes, the society is entirely responsible and warrants censure.
 "Even children abandoned by adults are treated as criminals, not sufferers.
Such a situation is deplorable."
Esquivel promotes a free and safe space provided for children as the answer.
He thinks of this space as a place where children can mature and grow intellectually in an affirmative atmosphere.
He is now operating a house near Buenos Aires that accommodates 200 children.
 "People no longer conceive of the  betterment of human rights in terms of fewer prisoners or victims of persecution.
What matters is education.
The house for children is part of such an education."
Esquivel declined to enter politics because he thought that there was more to do besides assist the government in solving domestic problems.
Since 1962, he has managed a campaign to protest infringements of personal rights practiced in different South American countries.
When a military coup overthrew Argentina's government in 1976, he formed a dissident group and opposed the consequent dictator.
 He even waged a campaign to save President Kim Dae-jung when the Korean military oppressed human rights in 1980 and had sentenced DJ to death.
Esquivel paid a courtesy visit to Chong Wa Dae to see President Kim during his sojourn in the country.
 Esquivel is planning to depart Korea after delivering a lecture titled 'Peace and Human Rights' at Seoul National University on June 30.