The nation＇s doctors and pharmacists are starting to directly confront each other over the medical sector＇s nationwide strike.
The Korean Pharmacists＇ Association launched a direct offensive against the medical sector Tuesday, calling for the rejection of the plan for the separation of medical practices and pharmacies for the first time.
 After holding a meeting into the early hours of Tuesday, executives and local chapter chairmen of the Seoul Metropolitan Government Pharmacists＇ Association stated, ＂The move 
They also stated that they would not take part in a distorted plan to separate the overlapping roles of doctors and pharmacists.
Under the current medical reform plan, hospitals will be prohibited from dispensing medicines to outpatients while pharmacists will be banned from prescribing medical remedies.
 The Korean Pharmacists＇ Association has frequently denounced the government indirectly so as not to take a back seat to the medical sector, but it has rarely attacked the medical community.
 The Korean Pharmacists＇ Association also filed a lawsuit against the Democratic Medical Association at the Seoul District Court on June 19 claiming that an advertisement on the medical reform plan that was placed by the medical association ＂defiled the honor of pharmacists by making them look as if they deliberately change doctors＇ prescriptions.＂ Pharmacists are denouncing doctors for a number of reasons, including the delay in the implementation of the medical reform plan due to their protests.
In addition, they are anxious over the possibility of taking the blame from patients who have difficulty in filling their prescriptions after the medical reform plan is implemented as pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers are currently failing to supply medicines properly after having adopted a wait-and-see attitude towards the doctors＇ protests.
 Preoccupied with strikes, the medical sector has yet to respond to the criticism, but this situation is not likely to last long.
An official at the Korean Medical Association said, ＂Once the strikes are over, we will publicly announce each and every error committed by the Korean Pharmacists＇ Association in the process of preparing for the medical reform plan.＂ Accordingly, doctors and pharmacists are poised on the brink of a serious duel.
In more ways than one, the future of the government-initiated medical reform plan will continue to be bumpy.