Inchon City plans to create a forward base to promote trade and to provide an area for reunions of separated families.
Inchon city plans to name the center ＂Peace Island＂ and will build the center on Kyodong Island in Kanghwa County.
 On June 16 the city of Inchon disclosed that it had plans to secure a 165,000-330,000 square-meter lot upon which to build a facility to support reunions of separated families.
Additionally, the city of Inchon will also build a distribution center on Kyodong Island to promote inter-Korean trade.
Kyodong Island is located of the coast of Inchon about three kilometers from Yonbaek County in North Korea＇s Hwanghae Province.
 The envisioned facility for separated families will house a meeting place as well as a transfer base for letters and packages, while the distribution center will be a place where inter-Korean agricultural, marine, and industrial goods will be stored, collected and quarantined.
 According to the plan, full-fledged construction in Kyodong Island may be launched as early as the first half of next year.
 The city will ask the central government to designate Kyodong Island as a special tourist zone, expand the maritime transportation infrastructure, and to build a bridge connecting Kanghwa Island with Kyondong Island 
 Kyodong Island is located about 3.2 kilometers from Kanghwa Island.
Inchon City Hall plans to make it a center linking the South＇s key West Coast sea route (Kanghwa-Inch＇on-Kunsan-Mokp＇o) with the Northern ports of Haeju and Pyongyang.
Many experts agree that Kyodong Island is the most appropriate location from which to promote tourism and trade with North Korea.
 Kyodong Island is 46.2 square kilometers in size and is home to 3,800 islanders.
It was a maritime transportation hub during the Choson Dynasty (1392-1910), and because of its strategic position at the mouth of the Han, Yesong, Imjin rivers.
In addition, Inchon plans to open a reunion center for separated families on Paeknyong Island, the northernmost island in South Korea, and to also form a sister city relationship with North Korea＇s Namp＇o City, to which a direct navigation route exists.