＂We have come to an understanding about several agreeable issues.＂ President Kim Dae-jung＇s statement upon returning to Seoul on June 15.
 ＂There are things that I can tell and things that I cannot reveal.＂ North Korea＇s National Defense Commission Chairman Kim Jong-il during the farewell luncheon on June 15.
 The leaders of the two Koreas have thus hinted that they have held in-depth dialogue behind closed doors.
A government official analyzed, ＂Among the issues the two leaders agreed upon, there must have been many details that they decided to keep confidential for a period of time due to their highly sensitive nature.＂ All in all, the two leaders spent almost seven hours alone, including the summit talks and car rides.
Accordingly, most observers believe that the two leaders must have come to an understanding about some issues which they agreed to keep confidential for some time.
 The key example is the date of Chairman Kim＇s reciprocal visit to Seoul.
During his report on the Pyongyang summit made after returning to Seoul, President Kim said that Chairman Kim will ＂visit before the agreed date.＂ The statement suggests that the two leaders have already agreed between themselves a date for Chairman Kim＇s return visit.
Minister of Culture and Tourism Park Jie-won, who was a member of the official entourage that accompanied President Kim to Pyongyang, avoided comment and merely said, ＂It is something only the two leaders would know about.＂ Reportedly among the confidential details is a specific arms reduction program to eliminate the threat of war and ensure mutual non-aggression in accordance with President Kim＇s declaration that there would no longer be war between the two Koreas.
 The same is true for issues related to economic cooperation and the providing of assistance to help build North Korea＇s social infrastructure, such as railway lines and harbors.
The only detail that was announced publicly so far is the section in the South-North Joint Declaration that calls for ＂promoting balanced development of the national economy through economic cooperation.＂  Until now, the President＇s only comment has been that ＂leading authorities of both Koreas will make contacts to proceed with specific implementation of the details related to economic cooperation.＂ In view of the conciliatory mood that prevailed during the summit talks, experts on North Korea believe that Chairman Kim would have candidly explained the difficult situation that the North Korean economy is in to President Kim and asked for his cooperation.
They also believe that the two leaders have reached a substantial level of agreement in light of the fact that President Kim had already declared his intention to make extensive investments in North Korea＇s social infrastructure through the Berlin Declaration on March 9.
 One thing we know the two leaders reached an agreement on is the restoration of the Kyongui Line that runs from Seoul to Shinuiju, linking the two Koreas and assistance in providing electric power.
During the luncheon on June 15, Chairman Kim had proposed, ＂If the soldiers continue to stare at each other, they will only have a concept of enmity.
To prevent this, the two sides should mobilize their army to restore the Kyongui Line.＂ President Kim also emphasized the restoration of the Kyongui Line during his return report.
Sources explain that the two leaders would have already reached a basic agreement on the issue.