It is expected that three operators will be chosen for IMT-2000, the next-generation mobile telecommunications service to be launched in 2002.
It is likely that the operators will be selected based on the quality of their business plans.
It has been concluded that the proposed system of 'frequency auction,' which has been the subject of controversy, would be difficult to introduce because it would take at least six months to revise the relevant law.
 On June 8, Ahn Byung-yub, minister of information and communication, released the ＂Draft IMT-2000 Policy Plan.＂ Minister Ahn explained, ＂We will gather opinions from all walks of life about the merits and demerits of the plans suggested in the draft before we confirm our policy plan 
The factors include: demand and feasibility; use of frequencies; minimization of redundant investment and the encouragement of competition.
The merits of the chosen method of selection include the reduction of redundant investment; reinforcement of industrial competitiveness (since the accumulated breakeven point can be reached in five years) and a flexible response to increasing demand as sufficient frequencies will be allotted to the chosen enterprises.
 However, if existing mobile phone companies are selected as IMT-2000 enterprises, there is a concern that this will constitute the granting of privileges.
Therefore, the draft suggested the alternative of inducing the creation of three consortiums in which small- and medium-sized information and communications firms and other key communications companies would participate before business rights are granted.
 Regarding IMT-2000 standards, the draft said, ＂It is necessary to delay the decision making as long as possible, considering the current negotiations on the two technologies, static random memory (European style) and dynamic random access memory (American style) and the process of international standardization.＂ According to the draft, existing mobile phone companies will be permitted to provide a service which is one step more advanced than the current one 
Accordingly, the enterprises that do not make the list of IMT-2000 service operators may provide a similar service to IMT-2000 for a considerable time to come.
 The Ministry of Information and Communication plans to hold a public hearing on June 13 at 2:00 p.m. at the international conference room of the Press Center, located on Taepyongno street, central Seoul.