A recent report by the Bank of Korea (BOK) is critical of the government's policy to artificially control consumer prices.
The BOK report emphasizes the need for a microeconomic method to allow the market to control prices while regulating the level of currency circulation, rather than the administration's policy of supressing public service and utility charges, as well as other prices.
 The BOK insists that the government should relax or discontinue the "laws related to the stabilization of prices" and other relevant regulations by which the price of goods is controlled by designated maximum levels in times of price increases.
 The BOK will strengthen its inspection of management conditions at financial institutions on the heels of a revision in related regulations by the Monetary Board of Korea.
The revisions include a right to inspect and request necessary information and documents from financial institutions in all fields.
 These and other measures are outlined in a June 6 internal report entitled, ＇Proposal to Enhance the Understanding of Driving Forces in Price Stabilization.'
The report gives examples of the artificial price control policy in use by the government and local governing authorities in which they regulate the price of 24 services and products, including railroad and postal fares.
Moreover, the BOK points out that the traffic tax and price limitations on some petroleum-based products to control petroleum prices are also part of the government policy to artificially control consumer prices.
 In addition, the report says that government intervention in personal service charges, including payment for educational institutions and the cost of public bath houses, is yet another example of an artificial price control policy.
 The report suggests that the government controls aggravate unfair trade practices, while avoiding price control, and lower the quality and service of the products.
Therefore, they cause negative side effects for consumers, who in fact, end up paying more for expenses.
 The government policy on price controls should be carried out as a temporary measure to stabilize prices, in which the unfair trade actions such as illicit collusion of companies will be regulated in the long term.
The BOK also points out that maximum price limitations in laws regulating stabilize consumer prices, laws related to petroleum-based business, as well as laws related to energy enterprise groups, must be discontinued.
 The report emphasizes the BOK＇s currency circulation policy as the key to managing consumer prices.
The BOK suggests that inflation due to an excessive amount of currency circulation has often troubled the economy, rather than other factors, such as manpower fees and foreign influences, according to its analysis on the factors of consumer price increases after the 1970s.
 The BOK held a session of the Monetary Board of Korea on June 1 and revised the board's regulations in order to enlarge the rights to request basic information on major changes in the management of financial institutions in all fields, as well as data to grasp the trend of financial markets.
Moreover, the revised regulations ensure the rights to request inspections on all financial institutions.
Up until now, the regulations were only effective for some financial institutions.