The essence of the countermeasures announced by the Defense Ministry on Monday after consultation with the U.S.
Forces Korea (USFK) to resolve problems caused 
Relocating the strafing target to the sea would naturally adjust the approaching direction and flight altitude of U.S. fighters.
This in turn would greatly reduce noise pollution, one of the greatest complaints by the villagers.
 In the beginning, the USFK reportedly claimed that it would be extremely difficult to close its shooting range, as demanded 
Despite the difficulties, the two governments were able to reach an agreement based on the judgement that they should work to pacify the residents and prevent the issue from being aggravated.
In the end, the two sides agreed on the compromise of ＂relocating the target area to the sea.＂ The joint South Korean-U.S. investigation team had announced on June 1 that Maehyang-ri residents did not suffer from any damage due to the recent bombing 
The announcement, however, served only to fuel the controversy.
Maehyang-ri village residents, civic groups and students threatened to mobilize 10,000 people to stage a demonstration on June 6 and also forcibly occupy the controversial bombing range of the U.S. military facility.
In such a case, clashes between the demonstrators and the South Korean government and the USFK would have been inevitable.
 The Defense Ministry reportedly decided that it must resolve problems suffered 
Anti-American sentiment has been recently intensifying due to the disclosure of an alleged massacre of Korean civilians in Nogun-ri village by the U.S. military in the early days of the Korean War and also due to the problem revision of the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA).
The USFK, however, had reportedly remained passive in devising countermeasures, claiming a serious blow to its combat preparedness if the shooting range were to be closed.
 Accordingly, the Defense Ministry spent the entire night last Friday discussing follow-up measures and came up with the compromise of relocating the target area.
Lieutenant General Kim Chong-hwan, a military policy assistant, visited the USFK commander Gen. Thomas Schwartz to present the proposal and obtained his consent.
 The military official said, ＂We are currently reviewing a plan of regulating the existing shooting range (957,000 sq.
m) as a safety zone to ensure the safety of residents.＂ The Defense Ministry will place priority on offering speedy assistance to village residents who have suffered injuries or property damage from the May 8 bombing as it would take them a long time to receive compensation according to SOFA regulations and procedures.
 To that end, the Defense Ministry will send military personnel and equipment to the village starting on June 7 to help repair reported damage such as cracked walls and broken windows.
The ministry also plans to designate a private land compensation company to help the residents relocate from the village.
A total of 65 billion won (approximately $58 million) is estimated to be necessary for the relocation.