Chung Mong-koo, chairman of Hyundai Motor, left for the United States in the afternoon of June 2, along with Hyundai Motor President Lee Chung-koo.
Earlier that day Kia Motors held an urgent directors＇ meeting and passed the resolution to keep Chung Mong-koo as chairman.
 By contrast, on the afternoon of June 1, Honorary Chairman Chung Chu-yung submitted a formal resignation, thus stepping down from the positions of the group＇s honorary chairman and director of many Hyundai affiliates, including Hyundai Engineering and Construction and Hyundai Heavy Industries.
This follows the direction of Hyundai Chairman Chung Mong-hun＇s actions.
 There are signs that conflicts deriving from the announcement of the simultaneous retirement of the Chung family from management, the father and two sons, will drag on.
The sons are either indirectly expressing their stance or justifying their actions.
Chung Mong-koo＇s Refusal To Retire Reconfirmed Chairman Chung Mong-koo did not attend the urgent Kia Motors directors＇ meeting on June 2.
Instead, he visited Kia＇s Soha-ri factory and Namyang Research Center before departing Korea.
He reportedly plans to hold a strategic meeting in the United States, sign a strategic alliance in connection with fuel battery development, and have a consultation on the advance into Brazil for Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors.
 Early next week, Hyundai Motor will file an application with the Fair Trade Commission to be formally separated from Hyundai Group.
The company plans to actively promote an alliance with foreign companies to consolidate an independent management system.
A Hyundai Motor official said, ＂We will have active negotiations with Daimler-Chrysler and others for capital alliances.
We may examine the possibility of inviting foreign directors from foreign companies that we sign an alliance contract to with to take part in management.＂ In addition, Hyundai Motor is studying a plan to buy additional shares to secure management rights after it has separated from the group.
Father and Son put Pressures on Chung Mong-koo On 2 June, Hyundai Restructuring Committee decided not to react to Chairman Chung Mong-koo＇s decision to stay on.
The committee announced that it would accelerate the operation of dismantling the group according to Honorary Chairman Chung Chu-yung＇s original plan.
A restructuring committee staff member said, ＂As you can see 
Part of the letter read, ＂Please understand the Honorary Chairman＇s intentions as an act of deep loyalty to Hyundai to make it a world-class company.＂ Hyundai Engineering and Construction, the parent company of Hyundai Group, held a morning staff meeting presided over 
He said, ＂When the Honorary Chairman declared the simultaneous retirements, he repeatedly emphasized that a professional manager with international sensibility should manage automobile construction.＂ He went on to say, ＂We can imagine the mixed feelings President Chung Mong-hun must have had as he left for Japan yesterday, leaving a letter of resignation behind.
As he left, he said to the employees that he would watch from behind the scenes as a stockholder.＂ Kim hinted that he would remain as a professional manager, adding, "Until now, whenever I was faced with a problem, I would lean on Honorary Chairman and Chairman Chung Mong-hun and ask for their assistance.
To be frank, I feel I am carrying a heavy burden now.＂