President Kim Dae-jung and Lee Hoi-chang, leader of the Grand National Party (GNP), met as the heads of the ruling and opposition parties at Chong Wa Dae on April 24.
The two leaders agreed to help realize the goals of a ＂grand alliance of the entire Korean people＂ and ＂politics of mutual survival through cooperation between the ruling party and the opposition.＂ President Kim Dae-jung, head of the ruling Millennium Democratic Party, and GNP President Lee issued an 11-article communique, including that they will make efforts to hold inter-Korean summit talks under pan-national, non-partisen party support, and that they will hold meetings between the heads of two parties whenever it was deemed necessary.
 The meeting continued for 1 hour 45 minutes without anyone else present.
After the meeting, the two vowed that they would work hard to mitigate regional conflicts and rule out artificial political alignment.
They agreed that investigations on illegal election activities should be fair.
 Regarding inter-Korean talks, the two leaders agreed that, ＂The principle of reciprocity will be maintained regarding the identity of the Republic of Korea and economic cooperation, and the National Assembly will approve the programs which may become a burden to taxpayers.＂ In addition, they decided to establish the Future Strategies Committee and Special Committee for Political Reform in the National Assembly.
Furthermore, they agreed to form a policy council where the two parties＇ common pledges from election campaigns will be promoted in concert.
 The two men declared that they would make efforts to stabilize the citizens＇ lives, including enhancement of rights for fishermen, farmers, and wage earners, and to pass reform bills, including human rights and protection of privacy in communications, as soon as possible.
They also vowed that they would not tolerate any illegal actions deriving from group selfishness.
 During the talks, President Kim said to Mr. Lee, ＂I will consult with the opposition about many areas of national affairs, and I am determined to lead the nation based on the agreements,＂ relayed Park Joon-young, a Chong Wa Dae spokesman.
 According to GNP Spokesman Kwon Chul-hyun, Mr. Lee emphasized, ＂If artificial political realignment is promoted, contrary to the Korean voters＇ will, it will give rise to public resistance and friction within the political scene.＂ Mr. Lee demanded that those who are responsible for illegal election activities involving money and governmental intervention be punished and that the appointment of high-level officials not be concentrated from a certain region.
However, President Kim exhibited a different view as he said, ＂The 16th General Election was a rare case in which money and governmental intervention were not as rampant as before, and personnel reshuffling according to region improved a great deal compared to the past.＂