Major Korean firms are likely to invest 20 to 50 percent more in 2000 than they did a year earlier.
 Hyundai, Samsung, and LG - the nation’s three largest companies - are expected to invest in Research and Development (R&amp;D;), e-business, and venture capital.
The companies, which have favored debt-heavy growth in the past, are looking to expand through internally raised funds.
 LG will concentrate its investments in R&amp;D; projects, particularly pharmaceuticals and electronics.
Out of a total of $5.8 billion, LG has allotted $3.2 billion for the development of new drugs, and of digital and liquid crystal display technology.
 Samsung will give weight to 30 select products, including semiconductors, the company’s leading export.
 On a larger scale, electronics and semiconductors will get the biggest boost, with Hyundai Motors to invest $1.2 billion and Kia Motors to put up $630 million.
 Hyundai will develop an environmentally friendly material for $900 million, intended for export to European Union countries.
 The electronic arms of Samsung, LG, and Hyundai are looking to invest an additional 50 to 100 percent over last year, heating up the race in next-generation telecommunication and digital technologies.
 Samsung Electronics will inject $1.3 billion out of this year＇s total investment fund of $6.1 billion, into facilities to mass produce its 128M D-RAM and 256M D-RAM chips.
LG has set aside $576 million to develop state-of-the-art visual products, including plasma display panels (PDP) for digital televisions.
 By contrast, investments in the heavy chemical industry will remain unchanged from last year.
 Hyundai and Samsung plan to put about 10 percent of their total investments into venture firms.
Hyundai and Samsung affiliates will invest a total of $477 and $630 million, respectively, in venture companies in the information and communication fields.
 Hanhwa, another major domestic firm, plans to use $135 million to boost its Internet and bioengineering affiliates.