Foreign companies operating in Korea are redoubling their efforts to gain access to enter North Korea after the announcement of inter-Korean summit talks.
 The European Union Chamber of Commerce in Korea (EUCCK), which plans to send a delegation to the North in the first half of this year, invited officials from the Unification Ministry Tuesday for a meeting immediately following the announcement of the historical agreement on South-North summit talks.
 About 30 European businessmen attended the meeting, and all displayed a keen interest in exploring business opportunities in North Korea.
They also asked whether the South Korean government would guarantee the security of their investments in the North, and about the possibility of concluding an agreement to prevent double-taxation, as well as assistance from international financial institutions for investment in the North.
 Jean-Jacques Grauhar, chairman of EUCCK＇s North Korea Committee, has an extensive knowledge of North Korea through seven years of local employment in Pyongyang beginning in the late 1980s.
During his stay in Pyongyang, he provided consulting services to North Korean government ministries and companies.
As such, EUCCK has been maintaining continuous contact with the North 
 The American Chamber of Commerce in Korea (AMCHAM), which has been pursuing visits to the North to research investment openings since the end of last year, also plans to hold a meeting of its North Korea Committee early next month to discuss the agenda of visits to the North.
 AMCHAM leaders, including its president Paul McGonagle, met with Wendy Sherman, counselor of the U.S. Department of State and special advisor on North Korea, and Charles Kartman, the U.S. special envoy on Korean affairs, on April 5 to enlist Washington＇s help in its pursuit of access to the North.
 As part of its attempts to enter North Korea, AMCHAM has established the North Korea Committee (chaired by former AMCHAM president Jeffrey Jones) comprising about 90 member companies.
It failed to achieve any progress, however, due to non-economic factors, including the postponement of North Korea-U.S. negotiations on establishing diplomatic ties.
 Still, opinions vary on whether foreign companies could make successful entry into the North.
A French financier who has visited North Korea as an EUCCK member said, ＂Access to North Korea is limited only to Pyongyang and the Najin-Sonbong free trade area.
Due to the substantial problems in its social infrastructure, including electric power shortages, investments in North Korea will not generate results in the near future.＂