It appears that Kim Jong-il, chairman of North Korea＇s National Defense Committee, will attempt to appease the military before inter-Korean summit talks open in June.
  According to South Korean experts on North Korean affairs, the most unpredictable factor in the unexpected announcement of summit talks must be the North Korean military, with Jo Myong-rok (third in power ranking), director of the General Political Department, at its zenith.
  North Korean forces have yet to break free from the side effects of the clash with South Korea’s navy in the West (Yellow) Sea in June last year.
On March 23 the North Korean military announced its ＂navigation order for the five islands in the West Sea,＂ and claimed that it would not hesitate to strike, if necessary, to recover its honor after last year’s defeat.
  Coincidentally, the summit talks to be held from June 12 to June 14 mark the first anniversary of the clash in the West (Yellow) Sea, and it doesn＇t take a lot of imagination to realize that the upcoming meeting is not welcome to the North Korean military.
  To be sure, Kim Jong-il is simultaneously the chairman of the National Defense Commission and supreme commander, both top military posts.
  Furthermore, it is unthinkable for the military to resist or even question the absolute leader＇s decisions.
  Nevertheless, Kim Jong-il had a fragile powerbase when he seized power after Kim Il-sung＇s death in July 1994 and the military was his staunchest supporter.
  In addition, Kim Jong-il cannot turn a blind eye to the opinions of Ri Ul-sol, a National Defense Commission member, and other so-called first-generation revolutionaries, who were engaged in anti-Japanese partisan activities with his father Kim Il-sung.
  The thirteen most powerful North Korean figures include as many as nine military elders or key military cadres.
Among them are Chief of General Staff Kim Yong-chun (seventh rank) and Minister of the People＇s Armed Forces Kim Il-chol (eighth rank).
  Kim Jong-il is acutely aware of this situation, and he has paid special attention to reading the hearts of military figures.
In the first three months of this year, he appeared at 14 public functions, out of which eight were military-related events, such as visits to military units or military performances.
  The so-called military-first politics, that places top priority on the military sector, was Kim Jong-il’s own idea.
  South Korean experts analyze that the military＇s discontent with the Asia-Pacific Peace Committee (APPC), which is actively earning dollars from South Korea, is ＂at a considerable level.＂  Recently an APPC official meeting a South Korean figure to discuss a project, commented, ＂The military and the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland do not regard us in a favorable light.＂ This remark allows a glimpse of the North Korean military＇s growing discontent over the recent trend toward inter-Korean reconciliation.
  In particular, the military was reportedly against opening Panmunjom (the sole South-North border crossing) when Hyundai Honorary Chairman Chung Ju-yong＇s made a gift of cattle to the North in 1998, but the APPC＇s logic of acquiring dollars prevailed.
In addition, the military was humiliated when it was forced to open Mt.
Kumgang and its environs, a military stronghold, and Changjon Port, a key Naval base, for the Mt.
Kumgang tourism project.