Ranches raising cows for breeding are on the alert for the foot-and-mouth disease which has recently hit the country.
Dreading that the situation could worsen, farms have already finished preparations to move their pre-collected bull semen to a safe place.
 The livestock genetic research institute of the National Livestock Cooperative Federation (NLCF), which is located in Sosan of Chungchongnam Province, is home to some 300 bulls which are kept for breeding and are worth some $174,000 per head.
Making an appearance in Poryong following Hongsong - both in Chungchongnam Province - the epidemic has the NLCF on the alert.
 Providing ranches nationwide every year with an amount of semen able to fertilize up to one million cows, this institute is only 20 kilometers away from Hongsong, where foot-and-mouth disease recently broke out.
 The place has been closed off to outsiders since April 2 and sterilization procedures have been reinforced.
The NLCF has also asked Sosan City to cancel the cherry blossom festival scheduled for the middle of April.
Preparing for the worst, they have already collected tens of thousands of cubic centimeters of bull semen.
 Wondang Ranch, run by the NLCF livestock genetic research institute, and the only supplier of milk cow genes in Korea, is also watchful of the disease.
Located in Koyang of Kyonggi Province, the ranch, dubbed the “mecca of milk cows,” is the origin of 82 percent of all the milk cows within the country, bred through test-tube insemination.
95 highbreed milk bulls are presently being raised on the 7.6-million-square-meter grounds.
 Just the 16 milk bulls alone kept for breeding, including the most expensive bull at $226,000, are collectively worth $3 million.
The semen from the milk bulls on this ranch is recently being exported to China, making these bulls almost priceless.
However, the ranch is only 32 kilometers from Paju, where the first incidence of foot-and-mouth disease was recorded, and is located just 12 kilometers from the disease isolation boundary.
 Doosan’s Anmyon Ranch in Taean, Chungchongnam Province, also has a lot to worry about.
The ranch, which is home to 500 cattle for research, is breeding five genetically engineered cows, including Borami 1 and 2, two cows, and one bull.
If these cattle are infected with foot-and-mouth disease, the research could go to dust.
 Hyundai’s Sosan Ranch, which breeds some 2,200 cattle, is within 30 kilometers of the breakout area and so is also being kept on alert.