The American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) released its annual report entitled ＂Improving Korea＇s Business Climate＂ Thursday, and demanded the easing of restrictions in 20 areas of interest and the elimination of import barriers.
  In the report, AMCHAM stated, ＂The Korean government promised to improve the negative perception towards imported cars when it signed a memorandum of understanding with Washington in 1998, but failed to keep its promise.＂ It also demanded government-level support, including President Kim Dae-jung＇s appearance at a motor show for imported automobiles to be held in Seoul in May.
  Commenting on the recent controversy over rising national debt, AMCHAM President Paul McGonagle said, ＂Foreign businesses are not greatly worried about Korea＇s national debt.＂ He noted that Korea cannot be compared with Japan, which suffers from huge financial deficits, and Korea＇s national debt remains at 53 percent even based on OECD standards.
  AMCHAM President also dispelled the worries over foreign investments leaving the country after the April general elections.
＂Foreign investors place importance only on actual policies,＂ he said and added they will not be greatly affected by the results of the elections.
He remarked, ＂No matter which party wins in the general elections, we will demand reforms.
Our confidence in the Korean market will not change as long as reforms continue.＂  AMCHAM also asked for the abolition of unnecessary quality management tests on animals and drugs, as well as retraction of the government policy allowing pharmacists to fill in prescriptions with alternative drugs deemed to have the same effects.
It also demanded that medical insurance charges properly reflect the high research costs of certain drugs.
  In addition, AMCHAM requested an active crack down on violators of intellectual property rights and asked the Korean government to make efforts towards alleviating consumers＇ concerns on genetically-modified organisms (GMOs).
AMCHAM also proposed to Washington that it allow Korea to join its ＂visa waiver program＂ in the near future, and abolish trade sanctions on North Korea.