I used to be confident about my memories overall— just not those from my college years.
I was inuniversity in the gloomy 1980s, and I know thatsubconsciously I erased some experiences completely.
But now that I think of it, my overall memoryseems to be messed up.
In the past few days, I havemet a number of people who remember me as someoneI don’t remember myself to be.
I find myselfasking, “Did I really do that?”Unless their memories are wrong, I am discoveringa new me.
My old friends tell me absurd factsabout myself, and inside I’ll wonder: Who am I really?
At the same time, there are some memories thatI would rather forget but cannot.
I am quite timid,and even a slight slip of the tongue lingers in mymemory.
Maybe I thought I had good memory becauseI can’t forget minor missteps.
But such is theparadox of memory: the more you want to forget,the better you remember.
The incomplete and subjective memory is oftenexplored through art.
Hong Sang-soo’s “VirginStripped Bare by Her Bachelors” depicts the selfcenteredmemories of a woman and a man about thesame situations.
“Black Mirror,” a sci-fi UK televisionseries on Channel 4, is set in a future wherepeople have chips implanted in their brains to supplementincomplete memory.
The device records objective memories like asurveillance camera.
People can view certain partsas necessary, share their records or magnify theview.
The show’s protagonist voluntarily removeshis own chip after he rewinds some of his ownmemories and discovers that his wife is having anaffair.
Recently, Facebook began a new service ofshowing what I did one, two or three years ago today.
It is something most people have forgotten.
Facebook may remember me better than I do.
It maybe closer to my true self than who I think of myselfas according to my incomplete memory.
Facebook aspires to be a digital archive recordingthe personal histories of its users.
But it wascreepy to see the postings from the past I had forgotten.
The digital world is a space where nothing isever completely gone.
A Facebook friend posted, “When people advocate‘the right to be forgotten,’ digital machines remindus of the reality where we cannot be forgotten.”