“To push someone’s buttons” is an idiom that means triggering a reaction.
Online, “button pushing” often refers to when a story causes widespread anger within the public.
The “nut rage” saga is one example of such a story.
The news of an airline executive ordering an airplane to return to the gate over the way her nuts were served in first class pushed people’s buttons online.
Once buttons are pushed, online posts and replies explode, expressing rage against injustice.
About 10 days ago, someone posted online that he was fined for violating a stop sign as he was trying to give way to an ambulance.
The story pushed the buttons of many people.
The man attached a detailed picture of the situation at the time as well as his inquiry to the Korea Legal Aid Corporation and its response.
Because he elaborated the situation thoroughly, no one suspected that the case was not genuine.
Many people reposted the story on social media and a press report criticizing the bureaucracy of public servants that prioritize law over life followed.
But it turns out the story was completely fabricated.
The man had been caught by a camera when he ignored a red light and drove through a crossing.
There was no ambulance.
Moreover, he was a regular offender.
Many people had their buttons pushed as they were tricked by a fabricated story.
Once you know you have been tricked, you feel embarrassed for being so upset over something bogus.
But knowingly and unknowingly, we are hoodwinked by false information every day.
From household tips to celebrity fashion, we are constantly exposed to unfiltered information and news.
We have come past an overflow of news and have arrived in an era of fabricated news.
It is therefore inevitable that social media sites such as Facebook will expand their newscasting function.
U.S. think tank Pew Research Center’s 2013 report shows that 30 percent of adult Americans find news on Facebook.
In Korea, the consumption of news stories through social media is also accelerating.
As false information constantly creates issues, Facebook announced on Jan. 2 that it has added a function to prevent the spread of fabricated stories.
When users find a newsfeed story false, they can report that it is a false news story.
After gathering a certain number of false reports, it will be annotated with a message: “Many people on Facebook have reported that the story contains false information.”
I wonder if Facebook’s attempt will bring about the intended result considering the nature of Koreans who allow their buttons to be pushed so easily and contribute to spreading false news.
At the same time, I’m anxious to see whether or not Facebook’s report on adding the function to report false news feed is fabricated.
*