A station jointly operated by nine local broadcasting companies, this station has no main studio or headquarters buildings of its own.
Instead, the eight-o’clock news is sent from, say, Hapsburg and the midday news is sent from perhaps Munich.

While the West German news calmly depicted only events organized by the students, the East German news concentrated their broadcasting on student protests against the U.S. troops and nuclear weapons positioned in West Germany.
If our television stations were to broadcast such news, what would happen?
For example, let’s imagine the 9 p.m. news of 20 years ago on October 10.
(This may not be entirely accurate, but you can get the idea.)


But I had a sudden idea; I’d been reminded by the German television station ARD’s “News of 20 Years Ago” program of something I had had seen on our public television in the past.

A station jointly operated by nine local broadcasting companies, this station has no main studio or headquarters buildings of its own.

Instead, the eight-o’clock news is sent from, say, Hapsburg and the midday news is sent from perhaps Munich.

The amusing thing is that because ARD was formed by combining the West Berlin stations and the former East German public television station, they send out the West German and East German news of 20 years respectively.

For example, the “News of 20 Years Ago” edition that I last saw in Berlin was about the World Youth Festival that was staged by the East Germans in May, 1983.

For example, let’s imagine the 9 p.m. news of 20 years ago on October 10.

With the opening scene, the first headline news would be a sympathy piece for President Chun Doo Hwan, who barely escaped an attempt on his life in a terrorist bomb attack at the Aung San cemetery.

1 place for news ratings and was evaluated as having maintained relatively fair reporting during previous administration.

Some people might criticize this as a return to the Cold War days, but 20 years is long enough for people to accept an event as history and not reality.

