When the speculative bubble burst in international financial markets in April 2000, economists were busy trying to  forecast the future after what some saw as the early end of the new economy.
The shock of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, forced them to face the reality that new approaches were needed.
The world economy, they predicted, would no longer follow the rules of the 1990s.

It is common sense in the free-market system that a company will invest only when it expects a profit.
But will investment be forthcoming when the prospects for profits are dim but the president has a tete-a-tete with the heads of the conglomerates?
Of course not.
The federation’s move demonstrates its tendency to rely on government policy rather than to trust in the functioning of the market.
Frankly speaking, the Korean economy has been barely sustained only by the 159 trillion won in public funds poured into the economy after the financial crisis in 1997, an accumulated budget deficit of more than 120 trillion won, the creation of demand through other public funding and greater household debt.
There is no denying that the increase in public sector debt played a critical role in maintaining the economy since the financial crisis struck here.
But the present economic situation again calls for a more active government role.
Even with plenty of money in the economy and interest rates at a historic low, investments are not being made.
Households have reached the limit of their ability to boost spending further within current income levels and businesses are hesitant to invest because of the uncertain prospects for profit.
Also, considering the international economic situation, one cannot have much expectation that Korea will be able to promote growth by expanding demand for its exports.
In the final analysis, the only way to increase total demand in order to facilitate growth and maintain employment is to expand the government budget.
Given the current Korean macroeconomic indicators, the revised supplementary budget of 4 trillion won submitted to the National Assembly by the government seems insufficient to be the turning point for a sustainable growth.
As a consequence, the government will probably have to use more deficit spending to create additional demand.


The world economy, they predicted, would no longer follow the rules of the 1990s.

For example, to facilitate investment, the Federation of Korean Industries is officially demanding that the president meet with the heads of the top 10 jaebeol.

