After the election, Mr. Roh was trying hard to tone down the hard-line image he had nurtured to give President Bush more reason to look forward to the first summit meeting.
But there is no change in Mr. Roh's belief that South Korea-U.S. relations need to be equal.
That determination is what influenced his special envoy.
The delegation went to Washington determined to say what it had to say and to say it loudly and clearly, even to the point of bluntness.
Seized 
The members of the delegation also seemed not to have coordinated their talking points.
Every man seems to have spoken for himself, further confusing the U.S. officials and journalists that met them.
The senseless comment that it would be better to let North Korea have nuclear weapons than to let it crumble probably was made under such circumstances.
The members of the delegation denied having made this comment, then admitted to the comment but denied that it meant what it sounded like it meant.
We seem to have sent a fine bunch that could not even express itself properly as a presidential delegation.
This year is the 50th anniversary of the Korea-U.S. alliance.
Looking back on the times and the changes international society has gone through, Korea-U.S. relations have probably been too slow to change.
South Korea's humble attitude toward Washington arose from the special situation of having been a nation divided and having had long years of military rule between 1961 and 1987 under Park Chung Hee, Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae-woo.
They were eager to persuade the United States to turn its eyes away from the oppressive nature of their regimes.
Had Lee Hoi-chang been elected, Korea-U.S. relations would have remained pretty much the way they have been for at least another five years.


Just as President Kim Dae-jung took over from Kim Young-sam to deal with the financial crisis in 1997, so Mr. Roh is pushing President Kim to the sidelines and stepping up personally to try to heal South-U.S. relations.

After the election, Mr. Roh was trying hard to tone down the hard-line image he had nurtured to give President Bush more reason to look forward to the first summit meeting.

Had Lee Hoi-chang been elected, Korea-U.S. relations would have remained pretty much the way they have been for at least another five years.

Take a lesson from the disastrous Kim-Bush summit meeting in March 2001.
