The yellow race, often referred as Mongoloid, gained their distinctive characteristics of yellowish brown skin, black hair and high cheekbones while living their lives in windy grasslands located deep inside Asia 40,000 years ago.
They moved into Siberia and the tundra, the frozen lands in north Asia and entered Alaska about 13,000 years ago.

They were involved in endless collisions with established empires in Rome and in China, and such clashes triggered a grand migration.
In the 13th century, Genghis Khan and nomads under his leadership established a great empire ruling the world, but later disappeared, leaving behind no traces.
Civilizations in South America vanished without leaving any traces, and nomads and their cultures have almost vanished after the migration of Europeans to the Americas in the 15th century.
An eight-part documentary series, "Mongolian Route," will be aired on KBS 1 television in February.
The program traces the unrecorded history of nomads from their perspective, because history as we know it today only highlights civilizations of settlements such as in China and Europe.
The program also intends to explore the new nomads who travel beyond the limits of home, country and reality with mobile phones and the Internet.
The program wants to give us a sense of nostalgia about the ancient history of the northern races and the roots of our nation.
Nomads were never bound to the concept of borders or properties to hand down.
Nomadic society was ruled by principles of reciprocity in the market and guarantees for the safe movement of other tribes.
We may be able to discover the virtues of the new nomadic society today by studying the lives of nomads, who respected natural and societal order while wondering around freely like the wind.
I expect "Mongolian Route" to extend our interest in history, because our perspective is narrowed down to the last 2,000 years due to a lack of historical data.
I hope the program will allow us to imagine our history back to the era of Tangun, the founding father of the Korean nation 5,000 years ago.

They moved into Siberia and the tundra, the frozen lands in north Asia and entered Alaska about 13,000 years ago.

Asiatic peoples learned how to ride horses 4,000 years ago and established a nomadic culture in the Eurasian grasslands, a large area connecting the Manchurian plain, the Mongolian plateau, the Kazakh and Black Sea grasslands and Hungary.

