One hot October morning, I got off the all-night train in Mandalay, the old royal capital of Burma, now Myanmar.

And out on the street, I ran into a group of rough men standing beside their bicycle rickshaws.

And one of them came up and offered to show me around.

The price he quoted was outrageous.

It was less than I would pay for a bar of chocolate at home. 

So I clambered into his trishaw, and he began pedaling us slowly between palaces and pagodas.

And as he did, he told me how he had come to the city from his village.

But of course, life is hard under a military dictatorship, and so for now, this was the only way he could make a living.

Many nights, he told me, he actually slept in his trishaw so he could catch the first visitors off the all-night train. 

So we turned off the wide, crowded streets, and we began bumping down rough, wild alleyways.

There were broken shacks all around.

I really lost the sense of where I was, and I realized that anything could happen to me now.

I could get mugged or drugged or something worse.

Nobody would know. 

And then he leaned down, and reached under his bed.

And something in me froze.

I waited to see what he would pull out.

And finally he extracted a box.

At home, it's dangerously easy to assume we're on top of things.

Everywhere, "People wish to be settled," Ralph Waldo Emerson reminded us, "but only insofar as we are unsettled is there any hope for us."

At this conference, we've been lucky enough to hear some exhilarating new ideas and discoveries and, really, about all the ways in which knowledge is being pushed excitingly forwards.

But at some point, knowledge gives out.

And it's then, when you're lost or uneasy or carried out of yourself, that you find out who you are. 

I don't believe that ignorance is bliss.

Science has unquestionably made our lives brighter and longer and healthier.

And I am forever grateful to the teachers who showed me the laws of physics and pointed out that three times three makes nine.

But when a mathematician tells me that minus three times minus three makes nine, that's a kind of logic that almost feels like trust. 

The opposite of knowledge, in other words, isn't always ignorance.

It can be wonder.

It's also the things I don't know that have often brought me closer to everybody around me. 

For eight straight Novembers, recently, I traveled every year across Japan with the Dalai Lama.

And the one thing he said every day that most seemed to give people reassurance and confidence was, "I don't know."

Most of the time, we're in the dark.

And that's where real intimacy lies. 

Do you know what your lover is going to do tomorrow?

Do you want to know? 

The parents of us all, as some people call them, Adam and Eve, could never die, so long as they were eating from the tree of life.

But the minute they began nibbling from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they fell from their innocence.

Now, when I was a kid, I knew it all, of course.

I had been spending 20 years in classrooms collecting facts, and I was actually in the information business, writing articles for Time Magazine.

But underneath all that, something that I couldn't understand so moved me for reasons I couldn't explain to you yet, that I decided to go and live in Japan.

And now that I've been there for 28 years, I really couldn't tell you very much at all about my adopted home.

Knowledge is a priceless gift.

But the illusion of knowledge can be more dangerous than ignorance. 

Thinking that you know your lover or your enemy can be more treacherous than acknowledging you'll never know them.

Every morning in Japan, as the sun is flooding into our little apartment, I take great pains not to consult the weather forecast, because if I do, my mind will be overclouded, distracted, even when the day is bright. 

I've been a full-time writer now for 34 years.

And the same is true in love or in moments of crisis.

In the end, perhaps, being human is much more important than being fully in the know. 

Thank you. 

