How much do you get paid?

Don't answer that out loud.

But put a number in your head.

Now: How much do you think the person sitting next to you gets paid?

Again, don't answer out loud. 

At work, how much do you think the person sitting in the cubicle or the desk next to you gets paid?

Do you know?

Should you know? 

Most of us are uncomfortable with the idea of broadcasting our salary.

We're not supposed to tell our neighbors, and we're definitely not supposed to tell our office neighbors.

The assumed reason is that if everybody knew what everybody got paid, then all hell would break loose.

There'd be arguments, there'd be fights, there might even be a few people who quit.

But what if secrecy is actually the reason for all that strife?

And what would happen if we removed that secrecy?

What if openness actually increased the sense of fairness and collaboration inside a company?

What would happen if we had total pay transparency? 

For the past several years, I've been studying the corporate and entrepreneurial leaders who question the conventional wisdom about how to run a company.

And the question of pay keeps coming up.

And the answers keep surprising. 

It turns out that pay transparency -- sharing salaries openly across a company -- makes for a better workplace for both the employee and for the organization.

When people don't know how their pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to feel underpaid and maybe even discriminated against.

Do you want to work at a place that tolerates the idea that you feel underpaid or discriminated against?

Now that memo didn't sit well with everybody.

But why would a company even want to discourage salary discussions?

Why do some people go along with it, while others revolt against it?

And in hiring or promotion or annual raise discussions, an employer can use that secrecy to save a lot of money.

Imagine how much better you could negotiate for a raise if you knew everybody's salary. 

Economists warn that information asymmetry can cause markets to go awry.

Someone leaves a pay stub on the copier, and suddenly everybody is shouting at each other.

In fact, they even warn that information asymmetry can lead to a total market failure.

And I think we're almost there.

In a 2015 survey of 70,000 employees, two-thirds of everyone who is paid at the market rate said that they felt they were underpaid.

If you were part of this survey, what would you say?

Are you underpaid?

In a 2011 report from the Institute for Women's Policy Research, the gender wage gap between men and women was 23 percent.

This is where that 77 cents on the dollar comes from.

If we really want to close the gender wage gap, maybe we should start by opening up the payroll.

If this is what total market failure looks like, then openness remains the only way to ensure fairness. 

That's why entrepreneurial leaders and corporate leaders have been experimenting with sharing salaries for years.

Like Dane Atkinson.

And Dane saw the strife that happened as a result of this.

So when he started his newest company, SumAll, he committed to salary transparency from the beginning.

And the results have been amazing.

And in study after study, when people know how they're being paid and how that pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to work hard to improve their performance, more likely to be engaged, and they're less likely to quit. 

Now, pay transparency takes a lot of forms.

It's not one size fits all.

Some post the formula for calculating pay, and others post the pay levels and affix everybody to that level.

So you don't have to make signs for all of your employees to wear around the office.

And you don't have to be the only one wearing a sign that you made at home.

But we can all take greater steps towards pay transparency.

For those of you that have the authority to move forward towards transparency: it's time to move forward.

And for those of you that don't have that authority: it's time to stand up for your right to. 

So how much do you get paid?

And how does that compare to the people you work with?

You should know.

And so should they. 

Thank you. 

