So I know TED is about a lot of things that are big, but I want to talk to you about something very small.

So small, it's a single word.

The word is "misfit."

It's one of my favorite words, because it's so literal.

I mean, it's a person who sort of missed fitting in.

I'm a card-carrying misfit.

I'm going to tell you a misfit story. 

Somewhere in my early 30s, the dream of becoming a writer came right to my doorstep.

Actually, it came to my mailbox in the form of a letter that said I'd won a giant literary prize for a short story I had written.

The short story was about my life as a competitive swimmer and about my crappy home life, and a little bit about how grief and loss can make you insane.

You know what I did the day the letter came to my house?

I was thinking about all the ways I'd already screwed my life up.

Who the hell was I to go to New York City and pretend to be a writer?

Who was I? 

I'll tell you.

I was a misfit.

Like legions of other children, I came from an abusive household that I narrowly escaped with my life.

I already had two epically failed marriages underneath my belt.

I'd flunked out of college not once but twice and maybe even a third time that I'm not going to tell you about. 

And I'd done an episode of rehab for drug use.

And I'd had two lovely staycations in jail.

So I'm on the right stage. 

But the real reason, I think, I was a misfit, is that my daughter died the day she was born, and I hadn't figured out how to live with that story yet.

Maybe all of us, if you live long enough.

You know, homeless people are some of our most heroic misfits, because they start out as us.

And the dream of being a writer was really kind of like a small, sad stone in my throat. 

It was pretty much in spite of myself that I got on that plane and flew to New York City, where the writers are.

Fellow misfits, I can almost see your heads glowing.

I can pick you out of a room.

At first, you would've loved it.

You got to choose the three famous writers you wanted to meet, and these guys went and found them for you.

You got set up at the Gramercy Park Hotel, where you got to drink Scotch late in the night with cool, smart, swank people.

And you got to pretend you were cool and smart and swank, too.

And you got to meet a bunch of editors and authors and agents at very, very fancy lunches and dinners.

Ask me how fancy. 

Audience: How fancy? 

from three different restaurants.

And I shoved a menu down my pants. 

I just wanted some keepsakes so that when I got home, I could believe it had really happened to me.

You know? 

The three writers I wanted to meet were Carole Maso, Lynne Tillman and Peggy Phelan.

These were not famous, best-selling authors, but to me, they were women-writer titans.

Carole Maso wrote the book that later became my art bible.

Lynne Tillman gave me permission to believe that there was a chance my stories could be part of the world.

And Peggy Phelan reminded me that maybe my brains could be more important than my boobs.

They weren't mainstream women writers, but they were cutting a path through the mainstream with their body stories, I like to think, kind of the way water cut the Grand Canyon. 

It nearly killed me with joy to hang out with these three over-50-year-old women writers.

And the reason it nearly killed me with joy is that I'd never known a joy like that.

I'd never been in a room like that.

My mother never went to college.

And my creative career to that point was a sort of small, sad, stillborn thing.

First, they took me to the offices of Farrar, Straus and Giroux.

The main editor guy sat me down and talked to me for a long time, trying to convince me I had a book in me about my life as a swimmer.

You know, like a memoir.

The whole time he was talking to me, I sat there smiling and nodding like a numb idiot, with my arms crossed over my chest, while nothing, nothing, nothing came out of my throat.

And he wished me luck and he gave me some free books and he showed me out the door. 

Next, they took me to the offices of W.W. Norton, where I was pretty sure I'd be escorted from the building just for wearing Doc Martens.

But that didn't happen.

I mean, that's how big a deal it was to me.

You get it?

Their lead editor, Carol Houck Smith, leaned over right in my face with these beady, bright, fierce eyes and said, "Well, send me something then, immediately!"

It took me over a decade to even imagine putting something in an envelope and licking a stamp. 

On the last night, I gave a big reading at the National Poetry Club.

And at the end of the reading, Katharine Kidde of Kidde, Hoyt &amp; Picard Literary Agency, walked straight up to me and shook my hand and offered me representation, like, on the spot.

I stood there and I kind of went deaf.

Has this ever happened to you?

You see, I'm trying to tell you something about people like me.

It's a shame we carry.

If I could, I'd go back and I'd coach myself.

I'd be exactly like those over-50-year-old women who helped me.

The radiance falls on all of us, and we are nothing without each other.

Instead, I flew back to Oregon, and as I watched the evergreens and rain come back into view, I just drank many tiny bottles of airplane "feel sorry for yourself."

I thought about how, if I was a writer, I was some kind of misfit writer.

What I'm saying is, I flew back to Oregon without a book deal, without an agent, and with only a headful and heart-ful of memories of having sat so near the beautiful writers.

Memory was the only prize I allowed myself. 

And yet, at home in the dark, back in my underwear, I could still hear their voices.

Now I am, as you can see, the woman over 50.

And I'm a writer.

And I'm a mother.

And I became a teacher.

Guess who my favorite students are.

In it are the stories of how many times I've had to reinvent a self from the ruins of my choices, the stories of how my seeming failures were really just weird-ass portals to something beautiful.

All I had to do was give voice to the story. 

There's a myth in most cultures about following your dreams.

It's called the hero's journey.

It's called the misfit's myth.

That's your beauty. 

You can even lose your marbles.

And I'd be listening. 

Thank you. 

