Let's see, I'd say about three or four percent.

I had no idea there were so many believers at a TED Conference.

Okay, that's the majority. 

We talk about being uplifted or elevated. 

Now it's really hard to think about anything abstract like this without a good concrete metaphor.

So here's the metaphor I'm offering today.

Think about the mind as being like a house with many rooms, most of which we're very familiar with.

But sometimes it's as though a doorway appears from out of nowhere and it opens onto a staircase.

We climb the staircase and experience a state of altered consciousness. 

He quoted the words of all kinds of people who'd had a variety of these experiences.

One of the most exciting to me is this young man, Stephen Bradley, had an encounter, he thought, with Jesus in 1820.

And here's what Bradley said about it. 

JH: So note how Bradley's petty, moralistic self just dies on the way up the staircase.

And on this higher level he becomes loving and forgiving.

The world's many religions have found so many ways to help people climb the staircase.

Some shut down the self using meditation.

Others use psychedelic drugs.

Others use dancing, spinning and circling to promote self-transcendence.

But you don't need a religion to get you through the staircase.

Lots of people find self-transcendence in nature.

Others overcome their self at raves. 

So many books about war say the same thing, that nothing brings people together like war.

And that bringing them together opens up the possibility of extraordinary self-transcendent experiences.

I'm going to play for you an excerpt from this book by Glenn Gray.

Gray was a soldier in the American army in World War II.

And after the war he interviewed a lot of other soldiers and wrote about the experience of men in battle.

Here's a key passage where he basically describes the staircase. 

JH: So what all of these cases have in common is that the self seems to thin out, or melt away, and it feels good, it feels really good, in a way totally unlike anything we feel in our normal lives.

It feels somehow uplifting.

This idea that we move up was central in the writing of the great French sociologist Emile Durkheim.

Durkheim even called us Homo duplex, or two-level man.

The lower level he called the level of the profane.

Now profane is the opposite of sacred.

It just means ordinary or common.

And in our ordinary lives we exist as individuals.

We want to satisfy our individual desires.

We pursue our individual goals.

But sometimes something happens that triggers a phase change.

Durkheim called this level the level of the sacred because he believed that the function of religion was to unite people into a group, into a moral community.

Durkheim believed that anything that unites us takes on an air of sacredness.

So let me summarize where we are.

I'm saying that the capacity for self-transcendence is just a basic part of being human.

I'm offering the metaphor of a staircase in the mind.

I'm saying we are Homo duplex and this staircase takes us up from the profane level to the level of the sacred.

When we climb that staircase, self-interest fades away, we become just much less self-interested, and we feel as though we are better, nobler and somehow uplifted. 

So here's the million-dollar question for social scientists like me: Is the staircase a feature of our evolutionary design?

Well many scientists who study religion take this view.

And after all, how could it ever be good for us to lose ourselves?

Well let me show you. 

Darwin noted that many of our virtues are of very little use to ourselves, but they're of great use to our groups.

He wrote about the scenario in which two tribes of early humans would have come in contact and competition.

He said, "If the one tribe included a great number of courageous, sympathetic and faithful members who are always ready to aid and defend each other, this tribe would succeed better and conquer the other."

He went on to say that "Selfish and contentious people will not cohere, and without coherence nothing can be effected."

In other words, Charles Darwin believed in group selection. 

But really the way to think about this is as multilevel selection. 

So look at it this way: You've got competition going on within groups and across groups.

So here's a group of guys on a college crew team.

Within this team there's competition.

There are guys competing with each other.

The slowest rowers, the weakest rowers, are going to get cut from the team.

And only a few of these guys are going to go on in the sport.

Maybe one of them will make it to the Olympics.

So within the team, their interests are actually pitted against each other.

And sometimes it would be advantageous for one of these guys to try to sabotage the other guys.

Maybe he'll badmouth his chief rival to the coach.

But while that competition is going on within the boat, this competition is going on across boats.

They can only win if they all pull together as a team.

I mean, these things sound trite, but they are deep evolutionary truths. 

And as you'll see in this simulation, as they interact they gain points, as it were, they grow, and when they've doubled in size, you'll see them split, and that's how they reproduce and the population grows. 

But suppose then that one of them mutates.

There's a mutation in the gene and one of them mutates to follow a selfish strategy.

It takes advantage of the others.

And so when a green interacts with a blue, you'll see the green gets larger and the blue gets smaller.

So here's how things play out.

We start with just one green, and as it interacts it gains wealth or points or food.

And in short order, the cooperators are done for.

But there are solutions to the free-rider problem.

It's not that hard a problem.

In fact, nature has solved it many, many times.

And nature's favorite solution is to put everyone in the same boat.

It's because they used to be separate free-living bacteria and they came together and became a superorganism.

Somehow or other -- maybe one swallowed another; we'll never know exactly why -- but once they got a membrane around them, they were all in the same membrane, now all the wealth-created division of labor, all the greatness created by cooperation, stays locked inside the membrane and we've got a superorganism. 

A superorganism can basically take what it wants.

It's so big and powerful and efficient that it can take resources from the greens, from the defectors, the cheaters.

And pretty soon the whole population is actually composed of these new superorganisms.

What I've shown you here is sometimes called a major transition in evolutionary history.

Darwin's laws don't change, but now there's a new kind of player on the field and things begin to look very different. 

Now this transition was not a one-time freak of nature that just happened with some bacteria.

It happened again about 120 or a 140 million years ago when some solitary wasps began creating little simple, primitive nests, or hives.

Once several wasps were all together in the same hive, they had no choice but to cooperate, because pretty soon they were locked into competition with other hives.

And the most cohesive hives won, just as Darwin said. 

These early wasps gave rise to the bees and the ants that have covered the world and changed the biosphere.

Once they were all in the same tribe, they could keep the benefits of cooperation locked inside.

And they unlocked the most powerful force ever known on this planet, which is human cooperation -- a force for construction and destruction. 

Of course, human groups are nowhere near as cohesive as beehives.

Human groups may look like hives for brief moments, but they tend to then break apart.

We're not locked into cooperation the way bees and ants are.

In fact, often, as we've seen happen in a lot of the Arab Spring revolts, often those divisions are along religious lines.

Nonetheless, when people do come together and put themselves all into the same movement, they can move mountains. 

Or are they pursuing communal interest, which requires them to lose themselves and become simply a part of a whole? 

JH: Thank you. 

