Instead of sending them off into the Third World, we send them into the wilds of City Hall.

And there they make great apps, they work with city staffers.

But really what they're doing is they're showing what's possible with technology today. 

So meet Al.

Al is a fire hydrant in the city of Boston.

Now how did he come to be looking for help in this very unique manner?

We had a team of fellows in Boston last year through the Code for America program.

They were there in February, and it snowed a lot in February last year.

And they noticed that the city never gets to digging out these fire hydrants.

But one fellow in particular, a guy named Erik Michaels-Ober, noticed something else, and that's that citizens are shoveling out sidewalks right in front of these things.

So he did what any good developer would do, he wrote an app. 

It's a cute little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant.

So you agree to dig it out when it snows.

If you do, you get to name it, and he called the first one Al.

And if you don't, someone can steal it from you.

So it's got cute little game dynamics on it.

This is a modest little app.

It's probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year.

But it's doing something that no other government technology does.

It's spreading virally. 

It's very important that these tsunami sirens work, but people steal the batteries out of them.

So he's getting citizens to check on them.

And then Seattle decided to use it to get citizens to clear out clogged storm drains.

And Chicago just rolled it out to get people to sign up to shovel sidewalks when it snows.

So we now know of nine cities that are planning to use this.

And this has spread just frictionlessly, organically, naturally. 

If you know anything about government technology, you know that this isn't how it normally goes.

Procuring software usually takes a couple of years.

We had a team that worked on a project in Boston last year that took three people about two and a half months.

It was a way that parents could figure out which were the right public schools for their kids.

We were told afterward that if that had gone through normal channels, it would have taken at least two years and it would have cost about two million dollars.

And that's nothing.

There is one project in the California court system right now that so far cost taxpayers two billion dollars, and it doesn't work.

And there are projects like this at every level of government. 

So an app that takes a couple of days to write and then spreads virally, that's sort of a shot across the bow to the institution of government.

It suggests how government could work better -- not more like a private company, as many people think it should.

And not even like a tech company, but more like the Internet itself.

And that means permissionless, it means open, it means generative.

And that's important.

But what's more important about this app is that it represents how a new generation is tackling the problem of government -- not as the problem of an ossified institution, but as a problem of collective action.

Now there's a very large community of people that are building the tools that we need to do things together effectively.

It's not just Code for America fellows, there are hundreds of people all over the country that are standing and writing civic apps every day in their own communities.

They haven't given up on government.

They are frustrated as hell with it, but they're not complaining about it, they're fixing it.

And these folks know something that we've lost sight of.

And that's that when you strip away all your feelings about politics and the line at the DMV and all those other things that we're really mad about, government is, at its core, in the words of Tim O'Reilly, "What we do together that we can't do alone."

And that's that when you strip away all your feelings about politics and the line at the DMV and all those other things that we're really mad about, government is, at its core, in the words of Tim O'Reilly, "What we do together that we can't do alone."

Now a lot of people have given up on government.

And if you're one of those people, I would ask that you reconsider, because things are changing.

Now I didn't know very much about government when I started this program.

And like a lot of people, I thought government was basically about getting people elected to office.

Well after two years, I've come to the conclusion that, especially local government, is about opossums. 

This is the call center for the services and information line.

It's generally where you will get if you call 311 in your city.

So Scott gets this call.

But that wasn't the end of the opossums. 

Boston doesn't just have a call center.

It has an app, a Web and mobile app, called Citizens Connect.

Now we didn't write this app.

This is the work of the very smart people at the Office of New Urban Mechanics in Boston.

So Scott was speaking person-to-person.

But on Citizens Connect everything is public, so everybody can see this.

And it's also a great example of government getting in on the crowd-sourcing game.

But it's also a great example of government as a platform.

And I don't mean necessarily a technological definition of platform here.

I'm just talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others.

And it could have connected them with government services if they'd been needed, but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services.

When one neighbor helps another, we strengthen our communities.

We call animal control, it just costs a lot of money. 

Now one of the important things we need to think about government is that it's not the same thing as politics.

And most people get that, but they think that one is the input to the other.

That our input to the system of government is voting.

Now how many times have we elected a political leader -- and sometimes we spend a lot of energy getting a new political leader elected -- and then we sit back and we expect government to reflect our values and meet our needs, and then not that much changes?

That's because government is like a vast ocean and politics is the six-inch layer on top.

And what's under that is what we call bureaucracy.

And we say that word with such contempt.

But it's that contempt that keeps this thing that we own and we pay for as something that's working against us, this other thing, and then we're disempowering ourselves. 

People seem to think politics is sexy.

If we want this institution to work for us, we're going to have to make bureaucracy sexy.

Because that's where the real work of government happens.

We have to engage with the machinery of government.

So that's OccupytheSEC movement has done.

Have you seen these guys?

It's a group of concerned citizens that have written a very detailed 325-page report that's a response to the SEC's request for comment on the Financial Reform Bill.

That's not being politically active, that's being bureaucratically active. 

Now for those of us who've given up on government, it's time that we asked ourselves about the world that we want to leave for our children.

You have to see the enormous challenges that they're going to face.

Do we really think we're going to get where we need to go without fixing the one institution that can act on behalf of all of us?

We can't do without government, but we do need it to be more effective.

The good news is that technology is making it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually scale by strengthening civil society.

Now the average age of our fellows is 28, so I am, begrudgingly, almost a generation older than most of them.

This is a generation that's grown up taking their voices pretty much for granted.

They can express their opinion on any channel at any time, and they do.

So when they're faced with the problem of government, they don't care as much about using their voices.

They're using their hands.

They're using their hands to write applications that make government work better. 

And those applications let us use our hands to make our communities better.

That could be shoveling out a hydrant, pulling a weed, turning over a garbage can with an opossum in it.

But these apps are like little digital reminders that we're not just consumers, and we're not just consumers of government, putting in our taxes and getting back services.

We're more than that, we're citizens.

And we're not going to fix government until we fix citizenship. 

Thank you. 

