What do I know that would cause me, a reticent, Midwestern scientist, to get myself arrested in front of the White House protesting?

And what would you do if you knew what I know?

Let's start with how I got to this point.

I was lucky to grow up at a time when it was not difficult for the child of a tenant farmer to make his way to the state university. 

And I was really lucky to go to the University of Iowa where I could study under Professor James Van Allen who built instruments for the first U.S. satellites.

Professor Van Allen told me about observations of Venus, that there was intense microwave radiation.

Did it mean that Venus had an ionosphere?

Or was Venus extremely hot?

And it was kept hot by a thick carbon dioxide atmosphere. 

I was fortunate to join NASA and successfully propose an experiment to fly to Venus.

Our instrument took this image of the veil of Venus, which turned out to be a smog of sulfuric acid.

But while our instrument was being built, I became involved in calculations of the greenhouse effect here on Earth, because we realized that our atmospheric composition was changing.

Eventually, I resigned as principal investigator on our Venus experiment because a planet changing before our eyes is more interesting and important.

Its changes will affect all of humanity. 

The greenhouse effect had been well understood for more than a century.

British physicist John Tyndall, in the 1850's, made laboratory measurements of the infrared radiation, which is heat.

And he showed that gasses such as CO2 absorb heat, thus acting like a blanket warming Earth's surface. 

I worked with other scientists to analyze Earth climate observations.

In 1981, we published an article in Science magazine concluding that observed warming of 0.4 degrees Celsius in the prior century was consistent with the greenhouse effect of increasing CO2.

That Earth would likely warm in the 1980's, and warming would exceed the noise level of random weather by the end of the century.

All of these impacts have since either happened or are now well under way. 

There will be stronger storms and greater flooding.

So I decided to go back to strictly doing science and leave the communication to others. 

By 15 years later, evidence of global warming was much stronger.

Most of the things mentioned in our 1981 paper were facts.

I had the privilege to speak twice to the president's climate task force.

But energy policies continued to focus on finding more fossil fuels.

By then we had two grandchildren, Sophie and Connor.

I gave the talk at the University of Iowa in 2004 and at the 2005 meeting of the American Geophysical Union.

This led to calls from the White House to NASA headquarters and I was told that I could not give any talks or speak with the media without prior explicit approval by NASA headquarters.

After I informed the New York Times about these restrictions, NASA was forced to end the censorship.

But there were consequences.

I had been using the first line of the NASA mission statement, "To understand and protect the home planet," to justify my talks.

Soon the first line of the mission statement was deleted, never to appear again. 

Adding CO2 to the air is like throwing another blanket on the bed.

If so, more warming is in the pipeline.

It will occur without adding any more greenhouse gasses. 

Now finally, we can measure Earth's energy imbalance precisely by measuring the heat content in Earth's heat reservoirs.

The biggest reservoir, the ocean, was the least well measured, until more than 3,000 Argo floats were distributed around the world's ocean.

These floats reveal that the upper half of the ocean is gaining heat at a substantial rate.

The deep ocean is also gaining heat at a smaller rate, and energy is going into the net melting of ice all around the planet.

And the land, to depths of tens of meters, is also warming. 

The total energy imbalance now is about six-tenths of a watt per square meter.

That may not sound like much, but when added up over the whole world, it's enormous.

It's about 20 times greater than the rate of energy use by all of humanity.

It's equivalent to exploding 400,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs per day 365 days per year.

That's how much extra energy Earth is gaining each day.

This imbalance, if we want to stabilize climate, means that we must reduce CO2 from 391 ppm, parts per million, back to 350 ppm.

That is the change needed to restore energy balance and prevent further warming. 

Climate change deniers argue that the Sun is the main cause of climate change.

Now consider Earth's climate history.

As you see, there's a high correlation between temperature, CO2 and sea level.

Careful examination shows that the temperature changes slightly lead the CO2 changes by a few centuries.

Small changes in Earth's orbit that occur over tens to hundreds of thousands of years alter the distribution of sunlight on Earth.

When there is more sunlight at high latitudes in summer, ice sheets melt.

Shrinking ice sheets make the planet darker, so it absorbs more sunlight and becomes warmer.

And more CO2 causes more warming.

The important point is that these same amplifying feedbacks will occur today.

The physics does not change.

While we can't say exactly how fast these amplifying feedbacks will occur, it is certain they will occur, unless we stop the warming.

There is evidence that feedbacks are already beginning.

Precise measurements by GRACE, the gravity satellite, reveal that both Greenland and Antarctica are now losing mass, several hundred cubic kilometers per year.

And the rate has accelerated since the measurements began nine years ago.

Methane is also beginning to escape from the permafrost. 

What sea level rise can we look forward to?

The last time CO2 was 390 ppm, today's value, sea level was higher by at least 15 meters, 50 feet.

Where you are sitting now would be under water.

Most estimates are that, this century, we will get at least one meter.

The important point is that we will have started a process that is out of humanity's control.

Ice sheets would continue to disintegrate for centuries.

There would be no stable shoreline.

The economic consequences are almost unthinkable.

Hundreds of New Orleans-like devastations around the world.

What may be more reprehensible, if climate denial continues, is extermination of species.

The monarch butterfly could be one of the 20 to 50 percent of all species that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates will be ticketed for extinction by the end of the century if we stay on business-as-usual fossil fuel use. 

Global warming is already affecting people.

Fifty years ago, such anomalies covered only two- to three-tenths of one percent of the land area.

More grandchildren helped me along.

Jake is a super-positive, enthusiastic boy.

Here at age two and a half years, he thinks he can protect his two and a half-day-old little sister.

It would be immoral to leave these young people with a climate system spiraling out of control. 

Most people would get more in the monthly dividend than they'd pay in increased prices.

This fee and dividend would stimulate the economy and innovations, creating millions of jobs.

It is the principal requirement for moving us rapidly to a clean energy future. 

This path, if continued, guarantees that we will pass tipping points leading to ice sheet disintegration that will accelerate out of control of future generations.

A large fraction of species will be committed to extinction.

Imagine a giant asteroid on a direct collision course with Earth. 

That is the equivalent of what we face now.

If we had started in 2005, it would have required emission reductions of three percent per year to restore planetary energy balance and stabilize climate this century.

If we start next year, it is six percent per year.

If we wait 10 years, it is 15 percent per year -- extremely difficult and expensive, perhaps impossible.

But we aren't even starting. 

So now you know what I know that is moving me to sound this alarm.

Clearly, I haven't gotten this message across.

The science is clear.

We owe it to our children and grandchildren. 

Thank you. 

