A tourist is backpacking through the highlands of Scotland, and he stops at a pub to get a drink.

And the only people in there is a bartender and an old man nursing a beer.

And he orders a pint, and they sit in silence for a while.

Storytelling -- (Laughter) is joke telling.

It's knowing your punchline, your ending, knowing that everything you're saying, from the first sentence to the last, is leading to a singular goal, and ideally confirming some truth that deepens our understandings of who we are as human beings.

We all love stories.

We're born for them.

Stories affirm who we are.

We all want affirmations that our lives have meaning.

And nothing does a greater affirmation than when we connect through stories.

It can cross the barriers of time, past, present and future, and allow us to experience the similarities between ourselves and through others, real and imagined. 

The children's television host Mr. Rogers always carried in his wallet a quote from a social worker that said, "Frankly, there isn't anyone you couldn't learn to love once you've heard their story."

And the way I like to interpret that is probably the greatest story commandment, which is "Make me care" -- please, emotionally, intellectually, aesthetically, just make me care.

We all know what it's like to not care.

You've gone through hundreds of TV channels, just switching channel after channel, and then suddenly you actually stop on one.

It's already halfway over, but something's caught you and you're drawn in and you care.

That's not by chance, that's by design. 

And Edgar Rice Burroughs actually put himself as a character inside this movie, and as the narrator.

AS: What this scene is doing, and it did in the book, is it's fundamentally making a promise.

It's making a promise to you that this story will lead somewhere that's worth your time.

And that's what all good stories should do at the beginning, is they should give you a promise.

You could do it an infinite amount of ways.

And I always thought it was such a fantastic device.

A well told promise is like a pebble being pulled back in a slingshot and propels you forward through the story to the end. 

In 2008, I pushed all the theories that I had on story at the time to the limits of my understanding on this project. 

It's the most inclusive approach you can take.

It confirmed something I really had a hunch on, is that the audience actually wants to work for their meal.

They just don't want to know that they're doing that.

That's your job as a storyteller, is to hide the fact that you're making them work for their meal.

We're born problem solvers.

We're compelled to deduce and to deduct, because that's what we do in real life.

It's this well-organized absence of information that draws us in.

There's a reason that we're all attracted to an infant or a puppy.

It's not just that they're damn cute; it's because they can't completely express what they're thinking and what their intentions are.

And it's like a magnet.

We can't stop ourselves from wanting to complete the sentence and fill it in. 

I first started really understanding this storytelling device when I was writing with Bob Peterson on "Finding Nemo."

And we would call this the unifying theory of two plus two.

Editors and screenwriters have known this all along.

It's the invisible application that holds our attention to story.

That's what's so special about stories, they're not a widget, they aren't exact.

Stories are inevitable, if they're good, but they're not predictable. 

I took a seminar in this year with an acting teacher named Judith Weston.

And I learned a key insight to character.

She believed that all well-drawn characters have a spine.

Even after his father died, he was still trying to scratch that itch.

I took to this like a duck to water.

Wall-E's was to find the beauty.

Marlin's, the father in "Finding Nemo," was to prevent harm.

Sometimes you can make some horrible choices with them. 

I'm really blessed to be a parent, and watching my children grow, I really firmly believe that you're born with a temperament and you're wired a certain way, and you don't have any say about it, and there's no changing it.

All you can do is learn to recognize it and own it.

And some of us are born with temperaments that are positive, some are negative.

But a major threshold is passed when you mature enough to acknowledge what drives you and to take the wheel and steer it.

As parents, you're always learning who your children are.

They're learning who they are.

And you're still learning who you are.

So we're all learning all the time.

And that's why change is fundamental in story.

In 1998, I had finished writing "Toy Story" and "A Bug's Life" and I was completely hooked on screenwriting.

So I wanted to become much better at it and learn anything I could.

So I researched everything I possibly could.

When you're telling a story, have you constructed anticipation?

In the short-term, have you made me want to know what will happen next?

But more importantly, have you made me want to know how it will all conclude in the long-term?

Have you constructed honest conflicts with truth that creates doubt in what the outcome might be?

In our earliest days at Pixar, before we truly understood the invisible workings of story, we were simply a group of guys just going on our gut, going on our instincts.

And it's interesting to see how that led us places that were actually pretty good.

But we really wanted to prove that you could tell stories completely different in animation. 

We didn't have any influence then, so we had a little secret list of rules that we kept to ourselves.

And they were: No songs, no "I want" moment, no happy village, no love story.

And the irony is that, in the first year, our story was not working at all and Disney was panicking.

So they privately got advice from a famous lyricist, who I won't name, and he faxed them some suggestions.

And we got a hold of that fax.

And the fax said, there should be songs, there should be an "I want" song, there should be a happy village song, there should be a love story and there should be a villain.

And thank goodness we were just too young, rebellious and contrarian at the time.

That just gave us more determination to prove that you could build a better story.

And a year after that, we did conquer it.

And it just went to prove that storytelling has guidelines, not hard, fast rules. 

Another fundamental thing we learned was about liking your main character.

And we had naively thought, well Woody in "Toy Story" has to become selfless at the end, so you've got to start from someplace.

AS: So how do you make a selfish character likable?

And that's what it really is, is that we all live life conditionally.

We're all willing to play by the rules and follow things along, as long as certain conditions are met.

After that, all bets are off.

And before I'd even decided to make storytelling my career, I can now see key things that happened in my youth that really sort of opened my eyes to certain things about story. 

In 1986, I truly understood the notion of story having a theme.

And that was the year that they restored and re-released "Lawrence of Arabia."

And I saw that thing seven times in one month.

Who are you? 

AS: That was the theme: Who are you?

Here were all these seemingly disparate events and dialogues that just were chronologically telling the history of him, but underneath it was a constant, a guideline, a road map.

Everything Lawrence did in that movie was an attempt for him to figure out where his place was in the world.

A strong theme is always running through a well-told story. 

When I was five, I was introduced to possibly the most major ingredient that I feel a story should have, but is rarely invoked.

And this is what my mother took me to when I was five. 

AS: I walked out of there wide-eyed with wonder.

It can't be artificially evoked.

It's like a dormant command that suddenly is activated in you, like a call to Devil's Tower.

Do unto others what's been done to you.

The best stories infuse wonder. 

When I was four years old, I have a vivid memory of finding two pinpoint scars on my ankle and asking my dad what they were.

And he said I had a matching pair like that on my head, but I couldn't see them because of my hair.

And he explained that when I was born, I was born premature, that I came out much too early, and I wasn't fully baked; I was very, very sick.

And when the doctor took a look at this yellow kid with black teeth, he looked straight at my mom and said, "He's not going to live."

And I was in the hospital for months.

And many blood transfusions later, I lived, and that made me special. 

I don't know if I really believe that.

Whatever I ended up being good at, I would strive to be worthy of the second chance I was given. 

It doesn't always mean plot or fact.

And that's what ultimately led me to speaking to you here at TEDTalk today. 

Thank you. 

