Well this is a really extraordinary honor for me.

I spend most of my time in very low-income communities in the projects and places where there's a great deal of hopelessness.

And being here at TED and seeing the stimulation, hearing it, has been very, very energizing to me.

And one of the things that's emerged in my short time here is that TED has an identity.

And you can actually say things here that have impacts around the world.

And sometimes when it comes through TED, it has meaning and power that it doesn't have when it doesn't. 

And I mention that because I think identity is really important.

And we've had some fantastic presentations.

And so I want to talk about the power of identity.

And I didn't learn about this actually practicing law and doing the work that I do.

I actually learned about this from my grandmother. 

I grew up in a house that was the traditional African-American home that was dominated by a matriarch, and that matriarch was my grandmother.

She was tough, she was strong, she was powerful.

She was born in the 1880's and the experience of slavery very much shaped the way she saw the world. 

And my grandmother was tough, but she was also loving.

And she just had this quality that you always wanted to be near her.

And the only challenge was that she had 10 children.

My mom was the youngest of her 10 kids.

And sometimes when I would go and spend time with her, it would be difficult to get her time and attention.

My cousins would be running around everywhere. 

And I remember, when I was about eight or nine years old, waking up one morning, going into the living room, and all of my cousins were running around.

And my grandmother was sitting across the room staring at me.

And at first I thought we were playing a game.

And I would look at her and I'd smile, but she was very serious.

And after about 15 or 20 minutes of this, she got up and she came across the room and she took me by the hand and she said, "Come on, Bryan.

And I remember this just like it happened yesterday.

I never will forget it. 

I will never forget it. 

(Laughter) Well I was nine years old, so I said, "Yes, Mama.

(Laughter) Well I was nine years old, so I said, "Yes, Mama.

I grew up in the country in the rural South, and I have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger.

When I was about 14 or 15, one day my brother came home and he had this six-pack of beer -- I don't know where he got it -- and he grabbed me and my sister and we went out in the woods.

And we were kind of just out there doing the stuff we crazily did.

And then my brother started staring at me.

Then he looked at me real hard and he said, "Oh, I hope you're not still hung up on that conversation Mama had with you."

(Laughter) I said, "Well, what are you talking about?"

He said, "Oh, Mama tells all the grandkids that they're special."

(Laughter) I was devastated. 

(Laughter) I was devastated. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

When I thought about my grandmother, of course she would think all her grandkids were special.

And these were the things she thought we needed to commit to. 

Well I've been trying to say something about our criminal justice system.

This country is very different today than it was 40 years ago.

The United States now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world.

We have seven million people on probation and parole.

And mass incarceration, in my judgment, has fundamentally changed our world.

In poor communities, in communities of color there is this despair, there is this hopelessness, that is being shaped by these outcomes.

One out of three black men between the ages of 18 and 30 is in jail, in prison, on probation or parole.

In urban communities across this country -- Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all young men of color are in jail or prison or on probation or parole. 

We have a system of justice in this country that treats you much better if you're rich and guilty than if you're poor and innocent.

Wealth, not culpability, shapes outcomes.

And yet, we seem to be very comfortable.

It's interesting to me.

We're looking at some very interesting developments in our work.

My state of Alabama, like a number of states, actually permanently disenfranchises you if you have a criminal conviction.

Right now in Alabama 34 percent of the black male population has permanently lost the right to vote.

We're actually projecting in another 10 years the level of disenfranchisement will be as high as it's been since prior to the passage of the Voting Rights Act.

And there is this stunning silence. 

I represent children.

A lot of my clients are very young.

I represent people on death row.

It's interesting, this question of the death penalty.

In many ways, we've been taught to think that the real question is, do people deserve to die for the crimes they've committed?

And that's a very sensible question.

I mean, it's fascinating. 

Death penalty in America is defined by error.

For every nine people who have been executed, we've actually identified one innocent person who's been exonerated and released from death row.

In aviation, we would never let people fly on airplanes if for every nine planes that took off one would crash.

But somehow we can insulate ourselves from this problem.

I talk a lot about these issues.

I talk about race and this question of whether we deserve to kill.

We don't really know very much about it.

But for African-Americans in this country, that was an era defined by terror.

And yet, we have in this country this dynamic where we really don't like to talk about our problems.

We have a hard time talking about race, and I believe it's because we are unwilling to commit ourselves to a process of truth and reconciliation.

In South Africa, people understood that we couldn't overcome apartheid without a commitment to truth and reconciliation.

In Rwanda, even after the genocide, there was this commitment, but in this country we haven't done that. 

Well I believe that our identity is at risk.

That when we actually don't care about these difficult things, the positive and wonderful things are nonetheless implicated.

But ultimately, those realities are shadowed by suffering, abuse, degradation, marginalization.

And for me, it becomes necessary to integrate the two.

Because ultimately we are talking about a need to be more hopeful, more committed, more dedicated to the basic challenges of living in a complex world.

And for me that means spending time thinking and talking about the poor, the disadvantaged, those who will never get to TED.

But thinking about them in a way that is integrated in our own lives. 

They come from the ideas in our mind that are also fueled by some conviction in our heart.

And it's that mind-heart connection that I believe compels us to not just be attentive to all the bright and dazzly things, but also the dark and difficult things.

Well that orientation of the spirit is very much at the core of what I believe even TED communities have to be engaged in.

There is no disconnect around technology and design that will allow us to be fully human until we pay attention to suffering, to poverty, to exclusion, to unfairness, to injustice.

Now I will warn you that this kind of identity is a much more challenging identity than ones that don't pay attention to this.

It will get to you. 

(Laughter) And that's when Ms. Carr leaned forward, she put her finger in my face, she said, "That's why you've got to be brave, brave, brave."

(Laughter) And that's when Ms. Carr leaned forward, she put her finger in my face, she said, "That's why you've got to be brave, brave, brave."

And I actually believe that the TED community needs to be more courageous.

We need to find ways to embrace these challenges, these problems, the suffering.

Because ultimately, our humanity depends on everyone's humanity.

I've learned very simple things doing the work that I do.

It's just taught me very simple things.

I've come to understand and to believe that each of us is more than the worst thing we've ever done.

I think even if you kill someone, you're not just a killer.

And because of that there's this basic human dignity that must be respected by law.

I also believe that in many parts of this country, and certainly in many parts of this globe, that the opposite of poverty is not wealth.

I don't believe that.

I actually think, in too many places, the opposite of poverty is justice. 

And finally, I believe that, despite the fact that it is so dramatic and so beautiful and so inspiring and so stimulating, we will ultimately not be judged by our technology, we won't be judged by our design, we won't be judged by our intellect and reason.

Ultimately, you judge the character of a society, not by how they treat their rich and the powerful and the privileged, but by how they treat the poor, the condemned, the incarcerated.

Because it's in that nexus that we actually begin to understand truly profound things about who we are. 

And I've been representing these kids who have been sentenced to do these very harsh sentences.

And I go to the jail and I see my client who's 13 and 14, and he's been certified to stand trial as an adult.

I start thinking, well, how did that happen?

How can a judge turn you into something that you're not?

And the judge has certified him as an adult, but I see this kid. 

And because I was up too late, wasn't thinking real straight, I started working on a motion.

And I put in my motion that there was prosecutorial misconduct and police misconduct and judicial misconduct.

There was a crazy line in there about how there's no conduct in this county, it's all misconduct.

And this man came over to me and he hugged me.

And I have to tell you, it was energizing.

It connected deeply with something in me about identity, about the capacity of every person to contribute to a community, to a perspective that is hopeful. 

And police officers were coming in and assistant prosecutors and clerk workers.

And before I knew it, the courtroom was filled with people angry that we were talking about race, that we were talking about poverty, that we were talking about inequality. 

And finally, this older black man with this very worried look on his face came into the courtroom and sat down behind me, almost at counsel table.

And this older black man stood up and he looked at that deputy and he looked at me and he said, "I came into this courtroom to tell this young man, keep your eyes on the prize, hold on."

And more than anything, for those of you who share that, I've simply come to tell you to keep your eyes on the prize, hold on. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: So you heard and saw an obvious desire by this audience, this community, to help you on your way and to do something on this issue.

Other than writing a check, what could we do? 

BS: Well there are opportunities all around us.

If you live in the state of California, for example, there's a referendum coming up this spring where actually there's going to be an effort to redirect some of the money we spend on the politics of punishment.

56 percent of all rape cases don't result.

So there's an opportunity to change that.

And this referendum would propose having those dollars go to law enforcement and safety.

And I think that opportunity exists all around us. 

CA: There's been this huge decline in crime in America over the last three decades.

And part of the narrative of that is sometimes that it's about increased incarceration rates.

What would you say to someone who believed that? 

BS: Well actually the violent crime rate has remained relatively stable.

That's where the dramatic increases have come in our prison population.

And we got carried away with the rhetoric of punishment.

And so we have three strikes laws that put people in prison forever for stealing a bicycle, for low-level property crimes, rather than making them give those resources back to the people who they victimized.

I believe we need to do more to help people who are victimized by crime, not do less.

And I think our current punishment philosophy does nothing for no one.

And I think that's the orientation that we have to change. 

