And this might sound antisocial to you, but for us it was really just a different way of being social.

You have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you, but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind.

Camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol.

And on the very first day, our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit.

And I just waited for the time that I could go off and read my books. 

But I did forsake them and I didn't open that suitcase again until I was back home with my family at the end of the summer. 

And at the risk of sounding grandiose, it is the world's loss.

So that's one out of every two or three people you know.

Now, to see the bias clearly, you need to understand what introversion is.

It's different from being shy.

Shyness is about fear of social judgment.

Introversion is more about, how do you respond to stimulation, including social stimulation.

But now here's where the bias comes in.

Our most important institutions, our schools and our workplaces, they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts' need for lots of stimulation.

And also we have this belief system right now that I call the new groupthink, which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place. 

So if you picture the typical classroom nowadays: When I was going to school, we sat in rows.

Okay, same thing is true in our workplaces.

I always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts, including my beloved husband.

And we all fall at different points, of course, along the introvert/extrovert spectrum.

And some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert/extrovert spectrum, and we call these people ambiverts.

Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in La Jolla, California.

And in fact, we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude.

It's only recently that we've strangely begun to forget it.

This is no surprise, though, if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology.

It turns out that we can't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring, mimicking their opinions.

Even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you're attracted to, you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that's what you're doing. 

And do you really want to leave it up to chance?

Now if all this is true, then why are we getting it so wrong?

And if you look at the self-help books from this era, they all had titles with things like "Character, the Grandest Thing in the World."

And instead of working alongside people they've known all their lives, now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers.

So, quite understandably, qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important.

The same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust.

So now I'd like to share with you what's in my suitcase today.

Guess what?

Here's Margaret Atwood, "Cat's Eye."

Here's a novel by Milan Kundera.

And here's "The Guide for the Perplexed" by Maimonides.

But these are not exactly my books.

I brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather's favorite authors. 

I mean literally every table, every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books.

Just like the rest of my family, my grandfather's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read. 

So I prepared for moments like these as best I could.

I spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance I could get.

And so I am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision. 

Number one: Stop the madness for constant group work.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

Be like Buddha, have your own revelations.

So I wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly. 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

Thank you.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

