Here they are: The Earth is full.

It's full of us, it's full of our stuff, full of our waste, full of our demands.

Yes, we are a brilliant and creative species, but we've created a little too much stuff -- so much that our economy is now bigger than its host, our planet. 

This is not a philosophical statement, this is just science based in physics, chemistry and biology.

The eminent scientists of the Global Footprint Network, for example, calculate that we need about 1.5 Earths to sustain this economy.

But of course, you can't borrow natural resources, so we're burning through our capital, or stealing from the future. 

So when I say full, I mean really full -- well past any margin for error, well past any dispute about methodology.

What this means is our economy is unsustainable.

I'm not saying it's not nice or pleasant or that it's bad for polar bears or forests, though it certainly is.

What I'm saying is our approach is simply unsustainable.

In other words, thanks to those pesky laws of physics, when things aren't sustainable, they stop.

When we think about economic growth stopping, we go, "That's not possible," because economic growth is so essential to our society that is is rarely questioned.

Although growth has certainly delivered many benefits, it is an idea so essential that we tend not to understand the possibility of it not being around.

That the crazy idea is just that, it is crazy, and with the Earth full, it's game over. 

Come on, you're thinking.

We plan to take this highly-stressed economy and make it twice as big and then make it four times as big -- not in some distant future, but in less than 40 years, in the life time of most of you.

China plans to be there in just 20 years.

The only problem with this plan is that it's not possible. 

We need it to keep social stability.

I find this argument fascinating, as though we can kind of bend the rules of physics to suit our needs.

It's like the Earth doesn't care what we need.

Mother nature doesn't negotiate; she just sets rules and describes consequences.

And these are not esoteric limits.

This is about food and water, soil and climate, the basic practical and economic foundations of our lives. 

So the idea that we can smoothly transition to a highly-efficient, solar-powered, knowledge-based economy transformed by science and technology so that nine billion people can live in 2050 a life of abundance and digital downloads is a delusion.

It's not that it's not possible to feed, clothe and house us all and have us live decent lives.

It certainly is.

But the idea that we can gently grow there with a few minor hiccups is just wrong, and it's dangerously wrong, because it means we're not getting ready for what's really going to happen. 

See what happens when you operate a system past its limits and then keep on going at an ever-accelerating rate is that the system stops working and breaks down.

I actually don't say this in despair.

So when does this transition begin?

When does this breakdown begin?

In my view, it is well underway.

But we see, mistakenly, each of these issues as individual problems to be solved.

I could give you countless studies and evidence to prove this, but I won't because, if you want to see it, that evidence is all around you.

I want to talk to you about fear.

I want to do so because, in my view, the most important issue we face is how we respond to this question.

The crisis is now inevitable.

This issue is, how will we react?

Of course, we can't know what will happen.

The future is inherently uncertain. 

Now imagine what that means for you, your family, your friends, your personal financial security.

Of course, we can't know what's going to happen and we have to live with uncertainty.

But when we think about the kind of possibilities I paint, we should feel a bit of fear. 

But this time it's not a tiger at the cave mouth.

You can't see the danger at your door.

But if you look, you can see it at the door of your civilization.

If we feel it now and think it through, we will realize we have nothing to fear but fear itself.

Yes, things will get ugly, and it will happen soon -- certainly in our lifetime -- but we are more than capable of getting through everything that's coming. 

You see, those people that have faith that humans can solve any problem, that technology is limitless, that markets can be a force for good, are in fact right.

The only thing they're missing is that it takes a good crisis to get us going.

When we feel fear and we fear loss we are capable of quite extraordinary things.

Think about war.

After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, it just took four days for the government to ban the production of civilian cars and to redirect the auto industry, and from there to rationing of food and energy.

Think about how a company responds to a bankruptcy threat and how a change that seemed impossible just gets done.

Think about how an individual responds to a diagnosis of a life-threatening illness and how lifestyle changes that previously were just too difficult suddenly become relatively easy. 

We are smart, in fact, we really are quite amazing, but we do love a good crisis.

And the good news, this one's a monster.

There's certainly no technical or economic barrier in the way.

Scientists like James Hansen tell us we may need to eliminate net CO2 emissions from the economy in just a few decades.

When we think about the future I paint, of course we should feel a bit of fear.

I know the free market fundamentalists will tell you that more growth, more stuff and nine billion people going shopping is the best we can do.

The Earth can support that if we choose the right path. 

This could be our finest hour. 

Thank you. 

