The oceans cover some 70 percent of our planet.

And I think Arthur C. Clarke probably had it right when he said that perhaps we ought to call our planet Planet Ocean.

And the oceans are hugely productive, as you can see by the satellite image of photosynthesis, the production of new life.

In fact, the oceans produce half of the new life every day on Earth as well as about half the oxygen that we breathe.

But I'll tell you some of that today.

That also doesn't even get into the whole protein extraction that we do from the ocean.

That's about 10 percent of our global needs and 100 percent of some island nations. 

And eventually, the deep sea floor would come into view.

This type of habitat covers more of the Earth's surface than all other habitats combined.

And yet, we know more about the surface of the Moon and about Mars than we do about this habitat, despite the fact that we have yet to extract a gram of food, a breath of oxygen or a drop of water from those bodies. 

It involved 17 different projects around the world.

As you can see, these are the footprints of the different projects.

And I hope you'll appreciate the level of global coverage that it managed to achieve.

It all began when two scientists, Fred Grassle and Jesse Ausubel, met in Woods Hole, Massachusetts where both were guests at the famed oceanographic institute.

And Fred was lamenting the state of marine biodiversity and the fact that it was in trouble and nothing was being done about it.

And so what did we find?

And the limiting step here wasn't the unknown diversity of life, but rather the taxonomic specialists who can identify and catalog these species that became the limiting step.

They, in fact, are an endangered species themselves.

There are actually four to five new species described everyday for the oceans.

And as I say, it could be a much larger number. 

And so this photograph shows a small boy next to a codfish.

It's around 1900.

So what we're experiencing is something called shifting baselines.

Now most of us, and I would say me included, think that human exploitation of the oceans really only became very serious in the last 50 to, perhaps, 100 years or so.

The census actually tried to look back in time, using every source of information they could get their hands on.

And so anything from restaurant menus to monastery records to ships' logs to see what the oceans looked like.

Because science data really goes back to, at best, World War II, for the most part.

And so what they found, in fact, is that exploitation really began heavily with the Romans.

But the Romans developed salting.

And with salting, it became possible to store fish and to transport it long distances.

And so began industrial fishing. 

And so these are the sorts of extrapolations that we have of what sort of loss we've had relative to pre-human impacts on the ocean.

Now for those species the we managed to leave alone, that we protect -- for example, marine mammals in recent years and sea birds -- there is some recovery.

So it's not all hopeless.

But for the most part, we've gone from salting to exhausting. 

Now this other line of evidence is a really interesting one.

It's from trophy fish caught off the coast of Florida.

By 2007, the catch was actually laughable in terms of the size for a trophy fish.

But this is no laughing matter.

There's a lot of exciting things, and I'm going to tell you a little bit about them.

So one of the tools that we use to sample the deep ocean are remotely operated vehicles.

So these are tethered vehicles we lower down to the sea floor where they're our eyes and our hands for working on the sea bottom.

So a couple of years ago, I was supposed to go on an oceanographic cruise and I couldn't go because of a scheduling conflict.

That's the sort of technology that's available today that really wasn't available even a decade ago.

So it allows us to sample these amazing habitats that are very far from the surface and very far from light. 

And so one of the tools that we can use to sample the oceans is acoustics, or sound waves.

And the advantage of sound waves is that they actually pass well through water, unlike light.

And so we can send out sound waves, they bounce off objects like fish and are reflected back.

And so in this example, a census scientist took out two ships.

And that's an area about the size of Manhattan Island.

And so from that we can produce these tracks.

For example, the dark blue shows you where the elephant seal moved in the north Pacific.

And so there's a barcode on that product that tells the computer exactly what the product is.

And so what that means is we can unambiguously identify which species are which even if they look similar to each other, but may be biologically quite different. 

Well what they found was mislabeled fish.

So for example, they found something which was sold as tuna, which is very valuable, was in fact tilapia, which is a much less valuable fish.

They also found an endangered species sold as a common one.

So barcoding allows us to know what we're working with and also what we're eating. 

And so what you can do with that is to plot the distribution of species and where they occur in the oceans.

What I've plotted up here is the data that we have on hand.

This is where our sampling effort has concentrated.

So even after a 10-year census, there are large areas that still remain unexplored. 

But then, of course, there was the Deep Horizon oil spill.

And what we find if we plot up the well-known species is this sort of a distribution.

And what we see is that for coastal tags, for those organisms that live near the shoreline, they're most diverse in the tropics.

What is really exciting though is that the oceanic tags, or the ones that live far from the coast, are actually more diverse at intermediate latitudes.

This is the sort of data, again, that managers could use if they want to prioritize areas of the ocean that we need to conserve.

Similarly this Golden V kelp collected in Alaska just below the low water mark is probably a new species.

Even though it's three meters long, it actually, again, eluded science.

Now this guy, this bigfin squid, is seven meters in length.

But there's still potential for discovery of big and exciting things.

So, Steven Spielberg, eat your heart out. 

If we look at distributions, in fact distributions change dramatically.

We also talked about the White Shark Cafe.

That's a question for the future. 

One of the things that we're taught in high school is that all animals require oxygen in order to survive.

But it was only discovered in the early 1980s.

But the really interesting thing about it is that, a few years ago, census scientists discovered that this guy can thrive in oxygen-poor sediments in the deep Mediterranean Sea.

So now they know that, in fact, animals can live without oxygen, at least some of them, and that they can adapt to even the harshest of conditions. 

Now what we see is huge biomass towards the poles and not much biomass in between.

We found life in the extremes.

And this particular species really captured the public's attention.

So even new environments are still within the domain of the discoverable. 

Now in terms of the unknowns, there are many.

We actually know the fishes better than we do any other group in the ocean other than marine mammals.

And so we can actually extrapolate based on rates of discovery how many more species we're likely to discover.

So we've done pretty well.

We've got about 75 percent of the fish, maybe as much as 90 percent.

But the fishes, as I say, are the best known. 

So our level of knowledge is much less for other groups of organisms.

And what is does is predict how many more species there are on land and in the ocean.

And what they found is that they think that we know of about nine percent of the species in the ocean.

That means 91 percent, even after the census, still remain to be discovered.

And so that turns out to be about two million species once all is said and done.

So we still have quite a lot of work to do in terms of unknowns. 

Now this bacterium is part of mats that are found off the coast of Chile.

And these mats actually cover an area the size of Greece.

And so this particular bacterium is actually visible to the naked eye.

But you can imagine the biomass that represents.

But the really intriguing thing about the microbes is just how diverse they are.

A single drop of seawater could contain 160 different types of microbes.

We actually don't know. 

The most exciting thing, I would say, about this census is the role of global science.

The other point I'd like to make about this is that this ocean's interconnected.

And so the importance then of global collaboration becomes all the more important. 

There were trawls taken in the deep sea in the Mediterranean, which collected more garbage than they did animals.

And that's the deep sea, that's the environment that we consider to be among the most pristine left on Earth.

And there are a lot of other pressures.

Ocean acidification is a really big issue that people are concerned with, as well as ocean warming, and the effects they're going to have on coral reefs.

On the scale of decades, in our lifetimes, we're going to see a lot of damage to coral reefs. 

So we need to recognize those hot spots and do our best to protect them. 

So whether you're a yak herder living in the mountains of Chile, whether you're a stockbroker in New York City or whether you're a TEDster living in Edinburgh, the oceans matter.

And as the oceans go so shall we. 

Thanks for listening. 

