When I was in graduate school, I had the opportunity to overhear my grandmother describing to one of her fellow senior citizens what I did for a living.

Apparently, I was in charge of making sure that no one stole the computers from the university.

But that's not the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard anyone say about my work.

I'm going to get back to this notion of being able to get a virus from your computer, in a serious way.

So the first one I'm going to talk about are implanted medical devices.

Now medical devices have come a long way technologically.

You can see in 1926 the first pacemaker was invented.

They launched many, many successful attacks.

One that I'll highlight here is changing the patient's name.

There was a piece on NPR that some of these ICDs could actually have their performance disrupted simply by holding a pair of headphones onto them. 

Now, wireless and the Internet can improve health care greatly.

I'm going to show you a few different targets like this, and that's my talk.

This is a car, and it has a lot of components, a lot of electronics in it today.

There's also a wireless network in the car, which can be reached from many different ways.

The modern car is a sophisticated multi-computer device. 

And what happens if somebody wanted to attack this?

Well, that's what the researchers that I'm going to talk about today did.

They basically stuck an attacker on the wired network and on the wireless network.

Now, they have two areas they can attack.

They actually carried out their attack in real life.

The other threat model is that they contact you in real time over one of the wireless networks like the cellular, or something like that, never having actually gotten physical access to your car. 

This is what their setup looks like for the first model, where you get to have access to the car.

Once you have control of the car's computers, you can do anything.

Now you might say, "Okay, that's silly."

Well, what if you make the car always say it's going 20 miles an hour slower than it's actually going?

You might produce a lot of speeding tickets. 

One of the things they were able to do from the chase car is apply the brakes on the other car, simply by hacking the computer.

They were able to disable the brakes.

They also were able to install malware that wouldn't kick in and wouldn't trigger until the car was doing something like going over 20 miles an hour, or something like that.

They were able to compromise every single one of the pieces of software that controlled every single one of the wireless capabilities of the car.

All of these were implemented successfully. 

How would you steal a car in this model?

Well, you compromise the car by a buffer overflow of vulnerability in the software, something like that.

You use the GPS in the car to locate it.

You remotely unlock the doors through the computer that controls that, start the engine, bypass anti-theft, and you've got yourself a car. 

Surveillance was really interesting.

They videotaped people on a bus, and then they post-processed the video.

What you see here in number one is a reflection in somebody's glasses of the smartphone that they're typing in.

So one question the researchers asked themselves is, could you block this thing, right?

There's one little dot that shows up on the screen, and one little tiny turn of the switch.

And so the researchers asked themselves, "I wonder how many times very secure, important, sensitive conversations are happening on these two-way radios where they forget to encrypt and they don't notice that they didn't encrypt?"

They found that in every metropolitan area, they would capture over 20 minutes a day of cleartext communication.

And what kind of things were people talking about?

It was mostly law enforcement and criminal.

That one's pretty easy to fix. 

Now, we've all looked at smartphones upside down.

The accelerometer is the thing that determines the vertical orientation of the smartphone.

And so they had a simple setup.

Don't waste computer cycles.

A human's not going to think it's the Supreme might.

It's the Supreme Court, right?

And so, together we're able to reproduce typing simply by measuring the accelerometer.

If someone is able to put malware on your iPhone, they could then maybe get the typing that you do whenever you put your iPhone next to your keyboard. 

So they ran the Pac-Man game. 

What does this all mean?

