This is not a finished story.

It is a jigsaw puzzle still being put together.

Let me tell you about some of the pieces. 

Imagine the first piece: a man burning his life's work.

Words, for so long his friends, now mocked him.

He is my grandfather.

I never knew him in real life.

But our lives are much more than our memories.

My grandmother never let me forget his life.

My duty was not to allow it to have been in vain, and my lesson was to learn that, yes, history tried to crush us, but we endured. 

The next piece of the jigsaw is of a boat in the early dawn slipping silently out to sea.

My mother, Mai, was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage, already with two small girls.

It was inconceivable to her that she would not succeed.

So after a four-year saga that defies fiction, a boat slipped out to sea disguised as a fishing vessel.

All the adults knew the risks.

The greatest fear was of pirates, rape and death.

Like most adults on the boat, my mother carried a small bottle of poison.

If we were captured, first my sister and I, then she and my grandmother would drink. 

I don't remember the pirates who came many times, but were bluffed by the bravado of the men on our boat, or the engine dying and failing to start for six hours.

But I do remember the lights on the oil rig off the Malaysian coast and the young man who collapsed and died, the journey's end too much for him, and the first apple I tasted, given to me by the men on the rig.

No apple has ever tasted the same. 

After three months in a refugee camp, we landed in Melbourne.

And the next piece of the jigsaw is about four women across three generations shaping a new life together.

We settled in Footscray, a working-class suburb whose demographic is layers of immigrants.

Unlike the settled middle-class suburbs, whose existence I was oblivious of, there was no sense of entitlement in Footscray.

The smells from shop doors were from the rest of the world.

And the snippets of halting English were exchanged between people who had one thing in common, they were starting again. 

My mother worked on farms, then on a car assembly line, working six days, double shifts.

Somehow she found time to study English and gain IT qualifications.

We were poor.

Something stiffened inside me.

There was a gathering of resolve and a quiet voice saying, "I will bypass you."

My mother, my sister and I slept in the same bed.

My mother was exhausted each night, but we told one another about our day and listened to the movements of my grandmother around the house.

I lived in parallel worlds.

And I was catapulted from one piece of the jigsaw to another, and their edges didn't fit. 

Tan Le, anonymous Footscray resident, was now Tan Le, refugee and social activist, invited to speak in venues she had never heard of and into homes whose existence she could never have imagined.

I didn't know the protocols.

I didn't know how to talk about anything.

I told my mother I couldn't do it.

"Just do it," she said, "and don't be what you're not."

So I spoke out on youth unemployment and education and the neglect of the marginalized and the disenfranchised.

And the more candidly I spoke, the more I was asked to speak.

I met people from all walks of life, so many of them doing the thing they loved, living on the frontiers of possibility.

And even though I finished my degree, I realized I could not settle into a career in law.

There had to be another piece of the jigsaw.

Because being an insider can so easily mean collapsing the horizons, can so easily mean accepting the presumptions of your province.

I have stepped outside my comfort zone enough now to know that, yes, the world does fall apart, but not in the way that you fear. 

Possibilities that would not have been allowed were outrageously encouraged.

There was an energy there, an implacable optimism, a strange mixture of humility and daring.

So I followed my hunches.

We worked well into each night.

Most of our ideas were crazy, but a few were brilliant, and we broke through.

Three months later I had relocated, and the adventure has continued. 

Before I close though, let me tell you about my grandmother.

She grew up at a time when Confucianism was the social norm and the local Mandarin was the person who mattered.

Life hadn't changed for centuries.

(Laughter) (Applause) "It can't be done" was shown to be wrong. 

I knew she had come to say goodbye.

My mother phoned minutes later.

A few days later, we went to a Buddhist temple in Footscray and sat around her casket.

We told her stories and assured her that we were still with her.

If there is a sinew in our family, it runs through the women.

Given who we were and how life had shaped us, we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have thwarted us.

Defeat would have come too easily.

Now I would like to have my own children, and I wonder about the boat.

Who could ever wish it on their own?

Yet I am afraid of privilege, of ease, of entitlement.

But if I could give it and still see them safely through, I would. 

Trevor Neilson: And also, Tan's mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row. 

