Unfortunately, when I was there I couldn't find one of them, but you have the antlers as proof. 

All across the boreal, we're blessed with this incredible abundance of wetlands.

Wetlands globally are one of the most endangered ecosystems.

In the boreal, they are also the home where almost 50 percent of the 800 bird species found in North America migrate north to breed and raise their young. 

In Ontario, the boreal marches down south to the north shore of Lake Superior.

And these incredibly beautiful boreal forests were the inspiration for some of the most famous art in Canadian history, the Group of Seven were very inspired by this landscape, and so the boreal is not just a really key part of our natural heritage, but also an important part of our cultural heritage. 

In Manitoba, this is an image from the east side of Lake Winnipeg, and this is the home of the newly designated UNESCO Cultural Heritage site.

In the North, the boreal is bordered by the tundra, and just below that, in Yukon, we have this incredible valley, the Tombstone Valley.

And the Tombstone Valley is home to the Porcupine caribou herd.

Trapped underneath the boreal forest and wetlands of northern Alberta are these vast reserves of this sticky, tar-like bitumen.

And the mining and the exploitation of that is creating devastation on a scale that the planet has never seen before. 

I want to try to convey some sort of a sense of the size of this.

If I stand beside that truck, my head comes to around the bottom of the yellow part of that hubcap.

So instead of thinking of that as a truck, think of that as a 3,000-square-foot home.

That's not a bad size home.

And line those trucks/homes back and forth across there from the bottom all the way to the top.

And then think of how large that very small section of one mine is. 

Now, you can apply that same kind of thinking here as well.

Now, here you see -- of course, as you go further on, these trucks become like a pixel.

Again, imagine those all back and forth there.

How large is that one portion of a mine?

This is one section of one mining complex, and there are about another 40 or 50 in the approval process.

The other method of extraction is what's called the in-situ.

And even though this looks maybe not quite as repugnant as the mines, it's even more damaging in some ways.

So these in-situ developments are at least as ecologically damaging as the mines. 

The oil produced from either method produces more greenhouse gas emissions than any other oil.

This is one of the reasons why it's called the world's dirtiest oil.

The tailings ponds are the largest toxic impoundments on the planet.

So they decided to call it oil sands.

SemCrude, just one of the licensees, in just one of their tailings ponds, dumps 250,000 tons of this toxic gunk every single day.

That's creating the largest toxic impoundments in the history of the planet.

So far, this is enough toxin to cover the face of Lake Eerie a foot deep.

And the tailings ponds range in size up to 9,000 acres.

That's two-thirds the size of the entire island of Manhattan.

That's like from Wall Street at the southern edge of Manhattan up to maybe 120th Street.

And you can see in the context, it's just a relatively small section of one of 10 mining complexes and another 40 to 50 on stream to be approved soon. 

And the Athabasca River drains downstream to a range of Aboriginal communities.

The tar sands toxins are in the food chain, and this is causing cancer rates up to 10 times what they are in the rest of Canada. 

In spite of that, people have to live, have to eat this food in order to survive.

The incredibly high price of flying food into these remote Northern Aboriginal communities and the high rate of unemployment makes this an absolute necessity for survival.

And yet, on the front porch of that man's cabin, I saw four fish.

And as a parent, I just can't imagine what that does to your soul.

And that's what we're doing. 

The boreal forest is also perhaps our best defense against global warming and climate change.

And what we're doing is we're destroying this carbon sink, turning it into a carbon bomb.

And we're replacing that with the largest industrial project in the history of the world, which is producing the most high-carbon greenhouse gas emitting oil in the world.

And we're doing this on the second largest oil reserves on the planet. 

This is one of the reasons why Canada, originally a climate change hero -- we were one of the first signatories of the Kyoto Accord.

This is a globally significant wetland, perhaps the greatest on the planet.

Incredible habitat for half the bird species you find in North America, migrating here.

So as bad as all that is, things are going to get much worse, much, much worse.

This is the infrastructure as we see it about now.

This is what's planned for 2015.

Here you see the route down the Mackenzie Valley.

And the Great Bear Rainforest is generally considered to be the largest coastal temperate rainforest ecosystem in the world.

When one of these tar sands tankers, carrying the dirtiest oil, 10 times as much as the Exxon Valdez, eventually hits a rock and goes down, we're going to have one of the worst ecological disasters this planet has ever seen. 

And here we have the plan out to 2030.

What they're proposing is an almost four-times increase in production, and that would industrialize an area the size of Florida.

The world does not need any more tar mines.

The world does not need any more pipelines to wed our addiction to fossil fuels.

What we need, is we all need to act to ensure that Canada respects the massive amounts of freshwater that we hold in this country.

We need to ensure that these wetlands and forests that are our best and greatest and most critical defense against global warming are protected, and we are not releasing that carbon bomb into the atmosphere.

And we need to all gather together and say no to the tar sands.

And I quite simply think that this is not something that should be decided just in Canada.

Everyone in this room, everyone across Canada, everyone listening to this presentation has a role to play and, I think, a responsibility.

Because what we do here is going to change our history, it's going to color our possibility to survive, and for our children to survive and have a rich future. 

And it could have huge impacts on the future of the agricultural heartland of North America. 

