The humanitarian model has barely changed since the early 20th century.

Its origins are firmly rooted in the analog age.

And there is a major shift coming on the horizon.

The catalyst for this change was the major earthquake that struck Haiti on the 12th of January in 2010.

Haiti was a game changer.

The earthquake destroyed the capital of Port-au-Prince, claiming the lives of some 320,000 people, rendering homeless about 1.2 million people.

Government institutions were completely decapitated, including the presidential palace.

I remember standing on the roof of the Ministry of Justice in downtown Port-au-Prince.

It was about two meters high, completely squashed by the violence of the earthquake. 

For those of us on the ground in those early days, it was clear for even the most disaster-hardened veterans that Haiti was something different.

Haiti was something we hadn't seen before.

But Haiti provided us with something else unprecedented.

This was a situation that traditional aid agencies had never before encountered.

Outside Haiti also, things were looking different.

People that were hungry and hurting were signaling their distress, were signaling their need for help.

On street sides all over Port-au-Prince, entrepreneurs sprung up offering mobile phone charging stations.

They understood more than we did people's innate need to be connected. 

Never having been confronted with this type of situation before, we wanted to try and understand how we could tap into this incredible resource, how we could really leverage this incredible use of mobile technology and SMS technology.

We started talking with a local telecom provider called Voilà, which is a subsidiary of Trilogy International.

We had basically three requirements.

We wanted to communicate in a two-way form of communication.

We didn't need to talk to the whole country at the same time.

And we wanted it to be easy to use. 

Out of this rubble of Haiti and from this devastation came something that we call TERA -- the Trilogy Emergency Response Application -- which has been used to support the aid effort ever since.

It has been used to help communities prepare for disasters.

It has been used to signal early warning in advance of weather-related disasters.

It's used for public health awareness campaigns such as the prevention of cholera.

And it is even used for sensitive issues such as building awareness around gender-based violence. 

But does it work?

Some 74 percent of people received the data.

Those who were intended to receive the data, 74 percent of them received it.

96 percent of them found it useful.

And 73 percent of them shared it. 

The TERA system was developed from Haiti with support of engineers in the region.

Technology is transformational.

Right across the developing world, citizens and communities are using technology to enable them to bring about change, positive change, in their own communities.

The grassroots has been strengthened through the social power of sharing and they are challenging the old models, the old analog models of control and command. 

One illustration of the transformational power of technology is in Kibera.

Kibera is one of Africa's largest slums.

It's on the outskirts of Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya.

If you were to arrive in Nairobi today and pick up a tourist map, Kibera is represented as a lush, green national park devoid of human settlement. 

They have collated crowd-sourced data and rendered the invisible visible.

People like Josh and Steve are continuing to layer information upon information, real-time information, Tweet it and text it onto these maps for all to use.

You can feel the dynamism of this living, breathing community.

They also have their own news network on YouTube with 36,000 viewers at the moment. 

They're showing us what can be done with mobile, digital technologies.

They're showing that the magic of technology can bring the invisible visible.

And they are giving a voice to themselves.

They are telling their own story, bypassing the official narrative. 

And we're seeing from all points on the globe similar stories.

SMS is even used to hold herder summits from remote participation.

And if people are migrating into urban, unfamiliar, concrete environments, they can also be helped in anticipation with social supporters ready and waiting for them based on SMS knowledge.

In Nigeria, open-source SMS tools are being used by the Red Cross community workers to gather information from the local community in an attempt to better understand and mitigate the prevalence of malaria.

My colleague, Jason Peat, who runs this program, tells me it's 10 times faster and 10 times cheaper than the traditional way of doing things. 

And not only is it empowering to the communities, but really importantly, this information stays in the community where it is needed to formulate long-term health polices.

We are on a planet of seven billion people, five billion mobile subscriptions.

By 2015, there will be three billion smartphones in the world.

A transformation is coming which needs to be understood by the humanitarian structures and humanitarian models.

The collective voices of people needs to be more integrated through new technologies into the organizational strategies and plans of actions and not just recycled for fundraising or marketing.

One idea that I'd like you to consider, for instance, is to take a look at our IT departments.

We need people in our organizations who know what it's like to work with big data.

We need technology as a core organizational principle.

There are no more reasons not to do it.

I believe we need to bring the humanitarian world from analog to digital. 

Thank you very much. 

