I want to talk about sex for money.

I'm not like most of the people you'll have heard speaking about prostitution before.

I'm not a police officer or a social worker.

I'm not an academic, a journalist or a politician.

And as you'll probably have picked up from Maryam's blurb, I'm not a nun, either. 

In fact, most of those people would say, "There should be a law against it!"

Maybe that sounds reasonable to you.

Every month my wages would just replenish my overdraft.

I was exhausted and my life was going nowhere.

Like many others before me, I decided sex for money was a better option.

So I signed up for my first shift in a brothel. 

In the years that have passed, I've had a lot of time to think.

I've reconsidered the ideas I once had about prostitution.

I've given a lot of thought to consent and the nature of work under capitalism.

I've thought about gender inequality and the sexual and reproductive labor of women.

I've experienced exploitation and violence at work.

I've thought about what's needed to protect other sex workers from these things.

Maybe you've thought about them, too.

In this talk, I'll take you through the four main legal approaches applied to sex work throughout the world, and explain why they don't work; why prohibiting the sex industry actually exacerbates every harm that sex workers are vulnerable to.

Then I'm going tell you about what we, as sex workers, actually want. 

The first approach is full criminalization.

Half the world, including Russia, South Africa and most of the US, regulates sex work by criminalizing everyone involved.

So that's seller, buyer and third parties.

Lawmakers in these countries apparently hope that the fear of getting arrested will deter people from selling sex.

Criminalization is a trap.

It's hard to get a conventional job when you have a criminal record.

Potential employers won't hire you.

Assuming you still need money, you'll stay in the more flexible, informal economy.

Being criminalized leaves you exposed to mistreatment by the state itself.

Obviously, this increases HIV risk.

What would you choose?

Would you pack condoms to go to work?

How about if you're worried the police officer would rape you when he got you in the van? 

But we're also vulnerable if we choose to break the law by working together.

During that time, we had another guy turn nasty.

I told the guy to leave or I'd call the police.

He eventually left without getting physically violent, but the knowledge that we were breaking the law empowered that man to threaten us.

He felt confident he'd get away with it. 

The prohibition of street prostitution also causes more harm than it prevents.

If you're caught selling sex outdoors, you pay a fine.

How do you pay that fine without going back to the streets?

Let me tell you about Mariana Popa who worked in Redbridge, East London.

But during a police crackdown on sex workers and their clients, she was forced to work alone to avoid being arrested.

She was stabbed to death in the early hours of October 29, 2013.

So if criminalizing sex workers hurts them, why not just criminalize the people who buy sex?

The idea behind this law is that selling sex is intrinsically harmful and so you're, in fact, helping sex workers by removing the option.

Despite growing support for what's often described as the "end demand" approach, there's no evidence that it works.

There's just as much prostitution in Sweden as there was before.

Why might that be?

It's because people selling sex often don't have other options for income.

If you need that money, the only effect that a drop in business is going have is to force you to lower your prices or offer more risky sexual services.

If you need to find more clients, you might seek the help of a manager.

To keep safe in my work, I try not to take bookings from someone who calls me from a withheld number.

If it's a home or a hotel visit, I try to get a full name and details.

If I worked under the Swedish model, a client would be too scared to give me that information.

I might have no other choice but to accept a booking from a man who is untraceable if he later turns out to be violent.

If you need their money, you need to protect your clients from the police.

Can you afford to take the risk?

Can you afford not to? 

But it's not a great model for human rights.

We sometimes call it "backdoor criminalization."

And even if it's possible in principle, getting a license or proper venue takes time and costs money.

It's not going to be an option for someone who's desperate and needs money tonight.

They might be a refugee or fleeing domestic abuse.

Fines and criminal records force people to keep selling sex, rather than enabling them to stop.

Crackdowns on buyers drive sellers to take dangerous risks and into the arms of potentially abusive managers. 

These laws also reinforce stigma and hatred against sex workers.

In Sweden, opinion surveys show that significantly more people want sex workers to be arrested now than before the law was brought in.

If prohibition is this harmful, you might ask, why it so popular? 

These are the groups most heavily profiled and punished through prohibitionist law.

I don't think this is an accident.

These laws have political support precisely because they target people that voters don't want to see or know about. 

Why else might people support prohibition?

Well, lots of people have understandable fears about trafficking.

So let's talk about trafficking.

But it's best addressed with legislation targeting those specific abuses, not an entire industry.

When 23 undocumented Chinese migrants drowned while picking cockles in Morecambe Bay in 2004, there were no calls to outlaw the entire seafood industry to save trafficking victims.

The way the term trafficking is thrown around implies that all undocumented migration into prostitution is forced.

Many do this with the full knowledge that they'll be selling sex when they reach their destination.

And yes, it can often be the case that these people smugglers demand exorbitant fees, coerce migrants into work they don't want to do and abuse them when they're vulnerable.

This is a lesson of history.

If you try to prohibit something that people want or need to do, whether that's drinking alcohol or crossing borders or getting an abortion or selling sex, you create more problems than you solve.

As a feminist, I know that the sex industry is a site of deeply entrenched social inequality.

And I can understand why the sex industry provokes strong feelings.

People have all kinds of complicated feelings when it comes to sex.

Instead, imagine she is doing it.

How safe is she at work tonight?

Why isn't she safer? 

So we've looked at full criminalization, partial criminalization, the Swedish or Nordic Model and legalization, and how they all cause harm.

New Zealand decriminalized sex work in 2003.

It's crucial to remember that decriminalization and legalization are not the same thing.

But the lesson from New Zealand isn't just that its particular legislation is good, but that crucially, it was written in collaboration with sex workers; namely, the New Zealand Prostitutes' Collective.

When it came to making sex work safer, they were ready to hear it straight from sex workers themselves. 

Here in the UK, I'm part of sex worker-led groups like the Sex Worker Open University and the English Collective of Prostitutes.

And we form part of a global movement demanding decriminalization and self-determination.

The universal symbol of our movement is the red umbrella.

But we need more allies.

If you care about gender equality or poverty or migration or public health, then sex worker rights matter to you.

Make space for us in your movements.

That means not only listening to sex workers when we speak but amplifying our voices.

This distinction between victim and empowered is imaginary.

It exists purely to discredit sex workers and make it easy to ignore us. 

No doubt many of you work for a living.

Well, sex work is work, too.

Just like you, some of us like our jobs, some of us hate them.

Ultimately, most of us have mixed feelings.

But how we feel about our work isn't the point.

And how others feel about our work certainly isn't.

What's important is that we have the right to work safely and on our own terms. 

Sex workers are real people.

We've had complicated experiences and complicated responses to those experiences.

But our demands are not complicated.

You can speak to millions of sex workers and countless sex work-led organizations.

We want full decriminalization and labor rights as workers. 

I'm just one sex worker on the stage today, but I'm bringing a message from all over the world. 

Thank you. 

