I would like to talk to you about why many e-health projects fail.

And I really think that the most important thing of it is that we stopped listening to patients.

And one of the things we did at Radboud University is we appointed a chief listening officer.

It's got one knob, on/off.

And I put my challenge on 95 kg.

But there's another thing.

But that's the nicest thing that could happen, since this is peer pressure, peer pressure used to help patients -- since this could be used for obesity, it could be used to stop smoking in patients.

But on the other hand, it also could be used to get people from out of their chairs and try to work together in some kind of gaming activity to get more control of their health. 

And people will be able, from their homes, to take their blood pressure, send it into their doctor and eventually share it with others, for instance, for over a hundred dollars.

And this is the point where patients get into position and can collect, not only their own control again, be captain of their own ship, but also can help us in health care due to the challenges that we face, like health care cost explosion, doubled demand and things like that. 

And one of the things we did I would like to share with you introduced by a little video. 

We asked around and nobody knew.

Nobody knew where the nearest life-saving AED was to be obtained right now. 

And over 10,000 AEDs already in The Netherlands already have been submitted.

We made an application for Layar, augmented reality, to find these AEDs.

And whenever you are in a city like Maastricht and somebody collapses, you can use your iPhone, and within the next weeks also run your Microsoft cellphone, to find the nearest AED which can save lives. 

And [we're] asking all of our colleagues in the rest of the world, colleague universities, to help us to find and work and act like a hub to crowd-source all these AEDs all around the world.

That whenever you're on holiday and somebody collapses, might it be your own relative or someone just in front of you, you can find this.

The other thing we would like to ask is of companies also all over the world that will be able to help us validate these AEDs.

These might be courier services or cable guys for instance, just to see whether the AED that's submitted still is in place. 

So please help us on this one and try to make not only health a little bit better, but take control of it. 

