Penelope Jagessar Chaffer: I was going to ask if there's a doctor in the house.

Now it's very easy actually to get a chemical compound from products into the human body through the skin.

And these preservatives had been found in breast cancer tumors. 

That was the start of my journey to make this film, "Toxic Baby."

And it doesn't take much time to discover some really astonishing statistics with this issue.

I'll show you some statistics.

So for example, in the United Kingdom, the incidence of childhood leukemia has risen by 20 percent just in a generation.

Very similar statistic for childhood cancer in the U.S.

In Canada, we're now looking at one in 10 Canadian children with asthma.

That's a four-fold increase. 

Again, similar story around the world.

In the United States, probably the most astonishing statistic is a 600 percent increase in autism and autistic spectrum disorders and other learning disabilities.

Again, we're seeing that trend across Europe, across North America.

And in Europe, there's certain parts of Europe, where we're seeing a four-fold increase in certain genital birth defects.

Interestingly, one of those birth defects has seen a 200 percent increase in the U.S.

So a real skyrocketing of chronic childhood disease that includes other things like obesity and juvenile diabetes, premature puberty. 

(Laughter) 

It turns out, atrazine is the largest selling product for the largest chemical company in the world.

It's the number one contaminant of groundwater, drinking water, rain water.

We were a bit surprised when we found out that when we exposed frogs to very low levels of atrazine -- 0.1 parts per billion -- that it produced animals that look like this.

In some cases, another species like the North American Leopard Frog showed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes.

And you can see these large, yolked-up eggs bursting through the surface of this male's testes.

Now my wife tells me, and I'm sure Penelope can as well, that there's nothing more painful than childbirth -- which that I'll never experience, I can't really argue that -- but I would guess that a dozen chicken eggs in my testicle would probably be somewhere in the top five. 

(Laughter) 

In recent studies that we've published, we've shown that some of these animals when they're exposed to atrazine, some of the males grow up and completely become females.

So these are actually two brothers consummating a relationship.

What we proposed, and what we've now generated support for, is that what atrazine is doing is wreaking havoc causing a hormone imbalance.

But what atrazine does is it turns on an enzyme, the machinery if you will, aromatase, that converts testosterone into estrogen.

Now this is what brought me to the human-related issues.

Because it turns out that the number one cancer in women, breast cancer, is regulated by estrogen and by this enzyme aromatase.

In fact, this aromatase is so important in breast cancer that the latest treatment for breast cancer is a chemical called letrozole, which blocks aromatase, blocks estrogen, so that if you developed a mutated cell, it doesn't grow into a tumor. 

PJC: So speaking of estrogen, one of the other compounds that Tyrone talks about in the film is something called bisphenol A, BPA, which has been in the news recently.

It's a plasticizer.

It's a compound that's found in polycarbonate plastic, which is what baby bottles are made out of.

And there have been many, many, many studies that have shown that BPA leaches from babies' bottles into the formula, into the milk, and therefore into the babies.

So we're dosing our babies, our newborns, our infants, with a synthetic estrogen. 

Now two weeks ago or so, the European Union passed a law banning the use of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups.

And for those of you who are not parents, sippy cups are those little plastic things that your child graduates to after using bottles.

But just two weeks before that, the U.S. Senate refused to even debate the banning of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups.

The baby bottle scenario proves that we can prevent unnecessary exposure.

However, if we parents are unaware, we are leaving our children to fend for themselves. 

TH: And what Penelope says here is even more true.

For those of you who don't know, we're in the middle of the sixth mass extinction.

Scientists agree now.

80 percent of all amphibians are threatened and in come decline.

In fact, our invention -- by "our" I mean we mammals -- one of our big inventions was the placenta.

But we also start out as aquatic organisms. 

The evidence of that is that studies in rats, again with atrazine, show that the hormone imbalance atrazine generates causes abortion.

Because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones. 

Of those rats that don't abort, atrazine causes prostate disease in the pups so the sons are born with an old man's disease.

Of those that don't abort, atrazine causes impaired mammary, or breast, development in the exposed daughters in utero, so that their breast don't develop properly.

So the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazine that its grandmother was exposed to.

How do you show that?

(Video) (Ringing) Old man: Placenta control.

What is it?

Oh what?

(Snoring) (Honk) Puffuffuff, what?

(Video) Child: Today, I had some octyphenols, some artificial musks and some bisphenol A.

Help me. 

We are in effect polluting our children.

So my child's death, my baby's death, really brought home the resonance of what I was trying to make in this film.

And perhaps it's the connection to our next generation -- like my wife and my beautiful daughter here about 13 years ago -- perhaps it's that connection that makes women activists in this particular area. 

And of course, we don't do these experiments in humans, but just by coincidence, my colleague has shown that men who have low sperm count, low semen quality have significantly more atrazine in their urine. 

And the men who actually apply atrazine have even more atrazine in their urine, up to levels that are 24,000 times what we know to be active are present in the urine of these men.

Of course, most of them, 90 percent are Mexican, Mexican-American.

And it's not just atrazine they're exposed to.

They're exposed to chemicals like chloropicrin, which was originally used as a nerve gas.

And many of these workers have life expectancies of only 50. 

As evident in this slide from Lake Nabugabo in Uganda, the agricultural runoff from this crop, which goes into these buckets, is the sole source of drinking, cooking and bathing water for this village.

Now if I told the men in this village that the frogs have pour immune function and eggs developing in their testes, the connection between environmental health and public health would be clear.

The problem is, in my village, Oakland, in most of our villages, we don't see that connection.

And I kept thinking over and over again this question.

We know what we're putting out there, we have a sense of those repercussions, but we are so ignorant of this sense of what happens when we put things, or things are put into our bodies. 

Thank you. 

