Shall I ask for a show of hands or a clapping of people in different generations?

I'm interested in how many are three to 12 years old.

(Laughter) None, huh?

All right.

I'm going to talk about dinosaurs.

Do you remember dinosaurs when you were that age?

(Applause) Dinosaurs are kind of funny, you know. 

(Laughter) 

We're going to kind of go in a different direction right now.

I hope you all realize that.

So I'll just give you my message up front: Try not to go extinct.

(Laughter) That's it. 

(Laughter) 

What's the fascination?

Now I assume that we remember dinosaurs.

And there's lots of different shapes.

Lots of different kinds.

A long time ago, back in the early 1900s, museums were out looking for dinosaurs.

They went out and gathered them up.

And this is an interesting story.

Every museum wanted a little bigger or better one than anybody else had.

So if the museum in Toronto went out and collected a Tyrannosaur, a big one, then the museum in Ottawa wanted a bigger one and a better one.

And that happened for all museums.

So everyone was out looking for all these bigger and better dinosaurs.

And this was in the early 1900s. 

You'd have a big dinosaur and a littler dinosaur.

But all they had were big dinosaurs. 

And it comes down to a couple of things.

They like to name anything.

Everybody likes to have their own animal that they named.

(Laughter) And so every time they found something that looked a little different, they named it something different.

And what happened, of course, is we ended up with a whole bunch of different dinosaurs. 

In 1975, a light went on in somebody's head.

And in fact, he used the cassowary as an example.

So allometric cranial ontogeny is relative skull growth.

So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. 

So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. 

So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. 

So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. 

So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. 

And he showed that if you were to take a baby and an adult and make an average of what it should look like, if it grew in sort of a linear fashion, it would have a crest about half the size of the adult.

But the actual sub-adult at 65 percent had no crest at all.

I mean, if they'd have just taken that, taken Peter Dodson's work, and gone on with that, then we would have a lot less dinosaurs than we have.

Now we have a way of actually testing to see whether a dinosaur, or any animal, is a young one or an older one.

And that's by actually cutting into their bones.

They're very well taken care of.

They don't like it if you come in and want to saw them open and look inside.

(Laughter) So they don't normally let you do that.

So that's what I do. 

(Applause) 

And if you cut into an older dinosaur, it's very massive.

In North America in the Northern Plains of the United States and the Southern Plains of Alberta and Saskatchewan, there's this unit of rock called the Hell Creek Formation that produces the last dinosaurs that lived on Earth.

And so we will evaluate them.

(Laughter) So here are 12 dinosaurs.

And we want to look at these three first. 

So these are dinosaurs that are called Pachycephalosaurs.

And everybody knows that these three animals are related.

And the assumption is is that they're related like cousins or whatever.

But no one ever considered that they might be more closely related.

In other words, people looked at them and they saw the differences.

And you all know that if you are going to determine whether you're related to your brother or your sister, you can't do it by looking at differences.

You can only determine relatedness by looking for similarities. 

So people were looking at these and they were talking about how different they are.

And then Stygimoloch, another dinosaur from the same age, lived at the same time, has spikes sticking out the back of its head.

It's got a little, tiny dome, and it's got a bunch of gnarly stuff on its nose.

Nobody noticed the gnarly stuff sort of looked alike.

But if you line them up, if you just take those three skulls and just line them up, they line up like this.

Dracorex is the littlest one, Stygimoloch is the middle size one, Pachycephalosaurus is the largest one.

And one would think, that should give me a clue.

(Laughter) But it didn't give them a clue.

I mean, it is a juvenile and it's growing really fast.

So it is going to get bigger.

If you cut open Stygimoloch, it is doing the same thing.

The dome, that little dome, is growing really fast.

It's inflating very fast.

What's interesting is the spike on the back of the Dracorex was growing very fast as well.

And if we look at Pachycephalosaurus, Pachycephalosaurus has a solid dome and its little bumps on the back of its head were also resorbing. 

Which of course means that Stygimoloch and Dracorex are extinct.

(Laughter) Okay.

Which of course means we have 10 primary dinosaurs to deal with. 

There's a Triceratops in every museum in the world, but no one had ever collected a juvenile.

And we know why, right?

(Laughter) And everybody says it's because I have a little museum.

When you have a little museum, you have little dinosaurs. 

(Laughter) 

If you look at the Triceratops, you can see it's changing, it's shape-shifting.

As the juveniles are growing up, their horns actually curve backwards.

And then as they grow older, the horns grow forward.

And that's pretty cool.

And then, because the juveniles are in my collection, I cut them open and look inside.

And the little one is really spongy.

And the middle size one is really spongy.

But what was interesting was the adult Triceratops was also spongy.

And this is a skull that is two meters long.

It's a big skull. 

And Torosaurus, when we cut into it, has mature bone.

Triceratops, if you've heard the news, a lot of the newscasters got it all wrong.

(Laughter) 

Anatotitan: giant duck.

It's a giant duck-bill dinosaur.

So we can just keep doing this.

And the last one is T. Rex.

(Laughter) Again, makes you wonder.

(Laughter) But they had a good question.

And sure enough, Nanotyrannus has juvenile bone and the bigger one has more mature bone.

It looks like it could still get bigger.

(Laughter) 

And that's a good number.

(Laughter) 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

