So I'm going to start out by showing just one very boring technology slide.

What I want to show you is not so much the details of the slide, but the general form of it.

This happens to be a slide of some analysis that we were doing about the power of RISC microprocessors versus the power of local area networks.

And the interesting thing about it is that this slide, like so many technology slides that we're used to, is a sort of a straight line on a semi-log curve.

In other words, every step here represents an order of magnitude in performance scale.

And this is a new thing that we talk about technology on semi-log curves.

Something really weird is going on here.

And that's basically what I'm going to be talking about. 

Now why do we draw technology curves in semi-log curves?

Well the answer is, if I drew it on a normal curve where, let's say, this is years, this is time of some sort, and this is whatever measure of the technology that I'm trying to graph, the graphs look sort of silly.

They sort of go like this.

And they don't tell us much.

So if transportation technology was moving along as fast as microprocessor technology, then the day after tomorrow, I would be able to get in a taxi cab and be in Tokyo in 30 seconds.

It's not moving like that.

Now the question that I'd like to ask is, if you look at these exponential curves, they don't go on forever.

Things just can't possibly keep changing as fast as they are.

One of two things is going to happen.

Either it's going to turn into a sort of classical S-curve like this, until something totally different comes along, or maybe it's going to do this.

That's about all it can do.

We're sort of on this line in a transition from the way the world used to be to some new way that the world is.

And so what I'm trying to ask, what I've been asking myself, is what's this new way that the world is?

What's that new state that the world is heading toward?

Because the transition seems very, very confusing when we're right in the middle of it. 

It's about as far as we go out.

So in other words, the future has kind of been shrinking one year per year for my whole lifetime.

Now in order to do that I'm going to have to talk about a bunch of stuff that really has nothing to do with technology and computers.

So I think this picture makes sense if you look at it a few billion years at a time. 

So if you go back about two and a half billion years, the Earth was this big, sterile hunk of rock with a lot of chemicals floating around on it.

And if you look at the way that the chemicals got organized, we begin to get a pretty good idea of how they do it.

And those that were like that started to split and divide.

And those were the most primitive forms of cells in a sense, those little drops of oil. 

And every time it divided, they got sort of unequal division of the chemicals within them.

And so every drop was a little bit different.

In fact, the drops that were different in a way that caused them to be better at incorporating chemicals around them, grew more and incorporated more chemicals and divided more.

So those tended to live longer, get expressed more. 

Somehow by ways that we don't quite understand, these little drops learned to write down information.

They learned to record the information that was the recipe of the cell onto a particular kind of chemical called DNA.

The amazing thing is that that way of writing seems to have stayed steady since it evolved two and a half billion years ago.

In fact the recipe for us, our genes, is exactly that same code and that same way of writing.

In fact, every living creature is written in exactly the same set of letters and the same code. 

In fact, one of the things that I did just for amusement purposes is we can now write things in this code.

So if anyone would like a hundred million copies of my business card, I have plenty for everyone in the room, and, in fact, everyone in the world, and it's right here.

(Laughter) If I had really been a egotist, I would have put it into a virus and released it in the room. 

(Laughter) If I had really been a egotist, I would have put it into a virus and released it in the room. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So what was the next step?

Writing down the DNA was an interesting step.

And that caused these cells -- that kept them happy for another billion years.

I don't know if you know this, but bacteria can actually exchange DNA.

Now that's why, for instance, antibiotic resistance has evolved.

And so the next stage that's interesting in life took about another billion years.

And in fact, we're such a multi-cellular community.

We have lots of cells that are not out for themselves anymore.

Your skin cell is really useless without a heart cell, muscle cell, a brain cell and so on.

Now the next step that happened is within these communities.

These communities of cells, again, began to abstract information.

So neurons are the information processing apparatus that those communities of cells built up.

And in fact, they began to get specialists in the community and special structures that were responsible for recording, understanding, learning information.

And that was the brains and the nervous system of those communities.

And that gave them an evolutionary advantage.

Because at that point, an individual -- learning could happen within the time span of a single organism, instead of over this evolutionary time span. 

So that nervous system, the fact that they built these special information structures, tremendously sped up the whole process of evolution.

Because evolution could now happen within an individual.

It could happen in learning time scales. 

But then what happened was the individuals worked out, of course, tricks of communicating.

And for example, the most sophisticated version that we're aware of is human language.

It's really a pretty amazing invention if you think about it.

Here I have a very complicated, messy, confused idea in my head.

So this allows us now to begin to start functioning as a single organism. 

And so, in fact, what we've done is we, humanity, have started abstracting out.

We're going through the same levels that multi-cellular organisms have gone through -- abstracting out our methods of recording, presenting, processing information.

So for example, the invention of language was a tiny step in that direction.

Telephony, computers, videotapes, CD-ROMs and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we've now built within our society for handling that information.

And it all connects us together into something that is much bigger and much faster and able to evolve than what we were before.

So now, evolution can take place on a scale of microseconds.

And you saw Ty's little evolutionary example where he sort of did a little bit of evolution on the Convolution program right before your eyes. 

So now we've speeded up the time scales once again.

So the first steps of the story that I told you about took a billion years a piece.

And the next steps, like nervous systems and brains, took a few hundred million years.

Then the next steps, like language and so on, took less than a million years.

And these next steps, like electronics, seem to be taking only a few decades.

The more it changes, the faster it changes.

And I think that that's what we're seeing here in this explosion of curve.

We're seeing this process feeding back on itself. 

So right now, what I do is I design objects at such complexity that it's really impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense.

I don't know what every transistor in the connection machine does.

There are billions of them.

And in fact, sometimes it takes it by methods that we don't quite even understand. 

One method that's particularly interesting that I've been using a lot lately is evolution itself.

So what we do is we put inside the machine a process of evolution that takes place on the microsecond time scale.

So of course, random sequences of instructions are very unlikely to sort numbers, so none of them will really do it.

But one of them, by luck, may put two numbers in the right order.

And try that again and do that for another generation. 

Well every one of those generations just takes a few milliseconds.

At the end of that, I end up with programs that are absolutely perfect at sorting numbers.

In fact, they are programs that are much more efficient than programs I could have ever written by hand. 

Now if I look at those programs, I can't tell you how they work.

I've tried looking at them and telling you how they work.

They're obscure, weird programs.

But they do the job.

In fact, their life depended on doing the job. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Doesn't that make you feel confident?"

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

In fact, we know that the engineering process doesn't work very well when it gets complicated.

So we're beginning to depend on computers to do a process that's very different than engineering.

And it lets us produce things of much more complexity than normal engineering lets us produce.

And yet, we don't quite understand the options of it.

So in a sense, it's getting ahead of us.

So it's feeding back on itself.

Because all of these technologies are feeding back on themselves.

We're taking off. 

And what we are is we're at a point in time which is analogous to when single-celled organisms were turning into multi-celled organisms.

So we're the amoebas and we can't quite figure out what the hell this thing is we're creating.

We're right at that point of transition.

But I think that there really is something coming along after us.

I think it's very haughty of us to think that we're the end product of evolution.

And I think all of us here are a part of producing whatever that next thing is.

So lunch is coming along, and I think I will stop at that point, before I get selected out. 

