There was something really wrong with me. 

This was about a year before 9/11, and America wasn't at war yet.

We weren't talking about PTSD.

We saw some very ugly things.

But I didn't really think it affected me.

I didn't think much about it. 

I came home to New York, where I live.

Then one day I went down into the subway, and for the first time in my life, I knew real fear.

I had a massive panic attack.

I was way more scared than I had ever been in Afghanistan.

Everything was too loud, everything was moving too quickly.

I backed up against a support column and just waited for it.

When I couldn't take it any longer, I ran out of the subway station and walked wherever I was going. 

We evolved as animals, as primates, to survive periods of danger, and if your life has been in danger, you want to react to unfamiliar noises.

You want to sleep lightly, wake up easily.

You want to have nightmares and flashbacks of the thing that could kill you.

You want to be angry because it makes you predisposed to fight, or depressed, because it keeps you out of circulation a little bit.

Keeps you safe.

It's not very pleasant, but it's better than getting eaten. 

Most people recover from that pretty quickly.

It takes a few weeks, a few months.

I kept having panic attacks, but they eventually went away.

I had no idea it was connected to the war that I'd seen.

About 20 percent of people, however, wind up with chronic, long-term PTSD.

If you served in Vietnam and your brother is schizophrenic, you're way more likely to get long-term PTSD from Vietnam. 

The numbers seemed to be going in the wrong direction.

Every war that we have fought as a country, starting with the Civil War, the intensity of the combat has gone down.

As a result, the casualty rates have gone down.

But disability rates have gone up.

They should be going in the same direction, but they're going in different directions. 

The recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have produced, thank God, a casualty rate about one third of what it was in Vietnam.

But they've also created -- they've also produced three times the disability rates.

They're shooting at people, killing people, getting shot at, seeing their friends get killed.

But about half of our military has filed for some kind of PTSD compensation from the government. 

And suicide doesn't even fit into this in a very logical way.

In fact, there's no statistical connection between combat and suicide.

If you're in the military and you're in a lot of combat, you're no more likely to kill yourself than if you weren't.

In fact, one study found that if you deploy to Iraq or Afghanistan, you're actually slightly less likely to commit suicide later. 

I studied anthropology in college.

I did my fieldwork on the Navajo reservation.

I wrote a thesis on Navajo long-distance runners.

And recently, while I was researching PTSD, I had this thought.

When their warriors came back from fighting the US military or fighting each other, I bet they pretty much just slipped right back into tribal life. 

And maybe what determines the rate of long-term PTSD isn't what happened out there, but the kind of society you come back to.

And maybe if you come back to a close, cohesive, tribal society, you can get over trauma pretty quickly.

And if you come back to an alienating, modern society, you might remain traumatized your entire life.

In other words, maybe the problem isn't them, the vets; maybe the problem is us. 

As wealth goes up in a society, the suicide rate goes up instead of down.

If you live in modern society, you're up to eight times more likely to suffer from depression in your lifetime than if you live in a poor, agrarian society.

Modern society has probably produced the highest rates of suicide and depression and anxiety and loneliness and child abuse ever in human history.

And the highest rates of depression were urban women in North America.

That was also the wealthiest group. 

So let's go back to the US military.

So about 40 percent of veterans really were not traumatized overseas but have come home to discover they are dangerously alienated and depressed.

So what is happening with them?

They were eating together, sleeping together, doing tasks and missions together.

It's just hard on everybody. 

And we keep focusing on trauma, PTSD.

But for a lot of these people, maybe it's not trauma.

That alienation and depression can lead to suicide.

These people are in danger.

It's very important to understand why. 

The Israeli military has a PTSD rate of around one percent.

The theory is that everyone in Israel is supposed to serve in the military.

Everyone's been in it or is going to be in it.

Everyone understands the situation they're all in.

It's as if they're all in one big tribe. 

After 9/11, the murder rate in New York City went down by 40 percent.

The suicide rate went down.

The violent crime rate in New York went down after 9/11.

Even combat veterans of previous wars who suffered from PTSD said that their symptoms went down after 9/11 happened.

During the blitz in London, admissions to psychiatric wards went down during the bombings. 

For a while, that was the kind of country that American soldiers came back to -- a unified country.

We were sticking together.

We were trying to understand the threat against us.

The gap between rich and poor is the biggest it's ever been.

It's just getting worse.

Race relations are terrible.

There are demonstrations and even riots in the streets because of racial injustice.

And veterans know that any tribe that treated itself that way -- in fact, any platoon that treated itself that way -- would never survive.

And they see what's going on.

This is the country they fought for.

No wonder they're depressed.

No wonder they're scared. 

Sometimes, we ask ourselves if we can save the vets.

I think the real question is if we can save ourselves.

If we can, I think the vets are going to be fine.

Thank you very much. 

