I think we have to do something about a piece of the culture of medicine that has to change.

And I think it starts with one physician, and that's me.

Before I actually begin the meat of my talk, let's begin with a bit of baseball.

Hey, why not?

It's called batting average.

That means hit the ball into the outfield, it dropped, it didn't get caught, and whoever tried to throw it to first base didn't get there in time and the runner was safe.

Good, really good, maybe an all-star.

Do you know what they call a 400 baseball hitter?

Suppose you have appendicitis and you're referred to a surgeon who's batting 400 on appendectomies.

(Laughter) Somehow this isn't working out, is it?

Now suppose you live in a certain part of a certain remote place and you have a loved one who has blockages in two coronary arteries and your family doctor refers that loved one to a cardiologist who's batting 200 on angioplasties.

But I'm going to ask you a question.

Now truth of the matter is, nobody knows in all of medicine what a good surgeon or physician or paramedic is supposed to bat.

What we do though is we send each one of them, including myself, out into the world with the admonition, be perfect.

I was an obsessive compulsive student.

In high school, a classmate once said that Brian Goldman would study for a blood test.

(Laughter) And so I did.

I memorized in my anatomy class the origins and exertions of every muscle, every branch of every artery that came off the aorta, differential diagnoses obscure and common.

And I did well, I graduated with honors, cum laude.

And I came out of medical school with the impression that if I memorized everything and knew everything, or as much as possible, as close to everything as possible, that it would immunize me against making mistakes.

I was a resident at a teaching hospital here in Toronto when Mrs. Drucker was brought to the emergency department of the hospital where I was working.

At the time I was assigned to the cardiology service on a cardiology rotation.

I gave her medications that we call diuretics, water pills, to get her to pee out the access fluid.

And over the course of the next hour and a half or two, she started to feel better.

I didn't pick up the phone and do what I was supposed to do, which was call my attending and run the story by him so he would have a chance to see her for himself.

The second mistake that I made was worse.

And the nurse thought about it and said very matter-of-factly, "Yeah, I think she'll do okay."

So I signed the discharge papers, and an ambulance came, paramedics came to take her home.

And I went back to my work on the wards.

All the rest of that day, that afternoon, I had this kind of gnawing feeling inside my stomach.

But I carried on with my work.

And it was there that another nurse, not the nurse who was looking after Mrs. Drucker before, but another nurse, said three words to me that are the three words that most emergency physicians I know dread.

Others in medicine dread them as well, but there's something particular about emergency medicine because we see patients so fleetingly.

Well she was back all right.

She was back and near death.

And I was shocked and shaken to the core.

And I went through this roller coaster, because after they stabilized her, she went to the intensive care unit, and I hoped against hope that she would recover.

And the family gathered.

They say you never forget the names of those who die.

And that was my first time to be acquainted with that.

The unhealthy shame I'm talking about is the one that makes you so sick inside.

It's the one that says, not that what you did was bad, but that you are bad.

He talked to the family, and I'm quite sure that he smoothed things over and made sure that I didn't get sued.

Slowly but surely, it lifted.

And they did.

Two years later I was an attending in the emergency department at a community hospital just north of Toronto, and I saw a 25 year-old man with a sore throat.

It was busy, I was in a bit of a hurry.

He kept pointing here.

And fortunately he didn't die.

He was placed on intravenous antibiotics and he recovered after a few days.

Twice in one emergency shift, I missed appendicitis.

And he did and when he noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant, called the surgeons.

In both cases, they had their operations and they did okay.

And I'd like to be able to say to you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years of practice as many of my colleagues say, which is total B.S.

(Laughter) Some of my doozies have been in the last five years.

How can I teach them about what I did so that they don't do the same thing?

If I were to walk into a room filled with my colleages and ask for their support right now and start to tell what I've just told you right now, I probably wouldn't get through two of those stories before they would start to get really uncomfortable, somebody would crack a joke, they'd change the subject and we would move on.

It's a system in which there are two kinds of physicians -- those who make mistakes and those who don't, those who can't handle sleep deprivation and those who can, those who have lousy outcomes and those who have great outcomes.

But there are two problems with that.

In my 20 years or so of medical broadcasting and journalism, I've made a personal study of medical malpractice and medical errors to learn everything I can, from one of the first articles I wrote for the Toronto Star to my show "White Coat, Black Art."

And what I've learned is that errors are absolutely ubiquitous.

We work in a system where errors happen every day, where one in 10 medications are either the wrong medication given in hospital or at the wrong dosage, where hospital-acquired infections are getting more and more numerous, causing havoc and death.

In this country, as many as 24,000 Canadians die of preventable medical errors.

And here's the thing.

In a hospital system where medical knowledge is doubling every two or three years, we can't keep up with it.

I'm not a robot; I don't do things the same way each time.

And my patients aren't cars; they don't tell me their symptoms in the same way each time.

Given all of that, mistakes are inevitable.

And you know that business about people not wanting to talk about their worst cases?

The redefined physician is human, knows she's human, accepts it, isn't proud of making mistakes, but strives to learn one thing from what happened that she can teach to somebody else.

And she points out other people's mistakes, not in a gotcha way, but in a loving, supportive way so that everybody can benefit.

My name is Brian Goldman.

I'm sorry about that, but I strive to learn one thing that I can pass on to other people.

