But the idea that there must be a real you, surely that's obvious.

If there's anything real in the world, it's you.

Well, I'm not quite sure.

At least we have to understand a bit better what that means.

Now certainly, I think there are lots of things in our culture around us which sort of reinforce the idea that for each one of us, we have a kind of a core, an essence.

There is something about what it means to be you which defines you, and it's kind of permanent and unchanging.

The most kind of crude way in which we have it, are things like horoscopes.

You know, people are very wedded to these, actually.

I don't know if you've done those.

A lot of companies use these for recruitment.

You answer a lot of questions, and this is supposed to reveal something about your core personality.

And of course, the popular fascination with this is enormous.

In magazines like this, you'll see, in the bottom left corner, they'll advertise in virtually every issue some kind of personality thing.

Doing the test to find what is your learning style, what is your loving style, or what is your working style?

So I think that we have a common-sense idea that there is a kind of core or essence of ourselves to be discovered.

And that this is kind of a permanent truth about ourselves, something that's the same throughout life.

Well, that's the idea I want to challenge.

And I have to say now, I'll say it a bit later, but I'm not challenging this just because I'm weird, the challenge actually has a very, very long and distinguished history.

Here's the common-sense idea.

There is you.

You are the individuals you are, and you have this kind of core.

Now in your life, what happens is that you, of course, accumulate different experiences and so forth.

You will have beliefs.

This is a number plate from someone in America.

I don't know whether this number plate, which says "messiah 1," indicates that the driver believes in the messiah, or that they are the messiah.

Either way, they have beliefs about messiahs.

We have knowledge.

We have sensations and experiences as well.

It's not just intellectual things.

But the suggestion I want to put to you today is that there's something fundamentally wrong with this model.

And I can show you what's wrong with one click.

What is there, then?

We do things because of other things.

In some ways, it's a small difference from the common-sense understanding.

It's the shift between thinking of yourself as a thing which has all the experiences of life, and thinking of yourself as simply that collection of all experiences in life.

You are the sum of your parts.

If you have a heart transplant, you're still the same person.

If you have a memory transplant, are you the same person?

If you have a belief transplant, would you be the same person?

Let's take something like water.

Now my science isn't very good.

We might say something like water has two parts hydrogen and one parts oxygen, right?

We all know that.

I hope no one in this room thinks that what that means is there is a thing called water, and attached to it are hydrogen and oxygen atoms, and that's what water is.

Everything else in the universe is the same.

Why think of ourselves as somehow not just being a collection of all our parts, but somehow being a separate, permanent entity which has those parts?

Now this view is not particularly new, actually.

It has quite a long lineage.

But interestingly, it's also a view increasingly being heard reinforced by neuroscience.

It's like a mechanical trick.

Now you might think this is a worrying idea.

You might think that if it's true, that for each one of us there is no abiding core of self, no permanent essence, does that mean that really, the self is an illusion?

Does it mean that we really don't exist?

There is no real you.

But I don't think this is a very helpful way of looking at it.

In the same way, we're not illusions either.

These are the Iguazu Falls, in Argentina.

For one thing, it's always changing.

Of course the water that flows through the waterfall is different every single instance.

But it doesn't mean that the Iguazu Falls are an illusion.

It doesn't mean it's not real.

Now that, I think, is a model for understanding ourselves, and I think it's a liberating model.

Because if you think that you have this fixed, permanent essence, which is always the same, throughout your life, no matter what, in a sense you're kind of trapped.

But if you think of yourself as being, in a way, not a thing as such, but a kind of a process, something that is changing, then I think that's quite liberating.

Because unlike the the waterfalls, we actually have the capacity to channel the direction of our development for ourselves to a certain degree.

Now we've got to be careful here, right?

If you watch the X-Factor too much, you might buy into this idea that we can all be whatever we want to be.

That's not true.

I've heard some fantastic musicians this morning, and I am very confident that I could in no way be as good as them.

I could practice hard and maybe be good, but I don't have that really natural ability.

But nevertheless, we do have this capacity to, in a sense, shape ourselves.

And this, I think, is very, very significant, particularly at this stage of life you're at.

You'll be aware of the fact how much of you changed over recent years.

and that, I think, is a liberating and exciting prospect.

Thank you very much. 

