I'm going to start here.

This is a hand-lettered sign that appeared in a mom and pop bakery in my old neighborhood in Brooklyn a few years ago.

And it's a copyright violation.

And policing copyright violations for children's birthday cakes was such a hassle that the College Bakery said, "You know what, we're getting out of that business.

So there's two bills in Congress right now.

One is called SOPA, the other is called PIPA.

They want to take them out of the domain name system.

Now the domain name system is the thing that turns human-readable names, like Google.com, into the kinds of addresses machines expect -- 74.125.226.212. 

Now the problem with this model of censorship, of identifying a site and then trying to remove it from the domain name system, is that it won't work.

So the policing layer around the problem becomes the real threat of the act. 

Now to understand how Congress came to write a bill that won't accomplish its stated goals, but will produce a lot of pernicious side effects, you have to understand a little bit about the back story.

And the back story is this: SOPA and PIPA, as legislation, were drafted largely by media companies that were founded in the 20th century.

This is like having a license to print money and a barrel of free ink. 

And this freaked the media businesses out -- it freaked them out every time.

Jack Valenti, who was the head lobbyist for the Motion Picture Association of America, once likened the ferocious video cassette recorder to Jack the Ripper and poor, helpless Hollywood to a woman at home alone.

That was the level of rhetoric. 

By the early 90s, Congress passed the law that changed everything.

And that law was called the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992.

And they thought that they clarified the issue, because they'd set out a clear distinction between legal and illegal copying. 

It took them a while to formulate plan B. 

Plan B appeared in its first full-blown form in 1998 -- something called the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.

That is a side effect of their ordinary operation. 

And to make sure you didn't realize, or didn't enact their capabilities as general purpose computing devices, they also made it illegal for you to try to reset the copyability of that content.

The DMCA marks the moment when the media industries gave up on the legal system of distinguishing between legal and illegal copying and simply tried to prevent copying through technical means. 

And the main reason it hasn't worked is the Internet has turned out to be far more popular and far more powerful than anyone imagined.

The mixtape, the fanzine, that was nothing compared to what we're seeing now with the Internet.

We are in a world where most American citizens over the age of 12 share things with each other online.

We share written things, we share images, we share audio, we share video.

Now the mechanism, as I said, for doing this, is you need to take out anybody pointing to those IP addresses.

You need to take them out of search engines, you need to take them out of online directories, you need to take them out of user lists.

Because in the end, the real threat to the enactment of PIPA and SOPA is our ability to share things with one another. 

Suddenly, the burden of proof for legal versus illegal falls affirmatively on us and on the services that might be offering us any new capabilities.

And if it costs even a dime to police a user, that will crush a service with a hundred million users. 

So this is the Internet they have in mind.

The real effects of SOPA and PIPA are going to be different than the proposed effects.

And the people who provide those capabilities to us -- the YouTubes, the Facebooks, the Twitters and TEDs -- are in the business of having to police us, or being on the hook for contributory infringement. 

The simple thing, the easy thing, is this: if you're an American citizen, call your representative, call your senator.

When you look at the people who co-signed on the SOPA bill, people who've co-signed on PIPA, what you see is that they have cumulatively received millions and millions of dollars from the traditional media industries.

You don't have millions and millions of dollars, but you can call your representatives, and you can remind them that you vote, and you can ask not to be treated like a thief, and you can suggest that you would prefer that the Internet not be broken. 

And if you're not an American citizen, you can contact American citizens that you know and encourage them to do the same.

That's the easy thing.

That's the simple thing. 

Because the whole business of actually suggesting that someone is breaking the law and then gathering evidence and proving that, that turns out to be really inconvenient.

"We'd prefer not to do that," says the content industries.

And what they want is not to have to do that.

They don't want legal distinctions between legal and illegal sharing.

They just want the sharing to go away. 

PIPA and SOPA are not oddities, they're not anomalies, they're not events.

They're the next turn of this particular screw, which has been going on 20 years now.

And if we defeat these, as I hope we do, more is coming.

That's the way to handle this. 

Because that's the real message of PIPA and SOPA.

Time Warner has called and they want us all back on the couch, just consuming -- not producing, not sharing -- and we should say, "No."

Thank you. 

