And do you know what all of them have in common?

They all died of pancreatic cancer.

However, although it's very, very sad this news, it's also thanks to their personal stories that we have raised awareness of how lethal this disease can be. 

It's become the third cause of cancer deaths, and only eight percent of the patients will survive beyond five years.

So how can we make pancreatic cancer treatment more effective?

The first piece of bad news with pancreatic cancer is that your pancreas is in the middle of your belly, literally.

It's depicted in orange on the screen.

But you can barely see it until I remove all the other organs in front.

It's also surrounded by many other vital organs, like the liver, the stomach, the bile duct.

And the ability of the tumor to grow into those organs is the reason why pancreatic cancer is one of the most painful tumor types.

So all of these reasons leave chemotherapy as the only option for the pancreatic cancer patient. 

This brings us to the second piece of bad news.

Pancreatic cancer tumors have very few blood vessels.

Why should we care about the blood vessel of a tumor?

Let's think for a second how chemotherapy works.

The drug is injected in the vein and it navigates throughout the body until it reaches the tumor site.

It's like driving on a highway, trying to reach a destination.

But what if your destination doesn't have an exit on the highway?

You will never get there.

And that's exactly the same problem for chemotherapy and pancreatic cancer.

The drugs navigate throughout all of your body.

They will reach healthy organs, resulting in high toxic effect for the patients overall, but very little will go to the tumor.

Therefore, the efficacy is very limited. 

To me, it seems very counterintuitive to have a whole-body treatment to target a specific organ.

So after two pieces of bad news, I'm going to give you good news, hopefully.

With a collaborator at MIT and the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, we have revolutionized the way we treat cancer by making localized drug delivery a reality.

We have embedded the drug into devices that look like this one.

But they are solid enough that once they are positioned on top of the tumor, they will act as a cage.

They will actually physically prevent the tumor from entering other organs, controlling the metastasis. 

The devices are also biodegradable.

In pre-clinical study, we have demonstrated that this localized approach is able to improve by 12 times the response to treatment. 

We are working relentlessly to bring this technology to the next level.

We are finalizing the pre-clinical testing and the animal model required prior to asking the FDA for approval for clinical trials. 

Currently, the majority of patients will die from pancreatic cancer.

We are hoping that one day, we can reduce their pain, extend their life and potentially make pancreatic cancer a curable disease. 

By rethinking the way we deliver the drug, we don't only make it more powerful and less toxic, we are also opening the door to finding new innovative solutions for almost all other impossible problems in pancreatic cancer patients and beyond. 

Thank you very much. 

