We who are diplomats, we are trained to deal with conflicts between states and issues between states.

And I can tell you, our agenda is full.

We loosely call them "groups."

They may represent social, religious, political, economic, military realities.

And we struggle with how to deal with them.

And the core of these key actors are groups who represent different interests inside countries.

And the way they deal with their conflicts rapidly spreads to other countries.

So in a way, it is everybody's business. 

Another acknowledgment we've seen during these years, recent years, is that very few of these domestic interstate, intrastate conflicts can be solved militarily.

They need political solutions.

And we have among states a reluctance in dealing with them.

Plus, during the last decade, we've been in the mode where dealing with groups was conceptually and politically dangerous.

And groups are very often immediately label terrorists.

And who would talk to terrorists?

Now I'm not naive.

You cannot talk to everybody all the time.

And there are times you should walk.

And sometimes military intervention is necessary.

I happen to believe that Libya was necessary and that military intervention in Afghanistan was also necessary.

But still we have a large deficit in dealing with and understanding modern conflict. 

Let us turn to Afghanistan.

10 years after that military intervention, that country is far from secure.

The situation, to be honest, is very serious.

Now everybody agrees.

But now, as we prepare to talk, we understand how little we know.

Because we didn't talk.

We didn't grasp what was going on.

My point is that you don't have to be neutral to talk.

And you don't have to agree when you sit down with the other side.

And you can always walk.

But if you don't talk, you can't engage the other side.

And the other side which you're going to engage is the one with whom you profoundly disagree.

Prime Minister Rabin said when he engaged the Oslo process, "You don't make peace with your friends, you make peace with your enemies."

It's hard, but it is necessary. 

Let me go one step further.

This is Tahrir Square.

There's a revolution going on.

It will last for a long, long time.

And who knows what it will be called in the end.

That's not the point.

The point is that we are probably seeing, for the first time in the history of the Arab world, a revolution bottom-up -- people's revolution.

Social groups are taking to the streets.

And we find out in the West that we know very little about what's happening.

Because we never talk to the people in these countries.

There's a big array of the ways of dealing with this.

So if we refuse to talk to these new groups that are going to be dominating the news in years to come, we will further radicalization, I believe.

We will make the road from violent activities into politics harder to travel.

And if we cannot demonstrate to these groups that if you move towards democracy, if you move towards taking part in civilized and normal standards among states, there are some rewards on the other side.

The paradox here is that the last decade probably was a lost decade for making progress on this. 

So he engaged a political process of dialogue, not as a strategy of the weak, but as a strategy of the strong.

Now South African friends will know that was very painful. 

So what can we learn from all of this?

If we're going to deal with political conflict-solving of conflicts, if we're going to understand these new groups which are coming from bottom-up, supported by technology, which is available to all, we diplomats cannot be sitting back in the banquets believing that we are doing interstate relations.

We have to connect with these profound changes. 

And what is dialogue really about?

I cannot do that unless I send the signals that I will be open to listen to the other side's signals.

We need a lot more training on how to do that and a lot more practice on how that can take problem-solving forward.

And I wouldn't say that is the wrong thing in all circumstances.

Sometimes you have to.

But that strategy seldom takes you very far.

The alternative is a strategy of engagement and principled dialogue.

We are seeing some new signs.

We could never have done the convention against anti-personnel landmines and the convention that is banning cluster munitions unless we had done diplomacy differently, by engaging with civil society.

And they brought their knowledge.

And there was an interaction between diplomacy and the power coming bottom-up.

This is perhaps a first element of a change.

And we have to go also beyond traditional diplomacy to the survival issue of our times, climate change.

How are we going to solve climate change through negotiations, unless we are able to make civil society and people, not part of the problem, but part of the solution?

We as diplomats need to know the social capital of communities.

What is it that makes people trust each other, not only between states, but also within states?

The good thing is that we are not powerless.

We have never had as many means of communication, means of being connected, means of reaching out, means of including.

The diplomatic toolbox is actually full of different tools we can use to strengthen our communication.

But the problem is that we are coming out of a decade where we had a fear of touching it.

And as we try to understand this broad movement across the Arab world, we are not powerless.

We need to improve the necessary skills, and we need the courage to use them.

In my country, I have seen how the council of Islamist groups and Christian groups came together, not as a government initiative, but they came together on their own initiative to establish contact and dialogue in times where things were pretty low-key tension.

And when tension increased, they already had that dialogue, and that was a strength to deal with different issues. 

Our modern Western societies are more complex than before, in this time of migration.

How are we going to settle and build a bigger "We" to deal with our issues if we don't improve our skills of communication?

So there are many reasons, and for all of these reasons, this is time and this is why we must talk. 

Thank you for your attention. 

