There's currently over a thousand TEDTalks on the TED website.

I think we have a situation here.

Because if you think about it, 1,000 TEDTalks, that's over 1,000 ideas worth spreading.

How on earth are you going to spread a thousand ideas?

And I did a little calculation of this.

The damage to the economy for each one who does this is around $15,000.

So having seen this danger to the economy, I thought, we need to find a solution to this problem. 

Here's my approach to it all.

If you look at the current situation, you have a thousand TEDTalks.

Each of those TEDTalks has an average length of about 2,300 words.

Now take this together and you end up with 2.3 million words of TEDTalks, which is about three Bibles-worth of content.

The obvious question here is, does a TEDTalk really need 2,300 words?

Isn't there something shorter?

What's the minimum amount of words you would need to do a TEDTalk? 

So if a novel can be put into six words and a whole memoir can be put into six words, you don't need more than six words for a TEDTalk.

We could have been done by lunch here.

I mean ... And if you did this for all thousand TEDTalks, you would get from 2.3 million words down to 6,000.

So I thought this was quite worthwhile. 

Or some even included references to the speakers, such as Nathan Myhrvold's speaking style, or the one of Tim Ferriss, which might be considered a bit strenuous at times. 

The challenge here is, if I try to systematically do this, I would probably end up with a lot of summaries, but not with many friends in the end.

So I had to find a different method, preferably involving total strangers.

Even then, unfortunately, it's not possible to summarize each TEDTalk individually.

Because if you do the math, you have a thousand TEDTalks, the pay 10 cents each; you have to do more than one summary for each of those talks, because some of them will probably be, or are, really bad.

So I would end up paying hundreds of dollars.

So I thought of a different way by thinking, well, the talks revolve around certain themes.

So what if I don't let people summarize individual TEDTalks to six words, but give them 10 TEDTalks at the same time and say, "Please do a six-word summary for that one."

I would cut my costs by 90 percent.

So for $60, I could summarize a thousand TEDTalks into just 600 summaries, which would actually be quite nice. 

I guess many of you have seen one or more of his talks.

He always proves us wrong. 

So people on the Internet, some didn't do so well.

I mean, when I asked them to summarize the 10 TEDTalks at the same time, some took the easy route out.

They just had some general comment.

There were others, and I found this quite cheeky.

They used their six words to talk back to me and ask me if I'd been too much on Google lately.

And finally also, I never understood this, some people really came up with their own version of the truth.

I don't know any TEDTalk that contains this. 

Here are some of my favorites.

So here I was.

I had started out with a thousand TEDTalks and I had 600 six-word summaries for those.

Actually it sounded nice in the beginning, but when you look at 600 summaries, it's quite a lot.

It's a huge list.

So I thought, I probably have to take this one step further here and create summaries of the summaries -- and this is exactly what I did.

So I took the 600 summaries that I had, put them into nine groups according to the ratings that the talks had originally received on TED.com and asked people to do summaries of those.

Again, there were some misunderstandings.

For example, when I had a cluster of all the beautiful talks, someone thought I was just trying to find the ultimate pick-up line.

But in the end, amazingly, again, people were able to do it.

I mean that's the essence of it all. 

Now I had my nine groups, but, I mean, it's already quite a reduction.

But of course, once you are that far, you're not really satisfied.

I wanted to go all the way, all the way down the distillery, starting out with a thousand TEDTalks.

I wanted to have a thousand TEDTalks summarized into just six words -- which would be a 99.9997 percent reduction in content.

And I would only pay $99.50 -- so stay even below a hundred dollars for it. 

So I had 50 overall summaries done.

This time I paid 25 cents because I thought the task was a bit harder.

And unfortunately when I first received the answers -- and here you'll see six of the answers -- I was a bit disappointed.

Because I think you'll agree, they all summarize some aspect of TED, but to me they felt a bit bland, or they just had a certain aspect of TED in them.

Thank you very much. 

