Kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treaty-based organization.

And that's what the G20 is, a treaty-based institution. 

Well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power, broadly speaking, away from nations gathered around the Atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the Pacific rim.

Now that begins with economic power, but that's the way it always begins.

You already begin to see the development of foreign policies, the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world.

But that's not a usual case in history.

In fact, what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history.

You're beginning to see the emergence of a multi-polar world. 

Up until now, the United States has been the dominant feature of our world.

They will remain the most powerful nation, but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multi-polar world.

It's going to be quite grumpy as China begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy.

But that's a subject of a different discussion.

You see India, you see Brazil.

You see increasingly that the world now looks actually, for us Europeans, much more like Europe in the 19th century. 

Europe in the 19th century: a great British foreign secretary, Lord Canning, used to describe it as the "European concert of powers."

There was a balance, a five-sided balance.

Britain always played to the balance.

If Paris got together with Berlin, Britain got together with Vienna and Rome to provide a counterbalance.

A fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances.

But a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances.

We had to bring, in this case, the Arab League in.

My guess is Iraq and Afghanistan are the last times when the West has tried to do it themselves, and we haven't succeeded.

You know, up until now, if the West got its act together, it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world.

But that's no longer true.

Now we have to call in others.

Now we have to create the G20.

Now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our Western friends. 

Let me make a prediction for you, which is probably even more startling.

I suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when Western power was enough.

How many Chinese troops are serving under the blue beret, serving under the blue flag, serving under the U.N. command in the world today?

What is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of Somali pirates?

The Chinese naval contingent.

Of course they are, they are a mercantilist nation.

They want to keep the sea lanes open.

It's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging. 

And here's the third factor, which is totally different.

Today in our modern world, because of the Internet, because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here, everything is connected to everything.

We are now interdependent.

The interrelationship of nations, well it's always existed.

Diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations.

But now we are intimately locked together.

You get swine flu in Mexico, it's a problem for Charles de Gaulle Airport 24 hours later.

Lehman Brothers goes down, the whole lot collapses.

There are fires in the steppes of Russia, food riots in Africa. 

We are all now deeply, deeply, deeply interconnected.

And what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone, not connected with others, not working with others, is no longer a viable proposition.

I was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of Britain.

At that time, the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army, how strong was our air force, how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies.

That was when the enemy was outside the walls.

Now the enemy is inside the walls.

It's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense.

It's its capacity to lock together its institutions. 

And this tells you something very important.

You in business know that the paradigm structure of our time, ladies and gentlemen, is the network.

It's your capacity to network that matters, both within your governments and externally. 

So here is Ashdown's third law.

The most important bit about your structure -- whether you're a government, whether you're an army regiment, whether you're a business -- is your docking points, your interconnectors, your capacity to network with others.

You understand that in industry; governments don't. 

But now one final thing.

If it is the case, ladies and gentlemen -- and it is -- that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before, then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other.

Suddenly and for the very first time, collective defense, the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations, is no longer enough.

It is no longer the case.

The advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that, increasingly, I share a destiny with my enemy. 

When I was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the Soviet Union in Geneva in the 1970s, we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them.

Collective security is not enough.

Peace has come to Northern Ireland because both sides realized that the zero-sum game couldn't work.

They shared a destiny with their enemies.

I started with a poem, I'll end with one.

The great poem of John Donne's.

For us, I think, part of the equation for our survival. 

Thank you very much. 

