We are living on average today 34 years longer than our great-grandparents did.

Think about that.

That's an entire second adult lifetime that's been added to our lifespan.

And yet, for the most part, our culture has not come to terms with what this means.

We're still living with the old paradigm of age as an arch.

That's the metaphor, the old metaphor.

You're born, you peak at midlife and decline into decrepitude.

(Laughter) Age as pathology. 

And they are asking -- we should all be asking -- how do we use this time?

How do we live it successfully?

What is the appropriate new metaphor for aging? 

I've spent the last year researching and writing about this subject.

And I have come to find that a more appropriate metaphor for aging is a staircase -- the upward ascension of the human spirit, bringing us into wisdom, wholeness and authenticity.

Age not at all as pathology; age as potential.

And guess what?

This potential is not for the lucky few.

It turns out, most people over 50 feel better, are less stressed, are less hostile, less anxious.

We tend to see commonalities more than differences.

Some of the studies even say we're happier. 

I come from a long line of depressives.

I thought, oh my gosh.

Picasso once said, "It takes a long time to become young."

(Laughter) 

I don't want to romanticize aging.

Obviously, there's no guarantee that it can be a time of fruition and growth.

Some of it is a matter of luck.

Some of it, obviously, is genetic.

One third of it, in fact, is genetic.

And there isn't much we can do about that.

But that means that two-thirds of how well we do in the third act, we can do something about.

We're going to discuss what we can do to make these added years really successful and use them to make a difference. 

(Laughter) Myself included.

And here's an example of what I mean.

This upward ascension can happen even in the face of extreme physical challenges.

About three years ago, I read an article in the New York Times.

It wastes the body, but the mind remains intact.

Perhaps our parents suffered from depression.

Perhaps they weren't able to love us beyond how we performed in the world.

Perhaps we still suffer from a psychic pain, a wound.

Perhaps we feel that many of our relationships have not had closure.

And so we can feel unfinished.

Perhaps the task of the third act is to finish up the task of finishing ourselves. 

For me, it began as I was approaching my third act, my 60th birthday.

How was I supposed to live it?

Who were my grandparents?

How did they treat my parents?

These kinds of things. 

And they say it can give new significance and clarity and meaning to a person's life.

It wasn't your fault; you're just fine.

You're able to free yourself from your past.

You can work to change your relationship to your past. 

Now while I was writing about this, I came upon a book called "Man's Search for Meaning" by Viktor Frankl.

Viktor Frankl was a German psychiatrist who'd spent five years in a Nazi concentration camp.

You see, if you have, over time, reacted negatively to past events and people, neural pathways are laid down by chemical and electrical signals that are sent through the brain.

If however, we can go back and alter our relationship, re-vision our relationship to past people and events, neural pathways can change.

And if we can maintain the more positive feelings about the past, that becomes the new norm.

It's like resetting a thermostat.

It's not having experiences that make us wise, it's reflecting on the experiences that we've had that makes us wise -- and that helps us become whole, brings wisdom and authenticity.

It helps us become what we might have been. 

We are the subjects of our own lives.

But very often, many, if not most of us, when we hit puberty, we start worrying about fitting in and being popular.

And we become the subjects and objects of other people's lives.

And if we can do that, it will not just be for ourselves.

Older women are the largest demographic in the world.

Thank you very much. 

