Hi.

So for the last 20 years, I've been studying how children learn to tell lies.

And today, I'm going to share with you some of the discoveries we have made. 

Mr. Messina asks, "Who am I speaking to, please?"

sums up very nicely three common beliefs we have about children and lying.

One, children only come to tell lies after entering elementary school.

Well, it turns out all of the three beliefs are wrong. 

We have been playing guessing games with children all over the world.

Here is an example.

So in this game, we asked children to guess the numbers on the cards.

And we tell them if they win the game, they are going to get a big prize.

But in the middle of the game, we make an excuse and leave the room.

And before we leave the room, we tell them not to peek at the cards.

Of course, we have hidden cameras in the room to watch their every move.

The crucial question is: When we return and ask the children whether or not they have peeked, will the children who peeked confess or lie about their transgression? 

We found that regardless of gender, country, religion, at two years of age, 30 percent lie, 70 percent tell the truth about their transgression.

At three years of age, 50 percent lie and 50 percent tell the truth.

So as you can see, lying is really a typical part of development.

And some children begin to tell lies as young as two years of age. 

So now, let's take a closer look at the younger children.

Why do some but not all young children lie?

In cooking, you need good ingredients to cook good food.

And good lying requires two key ingredients.

The first key ingredient is theory of mind, or the mind-reading ability.

Mind reading is the ability to know that different people have different knowledge about the situation and the ability to differentiate between what I know and what you know.

Therefore, I can lie to you. 

The second key ingredient for good lying is self-control.

And we found that those young children who have more advanced mind-reading and self-control abilities tell lies earlier and are more sophisticated liars.

because it signals that your child has arrived at a new milestone of typical development. 

Now, are children poor liars?

Do you think you can easily detect their lies?

So I'm going to show you two videos.

Here's child number one.

Are you ready? 

Kang Lee: And this is child number two. 

Looks like many of you are terrible detectors of children's lies. 

Now, we have played similar kinds of games with many, many adults from all walks of life.

And we show them many videos.

In half of the videos, the children lied.

In the other half of the videos, the children told the truth.

And let's find out how these adults performed.

Because there are as many liars as truth tellers, if you guess randomly, there's a 50 percent chance you're going to get it right.

So if your accuracy is around 50 percent, it means you are a terrible detector of children's lies. 

No, they cannot detect children's lies.

Their performance is around chance. 

Can they detect children's lies?

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

Can they detect children's lies?

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

What about parents?

Can parents detect other children's lies?

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

What about, can parents detect their own children's lies?

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

No, they cannot. 

Let me illustrate this with my own son, Nathan.

So when children lie, their facial expression is typically neutral.

Unfortunately, such emotions are either fleeting or hidden.

Therefore, it's mostly invisible to us. 

So in the last five years, we have been trying to figure out a way to reveal these hidden emotions.

Then we made a discovery. 

We know that underneath our facial skin, there's a rich network of blood vessels.

When we experience different emotions, our facial blood flow changes subtly.

And these changes are regulated by the autonomic system that is beyond our conscious control.

By looking at facial blood flow changes, we can reveal people's hidden emotions.

Unfortunately, such emotion-related facial blood flow changes are too subtle to detect by our naked eye.

So to help us reveal people's facial emotions, we have developed a new imaging technology we call "transdermal optical imaging."

And in addition, we discovered a Pinocchio effect.

No, not this Pinocchio effect. 

This is the real Pinocchio effect.

When people lie, the facial blood flow on the cheeks decreases, and the facial blood flow on the nose increases. 

Of course, lying is not the only situation that will evoke our hidden emotions.

One application is in education.

And also we can use this in health care.

And perhaps in the future, their risks for heart attack or hypertension.

We can even use it in dating.

And in this case, she is just trying to be nice to you. 

So transdermal optical imaging technology is at a very early stage of development.

Many new applications will come about that we don't know today.

However, one thing I know for sure is that lying will never be the same again. 

Thank you very much. 

Xiè xie. 

