I've been in Afghanistan for 21 years.

I work for the Red Cross and I'm a physical therapist.

We do more than that.

We provide the patients, the Afghan disabled, first with the physical rehabilitation then with the social reintegration.

It's a very logical plan, but it was not always like this.

For many years, we were just providing them with artificial limbs.

It took quite many years for the program to become what it is now. 

Today, I would like to tell you a story, the story of a big change, and the story of the people who made this change possible.

I arrived in Afghanistan in 1990 to work in a hospital for war victims.

And then, not only for war victims, but it was for any kind of patient.

I was also working in the orthopedic center, we call it.

This is the place where we make the legs.

At that time I found myself in a strange situation.

I felt not quite ready for that job.

There was so much to learn.

There were so many things new to me.

But it was a terrific job.

But as soon as the fighting intensified, the physical rehabilitation was suspended.

There were many other things to do.

So the orthopedic center was closed because physical rehabilitation was not considered a priority.

It was a strange sensation.

It's something that comes out from the past.

It's 21 years, but they are still all there. 

Anyway, in 1992, the Mujahideen took all Afghanistan.

And the orthopedic center was closed.

I was assigned to work for the homeless, for the internally displaced people.

But one day, something happened.

And everybody disappeared from the street.

The cars disappeared as well.

I ducked.

And only one figure remained in the middle of the road.

It was a man in a wheelchair desperately trying to move away. 

Well I'm not a particularly brave person, I have to confess it, but I could not just ignore him.

So I stopped the car and I went to help.

The man was without legs and only with one arm.

Behind him there was a child, his son, red in the face in an effort to push the father.

I wondered, what work?

And so the following day, I went to the orthopedic center.

And I spoke with a gatekeeper.

And they were not alone.

There were 15, maybe 20, people like him waiting.

And there was some staff too.

Among them there was my right-hand man, Najmuddin.

So we started doing some repairs.

Also one of the physical therapists reported that Mahmoud could be provided with a leg, but not immediately.

The legs were swollen and the knees were stiff, so he needed a long preparation.

I was doing something that I was not supposed to do.

So we started.

I was working, I was going everyday to work for the homeless.

But people were coming.

And Mahmoud was coming every day.

And slowly, slowly week after week his legs were improving.

The stump or cast prosthesis was made, and he was starting the real physical rehabilitation.

He was coming every day, crossing the front line.

A couple of times I crossed the front line in the very place where Mahmoud and his son were crossing.

I tell you, it was something so sinister that I was astonished he could do it every day. 

But finally, the great day arrived.

Mahmoud was going to be discharged with his new legs.

It was April, I remember, a very beautiful day.

We could not possibly stay indoors, with all these sandbags at the windows.

Very sad, dark.

So we chose a small spot in the garden.

Suddenly, they started fighting.

Two groups of Mujahideen started fighting.

We could hear in the air the bullets passing.

So we dashed, all of us, towards the shelter.

Mahmoud grabbed his son, I grabbed someone else.

Everybody was grabbing something.

And we ran.

From that day on, we never closed a single day.

Well sometimes we were suspended for a few hours, but we never, we never closed it again.

I met Mahmoud one year later.

He needed to change his prostheses -- a new pair of prostheses.

He was clearly embarrassed.

Just to give him some money.

It was the easiest way.

I sat down too with goosebumps everywhere. 

So the only things I could manage to obtain was a kind of a compromise.

It was true. 

The comment of Najmuddin was Mahmoud has something to prove.

I remember him sitting behind the workbench smiling.

So of course, I understood.

We decided to employ as many disabled as possible to train them in any possible job.

But also for the newcomers.

They are 7,000 every year -- people coming for the first time.

And you should see the faces of these people when they realize that those assisting them are like them.

Sometimes you see them, they look, "Oh."

Scraps of men do not exist. 

People like Mahmoud are agents of change.

And when you start changing, you cannot stop.

So employing people, yes, but also we started programming projects of microfinance, education.

And when you start, you cannot stop.

So you do vocational training, home education for those who cannot go to school.

Physical therapies can be done, not only in the orthopedic center, but also in the houses of the people.

There is always a better way to do things.

That's Najmuddin, the one with the white coat.

Terrible Najmuddin, is that one.

I have learned a lot from people like Najmuddin, Mahmoud, Rafi.

They are my teachers. 

All we have to do is to listen to the people that we are supposed assist, to make them part of the decision-making process and then, of course, to adapt.

This is my big wish. 

We transport the wheelchairs everywhere.

We have several teams in the main part of Afghanistan.

At the beginning, when Anajulina told me, "We would like to start it," I hesitated.

I said, "No," you can imagine.

I never miss a single training session.

The night before a match I'm very nervous.

And you should see me during the match.

I shout like a true Italian. 

Thank you very much. 

