I'm here to talk about the wonder and the mystery of conscious minds.

The wonder is about the fact that we all woke up this morning and we had with it the amazing return of our conscious mind.

So much for the wonder, now for the mystery.

This is a mystery that has really been extremely hard to elucidate.

All the way back into early philosophy and certainly throughout the history of neuroscience, this has been one mystery that has always resisted elucidation, has got major controversies.

And there are actually many people that think we should not even touch it; we should just leave it alone, it's not to be solved.

It would be ridiculous to claim that we know how we make consciousness in our brains, but we certainly can begin to approach the question, and we can begin to see the shape of a solution. 

And one more wonder to celebrate is the fact that we have imaging technologies that now allow us to go inside the human brain and be able to do, for example, what you're seeing right now.

And this is a person who is alive.

This is not a person that is being studied at autopsy.

At any rate, what is consciousness?

What is a conscious mind?

But what is exactly that stuff that we lose under anesthesia, or when we are in deep, dreamless sleep?

That flow of mental images is mind. 

But there is something else that we are all experiencing in this room.

We are not passive exhibitors of visual or auditory or tactile images.

We have selves.

We have a Me that is automatically present in our minds right now.

We own our minds.

And we have a sense that it's everyone of us that is experiencing this -- not the person who is sitting next to you.

So in order to have a conscious mind, you have a self within the conscious mind.

So a conscious mind is a mind with a self in it.

The self introduces the subjective perspective in the mind, and we are only fully conscious when self comes to mind.

So what we need to know to even address this mystery is, number one, how are minds are put together in the brain, and, number two, how selves are constructed. 

And picture, if you will, a billboard, a digital billboard, where you have elements that can be either lit or not.

And depending on how you create the pattern of lighting or not lighting, the digital elements, or, for that matter, the neurons in the sheet, you're going to be able to construct a map.

Now to bring home the point of how close it is -- the relationship between the grid of neurons and the topographical arrangement of the activity of the neurons and our mental experience -- I'm going to tell you a personal story.

On the right side, my retina is perfectly symmetrical.

You see the going down towards the fovea where the optic nerve begins.

But on my left retina there is a bump, which is marked there by the red arrow.

And it corresponds to a little cyst that is located below.

And that is exactly what causes the warping of my visual image. 

So this is how close your mental experience and the activity of the neurons in the retina, which is a part of the brain located in the eyeball, or, for that matter, a sheet of visual cortex.

So from the retina you go onto visual cortex.

And of course, the brain adds on a lot of information to what is going on in the signals that come from the retina.

And in that image there, you see a variety of islands of what I call image-making regions in the brain.

And the great beauty is that you can then go from memory, out of those association cortices, and produce back images in the very same regions that have perception.

So think about how wonderfully convenient and lazy the brain is.

So far the mystery of the conscious mind is diminishing a little bit because we have a general sense of how we make these images.

But what about the self?

The self is really the elusive problem.

We generate brain maps of the body's interior and use them as the reference for all other maps. 

So let me tell you just a little bit about how I came to this.

I came to this because, if you're going to have a reference that we know as self -- the Me, the I in our own processing -- we need to have something that is stable, something that does not deviate much from day to day.

Well it so happens that we have a singular body.

We have one body, not two, not three.

And so that is a beginning.

There is just one reference point, which is the body.

The things that have to do with what is known as our internal milieu -- for example, the whole management of the chemistries within our body are, in fact, extremely maintained day after day for one very good reason.

If you deviate too much in the parameters that are close to the midline of that life-permitting survival range, you go into disease or death.

So we have an in-built system within our own lives that ensures some kind of continuity.

I like to call it an almost infinite sameness from day to day.

Because if you don't have that sameness, physiologically, you're going to be sick or you're going to die.

So that's one more element for this continuity. 

So for example, I'm making images of you, but there's no physiological bond between the images I have of you as an audience and my brain.

However, there is a close, permanently maintained bond between the body regulating parts of my brain and my own body. 

There is the brain stem in between the cerebral cortex and the spinal cord.

And it is within that region that I'm going to highlight now that we have this housing of all the life-regulation devices of the body.

What happens then actually is that you lose the grounding of the self, you have no longer access to any feeling of your own existence, and, in fact, there can be images going on, being formed in the cerebral cortex, except you don't know they're there.

You have, in effect, lost consciousness when you have damage to that red section of the brain stem. 

But if you consider the green part of the brain stem, nothing like that happens.

It is that specific.

So in that green component of the brain stem, if you damage it, and often it happens, what you get is complete paralysis, but your conscious mind is maintained.

And people are, in fact, imprisoned within their own bodies, but they do have a mind.

So now I'm going to show you a picture.

I promise not to say anything about this, except this is to frighten you.

They are exquisitely topographic and they are exquisitely interconnected in a recursive pattern.

So what is the picture that we get here?

But look at the arrows.

They're not there for looks.

They're there because there's this very close interaction.

Another thing that is interesting is that the brain stem that we have is shared with a variety of other species.

That's where the difference is.

And I strongly disagree with the idea that consciousness should be considered as the great product of the cerebral cortex.

Only the wealth of our minds is, not the very fact that we have a self that we can refer to our own existence, and that we have any sense of person. 

Cetaceans and primates have also an autobiographical self to a certain degree.

And out of that came the instruments of culture -- religions, justice, trade, the arts, science, technology.

And it is within that culture that we really can get -- and this is the novelty -- something that is not entirely set by our biology.

And this is, of course, the culture where we have developed something that I like to call socio-cultural regulation. 

And if we are interested, for example, in the fact that anti-gravity is pulling galaxies away from the Earth, why should we not be interested in what is going on inside of human beings? 

Second, understanding society and culture.

Let's not forget that some of the worst diseases of humankind are diseases such as depression, Alzheimer's disease, drug addiction.

So that's a very good reason beyond curiosity to justify what we're doing, and to justify having some interest in what is going on in our brains. 

Thank you for your attention. 

