So this dish in particular is basically champagne with seafood.

So we take a carrot cake, put it in a blender, and we have kind of like a carrot cake juice, and then that went into a balloon frozen in liquid nitrogen to create this hollow shell of carrot cake ice cream, I guess, and it comes off looking like, you know, Jupiter's floating around your plate. 

So yeah, we're transforming things into something that you have absolutely no reference for.

(Laughter) HC: Delicious. 

(Laughter) HC: Delicious. 

So this is a plate of nachos.

The difference between our nachos and the other guy's nachos, is that this is actually a dessert.

So the chips are candied, the ground beef is made from chocolate, and the cheese is made from a shredded mango sorbet that gets shredded into liquid nitrogen to look like cheese.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

HC: So we had been creating all of these dishes out of a kitchen that was more like a mechanic's shop than a kitchen, and the next logical step for us was to install a state-of-the-art laboratory, and that's what we have here.

So we put this in the basement, and we got really serious about food, like serious experimentation.

BR: One of the really cool things about the lab, besides that we have a new science lab in the kitchen, is that, you know, with this new equipment, and this new approach, all these different doors to creativity that we never knew were there began to open, and so the experiments and the food and the dishes that we created, they just kept going further and further out there. 

HC: Let's talk about flavor transformation, and let's actually make some cool stuff.

You see a cow with its tongue hanging out.

What I see is a cow about to eat something delicious.

And why is it delicious?

There's a lot of research and a lot of failure, trial and error -- I guess, more error -- that goes into each and every dish, so we don't always get it right, and it takes a while for us to be able to explain that to people.

HC: So, after about a day of Chris and I staring at each other, we came up with something that was pretty close to the hamburger patty, and as you can see it basically forms like hamburger meat.

This is made from three ingredients: beets, barley, corn, and so it actually cooks up like hamburger meat, looks and tastes like hamburger meat, and not only that, but it's basically removing the cow from the equation.

BR: And it's definitely the world's first bleeding veggie burger, which is a cool side effect.

And a miracle berry, if you're not familiar with it, is a natural ingredient, and it contains a special property.

HC: You're about to eat a lemon, and now it tastes like lemonade.

Let's just stop and think about the economic benefits of something like that.

We could eliminate sugar across the board for all confectionary products and sodas, and we can replace it with all-natural fresh fruit. 

HC: So if miracle berries take sour things and turn them into sweet things, we have this other pixie dust that we put on the watermelon, and it makes it go from sweet to savory.

So after we do that, we put it into a vacuum bag, add a little bit of seaweed, some spices, and we roll it, and this starts taking on the appearance of tuna.

So the key now is to make it behave like tuna.

BR: And then after a quick dip into some liquid nitrogen to get that perfect sear, we really have something that looks, tastes and behaves like the real thing. 

HC: So the key thing to remember here is, we don't really care what this tuna really is.

As long as it's good for you and good for the environment, it doesn't matter.

But where is this going?

How can we take this idea of tricking your tastebuds and leapfrog it into something that we can do today that could be a disruptive food technology?

So here's the next challenge.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So we really had to think about new, creative ways to flavor, new ways to cook and to change texture -- and that was the main issue with this challenge. 

HC: So this is where we step into the future and we leapfrog ahead.

So developing nations and first-world nations, imagine if you could take these wild plants and consume them, food miles would basically turn into food feet.

And to give you a simple example here as to what we actually fed these customers, there's a bale of hay there and some crab apples.

BR: Thanks, guys. 

