I'm here to talk to you about the economic invisibility of nature.

The bad news is that mother nature's back office isn't working yet, so those invoices don't get issued.

But we need to do something about this problem.

A project called TEEB was started in 2007, and it was launched by a group of environment ministers of the G8+5.

And their basic inspiration was a stern review of Lord Stern.

Why can't an equivalent case be made for nature?

Biodiversity, the living fabric of this planet, is not a gas.

And yet, we began.

We began the project with an interim report, which quickly pulled together a lot of information that had been collected on the subject by many, many researchers.

We were losing it at an extraordinary rate -- in fact, of the order of two to four trillion dollars-worth of natural capital.

This came out in 2008, which was, of course, around the time that the banking crisis had shown that we had lost financial capital of the order of two and a half trillion dollars.

So this was comparable in size to that kind of loss.

We then have gone on since to present for [the] international community, for governments, for local governments and for business and for people, for you and me, a whole slew of reports, which were presented at the U.N. last year, which address the economic invisibility of nature and describe what can be done to solve it. 

What is this about?

Because the northeastern trade winds, as they go over the Amazonas, effectively gather the water vapor.

Something like 20 billion tons per day of water vapor is sucked up by the northeastern trade winds, and eventually precipitates in the form of rain across the La Plata Basin.

This rainfall cycle, this rainfall factory, effectively feeds an agricultural economy of the order of 240 billion dollars-worth in Latin America.

But the question arises: Okay, so how much do Uruguay, Paraguay, Argentina and indeed the state of Mato Grosso in Brazil pay for that vital input to that economy to the state of Amazonas, which produces that rainfall?

And the answer is zilch, exactly zero.

That's the economic invisibility of nature.

Economics has become the currency of policy.

It's not just about the Amazonas, or indeed about rainforests.

No matter what level you look at, whether it's at the ecosystem level or at the species level or at the genetic level, we see the same problem again and again.

That's something like eight percent of the total agricultural output globally.

It completely passes below the radar screen.

But when did a bee actually ever give you an invoice?

Or for that matter, if you look at the genetic level, 60 percent of medicines were prospected, were found first as molecules in a rainforest or a reef.

Once again, most of that doesn't get paid. 

And that brings me to another aspect of this, which is, to whom should this get paid?

They were the ones that didn't get paid.

And if you look at the species level, you saw about fish.

Today, the depletion of ocean fisheries is so significant that effectively it is effecting the ability of the poor, the artisanal fisher folk and those who fish for their own livelihoods, to feed their families.

Something like a billion people depend on fish, the quantity of fish in the oceans.

A billion people depend on fish for their main source for animal protein.

And finally, at the ecosystem level, whether it's flood prevention or drought control provided by the forests, or whether it is the ability of poor farmers to go out and gather leaf litter for their cattle and goats, or whether it's the ability of their wives to go and collect fuel wood from the forest, it is actually the poor who depend most on these ecosystem services. 

We did estimates in our study that for countries like Brazil, India and Indonesia, even though ecosystem services -- these benefits that flow from nature to humanity for free -- they're not very big in percentage terms of GDP -- two, four, eight, 10, 15 percent -- but in these countries, if we measure how much they're worth to the poor, the answers are more like 45 percent, 75 percent, 90 percent.

That's the difference.

Because these are important benefits for the poor.

How bad can things get?

Well here a picture of something called the mean species abundance.

It's basically a measure of how many tigers, toads, ticks or whatever on average of biomass of various species are around.

If it's yellow, it's 40 to 60 percent.

Now I'm going to show you how business as usual will affect this.

See that again.

The only places that remain green -- and that's not good news -- is, in fact, places like the Gobi Desert, like the tundra and like the Sahara.

But that doesn't help because there were very few species and volume of biomass there in the first place.

This is the challenge.

But of course, if you look at exactly what those profits are, almost 8,000 of those dollars are, in fact, subsidies.

So you compare the two sides of the coin and you find that it's more like 1,200 to 600.

That's not that hard. 

But on the other hand, if you start measuring, how much would it actually cost to restore the land of the shrimp farm back to productive use?

Once salt deposition and chemical deposition has had its effects, that answer is more like $12,000 of cost.

And if you see the benefits of the mangrove in terms of the storm protection and cyclone protection that you get and in terms of the fisheries, the fish nurseries, that provide fish for the poor, that answer is more like $11,000.

So now look at the different lens.

So is this just a story from South Thailand?

Sorry, this is a global story.

And they calculated for the top 3,000 corporations, what are the externalities?

It causes pollutants being issued, which have an economic cost, health cost and so on.

Use of freshwater.

If you drill water to make coke near a village farm, that's not illegal, but yes, it costs the community. 

Basically the stuff of life is natural capital, and we need to recognize and build that into our systems.

When we measure GDP as a measure of economic performance at the national level, we don't include our biggest asset at the country level.

When we measure corporate performances, we don't include our impacts on nature and what our business costs society.

That has to stop.

And a few friends of mine and I decided this doesn't make sense.

This is going to create more cost to society and more losses.

That's how my interests began and went to the TEEB project.

Calculating this at the national level is one thing, and it has begun.

But calculating this at the next level, that means at the business sector level, is important.

And actually we've done this with the TEEB project.

We've done this for a very difficult case, which was for deforestation in China.

Just a year later the Yangtze flooded, causing something like 5,500 deaths.

And the Chinese government responded sensibly and placed a ban on felling.

A retrospective on 40 years shows that if we had accounted for these costs -- the cost of loss of topsoil, the cost of loss of waterways, the lost productivity, the loss to local communities as a result of all these factors, desertification and so on -- those costs are almost twice as much as the market price of timber.

Of course, after the event one can be wise. 

He's basically worked the cost to PUMA.

PUMA has 2.7 billion dollars of turnover, 300 million dollars of profits, 200 million dollars after tax, 94 million dollars of externalities, cost to business.

That's an example, I think, for us to look at and for us to draw comfort from.

If more companies did this, and if more sectors engaged this as sectors, you could have analysts, business analysts, and you could have people like us and consumers and NGOs actually look and compare the social performance of companies.

Today we can't yet do that, but I think the path is laid out.

This can be done.

The other favorite, if you like, solution for me is the creation of green carbon markets.

And by the way, these are my favorites -- externalities calculation and green carbon markets.

TEEB has more than a dozen separate groups of solutions including protected area evaluation and payments for ecosystem services and eco-certification and you name it, but these are the favorites.

What's green carbon?

Today what we have is basically a brown carbon marketplace.

But that's all about energy and industry. 

But what we're missing is also some other emissions like black carbon, that is soot.

What we're also missing is blue carbon, which, by the way, is the largest store of carbon -- more than 55 percent.

Thankfully, the flux, in other words, the flow of emissions from the ocean to the atmosphere and vice versa, is more or less balanced.

In fact, what's being absorbed is something like 25 percent of our emissions, which then leads to acidification or lower alkalinity in oceans.

More of that in a minute. 

And finally, there's deforestation, and there's emission of methane from agriculture.

Green carbon, which is the deforestation and agricultural emissions, and blue carbon together comprise 25 percent of our emissions.

And already Norway has contributed a billion dollars each towards Indonesia and Brazil to implement this Red Plus scheme.

So we actually have some movement forward.

But the thing is to do a lot more of that. 

Well I'm afraid not.

There is an area that is the oceans, coral reefs.

These red dots, these red areas, basically provide the food and livelihood for more than half a billion people.

So that's almost an eighth of society.

And the sad thing is that, as these coral reefs are lost -- and scientists tell us that any level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere above 350 parts per million is too dangerous for the survival of these reefs -- we are not only risking the extinction of the entire coral species, the warm water corals, we're not only risking a fourth of all fish species which are in the oceans, but we are risking the very lives and livelihoods of more than 500 million people who live in the developing world in poor countries. 

So in selecting targets of 450 parts per million and selecting two degrees at the climate negotiations, what we have done is we've made an ethical choice.

We've actually kind of made an ethical choice in society to not have coral reefs.

Well what I will say to you in parting is that we may have done that.

Because mother nature only has that much in ecological infrastructure and that much natural capital.

I don't think we can afford too much of such ethical choices. 

Thank you. 

