So here's an example of a nerve that has tumor surrounding it.

Can you tell where the tumor is?

See, so every single one in the audience now can tell where the cancer is.

We can tell in the operating room, in the field, at a molecular level, where is the cancer and what the surgeon needs to do and how much more work they need to do to cut that out.

And the cool thing about fluorescence is that it's not only bright, it actually can shine through tissue.

The light that the fluorescence emits can go through tissue.

So even if the tumor is not right on the surface, you'll still be able to see it. 

And I'm peeling that muscle away.

But even before I peel that muscle away, you saw that there was a tumor underneath.

So that's the beauty of having a tumor that's labeled with fluorescent molecules.

That you can, not only see the margins right there on a molecular level, but you can see it even if it's not right on the top -- even if it's beyond your field of view.

And this works for metastatic lymph nodes also. 

Sentinel lymph node dissection has really changed the way that we manage breast cancer, melanoma.

Women used to get really debilitating surgeries to excise all of the axillary lymph nodes.

But when sentinel lymph node came into our treatment protocol, the surgeon basically looks for the single node that is the first draining lymph node of the cancer.

And then if that node has cancer, the woman would go on to get the axillary lymph node dissection.

So what that means is if the lymph node did not have cancer, the woman would be saved from having unnecessary surgery. 

But sentinel lymph node, the way that we do it today, is kind of like having a road map just to know where to go.

So if you're driving on the freeway and you want to know where's the next gas station, you have a map to tell you that that gas station is down the road.

It doesn't tell you whether or not the gas station has gas.

You have to cut it out, bring it back home, cut it up, look inside and say, "Oh yes, it does have gas."

So that takes more time.

Patients are still on the operating room table.

Anesthesiologists, surgeons are waiting around.

That takes time. 

So with our technology, we can tell right away.

You see a lot of little, roundish bumps there.

Some of these are swollen lymph nodes that look a little larger than others.

Who amongst us hasn't had swollen lymph nodes with a cold?

That doesn't mean that there's cancer inside.

Well with our technology, the surgeon is able to tell immediately which nodes have cancer.

I won't go into this very much, but our technology, besides being able to tag tumor and metastatic lymph nodes with fluorescence, we can also use the same smart three-part molecule to tag gadolinium onto the system so you can do this noninvasively.

The patient has cancer, you want to know if the lymph nodes have cancer even before you go in.

Well you can see this on an MRI. 

So in surgery, it's important to know what to cut out.

But equally important is to preserve things that are important for function.

So it's very important to avoid inadvertent injury.

And what I'm talking about are nerves.

Nerves, if they are injured, can cause paralysis, can cause pain.

In the setting of prostate cancer, up to 60 percent of men after prostate cancer surgery may have urinary incontinence and erectile disfunction.

That's a lot of people to have a lot of problems -- and this is even in so-called nerve-sparing surgery, which means that the surgeon is aware of the problem, and they are trying to avoid the nerves. 

But you know what, these little nerves are so small, in the context of prostate cancer, that they are actually never seen.

They are traced just by their known anatomical path along vasculature.

And they're known because somebody has decided to study them, which means that we're still learning about where they are.

Crazy to think that we're having surgery, we're trying to excise cancer, we don't know where the cancer is.

We're trying to preserve nerves; we can't see where they are. 

So I said, wouldn't it be great if we could find a way to see nerves with fluorescence?

And at first this didn't get a lot of support.

But I went ahead anyway.

And Roger helped me.

And he brought his whole team with him.

So there's that teamwork thing again.

And we eventually discovered molecules that were specifically labeling nerves.

And when we made a solution of this, tagged with the fluorescence and injected in the body of a mouse, their nerves literally glowed.

You can see where they are. 

But in fact, at the tip of that where I'm dissecting now, there's actually very fine arborizations that can't really be seen.

You see what looks like little Medusa heads coming out.

We have been able to see nerves for facial expression, for facial movement, for breathing -- every single nerve -- nerves for urinary function around the prostate.

We've been able to see every single nerve.

Do you guys know where the margins of this tumor is?

Now you do.

What about the nerve that's going into this tumor?

That white portion there is easy to see.

But what about the part that goes into the tumor?

Basically, we've come up with a way to stain tissue and color-code the surgical field.

This was a bit of a breakthrough.

I think that it'll change the way that we do surgery.

We published our results in the proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences and in Nature Biotechnology.

We received commentary in Discover magazine, in The Economist.

And we showed it to a lot of my surgical colleagues.

What needs to happen now is further development of our technology along with development of the instrumentation that allows us to see this sort of fluorescence in the operating room.

The eventual goal is that we'll get this into patients.

However, we've discovered that there's actually no straightforward mechanism to develop a molecule for one-time use.

Understandably, the majority of the medical industry is focused on multiple-use drugs, such as long-term daily medications.

We are focused on making this technology better.

We're focused on adding drugs, adding growth factors, killing nerves that are causing problems and not the surrounding tissue.

We know that this can be done and we're committed to doing it. 

I'd like to leave you with this final thought.

Successful innovation is not a single breakthrough.

It is not a sprint.

It is not an event for the solo runner.

Successful innovation is a team sport, it's a relay race.

It requires one team for the breakthrough and another team to get the breakthrough accepted and adopted.

Thank you very much. 

