Spiders are truly global citizens.

You can find spiders in nearly every terrestrial habitat.

This red dot marks the Great Basin of North America, and I'm involved with an alpine biodiversity project there with some collaborators.

Turning rocks over revealed this crab spider grappling with a beetle. 

Spiders are not just everywhere, but they're extremely diverse.

There are over 40,000 described species of spiders.

To put that number into perspective, here's a graph comparing the 40,000 species of spiders to the 400 species of primates.

There are two orders of magnitude more spiders than primates.

Spiders are also extremely old.

So what this figure shows is that spiders date back to almost 380 million years.

All spiders make silk at some point in their life.

So this means that both spiders and spider silk have been around for 380 million years.

There are many kinds of spider silk.

For example, this garden spider can make seven different kinds of silks.

When you look at this orb web, you're actually seeing many types of silk fibers.

To answer that, you have to look a lot closer at the spinneret region of a spider.

(Laughter) We spend long days and nights staring at this part of the spider.

And this is what we see.

So if you ever have the opportunity to dissect an orb-web-weaving spider, and I hope you do, what you would find is a bounty of beautiful, translucent silk glands. 

These can be grouped into seven categories.

There's the aggregate and flagelliform silk glands which combine to make the sticky capture spiral of an orb web.

Pyriform silk glands make the attachment cement -- that's the silk that's used to adhere silk lines to a substrate.

And the most studied silk line of them all: major ampullate silk.

But what, exactly, is spider silk?

Spider silk is almost entirely protein.

They're very repetitive, and they're very rich in the amino acids glycine and alanine.

What silk biologists do is we try to relate these sequences, these amino acid sequences, to the mechanical properties of the silk fibers. 

Now, it's really convenient that spiders use their silk completely outside their body.

So what you can see here is that the five fibers have different behaviors.

We think that's because the dragline silk, which is used to make the frame and radii for a web, needs to be very strong. 

In fact, this flagelliform fiber can actually stretch over twice its original length.

So silk fibers vary in their strength and also their extensibility.

In the case of the capture spiral, it needs to be so stretchy to absorb the impact of flying prey.

If it wasn't able to stretch so much, then basically when an insect hit the web, it would just trampoline right off of it.

So if the web was made entirely out of dragline silk, an insect is very likely to just bounce right off.

There's quite a bit of variation within the fibers that an individual spider can make.

We call that the tool kit of a spider.

That's what the spider has to interact with their environment.

This is the comparison of the toughness of the dragline spilk spun by 21 species of spiders.

Some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders.

What you see here on this toughness graph is the higher the black dot is on the graph, the higher the toughness. 

These are the two species of spiders for which the vast majority of time and money on synthetic spider silk research has been to replicate their dragline silk proteins.

Yet, their draglines are not the toughest.

This is the dragline spun by scytodes, the spitting spider.

Think of hunting with silly string.

That's how scytodes forages.

It frees us from the constraints of our imagination. 

Spider silks also have a lot of potential for their anti-ballistic capabilities.

Silks could be incorporated into body and equipment armor that would be more lightweight and flexible than any armor available today.

In addition to these biomimetic applications of spider silks, personally, I find studying spider silks just fascinating in and of itself.

To borrow from the writings of a spider named Charlotte, silk is terrific. 

