Now when we think of our senses, we don't usually think of the reasons why they probably evolved, from a biological perspective.

We don't really think of the evolutionary need to be protected by our senses, but that's probably why our senses really evolved -- to keep us safe, to allow us to live.

Really when we think of our senses, or when we think of the loss of the sense, we really think about something more like this: the ability to touch something luxurious, to taste something delicious, to smell something fragrant, to see something beautiful.

This is what we want out of our senses.

We want beauty; we don't just want function.

(Music) 

That process is entirely abstract and very, very unusual.

And we could discuss that topic alone for days to really try to figure out, how is it that we hear something that's emotional from something that starts out as a vibration in the air? 

Turns out that if you have hearing loss, most people that lose their hearing lose it at what's called the cochlea, the inner ear.

And it's at the hair cell level that they do this.

Now if you had to pick a sense to lose, I have to be very honest with you and say, we're better at restoring hearing than we are at restoring any sense that there is.

Okay, play that video please. 

Charles Limb: Now despite everything going for this child in terms of family support and simple infused learning, there is a limitation to what a child who's deaf, an infant who was born deaf, has in this world in terms of social, educational, vocational opportunities.

Now hearing loss and the treatment for hearing loss has really evolved in the past 200 years.

And now today we have the modern multi-channel cochlear implant, which is an outpatient procedure.

And this is a video that was taken by my surgical mentor, Dr. John Niparko, who implanted her.

If we could play this video please. 

(Video) John Niparko: So you've written two books? 

JN: Yeah.

Girl: I just take off my CI, and I don't hear anything.

(Laughter) It comes in handy. 

(Laughter) It comes in handy. 

JN: So you don't want to hear everything that's out there? 

However, despite this incredible facility that some cochlear implant users display with language, you turn on the radio and all of a sudden they can't hear music almost at all.

In fact, most implant users really struggle and dislike music because it sounds so bad.

And so when it comes to this idea of restoring beauty to somebody's life, we have a long way to go when it comes to audition. 

Now there are a lot of reasons for that.

In fact, the whole reason we use it is because it has semantic-specificity.

And you can see on this figure, that the frequency range and the decibel range, the dynamic range of music is far more heterogeneous.

So if we had to design a perfect cochlear implant, what we would try to do is target it to be able to allow music transmission.

Now the problems begin first with pitch perception.

I mean, most of us know that pitch is a fundamental building block of music.

(Music) 

Okay, now if we consider that in a cochlear implant patient pitch perception could be off as much as two octaves, let's see what happens here when we randomize this to within one semitone.

(Music) 

Now my goal in showing you that is to show you that music is not robust to degradation.

But it certainly wasn't the way the music was intended.

And you're not hearing the same thing that most people who have normal hearing are hearing. 

If we could play these two sound clips in succession.

Cochlear implant users cannot tell the difference between these instruments.

Now if you look at the brain of an individual who has a cochlear implant and you have them listen to speech, have them listen to rhythm and have them listen to melody, what you find is that the auditory cortex is the most active during speech.

You would think that because these implants are optimized for speech, they were designed for speech.

But actually if you look at melody, what you find is that there's very little cortical activity in implant users compared with normal hearing controls.

So for whatever reason, this implant is not successfully stimulating auditory cortices during melody perception. 

Now the next question is, well how does it really sound?

Now we've been doing some studies to really get a sense of what sound quality is like for these implant users.

I'm going to play you two clips of Usher, one which is normal and one which has almost no high frequencies, almost no low frequencies and not even that many mid frequencies.

Go ahead and play that. 

(Music) 

I had patients tell me that those sound the same.

And yes, there is hope.

Now I don't know if anybody knows who this is.

This is ... does somebody know?

This is Beethoven.

And it turns out that his temporal bones were harvested when he died to try to look at the cause of his deafness, which is why he has molding clay and his skull is bulging out on the side there.

But Beethoven composed music long after he lost his hearing.

What that suggests is that, even in the case of hearing loss, the capacity for music remains.

The brains remain hardwired for music. 

I've been very lucky to work with Dr. David Ryugo where I've been working on deaf cats that are white and trying to figure out what happens when we give them cochlear implants.

This is a cat that's been trained to respond to a trumpet for food. 

(Music) 

(Trumpet) 

CL: Now I'm not suggesting that the cat is hearing that trumpet the way we're hearing it.

I'm suggesting that with training you can imbue a musical sound with significance, even in a cat.

If we were to direct efforts towards training cochlear implant users to hear music -- because right now there's virtually no effort put towards that, no rehabilitative strategies, very little in the way of technological advances to actually improve music -- we would come a long way. 

Now I want to show you one last video.

And this is of a student of mine named Joseph who I had the good fortune to work with for three years in my lab.

He's deaf, and he learned to play the piano after he received the cochlear implant.

And here's a video of Joseph. 

(Music) 

(Video) Joseph: I was born in 1986.

So as a result, I had to rely on lip reading a lot, and I couldn't really hear what people were saying.

When I was 12 years old, I was one of the first few people in Singapore who underwent cochlear implantation.

Since then, I've never looked back. 

And this is really unheard of stuff, and this is all because of this technology.

And the fact that he can play the piano like that is a testament to his brain.

You don't actually have to hear it.

I know he doesn't hear well, because I've heard him do Karaoke.

(Laughter) And it's one of the most awful things -- heartwarming, but awful.

(Laughter) And so there is certainly a lot of hope, but there's a lot more that needs to be done. 

(Laughter) And so there is certainly a lot of hope, but there's a lot more that needs to be done. 

So I just want to conclude with the following words.

When it comes to restoration of hearing, we have certainly come a long way, a remarkably long way.

And we have a much longer way to go when it comes to the idea of restoring perfect hearing.

And let me tell you right now, it's fine that we would all be very happy with speech.

But I tell you, if we lost our hearing, if anyone here suddenly lost your hearing, you would want perfect hearing back.

You wouldn't want decent hearing, you would want perfect hearing.

Restoration of basic sensory function is critical.

And I don't think that we should give up on beauty. 

And I want to thank you for your time. 

