Good afternoon. 

As you're all aware, we face difficult economic times.

I come to you with a modest proposal for easing the financial burden. 

This idea came to me while talking to a physicist friend of mine at MIT.

He was struggling to explain something to me: a beautiful experiment that uses lasers to cool down matter.

Now a laser is different.

The control of a laser is so precise that you can perform surgery inside of an eye, you can use it to store massive amounts of data, and you can use it for this beautiful experiment that my friend was struggling to explain.

First you trap atoms in a special bottle.

It uses electromagnetic fields to isolate the atoms from the noise of the environment.

Now if you use the right kind of atoms and you get them cold enough, something truly bizarre happens.

It's no longer a solid, a liquid or a gas.

It enters a new state of matter called a superfluid.

A thin film will creep up the inside wall, flow over the top and right out the outside.

Now of course, the moment that it does hit the outside environment, and its temperature rises by even a fraction of a degree, it immediately turns back into normal matter.

Superfluids are one of the most fragile things we've ever discovered.

I have a Ph.D in molecular biology.

I still barely understand what most scientists are talking about.

So as my friend was trying to explain that experiment, it seemed like the more he said, the less I understood.

Because if you're trying to give someone the big picture of a complex idea, to really capture its essence, the fewer words you use, the better.

In fact, the ideal may be to use no words at all.

I remember thinking, my friend could have explained that entire experiment with a dance.

Of course, there never seem to be any dancers around when you need them. 

Now, the idea is not as crazy as it sounds.

I started a contest four years ago called Dance Your Ph.D.

Instead of explaining their research with words, scientists have to explain it with dance.

Now surprisingly, it seems to work.

Dance really can make science easier to understand.

The most surprising thing that I've learned while running this contest is that some scientists are now working directly with dancers on their research.

For example, at the University of Minnesota, there's a biomedical engineer named David Odde, and he works with dancers to study how cells move.

They do it by changing their shape.

When a chemical signal washes up on one side, it triggers the cell to expand its shape on that side, because the cell is constantly touching and tugging at the environment.

So that allows cells to ooze along in the right directions.

And this brings me to my modest proposal.

I think that bad PowerPoint presentations are a serious threat to the global economy. 

Now it does depend on how you measure it, of course, but one estimate has put the drain at 250 million dollars per day.

Of course, that's just the time we're losing sitting through presentations.

To borrow a concept from my country's CIA, it helps you to soften up your audience.

So now my country is 15 trillion dollars in debt.

Our leaders are working tirelessly to try and find ways to save money.

One idea is to drastically reduce public support for the arts.

For example, our National Endowment for the Arts, with its $150 million budget, slashing that program would immediately reduce the national debt by about one one-thousandth of a percent.

One certainly can't argue with those numbers.

However, once we eliminate public funding for the arts, there will be some drawbacks.

The artists on the street will swell the ranks of the unemployed.

Many will turn to drug abuse and prostitution, and that will inevitably lower property values in urban neighborhoods.

All of this could wipe out the savings we're hoping to make in the first place. 

Rather than dancing our Ph.Ds, we should use dance to explain all of our complex problems.

It's sure to help. 

Of course someday, in the deep future, a technology of persuasion even more powerful than PowerPoint may be invented, rendering dancers unnecessary as tools of rhetoric.

However, I trust that by that day, we shall have passed this present financial calamity.

