I do a radio show.

The radio show is called "The Infinite Monkey Cage."

It's about science, it's about rationalism.

We have made it quite clear to these people that an infinite monkey cage is roomy. 

(Laughter) 

We also had someone else who said, "'The Infinite Monkey Cage' idea is ridiculous.

An infinite number of monkeys could never write the works of Shakespeare.

We know this because they did an experiment."

Yes, they gave 12 monkeys a typewriter for a week, and after a week, they only used it as a bathroom. 

(Laughter) 

That's what I do.

But I also don't understand how it does ruin the magic.

All of the magic, I think, that may well be taken away by science is then replaced by something as wonderful. 

This is a wonderful thing.

And that to me as well, that if you think I'm worried about losing worlds, well Many Worlds theory -- one of the most beautiful, fascinating, sometimes terrifying ideas from the quantum interpretation -- is a wonderful thing.

That every person here, every decision that you've made today, every decision you've made in your life, you've not really made that decision, but in fact, every single permutation of those decisions is made, each one going off into a new universe.

That is a wonderful idea.

(Laughter) If you ever think, "Ah, I want to end it all," don't end it all.

Remember that in the majority of universes, you don't even exist in the first place.

This to me, in its own strange way, is very, very comforting. 

Now reincarnation, that's another thing gone -- the afterlife.

But it's not gone.

Science actually says we will live forever.

Your consciousness, the you-ness of you, the me-ness of me -- that gets this one go.

But every single thing that makes us, every atom in us, has already created a myriad of different things and will go on to create a myriad of new things.

We have been mountains and apples and pulsars and other people's knees.

Who knows, maybe one of your atoms was once Napoleon's knee.

That is a good thing.

Unlike the occupants of the universe, the universe itself is not wasteful.

We are all totally recyclable.

Understanding, to me, does not remove the wonder and the joy.

And that is a wonderful thing there.

Love does not die because of that thing. 

Pain doesn't go away either.

This is a terrible thing, even though I understand pain.

It is basically momentum to energy where the four-vector is constant -- that's what it is.

But at no point can I react and go, "Ha!

No, I just spit out a tooth. 

(Laughter) 

I'm very lucky, because he's better than all the other children.

Now I know you don't think that.

You may well have your own children and think, "Oh no, my child's best."

Now in many ways, that's just a survival thing.

That is a wonderful thing.

Though I should say that my son is best and is better than your children.

I've done some tests. 

And all of these things to me give such joy and excitement and wonder.

Even quantum mechanics can give you an excuse for bad housework, for instance.

Do nothing.

(Laughter) That's the strong anthropic principle of vacuuming. 

For me, it's a very, very important thing.

Even on my journey up here -- the joy that I have on my journey up here every single time.

If you actually think, you remove the myth and there is still something wonderful.

I'm sitting on a train.

Every time I breathe in, I'm breathing in a million-billion-billion atoms of oxygen.

I'm sitting on a chair.

Even though I know the chair is made of atoms and therefore actually in many ways empty space, I find it comfortable.

If you go to the safari parks on Saturn or Jupiter, you will be disappointed.

And I realize I'm observing this with the brain, the human brain, the most complex thing in the known universe.

That, to me, is an incredible thing.

And do you know what, that might be enough. 

Steven Weinberg, the Nobel laureate, once said, "The more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it seems pointless."

I'm glad the universe is pointless.

We have the individual power to go, "This is what I want to do."

And in a pointless universe, that, to me, is a wonderful thing.

I have chosen to make silly jokes about quantum mechanics and the Copenhagen interpretation.

You, I imagine, can do much better things with your time. 

