And this is the first stop along the line.

(Laughter) And as you'll see now, I'm not wearing pants.

(Laughter) So she's noticed the unusual thing, but she's gone back to her normal life. 

We'll act as though we don't know each other.

And we'll act as if it's just an unfortunate mistake we've made, forgetting our pants on this cold January day.

(Laughter) So at this point, she decides to put the rape book away.

(Laughter) And she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings. 

(Laughter) And I love that moment in this video, because before it became a shared experience, it was something that was maybe a little bit scary, or something that was at least confusing to her.

And then once it became a shared experience, it was funny and something that she could laugh at. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

So that's a still from the video there.

And I love that girl's reaction so much.

And we've continued to do it every year.

(Laughter) 

As I started taking improv class at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater and meeting other creative people and other performers and comedians, I started amassing a mailing list of people who wanted to do these types of projects.

So I could do more large-scale projects.

Well one day I was walking through Union Square, and I saw this building, which had just been built in 2005.

And there was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing.

So it seemed like maybe she had been dared to do this.

So I got inspired by that.

Looking at the entire facade -- there were 70 total windows -- and I knew what I had to do. 

(Laughter) 

We didn't let the stores know we were coming.

And I stood in the park giving signals.

The first signal was for everybody to hold up these four-foot tall letters that spelled out "Look Up More," the name of the project.

(Laughter) And then we had dancing.

(Laughter) And then we had dancing.

There were several other activities.

There's a better photo of it. 

So that particular event was inspired by a moment that I happened to stumble upon.

(Laughter) (Applause) So I wrote this high school kid back immediately, and I said, "Yes, you are correct.

So again, this is 2005.

This is the Best Buy in New York City.

There was an eight year-old girl, a 10 year-old girl.

There was also a 65 year-old man who participated.

Now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt.

The managers and the security guards, on the other hand, did not find it particularly funny.

And we were there probably 10 minutes before the managers decided to dial 911. 

(Laughter) 

So they started running around telling everybody the cops were coming, watch out, the cops were coming.

And you can see the cops in this footage right here.

(Laughter) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

So we had been there for 20 minutes; we were happy to exit the store.

(Laughter) 

I think our best projects are ones that are site specific and happen at a particular place for a reason.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Thank you.

So there's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better.

And of course they don't.

It's a perfectly wonderful way to spent a weekend afternoon, watching a football game in a stadium.

(Laughter) Or listening to the same MP3 as 3,000 other people and dancing silently in a park, or bursting into song in a grocery store as part of a spontaneous musical, or diving into the ocean in Coney Island wearing formal attire. 

You know, as kids, we're taught to play.

And we're never given a reason why we should play.

It's just acceptable that play is a good thing.

And I think that's sort of the point of Improv Everywhere.

It's that there is no point and that there doesn't have to be a point.

We don't need a reason.

As long as it's fun and it seems like it's going to be a funny idea and it seems like the people who witness it will also have a fun time, then that's enough for us.

And I think, as adults, we need to learn that there's no right or wrong way to play. 

