I'd like to start with a short story.

And the dad used to use those bulls to tell the boy stories about that civilization and their work. 

Let's fast-forward to the San Francisco Bay Area many decades later, where I started a technology company that brought the world its first 3D laser scanning system.

Let me show you how it works.

Female Voice: Long range laser scanning by sending out a pulse that's a laser beam of light.

The system measures the beam's time of flight, recording the time it takes for the light to hit a surface and make its return.

All of this happens in seconds.

A surveyor with traditional survey tools would be hard-pressed to produce maybe 500 points in a whole day.

These babies would be producing something like ten thousand points a second.

So, as you can imagine, this was a paradigm shift in the survey and construction as well as in reality capture industry. 

Approximately ten years ago, my wife and I started a foundation to do good, and right about that time, the magnificent Bamiyan Buddhas, hundred and eighty foot tall in Afghanistan, were blown up by the Taliban.

This clearly devastated me, and I couldn't help but wonder about the fate of my old friends, the winged bulls, and the fate of the many, many heritage sites all over the world.

Both my wife and I were so touched by this that we decided to expand the mission of our foundation to include digital heritage preservation of world sites.

We called the project CyArk, which stands for Cyber Archive. 

To date, with the help of a global network of partners, we've completed close to fifty projects.

As you see here, we had to develop a special rig to bring the scanner up close and personal.

The results of our work in the field are used to produce media and deliverables to be used by conservators and researchers.

We also produce media for dissemination to the public -- free through the CyArk website.

These would be used for education, cultural tourism, etc. 

What you're looking at in here is a 3D viewer that we developed that would allow the display and manipulation of [the] cloud of points in real time, cutting sections through them and extracting dimensions.

This happens to be the cloud of points for Tikal.

It's used for studies, for visualization, as well as for education. 

Of course, earthquakes and all the natural phenomena -- floods, tornadoes, etc.

However, what occurred to me was human-caused destruction, which was not only causing a significant portion of the destruction, but actually it was accelerating.

This includes arson, urban sprawl, acid rain, not to mention terrorism and wars.

It was getting more and more apparent that we're fighting a losing battle.

Luckily, in the last two or three decades, digital technologies have been developing that have helped us to develop tools that we've brought to bear in the digital preservation, in our digital preservation war.

This includes, for example, the 3D laser scanning systems, ever more powerful personal computers, 3D graphics, high-definition digital photography, not to mention the Internet.

Because of this accelerated pace of destruction, it became clear to us that we needed to challenge ourselves and our partners to accelerate our work.

And we created a project we call the CyArk 500 Challenge -- and that is to digitally preserve 500 World Heritage Sites in five years. 

We do have the technology that's scaleable, and our network of global partners has been expanding and can be expanded at a rapid rate, so we're comfortable that this task can be accomplished.

However, to me, the 500 is really just the first 500.

In order to sustain our work into the future, we use technology centers where we partner with local universities and colleges to take the technology to them, whereby they then can help us with digital preservation of their heritage sites, and at the same time, it gives them the technology to benefit from in the future. 

Let me close with another short story.

Two years ago, we were approached by a partner of ours to digitally preserve an important heritage site, a UNESCO heritage site in Uganda, the Royal Kasubi Tombs.

The work was done successfully in the field, and the data was archived and publicly disseminated through the CyArk website.

Let me leave you with a final thought.

Our heritage is much more than our collective memory -- it's our collective treasure.

This is all in 3D and of course you can fly through the cloud of points.

