And the situation that irked me and mystified me the most was his use of a landline telephone.

He would hold on to the receiver and expect me to dial a number for him.

And so as a response and as a gift to my uncle, I made him "The Uncle Phone."

It's so long that it requires two people to use it.

It's exactly the way my uncle uses a phone that's designed for one person. 

But the problem is that, when I left home and went to college, I started missing his commands.

So what he had to do was take a piece of paper, roll it into the carriage, type his email or command and pull the paper out.

This device would automatically send the intended person the letter as an email.

So my uncle is only dealing with a mechanical interface.

And we wanted to work with a notion of being surrounded by a tribe of very shy, sensitive and sweet creatures.

So how it works is we have these panels, which we have on the wall, and behind them, we have these little creatures which hide.

And as soon as it's silent, they sort of creep out.

And if it's even more silent, they stretch their necks out.

And at the slightest sound, they hide back again. 

So this is how it works.

This is a video prototype.

So when it's quiet, it's sort of coming out from behind the panels.

And they hear like humans do, or real creatures do.

So they get immune to sounds that scare them after awhile.

And they don't react to background sounds.

You'll hear a train in moment that they don't react to.

(Whistling) So we worked very hard to make them as lifelike as possible.

So this is a very early prototype.

Of course, it got much better after that.

This is a video installation called "The Missing Person."

And we were quite intrigued with playing with the notion of invisibility.

How would it be possible to experience a sense of invisibility?

So I'm just going to show you a very early prototype.

And you can see that the camera is tracking him and erasing.

So how we used it was in a room where we had a camera looking into the space, and we had one monitor, one on each wall.

And as people walked into the room, they would see themselves in the monitor, except with one difference: one person was constantly invisible wherever they moved in the room. 

So this is a work called "The Sun Shadow."

And it was almost like a sheet of paper, like a cutout of a childlike drawing of an oil spill or a sun.

But as soon as they passed by, it would start to climb up the wall in jerky fashion.

And it would get exhausted, and it would collapse every time. 

So this work is a caricature of an upside-down man.

And it's kind of constrained by that circle.

Because if that circle weren't there, and the floor was very even, it would start to wander about in the space.

And there's no wires.

Now he's getting nervous, so he's going to go catch it.

And it's at the scale of the night sky.

And once a creature pops into our minds, it's almost like the process of creation is to discover the way this creature really wants to exist and what form it wants to take and what way it wants to move. 

Thank you. 

