Imagine that you invented a device that can record my memories, my dreams, my ideas, and transmit them to your brain.

That would be a game-changing technology, right?

To understand how this device works, we have to look into our brains.

And we have to formulate the question in a slightly different manner. 

Now we have to ask how these neuron patterns in my brain that are associated with my memories and ideas are transmitted into your brains.

And we think there are two factors that enable us to communicate.

First, your brain is now physically coupled to the sound wave that I'm transmitting to your brain.

And second, we developed a common neural protocol that enabled us to communicate. 

So how do we know that?

In my lab in Princeton, we bring people to the fMRI scanner and we scan their brains while they are either telling or listening to real-life stories.

And to give you a sense of the stimulus we are using, let me play 20 seconds from a story that we used, told by a very talented storyteller, Jim O'Grady. 

Uri Hasson: OK, so now let's look into your brain and see what's happening when you listen to these kinds of stories.

And as you can see, in this particular brain area, the responses are going up and down as the story is unfolding.

Now we can take these responses and compare them to the responses in other listeners in the same brain area.

And we can ask: How similar are the responses across all listeners? 

So here you can see five listeners.

And we start to scan their brains before the story starts, when they're simply lying in the dark and waiting for the story to begin.

However, immediately as the story is starting, something amazing is happening. 

UH: Suddenly, you can see that the responses in all of the subjects lock to the story, and now they are going up and down in a very similar way across all listeners.

And in fact, this is exactly what is happening now in your brains when you listen to my sound speaking.

We call this effect "neural entrainment."

And to explain to you what is neural entrainment, let me first explain what is physical entrainment. 

So, we'll look and see five metronomes.

Think of these five metronomes as five brains.

Now see what will happen when I connect them together by placing them on these two cylinders. 

Now these two cylinders start to rotate.

This rotation vibration is going through the wood and is going to couple all the metronomes together.

And now listen to the click. 

This is what you call physical entrainment.

Is it simply the sounds that the speaker is producing?

Or maybe it's the words.

Or maybe it's the meaning that the speaker is trying to convey. 

So to test it, we did the following experiment.

First, we took the story and played it backwards.

And that preserved many of the original auditory features, but removed the meaning.

And it sounds something like that. 

Now we can take these sounds and build words out of it.

So if we take Jim O'Grady and scramble the words, we'll get a list of words. 

UH: And you can see that these words start to induce alignment in early language areas, but not more than that.

Now we can take the words and start to build sentences out of them. 

UH: Now you can see that the responses in all the language areas that process the incoming language become aligned or similar across all listeners.

And if we are right, there's a strong prediction over here if I tell you the exact same ideas using two very different sets of words, your brain responses will still be similar. 

And to test it, we did the following experiment in my lab.

We took the English story and translated it to Russian.

Now you have two different sounds and linguistic systems that convey the exact same meaning.

However, you can see that the responses in high-order areas were still similar across these two groups.

We believe this is because they understood the story in a very similar way, as we confirmed, using a test after the story ended. 

And we think that this alignment is necessary for communication.

For example, as you can tell, I am not a native English speaker.

And still, we can communicate.

How come?

We think we can communicate because we have this common code that presents meaning. 

But what's happening in the speaker's brain, in my brain, when I'm speaking to you?

To our surprise, we saw that all these complex patterns within the listeners actually came from the speaker brain.

So production and comprehension rely on very similar processes.

And we also found the stronger the similarity between the listener's brain and the speaker's brain, the better the communication.

So I know that if you are completely confused now, and I do hope that this is not the case, your brain responses are very different than mine.

But I also know that if you really understand me now, then your brain ... and your brain ... and your brain are really similar to mine. 

So we did the following experiment.

We let people watch, for the first time in their life, a TV episode from the BBC series "Sherlock," while we scanned their brains.

And then we asked them to go back to the scanner and tell the story to another person that never watched the movie.

So let's be specific.

With me, as a viewer, there is a specific brain pattern in my brain when I watch it.

Now, the exact same pattern, I can reactivate in my brain again by telling the word: Sherlock, London, murderer.

And when I'm transmitting these words to your brains now, you have to reconstruct it in your mind.

In fact, we see that pattern emerging now in your brains.

And we were really surprised to see that the pattern you have now in your brains when I'm describing to you these scenes would be very similar to the pattern I had when I watched this movie a few months ago in the scanner.

This starts to tell you about the mechanism by which we can tell stories and transmit information.

Because, for example, now you're listening really hard and trying to understand what I'm saying.

And I know that it's not easy.

But I hope that at one point in the talk we clicked, and you got me.

But our ability to communicate relies on our ability to have common ground.

Because, for example, if I'm going to use the British synonym "hackney carriage" instead of "cab," I know that I'm going to be misaligned with most of you in the audience.

This alignment depends not only on our ability to understand the basic concept; it also depends on our ability to develop common ground and understanding and shared belief systems.

Because we know that in many cases, people understand the exact same story in very different ways. 

For half of the subjects, we said that the wife was having an affair with the best friend.

For the other half, we said that the wife is loyal and the husband is very jealous.

This one sentence before the story started was enough to make the brain responses of all the people that believed the wife was having an affair be very similar in these high-order areas and different than the other group.

And I used this coupling to transmit my brain patterns associated with my memories and ideas into your brains.

In this, I start to reveal the hidden neural mechanism by which we communicate.

And we know that in the future it will enable us to improve and facilitate communication.

But these studies also reveal that communication relies on a common ground.

And I'm not sure how to fix it because I'm only a scientist.

Because after all, the people we are coupled to define who we are.

And our desire to be coupled to another brain is something very basic that starts at a very early age. 

This my son Jonathan at a very early age.

Now, think how the ability of my son to be coupled to us and other people in his life is going to shape the man he is going to become.

And think how you change on a daily basis from the interaction and coupling to other people in your life. 

So keep being coupled to other people.

Thank you. 

