And usually when I tell people I'm an artist, they just look at me and say, "Do you paint?"

or "What kind of medium do you work in?"

So what I'm really interested in is creative problem solving.

And I had a little bit of a problem a few years ago.

So let me show you a little of that. 

So it started over here.

And this is the Detroit airport in June 19th of 2002.

I was flying back to the U.S. from an exhibition overseas.

And then literally just out of nowhere, the guy asks me, "Where were you September 12th?"

So I pulled out my little PDA, and I said, "Okay, let's look up my appointments for September 12th."

And I don't think he was expecting me to have such detailed records of what I did.

But good thing I did, because I don't look good in orange. 

So to the folks from Google, thank you.

(Applause) So I spent a lot of time in this building.

(Laughter) So I was like, "Maybe you want to ask some of my colleagues that directly."

But they said, "Okay, aside from what we had discussed, do you belong to any groups that wish to harm the United States?"

I was like, "No."

Northwest flight seven coming into Seattle on March 12th" or whatever.

A couple weeks later, I'd call again, let them know.

It wasn't that I had to, but I chose to.

So I actually designed this back in 2003.

So this kind of tracks me at any given moment.

I wrote some code for my mobile phone.

Basically, what I decided is okay guys, you want to watch me, that's cool.

You don't have to waste your energy or your resources.

And I'll help you out.

So in the process, I start thinking, well what else might they know about me?

Well they probably have all my flight records, so I decided to put all my flight records from birth online.

So you can see, Delta 1252 going from Kansas City to Atlanta.

And then you see, these are some of the meals that I've been fed on the planes.

That's Kennedy airport, May 19th, Tuesday.

This is in Warsaw.

And when you're in a situation where you have to justify every moment of your existence, you're put in the situation where you react in a very different manner.

At the time that this was going on, the last thing on my mind was "art project."

I was certainly not thinking, hey, I got new work here.

And then my pickled jellyfish at the Hong Kong Supermarket on Route 18 in East Brunswick.

Sometimes they're really small purchases.

So 34 cents foreign transaction fee.

Sometimes there's a lot of information.

This is exactly where my old apartment in San Francisco was.

I had to tell them every little detail of everything.

I spend a lot of time on the road.

I spend a lot of time in gas stations too -- empty train stations.

So there's multiple databases.

And there's thousands and thousands and thousands of images.

And sometimes you get a lot of text information and no visual information.

So you get something like this.

So how do you know these are meals eaten at home?

Well the same plate shows up a whole bunch of times.

So again, you have to do some detective work here.

So sometimes the databases get so specific.

At 11:39 a.m. was this one.

So I time-stamp my life every few moments.

Every few moments I shoot the image. 

So on December 4th, I went here.

And on Sunday, June 14th at 2009 -- this was actually about two o'clock in the afternoon in Skowhegan, Maine -- this was my apartment there.

So what you're basically seeing here is all bits and pieces and all this information. 

If you go to my site, there's tons of things.

And really, it's not the most user-friendly interface.

It's actually quite user-unfriendly.

So by me putting all this information out there, what I'm basically telling you is I'm telling you everything.

But in this barrage of noise that I'm putting out, I actually live an incredibly anonymous and private life.

And you know very little about me actually.

And really so I've come to the conclusion that the way you protect your privacy, particularly in an era where everything is cataloged and everything is archived and everything is recorded, there's no need to delete information anymore. 

So what do you do when everything is out there?

Well you have to take control over it.

And the reason their information has any value is, well, because no one else has access to it.

And I understand that, on an individual level, it's purely symbolic.

Because it just wouldn't work if everybody was sharing everything.

And we're getting to that. 

This is something that we all are doing on a daily basis, whether we're aware of it or not.

So we're creating our own archives and so on. 

Because it's about surveillance.

I'm watching who's watching me.

And I came up with these.

So these are some of my sample logs.

And just little bits and pieces, and you can see some of the things there.

And I cleaned up the list a little bit so you can see.

So you can see that the Homeland Security likes to come by -- Department of Homeland Security.

(Applause) 

So how many hours of the day does that take? 

HE: Almost none.

It's one of those things, we got by just fine before we had to do any of those.

So it's just become another day.

I mean, when we update a status message, we don't really think about how long that's going to take.

And everything's automated at the other end. 

BG: On the day you are in a place where there is no coverage, the FBI gets crazy? 

HE: Well it goes to the last point that I was at.

So it holds onto the very last point.

So if I'm on a 12-hour flight, you'll see the last airport that I departed from. 

(Applause) 

