It was a great idea, and pretty much a complete failure.

For one thing, it turned out to be really hard to make a malaria-resistant mosquito.

But that just created another problem.

The problem was that you'd have to release literally 10 times the number of native mosquitos to work.

So in a village with 10,000 mosquitos, you release an extra 100,000.

As you might guess, this was not a very popular strategy with the villagers. 

Then, last January, Anthony James got an email from a biologist named Ethan Bier.

Bier said that he and his grad student Valentino Gantz had stumbled on a tool that could not only guarantee that a particular genetic trait would be inherited, but that it would spread incredibly quickly.

If they were right, it would basically solve the problem that he and James had been working on for 20 years. 

So they took their two anti-malarial, red-eyed mosquitos and put them in a box with 30 ordinary white-eyed ones, and let them breed.

In two generations, those had produced 3,800 grandchildren.

Instead, when James opened the box, all 3,800 mosquitos had red eyes. 

When I asked Ethan Bier about this moment, he became so excited that he was literally shouting into the phone.

That's because getting only red-eyed mosquitos violates a rule that is the absolute cornerstone of biology, Mendelian genetics.

So what happened?

The first thing that happened was the arrival of a gene-editing tool known as CRISPR in 2012.

It does this by harnessing a mechanism that already existed in bacteria.

The result is basically a word processor for genes.

You can take an entire gene out, put one in, or even edit just a single letter within a gene.

And you can do it in nearly any species. 

OK, remember how I said that gene drives originally had two problems?

A couple years ago, a biologist at Harvard named Kevin Esvelt wondered what would happen if you made it so that CRISPR inserted not only your new gene but also the machinery that does the cutting and pasting.

In other words, what if CRISPR also copied and pasted itself.

You'd end up with a perpetual motion machine for gene editing.

And that's exactly what happened.

This CRISPR gene drive that Esvelt created not only guarantees that a trait will get passed on, but if it's used in the germline cells, it will automatically copy and paste your new gene into both chromosomes of every single individual.

So, what does this mean?

For one thing, it means we have a very powerful, but also somewhat alarming new tool.

Up until now, the fact that gene drives didn't work very well was actually kind of a relief.

Normally when we mess around with an organism's genes, we make that thing less evolutionarily fit.

So biologists can make all the mutant fruit flies they want without worrying about it.

If some escape, natural selection just takes care of them. 

Now, it isn't easy to make a gene drive that works that well, but James and Esvelt think that we can. 

The good news is that this opens the door to some remarkable things.

If you put an anti-malarial gene drive in just 1 percent of Anopheles mosquitoes, the species that transmits malaria, researchers estimate that it would spread to the entire population in a year.

So in a year, you could virtually eliminate malaria.

The same goes for dengue fever, chikungunya, yellow fever. 

And it gets better.

Say you want to get rid of an invasive species, like get Asian carp out of the Great Lakes.

All you have to do is release a gene drive that makes the fish produce only male offspring.

In a few generations, there'll be no females left, no more carp.

In theory, this means we could restore hundreds of native species that have been pushed to the brink. 

Anthony James took good precautions.

But it's also true that if a dozen Asian carp with the all-male gene drive accidentally got carried from the Great Lakes back to Asia, they could potentially wipe out the native Asian carp population.

And that's not so unlikely, given how connected our world is.

In fact, it's why we have an invasive species problem.

And that's fish.

Things like mosquitos and fruit flies, there's literally no way to contain them.

They cross borders and oceans all the time. 

But it could be a disaster if your drive is deigned to eliminate the species entirely. 

An undergraduate can do it.

A talented high schooler with some equipment can do it. 

Now, I'm guessing that this sounds terrifying. 

Interestingly though, nearly every scientist I talk to seemed to think that gene drives were not actually that frightening or dangerous.

Partly because they believe that scientists will be very cautious and responsible about using them. 

So far, that's been true.

But gene drives also have some actual limitations.

So for one thing, they work only in sexually reproducing species.

So thank goodness, they can't be used to engineer viruses or bacteria.

In elephants or people, it would take centuries for a trait to spread widely enough to matter. 

Also, even with CRISPR, it's not that easy to engineer a truly devastating trait.

Say you wanted to make a fruit fly that feeds on ordinary fruit instead of rotting fruit, with the aim of sabotaging American agriculture.

You'll probably choose the later. 

This is especially true because at least in theory, it should be pretty easy to build what's called a reversal drive.

That's one that basically overwrites the change made by the first gene drive.

OK, so where does this leave us?

We now have the ability to change entire species at will.

Should we?

Are we gods now?

That's great.

But this technology still requires a conversation.

And given the nature of gene drives, that conversation has to be global.

I don't have the answer to that question.

All we can do going forward, I think, is talk honestly about the risks and benefits and take responsibility for our choices.

By that I mean, not just the choice to use a gene drive, but also the choice not to use one.

To combat it, we spray pesticides that do grave damage to other species, including amphibians and birds. 

