And one day, one of his customers came into his workshop and asked him to clean the watch that he'd bought.

And as he did so, his customer noticed that on the back side of the balance wheel was an engraving, were words.

But I felt something.

And it was a physiological response.

And from that point on, from my age at the time, I began to think of things in a different way. 

Now you probably know the answer to this already.

You probably think, well, I don't know which one you think it is, but I think it's about feeling beauty.

And so I then moved on into my design career and began to find some exciting things.

And then somebody, I think it was BMW, introduced a light that went out slowly.

Remember that?

I remember it clearly.

Do you remember the first time you were in a car and it did that?

I remember sitting there thinking, this is fantastic.

In fact, I've never found anybody that doesn't like the light that goes out slowly.

I thought, well what the hell's that about? 

I thought, well that's not good enough.

And so I did some experiments.

And would you do me a favor?

For the next 14 minutes or whatever it is, will you feel stuff? 

I don't need you to think so much as I want you to feel it.

I felt a sense of relaxation tempered with anticipation.

And that thing that I found was the cinema or the theater.

Now I'm not a neuroscientist.

I don't know even if there is something called a conditioned reflex.

But it might be.

Because the people I speak to in the northern hemisphere that used to go in the cinema get this.

And some of the people I speak to that have never seen a movie or been to the theater don't get it in the same way.

The wiring from your sensory apparatus to those bits is shorter than the bits that have to pass through the thinky bit, the cortex.

They arrive first.

So how do we make that actually work?

This is one of the most beautiful things I know.

It's a plastic bag.

And when I looked at it first, I thought, no, there's no beauty in that.

And all of a sudden, this plastic bag was extremely beautiful to me. 

Now I'm going to ask you again to switch on the emotional bit.

I'm watching your faces very carefully.

This is the last act on this Earth of a little girl called Heidi, five years old, before she died of cancer to the spine.

Is it beautiful now? 

The lady over there is actually crying, by the way.

But what are you doing?

I watch what people do.

I watch faces.

I watch reactions.

Because I have to know how people react to things.

It's not a "this is wonderful!"

That's not the expression of joy.

There's something else in that.

There's something weird happening.

So pleasure seems to be tempered by a whole series of different things coming in. 

Poignancy is a word I love as a designer.

So a lot of it tends to be extrinsic.

It's mediated by information before the comprehension.

Now when talking about beauty you can't get away from the fact that a lot experiments have been done in this way with faces and what have you.

And one of the most tedious ones, I think, was saying that beauty was about symmetry.

Well it obviously isn't.

So it wasn't about symmetry.

But they're both different. 

Now I can feel a sensation of delight and beauty if I look at that eye.

I'm not getting it off the eyebrow.

And the earhole isn't doing it to me at all.

So I'm going to shamelessly expose something to you, which is beautiful to me.

And this is the F1 MV Agusta.

It's masses and masses of layers.

This is just the bit that protrudes into our physical dimension.

It's something much bigger.

Layer after layer of legend, sport, details that resonate.

This bit, the big secret of automotive design -- reflection management.

I'm getting terribly excited as my mind and my eyes flick across these things. 

Titanium lacquer on this.

I can't tell you how wonderful this is.

That's how you stop the nuts coming off at high speed on the wheel.

I'm really getting into this now.

Why would you do that?

Because I know we need to bring the wheel farther into the aerodynamics.

The bit that you can't see is the genius that created this.

There's so little compromise on this, you can't see it. 

But unfortunately, the likes of me and people that are like me have to deal with compromise all the time with beauty.

Did you see what I did?

But then, of course, the consumer says that doesn't really matter.

So that's okay, isn't it?

Another millimeter?

No one's going to notice those split lines and changes.

And only a few people can do it.

And a focus group cannot do it.

And a team rarely can do it.

It's lovely because it is an embodiment of something refreshing and delicious.

I might like it more than you like it, because I know how bloody hard it is to do it.

Underneath this, like the story of the swan, is a million things very difficult to do.

You also may be taking into account the fact that it's incredibly painful.

Anybody seen a ballet dancer's toes when they come out of the points?

While she's doing these graceful arabesques and plies and what have you, something horrible's going on down here.

Now I'm using microseconds wrongly here, so please ignore me.

But you're a slave of that first flash.

It wins or loses at that point.

You may see 50, 100, 200 things on a shelf as you walk down it, but I have to work within that domain, to ensure that it gets you there first. 

Some of you, I'm sure, will be familiar with this.

But just go to the Web, YouTube, pull it down, "folding T-shirt."

That's how underpaid younger-aged people have to fold your T-shirt.

You didn't maybe know it.

But how do you feel about it?

It informs, it tells us, it supplies us answers before we've even thought about it.

What I try to pursue now is the emotional functionality of things.

Because if I can get that right, I can make them wonderful, and I can make them repeatedly wonderful.

They're the things that you'd snatch if the house was on fire.

Forming the emotional bond between this thing and you is an electrochemical party trick that happens before you even think about it. 

Thank you very much. 

