Today, I am going to show you how this tablet and this virtual-reality headset that I'm wearing are going to completely revolutionize science education.

And I'm also going to show you how it can make any science teacher more than twice as effective.

But before I show you how all of this is possible, let's talk briefly about why improving the quality of science education is so vitally important. 

And who, exactly, is going to help us solve all of these great challenges?

Well, to a very last degree, it is these young students.

This is the next generation of young, bright scientists.

And in many ways, we all rely on them for coming up with new, great innovations to help us solve all these challenges ahead of us.

So we started looking around for new, innovative teaching methods, but what we found was quite disappointing.

Why not build a virtual laboratory simulator? 

Well, we did it.

And suddenly, the universities could save millions of dollars by letting the students perform virtual experiments before they go into the real laboratory.

And not only that; now, they could also understand -- even on a molecular level inside the machine -- what is happening to the machines.

And then they could suddenly perform dangerous experiments in the labs as well.

For instance also here, learning about salmonella bacteria, which is an important topic that many schools cannot teach for good safety reasons.

And we, of course, quiz the students and then give the teachers a full dashboard, so they fully understand where the students are at. 

For instance, here in this case, where the students have to solve a mysterious CSI murder case using their core science skills. 

And what I love the most about this is really when the students come up to me sometimes afterwards, all surprised and a little confused, and say, "I just spent two hours in this virtual lab, and ... and I didn't check Facebook."

Then, interestingly, they gave the students a test before and after the experiment, so they could clearly measure the learning impact of the students.

And what they found was a surprisingly high 76 percent increase in the learning effectiveness when using virtual laboratories over traditional teaching methods. 

But even more interestingly, the second part of this study investigated what the teacher's impact was on the learning.

I will explain briefly what this is.

And now what I can effectively do is, I can literally step into this virtual world.

It literally feels like I just stepped inside this virtual lab.

Do you see me up on the screen? 

I can, for instance, pick up the pipette and do experiments with it.

I mean, who's carrying around an electron microscope in their pocket?

And here I have my machine, I can do different experiments on the machine.

This is an intelligent tablet that allows me to read about relevant theory.

And very soon, the teachers will be able to literally teleport themselves into this virtual world that I'm in right now and help me, guide me, through this whole experiment. 

This is a PCR machine.

I'm now going to start this experiment.

I see the polymerase and the enzymes and so forth.

And I can really feel and understand how all of this works. 

Now, I hope that gives you a little bit of a sense of the possibilities in these new teaching methods.

And I want to also emphasize that everything you just saw also works on iPads and laptops without the headsets.

I say that for a very important reason.

In order for us to really empower and inspire the next generation of scientists, we really need teachers to drive the adoption of new technologies in the classroom.

And so in many ways, I believe that the next big, quantum leap in science education lies no longer with the technology, but rather with the teachers' decision to push forward and adopt these technologies inside the classrooms.

And so it is our hope that more universities and schools and teachers will collaborate with technology companies to realize this full potential. 

And so, lastly, I'd like to leave you with a little story that really inspires me.

And that is the story of Jack Andraka.

Some of you might already know him.

And when Jack shares his story of how he did this huge breakthrough, he also explains that one thing almost prevented him from making this breakthrough.

Thank you very much. 

