What's in the box?

Sound familiar?

Did you know that we Americans have about three times the amount of space we did 50 years ago?

Three times.

So you'd think, with all this extra space, we'd have plenty of room for all our stuff.

Nope.

So we've got triple the space, but we've become such good shoppers that we need even more space.

So where does this lead?

Lots of credit card debt, huge environmental footprints, and perhaps not coincidentally, our happiness levels flat-lined over the same 50 years. 

Whatever it was for you, I bet that, among other things, this gave you a little more freedom, a little more time.

So I'm going to suggest that less stuff and less space are going to equal a smaller footprint.

It's actually a great way to save you some money.

And it's going to give you a little more ease in your life. 

I wanted it all -- home office, sit down dinner for 10, room for guests, and all my kite surfing gear.

Smaller space is going to make for smaller utilities -- save some more money there, but also a smaller footprint.

So how can you live little?

Three main approaches.

First of all, you have to edit ruthlessly.

We've got to clear the arteries of our lives.

And that shirt that I hadn't worn in years?

It's time for me to let it go.

We need to think before we buy.

But we want stuff that we're going to love for years, not just stuff. 

Secondly, our new mantra: small is sexy.

We want space efficiency.

We want things that are designed for how they're used the vast majority of the time, not that rare event.

Why have a six burner stove when you rarely use three?

You can take paperwork, books, movies, and you can make it disappear -- it's magic. 

Finally, we want multifunctional spaces and housewares -- a sink combined with a toilet, a dining table becomes a bed -- same space, a little side table stretches out to seat 10.

Look at the coffee table -- it grows in height and width to seat 10.

My office folds away, easily hidden.

And of course, my own movie theater. 

So I'm not saying that we all need to live in 420 sq.

But consider the benefits of an edited life.

Go from 3,000 to 2,000, from 1,500 to 1,000.

Most of us, maybe all of us, are here pretty happily for a bunch of days with a couple of bags, maybe a small space, a hotel room.

It doesn't really matter.

I know I don't need it.

What's in yours?

Maybe, just maybe, less might equal more.

So let's make room for the good stuff. 

Thank you. 

