I was born in Switzerland and raised in Ghana, West Africa.

In 1979, I witnessed my first military coup.

The firing squad aimed, fired -- the general was dead.

Now this was being broadcast live.

And shortly after, we left the country, and we returned to Switzerland. 

So here I was in 2008 wondering where I was in my life.

And I felt I was being typecast as an actor.

And fortunately I decided in 2008 to return to Ghana, after 28 years of absence.

I wanted to document on film the 2008 presidential elections.

And there, I started by searching for the footprints in my childhood.

And before I even knew it, I was suddenly on a stage surrounded by thousands of cheering people during a political rally. 

Was what was happening in Ghana a metaphor for what was happening in me?

And it was as if through the standards of my Western life, I hadn't lived up to my full potential.

I mean, nor had Ghana, even though we had been trying very hard. 

Now in 1957, Ghana was the first sub-Saharan country to gain its independence.

In the late 50s, Ghana and Singapore had the same GDP.

I mean, today, Singapore is a First World country and Ghana is not.

Now the first round of the voting didn't bring forth a clear winner -- so nobody had achieved the absolute majority -- so voting went into a second round three weeks later.

The candidates were back on the road; they were campaigning.

The rhetoric of the candidates, of course, changed.

And not only that, I am documenting it -- documenting my own cultural shortcomings. 

So when the echo of the gunshots had lingered, it was soon drowned by the chanting of the mob, and I didn't believe what I was hearing.

They were chanting, "We want peace.

After all, they decide, and they did.

So the sounds that were before distorted and loud, were suddenly a melody.

The sounds of the voices were harmonious.

Now here's an interesting comparison.

We in the West, we preach the values, the golden light of democracy, that we are the shining example of how it's done.

It didn't leave it up to the Supreme Court to decide; the people did. 

Now the second round of voting did not bring forth a clear winner either.

I mean, it was so incredibly close.

The electoral commissioner declared, with the consent of the parties, to run an unprecedented second re-run.

I mean, at the absolute time for the absolute need of democracy, they did not abuse their power.

The belief in true democracy and in the people runs deep, proving that the African is capable of governing himself. 

And yes, we Africans can. 

Thank you. 

