So I just want to tell you my story.

I spend a lot of time teaching adults how to use visual language and doodling in the workplace.

In the 18th century, it became a verb, and it meant to swindle or ridicule or to make fun of someone.

No wonder people are averse to doodling at work.

Doing nothing at work is akin to masturbating at work; it's totally inappropriate. 

Additionally, I've heard horror stories from people whose teachers scolded them, of course, for doodling in classrooms.

And they have bosses who scold them for doodling in the boardroom.

There is a powerful cultural norm against doodling in settings in which we are supposed to learn something.

I think that our culture is so intensely focused on verbal information that we're almost blinded to the value of doodling.

And I'm not comfortable with that.

And so because of that belief that I think needs to be burst, I'm here to send us all hurtling back to the truth.

And here's the truth: doodling is an incredibly powerful tool, and it is a tool that we need to remember and to re-learn. 

So here's a new definition for doodling.

Here's another interesting truth about the doodle: People who doodle when they're exposed to verbal information retain more of that information than their non-doodling counterparts.

We think doodling is something you do when you lose focus, but in reality, it is a preemptive measure to stop you from losing focus.

Additionally, it has a profound effect on creative problem-solving and deep information processing. 

There are four ways that learners intake information so that they can make decisions.

They are visual, auditory, reading and writing and kinesthetic.

Now in order for us to really chew on information and do something with it, we have to engage at least two of those modalities, or we have to engage one of those modalities coupled with an emotional experience.

And I think that is incredible.

I think that means doodling is native to us and we simply are denying ourselves that instinct.

And finally, a lot a people aren't privy to this, but the doodle is a precursor to some of our greatest cultural assets.

This is but one: this is Frank Gehry the architect's precursor to the Guggenheim in Abu Dhabi. 

My friends, the doodle has never been the nemesis of intellectual thought.

In reality, it is one of its greatest allies. 

