Do I look real to you?

Hope so.

I have no idea if you're seeing this, but I'm just going to look ahead and trust that you're there.

I've drawn a semicircle in the sand in front of me so I don't walk past it and look like I'm floating in midair. 

I have 12 minutes with you.

I set a limit.

My wife Navid once said that infinite possibility is a creator's worst enemy.

For example, this dress: I'd asked her to design something that a priest might have worn in 23rd-century Cairo.

But we only had three days to make it, and the only fabric we had was an old duvet cover that another resident left behind.

But she did it, and it's perfect.

So with these 12 minutes, I'm going to tell you about my greatest discovery. 

You may be happy to know that your research will pay off.

I am 318 years old.

And I've never questioned that someday, we'll reach a point where we'll be content.

Who can blame us?

And then there's this other island where there's just one songwriter who sits and plays mandolin for the ocean.

And then there are others where there's no one and there never has been, and so you go just for the pleasure of touching your foot to sand that no foot has ever touched before.

You could spend 400 years doing just that. 

Right now the Moon is rising in the Northeast.

I can see the cities on it with my naked eye.

That's where Navid and I met.

We were both artists downtown.

The day we met, we were passing each other in Azadi Square, and we bumped shoulders.

And I turned to apologize and she, without saying hello or introducing herself or anything, said, "Well, why do you think we didn't just pass through each other?"

And that's how our romance began.

Navid and I never ran out of things to talk about.

Never.

It was incredible.

It was like we were both heroes climbing up into a mountain range together and we kept arriving at new vistas, and these new, perfect constellations of words would come out of us to describe them.

And we'd forget them as soon as we made them, and throw them over our shoulder and go on to the next thing, on and up.

If my obsession was eternal life, Navid's obsession was touch.

She had a genius for it.

All of her work revolved around it.

My body was like a canvas for her, and she would draw her fingertip down over my face so slowly that I couldn't feel it moving.

And she was obsessed with the exact moment when I would stop being able to tell the difference between her body and mine.

It's always funny what you think the future is going to be like versus what it turns out to be.

In your time, scientists thought humans could freeze themselves and wake up in the future.

And they did -- but then they died.

More than anything, they didn't want to be around her actual physical body.

So, even here on Earth, I kept working on how to extend life.

That's one rule.

Another rule is that all mass is subject to entropy.

Nothing worked. 

I'd found a way to eternal life, at the expense of the one thing Navid loved most, which was to touch and be touched.

And she threw me out.

I still got to watch, though. 

And when death comes, the dying still pick at their bedsheets, and their arms break out in blue and violet blooms on the insides, and their breaths get further and further apart, like they're falling asleep. 

I've always thought that what gives a life meaning is adventure.

And death is just a problem we haven't discovered the solution to yet.

There was a thunderstorm here this morning.

An answer worthy of my wife.

I have to find my way back to the flesh.

Until then, I take up no space but the space you give me. 

