Let's talk about billions.

Let's talk about past and future billions.

We know that about 106 billion people have ever lived.

And we know that most of them are dead.

Let's talk about billions.

Let's talk about the 195,000 billion dollars of wealth in the world today.

We know that most of that wealth was made after the year 1800.

19 percent of the world's population today, Westerners own two-thirds of its wealth. 

Economic historians call this "The Great Divergence."

And this slide here is the best simplification of the Great Divergence story I can offer you.

One, the red line, is the ratio of British to Indian per capita income.

And the blue line is the ratio of American to Chinese.

And this chart goes back to 1500.

And you can see here that there's an exponential Great Divergence.

They start off pretty close together.

In fact, in 1500, the average Chinese was richer than the average North American.

When you get to the 1970s, which is where this chart ends, the average Briton is more than 10 times richer than the average Indian.

And that's allowing for differences in the cost of living.

It's based on purchasing power parity.

The average American is nearly 20 times richer than the average Chinese by the 1970s. 

So why?

This wasn't just an economic story.

And notice, most of that went to the motherland, to the imperial metropoles, not to their colonial possessions. 

One, empire was the least original thing that the West did after 1500.

So it really doesn't look like empire is a great explanation for the Great Divergence.

In any case, as you may remember, the Great Divergence reaches its zenith in the 1970s, some considerable time after decolonization.

This is not a new question. 

That's a great question.

Unlike Rasselas, Muteferrika had an answer to that question, which was correct.

He said it was "because they have laws and rules invented by reason."

It's not geography. 

And the result is an even bigger divergence in a very short space of time than happened in Germany.

Which leads me to think that neither geography nor national character, popular explanations for this kind of thing, are really significant. 

It's the ideas.

It's the institutions.

This must be true because a Scotsman said it.

And I think I'm the only Scotsman here at the Edinburgh TED.

And he said it such a long time ago. 

But you know, this is a TED audience, and if I keep talking about institutions, you're going to turn off.

So I'm going to translate this into language that you can understand.

Let's call them the killer apps.

I want to explain to you that there were six killer apps that set the West apart from the rest.

They're just icons; you click on them.

But behind the icon, there's complex code.

It's the same with institutions.

There are six which I think explain the Great Divergence.

Let me very briefly tell you what I mean by this, synthesizing the work of many economic historians in the process.

Nothing like this existed in China, where there was one monolithic state covering a fifth of humanity, and anyone with any ambition had to pass one standardized examination, which took three days and was very difficult and involved memorizing vast numbers of characters and very complex Confucian essay writing. 

Example: Benjamin Robins's extraordinary application of Newtonian physics to ballistics.

Once you do that, your artillery becomes accurate.

Think of what that means.

That really was a killer application.

(Laughter) Meanwhile, there's no scientific revolution anywhere else.

The Ottoman Empire's not that far from Europe, but there's no scientific revolution there.

That's what makes the difference between North America and South America.

But at the end of it, you've got a hundred acres of land.

That's the land grant on the bottom half of the slide.

Most people in rural North America owned some land by 1900.

Hardly anyone in South America did.

That's another killer app. 

Modern medicine in the late 19th century began to make major breakthroughs against the infectious diseases that killed a lot of people.

It even did that in the European empires.

Even in places like Senegal, beginning in the early 20th century, there were major breakthroughs in public health, and life expectancy began to rise.

It doesn't rise any faster after these countries become independent.

The empires weren't all bad. 

The consumer society is what you need for the Industrial Revolution to have a point.

You need people to want to wear tons of clothes.

That's the consumer society, and it propels economic growth more than even technological change itself.

Japan was the first non-Western society to embrace it.

The alternative, which was proposed by Mahatma Gandhi, was to institutionalize and make poverty permanent.

Very few Indians today wish that India had gone down Mahatma Gandhi's road. 

Finally, the work ethic.

Max Weber thought that was peculiarly Protestant.

He was wrong.

In fact, the West has lost its work ethic.

And this is part of a really extraordinary phenomenon, and that is the end of the Great Divergence. 

Who's got the work ethic now?

You're wrong.

In terms of patents, there's no question that the East is ahead.

Not only has Japan been ahead for some time, South Korea has gone into third place, and China is just about to overtake Germany.

Why?

Because the killer apps can be downloaded.

It's open source.

This is the Great Reconvergence, and it's the biggest story of your lifetime.

Because it's on your watch that this is happening.

The second question is, does the sequencing of the download matter?

And could Africa get that sequencing wrong?

One obvious implication of modern economic history is that it's quite hard to transition to democracy before you've established secure private property rights.

Warning: that may not work.

And third, can China do without killer app number three?

That's the one that John Locke systematized when he said that freedom was rooted in private property rights and the protection of law.

That's the basis for the Western model of representative government.

Now this picture shows the demolition of the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei's studio in Shanghai earlier this year.

He's now free again, having been detained, as you know, for some time.

But I don't think his studio has been rebuilt. 

Winston Churchill once defined civilization in a lecture he gave in the fateful year of 1938.

That's so true. 

That's not the way history works.

That's not the way the West rose, and I don't think it's the way the West will fall.

That's one of the most profound insights to come out of the historical study of complex institutions like civilizations.

But one thing is for sure, the Great Divergence is over, folks. 

Thanks very much. 

Bruno Giussani: Niall, I am just curious about your take on the other region of the world that's booming, which is Latin America.

What's your view on that? 

He said, "I don't know; I'll have to think about that."

That tells you something really important.

I think if you look at what is happening in Brazil in particular, but also Chile, which was in many ways the one that led the way in transforming the institutions of economic life, there's a very bright future indeed.

So my story really is as much about that convergence in the Americas as it's a convergence story in Eurasia. 

BG: And there is this impression that North America and Europe are not really paying attention to these trends.

Mostly they're worried about each other.

The Americans think that the European model is going to crumble tomorrow.

NF: I think the fiscal crisis that we see in the developed World right now -- both sides of the Atlantic -- is essentially the same thing taking different forms in terms of political culture.

And it's a crisis that has its structural facet -- it's partly to do with demographics.

I think that's its real importance. 

