Here in America, people actually love TV.

The average American watches TV for almost 5 hours a day.

Okay?

Now I happen to make my living these days in television, so for me, that's a good thing.

But a lot of people don't love it so much.

They, in fact, berate it.

They call it stupid, and worse, believe me.

My mother, growing up, she called it the "idiot box."

So why I believe that television has a conscience is that I actually believe that television directly reflects the moral, political, social and emotional need states of our nation -- that television is how we actually disseminate our entire value system.

So all these things are uniquely human, and they all add up to our idea of conscience. 

Now today, we're not talking about good and bad TV.

We're talking about popular TV.

We're talking about top-10 Nielsen-rated shows over the course of 50 years.

How does television evolve over time, and what does this say about our society? 

Now speaking of evolution, from basic biology, you probably remember that the animal kingdom, including humans, have four basic primal instincts.

You have hunger; you have sex; you have power; and you have the urge for acquisitiveness.

As humans, what's important to remember is that we've developed, we've evolved over time to temper, or tame, these basic animal instincts.

We have the capacity to laugh and cry.

We feel awe, we feel pity.

That is separate and apart from the animal kingdom.

The other thing about human beings is that we love to be entertained.

We love to watch TV.

This is something that clearly separates us from the animal kingdom.

Animals might love to play, but they don't love to watch. 

So I had an ambition to discover what could be understood from this uniquely human relationship between television programs and the human conscious.

Why has television entertainment evolved the way it has?

So to begin to answer these questions, we did a research study.

We talked to over 3,000 individuals -- almost 3,600 -- aged 18 to 70, and we asked them how they felt emotionally.

How did you feel watching every single one of these shows?

What did this mean for you?

So to our global TED audiences, I want to say that this was a U.S. sample.

But as you can see, these emotional need states are truly universal.

So I really hope our global audiences can relate. 

And for the way in which I'm going to present the data, I want to thank TED community superstar Hans Rosling, who you may have just seen. 

Okay, here we go.

So here you see, from 1960 to 2010, the 50 years of our study.

Moral ambiguity are televisions shows in which I don't understand the difference between right and wrong.

As we start, you see in 1960 inspiration is holding steady.

That's what we're watching TV for.

Moral ambiguity starts to climb.

Right at the end of the 60s, moral ambiguity is going up, inspiration is kind of on the wane.

Why?

In 1970, inspiration plummets.

Moral ambiguity takes off.

It's trying to recover.

Take a look at this.

This chart is going to document a very similar trend.

They're all living together, right.

Viewers had responded dramatically. 

Look at this green spike in 1966 to a bellwether show.

When you guys hear this industry term, a breakout hit, what does that mean?

It means in the 1966 television season, The "Smothers Brothers" came out of nowhere.

So then, just like the last chart, look what happens.

Comfort is no longer why we watch television.

Social commentary and irreverence rise throughout the 70s.

You'll see that every time fantasy and imagination shows rise, it maps to a spike in unemployment.

Another spike in the 1980s -- another spike in shows about control and power.

What were those shows?

Glamorous and rich.

Well, as we say in the business, X marks the spot.

But look: X marks the spot.

In 2001, the September 2001 television season, humor succumbs to judgment once and for all.

Why not?

We had 9/11.

Anthrax becomes part of the social lexicon.

Look what happens when we keep going.

At the turn of the century, the Internet takes off, reality television has taken hold.

What do people want in their TV then?

I can vote you off the island.

We're animals, we need our moms.

There has not been a decade of television without a definitive, dominant TV mom.

Maude Findlay, the epitome of the irreverent 1970s, who tackled abortion, divorce, even menopause on TV.

Murphy Brown took on a vice president when she took on the idea of single parenthood.

This era's mom, Bree Van de Kamp.

So to you all, the women of TEDWomen, the men of TEDWomen, the global audiences of TEDWomen, thank you for letting me present my idea about the conscience of television.

They give it life on television, for sure, but it's you as viewers, through your collective social consciences, that give it life, longevity, power or not. 

So thanks very much. 

