Now this is a very un-TED-like thing to do, but let's kick off the afternoon with a message from a mystery sponsor. 

We are but the base of chaos. 

Misha Glenny: Anonymous, ladies and gentlemen -- a sophisticated group of politically motivated hackers who have emerged in 2011.

And they're pretty scary.

You never know when they're going to attack next, who or what the consequences will be.

But interestingly, they have a sense of humor.

These guys hacked into Fox News' Twitter account to announce President Obama's assassination.

Now you can imagine the panic that would have generated in the newsroom at Fox.

I mean three companies providing cybersecurity services to the FBI have been hacked.

Is nothing sacred anymore, for heaven's sake? 

They claim that they are battling a dastardly conspiracy.

They say that governments are trying to take over the Internet and control it, and that they, Anonymous, are the authentic voice of resistance -- be it against Middle Eastern dictatorships, against global media corporations, or against intelligence agencies, or whoever it is.

And their politics are not entirely unattractive.

Okay, they're a little inchoate.

There's a strong whiff of half-baked anarchism about them.

But one thing is true: we are at the beginning of a mighty struggle for control of the Internet.

Now this is a very complicated struggle.

And unfortunately, for mortals like you and me, we probably can't understand it very well.

Nonetheless, in an unexpected attack of hubris a couple of years ago, I decided I would try and do that.

And I sort of get it.

These were the various things that I was looking at as I was trying to understand it.

So there you are.

And as you see, in the middle, there is our old friend, the hacker.

The hacker is absolutely central to many of the political, social and economic issues affecting the Net.

They're completely anonymous, as it were. 

Instead, we prefer these really dazzling technological solutions, which cost a huge amount of money.

And so nothing is going into the hackers.

And they are doing some fantastic research into the characteristics, into the abilities and the socialization of hackers.

But because they're a U.N. operation, maybe that's why governments and corporations are not that interested in them.

Because it's a U.N. operation, of course, it lacks funding.

But I think they're doing very important work.

Because where we have a surplus of technology in the cybersecurity industry, we have a definite lack of -- call me old-fashioned -- human intelligence. 

But what about the real cybercriminals?

Welcome to the now forgotten realm of CarderPlanet.

This is how they were advertising themselves a decade ago on the Net.

Now CarderPlanet was very interesting.

This is ready for use, out-of-the-box stuff, which you can deploy even if you're not a terribly sophisticated hacker. 

And so CarderPlanet became a sort of supermarket for cybercriminals.

And that challenge is: How do you do business, how do you trust somebody on the Web who you want to do business with when you know that they're a criminal?

So the family, as the inner core of CarderPlanet was known, came up with this brilliant idea called the escrow system.

They appointed an officer who would mediate between the vendor and the purchaser.

The vendor, say, had stolen credit card details; the purchaser wanted to get a hold of them.

The purchaser would send the administrative officer some dollars digitally, and the vendor would sell the stolen credit card details.

And it was this which completely revolutionized cybercrime on the Web.

And after that, it just went wild.

We had a champagne decade for people who we know as Carders. 

And he said that he had so much money stashed in his upper-East side apartment at one point that he just didn't know what to do with it and actually fell into a depression.

But that's a slightly different story, which I won't go into now.

Now the interesting thing about RedBrigade is that he wasn't an advanced hacker.

He was out there on the town having a fab time enjoying the high life. 

And often they're the most vulnerable element of all.

And I want to explain this to you by introducing you to six characters who I met while I was doing this research.

Dimitry Golubov, aka SCRIPT -- born in Odessa, Ukraine in 1982.

Now he developed his social and moral compass on the Black Sea port during the 1990s.

And he did a great job in it.

You have to understand though that from his ninth birthday, the only environment he knew was gangsterism.

He knew no other way of making a living and making money. 

Then we have Renukanth Subramaniam, aka JiLsi -- founder of DarkMarket, born in Colombo, Sri Lanka.

He was convicted of mortgage and credit card fraud, and he will be released from Wormwood Scrubs jail in London in 2012. 

Matrix001, who was an administrator at DarkMarket.

Born in Southern Germany to a stable and well-respected middle class family, his obsession with gaming as a teenager led him to hacking.

And he was soon controlling huge servers around the world where he stored his games that he had cracked and pirated.

His slide into criminality was incremental.

And when he finally woke up to his situation and understood the implications, he was already in too deep. 

Max Vision, aka ICEMAN -- mastermind of CardersMarket.

Born in Meridian, Idaho.

Max Vision was one of the best penetration testers working out of Santa Clara, California in the late 90s for private companies and voluntarily for the FBI.

But also, because he was an inveterate hacker, he left a tiny digital wormhole through which he alone could crawl.

But this was spotted by an eagle-eye investigator, and he was convicted.

And this man with a planetary-sized brain is now serving a 13-year sentence in California. 

Adewale Taiwo, aka FreddyBB -- master bank account cracker from Abuja in Nigeria.

He set up his prosaically entitled newsgroup, bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk before arriving in Britain in 2005 to take a Masters in chemical engineering at Manchester University.

And then finally, Cagatay Evyapan, aka Cha0 -- one of the most remarkable hackers ever, from Ankara in Turkey.

He combined the tremendous skills of a geek with the suave social engineering skills of the master criminal.

One of the smartest people I've ever met.

He also had the most effective virtual private network security arrangement the police have ever encountered amongst global cybercriminals. 

They are all people who demonstrate advanced ability in maths and the sciences.

Remember that, when they developed those hacking skills, their moral compass had not yet developed.

And most of them, with the exception of SCRIPT and Cha0, they did not demonstrate any real social skills in the outside world -- only on the Web. 

And the other thing is the high incidence of hackers like these who have characteristics which are consistent with Asperger's syndrome.

And let me be blunt about this.

In China, in Russia and in loads of other countries that are developing cyber-offensive capabilities, this is exactly what they are doing.

And if we rely, as we do at the moment, solely on the criminal justice system and the threat of punitive sentences, we will be nurturing a monster we cannot tame. 

Thank you very much for listening. 

Chris Anderson: So your idea worth spreading is hire hackers.

How would someone get over that kind of fear that the hacker they hire might preserve that little teensy wormhole? 

They're just relentless and obsessive about what they do.

