My father is no such man.

For 30 years of his life, he made false papers -- never for himself, always for other people, and to come to the aid of the persecuted and the oppressed.

Let me introduce him.

Here is my father at age 19.

It all began for him during World War II, when at age 17 he found himself thrust into a forged documents workshop.

He quickly became the false papers expert of the Resistance.

When I was a child I knew nothing about this, of course.

This is me in the middle making faces.

I grew up in the Paris suburbs and I was the youngest of three children.

I had a "normal" dad like everybody else, apart from the fact that he was 30 years older than ... well, he was basically old enough to be my grandfather.

Anyway, he was a photographer and a street educator, and he always taught us to obey the law very strictly.

And, of course, he never talked about his past life when he was a forger. 

There was, however, an incident I'm going to tell you about, that perhaps could have led me suspect something.

I was in high school and got a bad grade, a rare event for me, so I decided to hide it from my parents.

I went to hide in my bedroom, under the blankets, and then I waited for my father to come back from work with, one could say, much apprehension.

Indeed, it's rather small. 

I was born in Algeria.

There I would hear people say my father was a "moudjahid" and that means "fighter."

And in my head I would be thinking that "doing" a war meant being a soldier.

But knowing my father, and how he kept saying that he was a pacifist and non-violent, I found it very hard to picture him with a helmet and gun.

And indeed, I was very far from the mark. 

One day, while my father was working on a file for us to obtain French nationality, I happened to see some documents that caught my attention.

These are real!

These are mine, I was born an Argentinean.

But the document I happened to see that would help us build a case for the authorities was a document from the army that thanked my father for his work on behalf of the secret services.

I wanted to ask him questions, which he didn't answer.

And later, I told myself that one day I would have to question him.

And then I became a mother and had a son, and finally decided it was time -- that he absolutely had to talk to us.

I had become a mother and he was celebrating his 77th birthday, and suddenly I was very, very afraid.

I feared he'd go and take his silences with him, and take his secrets with him.

I managed to convince him that it was important for us, but possibly also for other people that he shared his story.

He decided to tell it to me and I made a book, from which I'm going to read you some excerpts later. 

The whole family came to settle in France in the '30s.

His parents were Jewish, Russian and above all, very poor.

So at the age of 14 my father had to work.

And with his only diploma, his primary education certificate, he found himself working at a dyer - dry cleaner.

That's where he discovered something totally magical, and when he talks about it, it's fascinating -- it's the magic of dyeing chemistry.

During that time the war was happening and his mother was killed when he was 15.

This coincided with the time when he threw himself body and soul into chemistry because it was the only consolation for his sadness.

All day he would ask many questions to his boss to learn, to accumulate more and more knowledge, and at night, when no one was looking, he'd put his experience to practice.

He was mostly interested in ink bleaching. 

All this to tell you that if my father became a forger, actually, it was almost by accident.

His family was Jewish, so they were hounded.

Finally they were all arrested and taken to the Drancy camp and they managed to get out at the last minute thanks to their Argentinean papers.

It was my grandfather who decided they needed false documents.

My father had been instilled with such respect for the law that although he was being persecuted, he'd never thought of false papers.

But it was he who went to meet a man from the Resistance. 

In those times documents had hard covers, they were filled in by hand, and they stated your job.

And suddenly the man started explaining that actually the whole Resistance had a huge problem: even the top experts could not manage to bleach an ink, called "indelible," the "Waterman" blue ink.

But it was only the beginning.

That's my father.

As soon as he got to the lab, even though he was the youngest, he immediately saw that there was a problem with the making of forged documents.

He started inventing all kind of things -- with some materials he invented a centrifuge using a bicycle wheel.

Anyway, he had to do all this because he was completely obsessed with output.

This sense of responsibility for other people's lives when he was just 17 -- and also his guilt for being a survivor, since he had escaped the camp when his friends had not -- stayed with him all his life.

And this is maybe what explains why, for 30 years, he continued to make false papers at the expense of all kinds of sacrifices.

There were obviously financial sacrifices because he always refused to be paid.

To him, being paid would have meant being a mercenary.

If he had accepted payment, he wouldn't be able to say "yes" or "no" depending on what he deemed a just or unjust cause.

So he was a photographer by day, and a forger by night for 30 years.

He was broke all of the time. 

How can one explain what one does at night in the lab, every single night?

One day my father introduced me to my sister.

They are both in their sixties now. 

In order to write the book, I asked my sister questions.

Then one day he totally disappeared.

And if he did not tell them, it was of course to protect them. 

He made false papers for persecuted black South Africans. 

Then there was the Vietnam War.

My father made false papers for the American deserters who did not wish to take up arms against the Vietnamese.

Europe was not spared either.

All my childhood, while my friends' dads would tell them Grimm's fairy tales, my father would tell me stories about very unassuming heroes with unshakeable utopias who managed to make miracles.

And those heroes did not need an army behind them.

Anyhow, nobody would have followed them, except for a handful [of] men and women of conviction and courage.

I understood much later that actually it was his own story my father would tell me to get me to sleep.

