When I think about dreams, like many of you, I think about this picture.

I was eight when I watched Neil Armstrong step off the Lunar Module onto the surface of the Moon.

I had never seen anything like it before, and I've never seen anything like it since. 

And in the absence of that deadline, we would still be dreaming about it.

Deadlines and commitments are the great and fading lessons of Apollo.

And they are what give the word "moonshot" its meaning.

And our world is in desperate need of political leaders willing to set bold deadlines for the achievement of daring dreams on the scale of Apollo again. 

celebrating America's gay and lesbian citizens' right to marry.

I think about this picture of my family that I never dreamed I could ever have -- 

and of our children holding this headline I never dreamed could ever be printed about the Supreme Court ruling. 

We need more of the courage of drag queens and astronauts. 

Of the 30 astronauts in the original Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs, only seven marriages survived.

Those iconic images of the astronauts bouncing on the Moon obscure the alcoholism and depression on Earth. 

And not just in marriage.

Too often our dreams become these compartmentalized fixations on some future that destroy our ability to be present for our lives right now.

Our dreams of a better life for some future humanity or some other humanity in another country alienate us from the beautiful human beings sitting next to us at this very moment. 

Well, that's just the price of progress, we say.

You can go to the Moon or you can have stability in your family life.

And we can't conceive of dreaming in both dimensions at the same time.

And we don't set the bar much higher than stability when it comes to our emotional life.

Which is why our technology for talking to one another has gone vertical, our ability to listen and understand one another has gone nowhere.

Our access to information is through the roof, our access to joy, grounded.

But this idea, that our present and our future are mutually exclusive, that to fulfill our potential for doing we have to surrender our profound potential for being, that the number of transistors on a circuit can be doubled and doubled, but our capacity for compassion and humanity and serenity and love is somehow limited is a false and suffocating choice. 

Now, I'm not suggesting simply the uninspiring idea of more work-life balance.

What good is it for me to spend more time with my kids at home if my mind is always somewhere else while I'm doing it?

Right? 

Right? 

I'm talking about an audacious authenticity that allows us to cry with one another, a heroic humility that allows us to remove our masks and be real.

We should not shrink from this opportunity simply because we don't really understand it.

There was a time when we didn't understand space.

Or because we're more used to technology and activism.

That is the very definition of being stuck in a comfort zone.

We are now very comfortable imagining unimaginable technological achievement.

In 2016, it is the dimension of our being itself that cries out for its fair share of our imagination. 

Now, we're all here to dream, but maybe if we're honest about it, each of us chasing our own dream.

Right? 

Right? 

For a few days, for tens of thousands of people, we created these worlds that everybody said were the way they wish the world could always be.

What if we experimented with creating that kind of world these next few days?

Maybe it's "I want to stay sober" or "I want to build a tree house with my kid."

You know, instead of going up to the person everybody wants to meet, go up to the person who is all alone and ask them if they want to grab a cup of coffee. 

I think what we fear most is that we will be denied the opportunity to fulfill our true potential, that we are born to dream and we might die without ever having the chance. 

Imagine living in a world where we simply recognize that deep, existential fear in one another and love one another boldly because we know that to be human is to live with that fear.

It's time we set foot into that dimension and came out about the fact that we have dreams there, too.

