So, I was in the hospital for a long time.

And a few years after I left, I went back, and the chairman of the burn department was very excited to see me -- said, "Dan, I have a fantastic new treatment for you."

And he explained to me that, when I shave, I have little black dots on the left side of my face where the hair is, but on the right side of my face I was badly burned so I have no hair, and this creates lack of symmetry.

And what's the brilliant idea he had?

He was going to tattoo little black dots on the right side of my face and make me look very symmetric. 

When I got back to his office, I wasn't really sure.

And then came one of the biggest guilt trips of my life.

This is coming from a Jewish guy, all right, so that means a lot.

And this was very surprising to me, because I've gone through many treatments -- there were many treatments I decided not to do -- and I never got this guilt trip to this extent.

But I decided not to have this treatment.

Now you probably think that this guy's a schmuck.

Right, that's what he seems like.

But let me give you a different perspective on the same story.

A few years ago, I was running some of my own experiments in the lab.

And when we run experiments, we usually hope that one group will behave differently than another.

There was one person in the group that was supposed to have very high performance that was actually performing terribly.

And he pulled the whole mean down, destroying my statistical significance of the test. 

So I looked carefully at this guy.

He was 20-some years older than anybody else in the sample.

So we decided not to throw the guy out and to rerun the experiment. 

But you know, these stories, and lots of other experiments that we've done on conflicts of interest, basically kind of bring two points to the foreground for me.

The first one is that in life we encounter many people who, in some way or another, try to tattoo our faces.

They just have the incentives that get them to be blinded to reality and give us advice that is inherently biased.

And I'm sure that it's something that we all recognize, and we see that it happens.

Maybe we don't recognize it every time, but we understand that it happens. 

The most difficult thing, of course, is to recognize that sometimes we too are blinded by our own incentives.

And that's a much, much more difficult lesson to take into account.

Because we don't see how conflicts of interest work on us.

When I was doing these experiments, in my mind, I was helping science.

I was eliminating the data to get the true pattern of the data to shine through.

I wasn't doing something bad.

In my mind, I was actually a knight trying to help science move along.

But this was not the case.

I was actually interfering with the process with lots of good intentions.

I do want to leave you with one positive thought.

