I was basically concerned about what was going on in the world.

Making sense of those things is a very difficult thing to do.

I was told I was dyslexic.

Maybe there's a little change I can get involved in.

Could I go and speak to older and wiser people who would tell me how they made sense of the things that are going on?

Because it's obviously incredibly frightening. 

And if I took that journey, no matter whether it failed or succeeded, it would be completely irrelevant.

The point was that I would have something to hook the questions of -- is humankind fundamentally evil?

And that was when I had the idea.

There was no starting point for peace.

There was no day of global unity.

There was no day of intercultural cooperation.

So obviously we didn't have any money.

I was living at my mom's place.

And we started writing letters to everybody.

You very quickly work out what is it that you've got to do to fathom that out.

How do you create a day voted by every single head of state in the world to create the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September?

And I wanted it to be the 21st of September because it was my granddad's favorite number.

He was a prisoner of war.

So he was like my hero.

And the reason why 21 was the number is 700 men left, 23 came back, two died on the boat and 21 hit the ground.

And that's why we wanted it to be the 21st of September as the date of peace. 

And we wrote to heads of state, their ambassadors, Nobel Peace laureates, NGOs, faiths, various organizations -- literally wrote to everybody.

And very quickly, some letters started coming back.

And we started to build this case.

And I remember the first letter.

One of the first letters was from the Dalai Lama.

And of course we didn't have the money; we were playing guitars and getting the money for the stamps that we were sending out all of [this mail].

And then Dr. Oscar Arias came forward. 

And we invited everybody, and no press showed up.

There were 114 people there -- they were mostly my friends and family.

For me, it was really about the process.

It wasn't about the end result.

And just staying in the moment with it was a beautiful thing and really empowering actually. 

So anyway, we began the journey.

(Laughter) Yeah, I'm not worried about it now.

The OAU at the time, led by Salim Ahmed Salim, said, "I must get the African countries involved."

Dr. Oscar Arias, Nobel Peace laureate, president now of Costa Rica, said, "I'll do everything that I can."

So I went and saw Amr Moussa at the League of Arab States.

76 countries in the last 12 years, I've visited.

And I've always spoken to women and children wherever I've gone.

I've recorded 44,000 young people.

I've recorded about 900 hours of their thoughts.

And we were listening to everybody. 

I felt that I was presenting a case on behalf of the global community to try and create this day.

And the stronger the case and the more detailed it was, the better chance we had of creating this day.

And then on the seventh of September, I was invited to New York.

(Applause) Yeah, but there were hundreds of individuals, obviously, who made that a reality.

And thank you to all of them.

That was an incredible moment.

I was at the top of the General Assembly just looking down into it and seeing it happen.

And it was 8:00 AM when I stood there.

The world was never told there was a day of global ceasefire and nonviolence.

It never happened.

And I left New York freaked, but actually empowered.

I remember putting that film out and going to cynics.

And I'd heard that from the people who really understood what conflict was about. 

I decided that I'd continue filming and make another movie.

And I went back to the U.N. for another couple of years.

And UNICEF, God bless them, they said, "Okay, we'll have a go."

And I saw him because he was an actor, I was an actor, I had a connection to him, because we needed to get to the press, we needed this attraction, we needed the media to be involved.

One is you've got to have a great idea.

The other is you've got to have a constituency, you've got to have finance, and you've got to be able to raise awareness.

And actually I could never raise awareness by myself, no matter what I'd achieved.

So these guys were absolutely crucial.

And her Afghan network was just absolutely everywhere.

And she was really crucial in getting the message in. 

We had to wait now and see what happened.

(Applause) And like the General Assembly, obviously the most wonderful, wonderful moment. 

Obviously it was shown, and it was amazing. 

70 percent reduction in violence on this day at least.

And I remember being stuck in New York, this time because of the volcano, which was obviously much less harmful.

70 percent reduction in violence -- in what everyone said was completely impossible and you couldn't do.

That's exactly what we must do.

And it's in the six official languages of the United Nations.

And we'll globally link with government, inter-government, non-government, education, unions, sports.

And you can see the education box there.

Why don't you support the process of the largest ever global truce?

We'll make a new film about this process.

We'll utilize sport and football.

So, utilizing all of these ways to inspire individual action.

And ultimately, we have to try that.

We have to work together. 

I was with Brahimi, Ambassador Brahimi.

He's an amazing man.

It's all about the individuals.

It's all about you and me.

It's all about partnerships.

It's about your constituencies; it's about your businesses.

Because together, by working together, I seriously think we can start to change things. 

If you put one drop, one drop of something, in that water, it'll change it forever. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

Thanks a lot. 

(Applause) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

