For a long time, there was me, and my body.

Me was composed of stories, of cravings, of strivings, of desires of the future.

My body was often in the way. 

For years, I actually only wore hats.

It was a way of keeping my head attached.

Babies actually don't come out of your mouth. 

One night on stage, I actually entered my vagina.

It was an ecstatic experience.

If I was tired, I drank more espressos.

If I was afraid, I went to more dangerous places. 

But all that was just a more sophisticated way to manipulate my body -- a further disassociation, like planting a vegetable field on a freeway. 

As a result of me talking so much about my vagina, many women started to tell me about theirs -- their stories about their bodies.

Some women became quiet and disappeared.

Other women became mad, driven machines like me. 

Well my stomach -- it was my stomach I hated.

It was proof that I had not measured up, that I was old and not fabulous and not perfect or able to fit into the predetermined corporate image in shape.

My life became about getting rid of it and obsessing about getting rid of it.

In fact, it became so extreme I wrote a play about it.

All the stories began to bleed together.

The raping of the Earth, the pillaging of minerals, the destruction of vaginas -- none of these were separate anymore from each other or me.

Militias were raping six-month-old babies so that countries far away could get access to gold and coltan for their iPhones and computers.

My body had not only become a driven machine, but it was responsible now for destroying other women's bodies in its mad quest to make more machines to support the speed and efficiency of my machine. 

Then I got cancer -- or I found out I had cancer.

It arrived like a speeding bird smashing into a windowpane.

It was as if I was living in a stagnant pool and cancer dynamited the boulder that was separating me from the larger sea.

Now I am swimming in it.

And when it rains hard rain, I scream and I run in circles. 

And the catheters they shoved into me without proper medication made me scream out the way the Earth cries out from the drilling. 

In my second chemo, my mother got very sick and I went to see her.

And in the name of connectedness, the only thing she wanted before she died was to be brought home by her beloved Gulf of Mexico.

So we brought her home, and I prayed that the oil wouldn't wash up on her beach before she died.

And gratefully, it didn't.

And she died quietly in her favorite place. 

And she sang -- I mean her whole body sang.

And the other women sang and they prayed for me and my mother. 

And as the warm Gulf washed over my naked head, I realized that it held the best and the worst of us.

It was the greed and recklessness that led to the drilling explosion.

It was all the lies that got told before and after.

It was the honey in the water that made it sweet, it was the oil that made it sick.

It was my head that was bald -- and comfortable now without a hat.

It was my whole self melting into Michaela's lap.

It was the tears that were indistinguishable from the Gulf that were falling down my cheek.

It was finally being in my body.

It was the sorrow that's taken so long.

It was finding my place and the huge responsibility that comes with connection.

It was the continuing devastating war in the Congo and the indifference of the world.

It was the Congolese women who are now rising up.

It was my mother leaving, just at the moment that I was being born.

It was the realization that I had come very close to dying -- in the same way that the Earth, our mother, is barely holding on, in the same way that 75 percent of the planet are hardly scraping by, in the same way that there is a recipe for survival. 

What I learned is it has to do with attention and resources that everybody deserves.

It was advocating friends and a doting sister.

It was wise doctors and advanced medicine and surgeons who knew what to do with their hands.

It was underpaid and really loving nurses.

It was magic healers and aromatic oils.

It was people who came with spells and rituals.

It was a million prayers.

It was a thousand hallelujahs and a million oms.

It was a lot of anger, insane humor, a lot of attention, outrage.

It was energy, love and joy.

It was all these things.

It was all these things.

It was all these things in the water, in the world, in my body. 

