So today, I want us to reflect on the demise of guys.

Other than that, there's not much of a problem.

So what's the data?

So the data on dropping out is amazing.

Boys are 30 percent more likely than girls to drop out of school.

In Canada, five boys drop out for every three girls.

Girls outperform boys now at every level, from elementary school to graduate school.

And as you all know, boys are five times more likely than girls to be labeled as having attention deficit disorder -- and therefore we drug them with Ritalin. 

What's the evidence of wiping out?

First, it's a new fear of intimacy.

Intimacy means physical, emotional connection with somebody else -- and especially with somebody of the opposite sex who gives off ambiguous, contradictory, phosphorescent signals.

(Laughter) And every year there's research done on self-reported shyness among college students.

And we're seeing a steady increase among males.

And this is two kinds.

It's a social awkwardness.

The old shyness was a fear of rejection.

It's a social awkwardness like you're a stranger in a foreign land.

It turns out, from earliest childhood, boys, and then men, prefer the company of guys -- physical company.

The problem is they now prefer [the] asynchronistic Internet world to the spontaneous interaction in social relationships. 

I think it's excessive Internet use in general, excessive video gaming, excessive new access to pornography.

The problem is these are arousal addictions.

Drug addiction, you simply want more.

So you need the novelty in order for the arousal to be sustained. 

And the problem is the industry is supplying it.

Jane McGonigal told us last year that by the time a boy is 21, he's played 10,000 hours of video games, most of that in isolation.

As you remember, Cindy Gallop said men don't know the difference between making love and doing porn.

The average boy now watches 50 porn video clips a week.

And there's some guy watching a hundred, obviously.

For every 400 movies made in Hollywood, there are 11,000 now made porn videos. 

So the effect, very quickly, is it's a new kind of arousal.

That means they're totally out of sync in traditional classes, which are analog, static, interactively passive.

They're also totally out of sync in romantic relationships, which build gradually and subtly. 

