Buildings are complex ecosystems that are an important source of microbes that are good for us, and some that are bad for us.

What determines the types and distributions of microbes indoors?

Buildings are colonized by airborne microbes that enter through windows and through mechanical ventilation systems.

And they are brought inside by humans and other creatures.

The fate of microbes indoors depends on complex interactions with humans, and with the human-built environment.

And today, architects and biologists are working together to explore smart building design that will create healthy buildings for us. 

Given the amount of time that we spend indoors, it's important to understand how this affects our health.

At the Biology and the Built Environment Center, we carried out a study in a hospital where we sampled air and pulled the DNA out of microbes in the air.

We looked at rooms that were naturally ventilated, where the hospital let us turn off the mechanical ventilation in a wing of the building and pry open the windows that were no longer operable, but they made them operable for our study.

And we also sampled the outdoor air. 

If you look at the x-axis of this graph, you'll see that what we commonly want to do -- which is keeping the outdoors out -- we accomplished that with mechanical ventilation.

So if you look at the green data points, which is air that's outside, you'll see that there's a large amount of microbial diversity, or variety of microbial types.

But if you look at the blue data points, which is mechanically ventilated air, it's not as diverse.

But being less diverse is not necessarily good for our health.

The data points that are closer together have microbial communities that are more similar than data points that are far apart.

What we've found is that mechanically ventilated air looks like humans.

It has microbes on it that are commonly associated with our skin and with our mouth, our spit.

And this is because we're all constantly shedding microbes.

So all of you right now are sharing your microbes with one another.

And when you're outdoors, that type of air has microbes that are commonly associated with plant leaves and with dirt. 

Why does this matter?

It matters because the health care industry is the second most energy intensive industry in the United States.

Hospitals use two and a half times the amount of energy as office buildings.

And the model that we're working with in hospitals, and also with many, many different buildings, is to keep the outdoors out.

And this model may not necessarily be the best for our health.

And given the extraordinary amount of nosocomial infections, or hospital-acquired infections, this is a clue that it's a good time to reconsider our current practices. 

I've heard somebody say that you're as healthy as your gut.

And for this reason, many people eat probiotic yogurt so they can promote a healthy gut flora.

And what we ultimately want to do is to be able to use this concept to promote a healthy group of microorganisms inside. 

Thank you. 

