We are losing our listening.

We spend roughly 60 percent of our communication time listening, but we're not very good at it.

We retain just 25 percent of what we hear.

Now not you, not this talk, but that is generally true.

Let's define listening as making meaning from sound.

It's a mental process, and it's a process of extraction. 

We use some pretty cool techniques to do this.

One of them is pattern recognition.

(Crowd Noise) So in a cocktail party like this, if I say, "David, Sara, pay attention," some of you just sat up.

We recognize patterns to distinguish noise from signal, and especially our name.

We listen to differences, we discount sounds that remain the same. 

And then there is a whole range of filters.

These filters take us from all sound down to what we pay attention to.

Most people are entirely unconscious of these filters.

(Laughter) But it's a great intention to have in a relationship. 

But that's not all.

Sound places us in space and in time.

If you close your eyes right now in this room, you're aware of the size of the room from the reverberation and the bouncing of the sound off the surfaces.

And you're aware of how many people are around you because of the micro-noises you're receiving.

I said at the beginning, we're losing our listening.

Why did I say that?

Well there are a lot of reasons for this.

The premium on accurate and careful listening has simply disappeared.

We're becoming impatient.

We don't want oratory anymore, we want sound bites.

And the art of conversation is being replaced -- dangerously, I think -- by personal broadcasting.

This is a serious problem that we're losing our listening.

This is not trivial.

Because listening is our access to understanding.

Conscious listening always creates understanding.

Would you like that? 

The first one is silence.

Second, I call this the mixer.

How many individual channels in that mix am I listening to?

You can do it in a beautiful place as well, like in a lake.

It's about enjoying mundane sounds.

This, for example, is my tumble dryer.

Or just try this one on for size.

I call that the hidden choir.

It's around us all the time. 

This is playing with those filters.

Do you remember, I gave you those filters at the beginning.

It's starting to play with them as levers, to get conscious about them and to move to different places.

There are many.

And finally, an acronym.

You can use this in listening, in communication.

And RASA stands for Receive, which means pay attention to the person; Appreciate, making little noises like "hmm," "oh," "okay"; Summarize, the word "so" is very important in communication; and Ask, ask questions afterward. 

That's too much to ask from most people.

But I believe that every human being needs to listen consciously in order to live fully -- connected in space and in time to the physical world around us, connected in understanding to each other, not to mention spiritually connected, because every spiritual path I know of has listening and contemplation at its heart. 

And if we can teach listening in our schools, we can take our listening off that slippery slope to that dangerous, scary world that I talked about and move it to a place where everybody is consciously listening all the time -- or at least capable of doing it. 

Thank you for listening to me today. 

