Well after many years working in trade and economics, four years ago, I found myself working on the front lines of human vulnerability.

And I found myself in the places where people are fighting every day to survive and can't even obtain a meal.

This red cup comes from Rwanda from a child named Fabian.

And I carry this around as a symbol, really, of the challenge and also the hope.

Because one cup of food a day changes Fabian's life completely.

But what I'd like to talk about today is the fact that this morning, about a billion people on Earth -- or one out of every seven -- woke up and didn't even know how to fill this cup.

One out of every seven people. 

First, I'll ask you: Why should you care?

Why should we care?

I rarely find an audience where people can go back very far without that experience.

Some are driven by compassion, feel it's perhaps one of the fundamental acts of humanity.

The destabilizing effects of hunger are known throughout human history.

One of the most fundamental acts of civilization is to ensure people can get enough food. 

Others think about Malthusian nightmares.

Will we be able to feed a population that will be nine billion in just a few decades?

This is not a negotiable thing, hunger.

People have to eat.

There's going to be a lot of people.

This is jobs and opportunity all the way up and down the value chain.

But I actually came to this issue in a different way.

This is a picture of me and my three children.

And this was yet another famine in Ethiopia.

One two years earlier had killed more than a million people.

This isn't one of those rare diseases that we don't have the solution for.

We know how to fix hunger.

A hundred years ago, we didn't.

We actually have the technology and systems.

And I was just struck that this is out of place.

At our time in history, these images are out of place.

Well guess what?

This is last week in northern Kenya.

In fact, what we know now is that every 10 seconds we lose a child to hunger.

This is more than HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined.

And we know that the issue is not just production of food. 

One of my mentors in life was Norman Borlaug, my hero.

So why is it that we have a billion people who can't find food?

And I also want to talk about what I call our new burden of knowledge.

Their brains and bodies will be stunted.

And we can see brain volumes up to 40 percent less in these children.

And in this slide you see the neurons and the synapses of the brain don't form.

So this burden of knowledge drives me.

Because actually we know how to fix it very simply.

But in Niger, for example, less than seven percent of the children are breastfed for the first six months of life, exclusively.

In Mauritania, less than three percent.

This is something that can be transformed with knowledge.

This message, this word, can come out that this is not an old-fashioned way of doing business; it's a brilliant way of saving your child's life.

And so today we focus on not just passing out food, but making sure the mothers have enough enrichment, and teaching them about breastfeeding. 

Do you think you could go to the store and get a choice of power bars, like we can, and pick the right one to match?

Well I find parents out on the front lines very aware their children are going down for the count.

Even if they know what they need to do, it's not available. 

It costs 17 cents for us to produce this as, what I call, food for humanity.

But this is transforming 99 percent of the kids who get this.

And this is climate-proof.

It doesn't need to be refrigerated, it doesn't need water, which is often lacking.

And these types of technologies, I see, have the potential to transform the face of hunger and nutrition, malnutrition out on the front lines. 

The next thing I want to talk about is school feeding.

Eighty percent of the people in the world have no food safety net.

When disaster strikes -- the economy gets blown, people lose a job, floods, war, conflict, bad governance, all of those things -- there is nothing to fall back on.

And usually the institutions -- churches, temples, other things -- do not have the resources to provide a safety net.

What we have found working with the World Bank is that the poor man's safety net, the best investment, is school feeding.

And if you fill the cup with local agriculture from small farmers, you have a transformative effect.

But when that food is there, it's transformative.

It costs less than 25 cents a day to change a kid's life. 

But what is most amazing is the effect on girls.

In countries where girls don't go to school and you offer a meal to girls in school, we see enrollment rates about 50 percent girls and boys.

We see a transformation in attendance by girls.

And there was no argument, because it's incentive.

Families need the help.

And we find that if we keep girls in school later, they'll stay in school until they're 16, and won't get married if there's food in school.

We know that there's boom and bust cycles of hunger.

We know this.

Right now on the Horn of Africa, we've been through this before.

So is this a hopeless cause?

Cameroon, northern Cameroon, boom and bust cycles of hunger every year for decades.

Food aid coming in every year when people are starving during the lean seasons.

Well two years ago, we decided, let's transform the model of fighting hunger, and instead of giving out the food aid, we put it into food banks.

You manage, the village manages these warehouses.

So add in five percent, 10 percent more food.

And the food banks are growing.

And they're starting school feeding programs for their children by the people in the village.

But they've never had the ability to build even the basic infrastructure or the resources.

Food is gold there.

And simple ideas can transform the face, not of small areas, of big areas of the world. 

Amartya Sen won his Nobel Prize for saying, "Guess what, famines happen in the presence of food because people have no ability to buy it."

We certainly saw that in 2008.

Food can be there and people can't buy it. 

Well this picture -- I was in Hebron in a small shop, this shop, where instead of bringing in food, we provide digital food, a card.

It says "bon appetit" in Arabic.

And the women can go in and swipe and get nine food items.

They have to be nutritious, and they have to be locally produced.

The shopkeepers are hiring more people.

And Purchasing for Progress today is in 21 countries.

And guess what?

And we're seeing people transform their lives.

Today, food aid, our food aid -- huge engine -- 80 percent of it is bought in the developing world.

Now you'd ask, can this be done at scale?

These are great ideas, village-level ideas.

And what I've found is, rather than investing their money in food subsidies and other things, they invested in a school feeding program.

And they require that a third of that food come from the smallest farmers who would have no opportunity.

And this zero hunger program costs .5 percent of GDP and has lifted many millions of people out of hunger and poverty.

It is transforming the face of hunger in Brazil, and it's at scale, and it's creating opportunities.

Now if we look at the economic imperative here, this isn't just about compassion.

The fact is studies show that the cost of malnutrition and hunger -- the cost to society, the burden it has to bear -- is on average six percent, and in some countries up to 11 percent, of GDP a year.

And if you look at the 36 countries with the highest burden of malnutrition, that's 260 billion lost from a productive economy every year.

Well, the World Bank estimates it would take about 10 billion dollars -- 10.3 -- to address malnutrition in those countries.

The amazing thing I've found is nothing can change on a big scale without the determination of a leader.

When a leader says, "Not under my watch," everything begins to change.

And the world can come in with enabling environments and opportunities to do this.

And the fact that France has put food at the center of the G20 is really important.

And we're seeing nations in Africa.

What I would like to offer here is a challenge.

I believe we're living at a time in human history where it's just simply unacceptable that children wake up and don't know where to find a cup of food.

I am so honored to be here with some of the world's top innovators and thinkers.

Thank you. 

