The question today is not: Why did we invade Afghanistan?

Why were more people killed last month than in any preceding month of this conflict?

How has this happened?

The last 20 years has been the age of intervention, and Afghanistan is simply one act in a five-act tragedy.

We came out of the end of the Cold War in despair.

We faced Rwanda; we faced Bosnia, and then we rediscovered our confidence.

In the third act, we went into Bosnia and Kosovo and we seemed to succeed.

All of this is wrong.

It is extremely unlikely the Taliban would ever be able to take over the country -- extremely unlikely they'd be able to seize Kabul.

They simply don't have a conventional military option.

And even if they were able to do so, even if I'm wrong, it's extremely unlikely the Taliban would invite back Al-Qaeda.

From the Taliban's point of view, that was their number one mistake last time.

If they hadn't invited back Al-Qaeda, they would still be in power today. 

And even if I'm wrong about those two things, even if they were able to take back the country, even if they were to invite back Al-Qaeda, it's extremely unlikely that Al-Qaeda would significantly enhance its ability to harm the United States or harm Europe.

Because this isn't the 1990s anymore.

If the Al-Qaeda base was to be established near Ghazni, we would hit them very hard, and it would be very, very difficult for the Taliban to protect them. 

Furthermore, it's simply not true that what went wrong in Afghanistan is the light footprint.

In my experience, in fact, the light footprint was extremely helpful.

And these troops that we brought in -- it's a great picture of David Beckham there on the sub-machine gun -- made the situation worse, not better.

When I walked across Afghanistan in the winter of 2001-2002, what I saw was scenes like this.

A girl, if you're lucky, in the corner of a dark room -- lucky to be able to look at the Koran.

But in those early days when we're told we didn't have enough troops and enough resources, we made a lot of progress in Afghanistan.

Within a few months, there were two and a half million more girls in school.

In Sangin where I was sick in 2002, the nearest health clinic was within three days walk.

Today, there are 14 health clinics in that area alone.

There was amazing improvements.

We went from almost no Afghans having mobile telephones during the Taliban to a situation where, almost overnight, three million Afghans had mobile telephones.

And we had progress in the free media.

It's not simply corruption and waste that you create; you essentially replace the priorities of the Afghan government, the elected Afghan government, with the micromanaging tendencies of foreigners on short tours with their own priorities.

And the same is true for the troops. 

This is Commandant Haji Malem Mohsin Khan of Kamenj.

Commandant Haji Malem Mohsin Khan of Kamenj was a great host.

He was very generous, like many of the Afghans I stayed with.

This man, for example, Mullah Mustafa, tried to shoot me.

And the reason I'm looking a little bit perplexed in this photograph is I was somewhat frightened, and I was too afraid on this occasion to ask him, having run for an hour through the desert and taken refuge in this house, why he had turned up and wanted to have his photograph taken with me.

But 18 months later, I asked him why he had tried to shoot me.

And Mullah Mustafa -- he's the man with the pen and paper -- explained that the man sitting immediately to the left as you look at the photograph, Nadir Shah had bet him that he couldn't hit me.

Now this is not to say Afghanistan is a place full of people like Mullah Mustafa.

It's not; it's a wonderful place full of incredible energy and intelligence.

But it is a place where the putting-in of the troops has increased the violence rather than decreased it. 

So the idea that we deployed the troops to respond to the Taliban insurgency is mistaken.

Now is this a new idea?

Andrew Wilder, for example, born on the Pakistan-Iranian border, served his whole life in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Paul Fishstein who began working there in 1978 -- worked for Save the Children, ran the Afghan research and evaluation unit.

And yet, nobody listened to them.

Instead, there was a litany of astonishing optimism. 

How do we allow any of this to happen?

They're worried, in other words, that if anybody believes that it wasn't such a threat -- Oxfam, Save the Children wouldn't get the money to build their hospitals and schools.

It's also very difficult to confront a general with medals on his chest.

It's very difficult for a politician, because you're afraid that many lives have been lost in vain.

You feel deep, deep guilt.

What is the solution to this?

Well the solution to this is we need to find a way that people like Michael Semple, or those other people, who are telling the truth, who know the country, who've spent 30 years on the ground -- and most importantly of all, the missing component of this -- Afghans themselves, who understand what is going on.

We need to somehow get their message to the policymakers.

And this is very difficult to do because of our structures. 

Very, very sadly, our foreign services, the United Nations, the military in these countries have very little idea of what's going on.

The average British soldier is on a tour of only six months; Italian soldiers, on tours of four months; the American military, on tours of 12 months.

Diplomats are locked in embassy compounds.

In the British embassy in Afghanistan in 2008, an embassy of 350 people, there were only three people who could speak Dari, the main language of Afghanistan, at a decent level.

And there was not a single Pashto speaker.

In the Afghan section in London responsible for governing Afghan policy on the ground, I was told last year that there was not a single staff member of the foreign office in that section who had ever served on a posting in Afghanistan.

So we need to change that institutional culture.

And I could make the same points about the United States and the United Nations. 

Secondly, we need to aim off of the optimism of the generals.

And thirdly, we need to have some humility.

We need to begin from the position that our knowledge, our power, our legitimacy is limited.

This doesn't mean that intervention around the world is a disaster.

It isn't. 

Bosnia and Kosovo were signal successes, great successes.

Refugee return, which the United Nations High Commission for Refugees thought would be extremely unlikely, has largely happened.

A million properties have been returned.

Borders between the Bosniak territory and the Bosnian-Serb territory have calmed down.

The national army has shrunk.

The crime rates in Bosnia today are lower than they are in Sweden. 

This has been done by an incredible, principled effort by the international community, and, of course, above all, by Bosnians themselves.

But you need to look at context.

And this is what we've lost in Afghanistan and Iraq.

And finally, we need to understand that in Bosnia and Kosovo, a lot of the secret of what we did, a lot of the secret of our success, was our humility -- was the tentative nature of our engagement.

We criticized people a lot in Bosnia for being quite slow to take on war criminals.

We criticized them for being quite slow to return refugees.

But that slowness, that caution, the fact that President Clinton initially said that American troops would only be deployed for a year, turned out to be a strength, and it helped us to put our priorities right. 

So if I can finish with a metaphor for intervention, what we need to think of is something like mountain rescue.

Why mountain rescue?

This is the wrong way of looking at it.

You need to look at it in the way that you look at mountain rescue. 

When you're doing mountain rescue, you don't take a doctorate in mountain rescue, you look for somebody who knows the terrain.

It's about context.

Because the worst thing we have done in Afghanistan is this idea that failure is not an option.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Bruno Giussani: Rory, you mentioned Libya at the end.

Just briefly, what's your take on the current events there and the intervention? 

Rory Stewart: Okay, I think Libya poses the classic problem.

Instead of which, we've allowed ourselves to be tempted towards regime change.

Once more, humility, limits, honesty, realistic expectations and we could have achieved something to be proud of. 

BG: Rory, thank you very much. 

