And what he's done is he's actually reshaped, digitally, all of the contours of the mountains to follow the vicissitudes of the Dow Jones index.

So what you see, that precipice, that high precipice with the valley, is the 2008 financial crisis.

The photo was made when we were deep in the valley over there.

I don't know where we are now.

I wonder why. 

They acquire the sensibility of truth because they repeat over and over again, and they ossify and calcify, and they become real. 

And he said, "Well we were mostly breaking stealth."

How does that work?"

And to understand that, you have to understand a little bit about how stealth works.

But if you can take this big, massive thing, and you could turn it into a million little things -- something like a flock of birds -- well then the radar that's looking for that has to be able to see every flock of birds in the sky.

And if you're a radar, that's a really bad job. 

And I said, "Yeah.

And if they do that all at once, it's like playing poker and going all in right away.

You just tip your hand.

And so they have to find a way -- and they use algorithms to do this -- to break up that big thing into a million little transactions.

And the magic and the horror of that is that the same math that you use to break up the big thing into a million little things can be used to find a million little things and sew them back together and figure out what's actually happening in the market. 

So if you need to have some image of what's happening in the stock market right now, what you can picture is a bunch of algorithms that are basically programmed to hide, and a bunch of algorithms that are programmed to go find them and act.

And all of that's great, and it's fine.

And that's 70 percent of the United States stock market, 70 percent of the operating system formerly known as your pension, your mortgage. 

And what could go wrong?

What could go wrong is that a year ago, nine percent of the entire market just disappears in five minutes, and they called it the Flash Crash of 2:45.

All of a sudden, nine percent just goes away, and nobody to this day can even agree on what happened because nobody ordered it, nobody asked for it.

Nobody had any control over what was actually happening.

All they had was just a monitor in front of them that had the numbers on it and just a red button that said, "Stop."

And that's the thing, is that we're writing things, we're writing these things that we can no longer read.

And we're starting to make our way.

There's a company in Boston called Nanex, and they use math and magic and I don't know what, and they reach into all the market data and they find, actually sometimes, some of these algorithms.

And when they find them they pull them out and they pin them to the wall like butterflies.

And they do what we've always done when confronted with huge amounts of data that we don't understand -- which is that they give them a name and a story.

So this is one that they found, they called the Knife, the Carnival, the Boston Shuffler, Twilight. 

And the question is: Nobody was buying or selling anything; what was happening?

And you see this behavior on Amazon as surely as you see it on Wall Street.

And when you see this kind of behavior, what you see is the evidence of algorithms in conflict, algorithms locked in loops with each other, without any human oversight, without any adult supervision to say, "Actually, 1.7 million is plenty."

And as with Amazon, so it is with Netflix.

And so Netflix has gone through several different algorithms over the years.

Pragmatic Chaos is, like all of Netflix algorithms, trying to do the same thing.

It's trying to get a grasp on you, on the firmware inside the human skull, so that it can recommend what movie you might want to watch next -- which is a very, very difficult problem.

But the difficulty of the problem and the fact that we don't really quite have it down, it doesn't take away from the effects Pragmatic Chaos has.

Pragmatic Chaos, like all Netflix algorithms, determines, in the end, 60 percent of what movies end up being rented.

So one piece of code with one idea about you is responsible for 60 percent of those movies. 

But what if you could rate those movies before they get made?

Wouldn't that be handy?

Well, a few data scientists from the U.K. are in Hollywood, and they have "story algorithms" -- a company called Epagogix.

And you can run your script through there, and they can tell you, quantifiably, that that's a 30 million dollar movie or a 200 million dollar movie.

And what you see here, or what you don't really see normally, is that these are the physics of culture.

And if these algorithms, like the algorithms on Wall Street, just crashed one day and went awry, how would we know?

What would it look like? 

These are two different cleaning robots that have very different ideas about what clean means.

It's super-real and it's happening around you. 

You feel it most when you're in a sealed metal box, a new-style elevator; they're called destination-control elevators.

So none of this mishegas of letting everybody go into whatever car they want.

Everybody who wants to go to the 10th floor goes into car two, and everybody who wants to go to the third floor goes into car five.

It's because the elevator is missing some important instrumentation, like the buttons.

(Laughter) Like the things that people use.

All it has is just the number that moves up or down and that red button that says, "Stop."

And this is what we're designing for.

You can take it really, really far. 

So let me take it back to Wall Street.

Because the algorithms of Wall Street are dependent on one quality above all else, which is speed.

And they operate on milliseconds and microseconds.

And just to give you a sense of what microseconds are, it takes you 500,000 microseconds just to click a mouse.

But if you're a Wall Street algorithm and you're five microseconds behind, you're a loser.

In New York, this is where it's distributed from: the Carrier Hotel located on Hudson Street.

These guys down on Wall Street, Marco Polo and Cherokee Nation, they're eight microseconds behind all these guys going into the empty buildings being hollowed out up around the Carrier Hotel.

And that's going to keep happening.

We're going to keep hollowing them out, because you, inch for inch and pound for pound and dollar for dollar, none of you could squeeze revenue out of that space like the Boston Shuffler could. 

This is a fiber optic cable that was laid between those two cities to just be able to traffic one signal 37 times faster than you can click a mouse -- just for these algorithms, just for the Carnival and the Knife.

And when you think about this, that we're running through the United States with dynamite and rock saws so that an algorithm can close the deal three microseconds faster, all for a communications framework that no human will ever know, that's a kind of manifest destiny; and we'll always look for a new frontier. 

Unfortunately, we have our work cut out for us.

It involves light cones and quantum entanglement, and I don't really understand any of that.

And the thing that you might have noticed about those blue dots is that a lot of them are in the middle of the ocean.

And it's not the money that's so interesting actually.

And in that light, you go back and you look at Michael Najjar's photographs, and you realize that they're not metaphor, they're prophecy.

They're prophecy for the kind of seismic, terrestrial effects of the math that we're making.

And the landscape was always made by this sort of weird, uneasy collaboration between nature and man.

But now there's this third co-evolutionary force: algorithms -- the Boston Shuffler, the Carnival.

And we will have to understand those as nature, and in a way, they are. 

Thank you. 

