And the journey to that place of understanding and acceptance has been an interesting one for me, and it's given me an insight into the whole notion of self, which I think is worth sharing with you today. 

We each have a self, but I don't think that we're born with one.

You know how newborn babies believe they're part of everything; they're not separate?

Well that fundamental sense of oneness is lost on us very quickly.

And that self becomes the vehicle for navigating our social world.

But the self is a projection based on other people's projections.

Is it who we really are?

Or who we really want to be, or should be? 

So this whole interaction with self and identity was a very difficult one for me growing up.

The self that I attempted to take out into the world was rejected over and over again.

And my panic at not having a self that fit, and the confusion that came from my self being rejected, created anxiety, shame and hopelessness, which kind of defined me for a long time.

But in retrospect, the destruction of my self was so repetitive that I started to see a pattern.

The self changed, got affected, broken, destroyed, but another one would evolve -- sometimes stronger, sometimes hateful, sometimes not wanting to be there at all.

The self was not constant.

And how many times would my self have to die before I realized that it was never alive in the first place? 

I grew up on the coast of England in the '70s.

My dad is white from Cornwall, and my mom is black from Zimbabwe.

Even the idea of us as a family was challenging to most people.

But nature had its wicked way, and brown babies were born.

But from about the age of five, I was aware that I didn't fit.

I was the black atheist kid in the all-white Catholic school run by nuns.

Because the self likes to fit, to see itself replicated, to belong.

That confirms its existence and its importance.

And it is important.

It has an extremely important function.

Without it, we literally can't interface with others.

We can't hatch plans and climb that stairway of popularity, of success.

But my skin color wasn't right.

My hair wasn't right.

My history wasn't right.

My self became defined by otherness, which meant that, in that social world, I didn't really exist.

And I was "other" before being anything else -- even before being a girl.

I was a noticeable nobody. 

Another world was opening up around this time: performance and dancing.

That nagging dread of self-hood didn't exist when I was dancing.

I'd literally lose myself.

And I was a really good dancer.

It was the first time that I existed inside a fully-functioning self -- one that I controlled, that I steered, that I gave life to.

But the shooting day would end, and I'd return to my gnarly, awkward self. 

On the one hand, result.

Right?

On the other hand, my definition of self just lost a huge chunk of its credibility.

But what was credible, what is biological and scientific fact, is that we all stem from Africa -- in fact, from a woman called Mitochondrial Eve who lived 160,000 years ago.

And race is an illegitimate concept which our selves have created based on fear and ignorance. 

Strangely, these revelations didn't cure my low self-esteem, that feeling of otherness.

We've created entire value systems and a physical reality to support the worth of self.

Look at the industry for self-image and the jobs it creates, the revenue it turns over.

But there is something that can give the self ultimate and infinite connection -- and that thing is oneness, our essence.

The self's struggle for authenticity and definition will never end unless it's connected to its creator -- to you and to me.

And that can happen with awareness -- awareness of the reality of oneness and the projection of self-hood.

For a start, we can think about all the times when we do lose ourselves.

In those moments, I'm connected to everything -- the ground, the air, the sounds, the energy from the audience.

All my senses are alert and alive in much the same way as an infant might feel -- that feeling of oneness. 

And I've played everything from a vengeful ghost in the time of slavery to Secretary of State in 2004.

The thing that was a source of shame was actually a source of enlightenment. 

But I'm not ashamed of my self.

In fact, I respect my self and its function.

And over time and with practice, I've tried to live more and more from my essence.

And if you can do that, incredible things happen. 

Because, hey, if we're all living in ourselves and mistaking it for life, then we're devaluing and desensitizing life.

And in that disconnected state, yeah, we can build factory farms with no windows, destroy marine life and use rape as a weapon of war.

So here's a note to self: The cracks have started to show in our constructed world, and oceans will continue to surge through the cracks, and oil and blood, rivers of it. 

Crucially, we haven't been figuring out how to live in oneness with the Earth and every other living thing.

We've just been insanely trying to figure out how to live with each other -- billions of each other.

Only we're not living with each other; our crazy selves are living with each other and perpetuating an epidemic of disconnection. 

Let's live with each other and take it a breath at a time.

If we can get under that heavy self, light a torch of awareness, and find our essence, our connection to the infinite and every other living thing.

We knew it from the day we were born.

Let's not be freaked out by our bountiful nothingness.

It's more a reality than the ones our selves have created.

Imagine what kind of existence we can have if we honor inevitable death of self, appreciate the privilege of life and marvel at what comes next.

Simple awareness is where it begins. 

Thank you for listening. 

