This picture shows a revolution started by women, and it shows women and men leading a mixed protest.

English -- you will see, this is jeans and tights, and an English expression -- the ability to share with the world what is going on in our own country.

The solidarity of millions of Yemenis across the country just demanding the one thing.

And finally, lots of people are saying that Yemen's revolution is going to break the country.

Is it going to be so many different countries?

NA: Well, let me first warn you that I'm not the traditional Yemeni girl.

I've guessed you've already noticed this by now.

(Laughter) In Yemen, most women are veiled and they are sitting behind doors and not very much part of the public life.

Then you would know that there's so much to it.

A story: I studied in India.

And in my third year, I started becoming confused because I was Yemeni, but I was also mixing up with a lot of my friends in college.

(Laughter) 

NA: But it just helps tell that some people are change agents in the society.

It was very hard at first.

I didn't want to clash with people.

But with all due respect to all the men, and the older men especially, they did not want me around.

It was very hard, you know, to impose my authority.

But a woman's got to do what a woman's got to do. 

And in the first year, I had to fire half of the men.

The other thing is that it's about professionalism.

It's about proving who you are and what you can do.

So that was the answer to all the Yemeni people.

And I want to score a point here, because my husband is in the room over there.

PM: And we should point out that he works with you as well at the paper.

So how have you dealt with this on a personal level as well as the women who worked for you? 

And a lot of it is because women are not able, are not free, to show their face to their self.

It's a lot of traditional imposing coming by authority figures such as the men, the grandparents and so on.

Because I didn't believe a journalist can be a journalist with -- how can you talk to people if you have your face covered?

And I need to prove to them that, yes, you can still be married, you can still be a mother, and you can still be respected within the society, but at the same time, that doesn't mean you [should] just be one of the crowd.

You can be yourself and have your face. 

PM: But by putting yourself personally out there -- both projecting a different image of Yemeni women, but also what you have made possible for the women who work at the paper -- has this put you in personal danger? 

NA: Well the Yemen Times, across 20 years, has been through so much.

It's an independent newspaper, but tell that to the people in charge.

They think that if there's anything against them, then we are being an opposition newspaper.

Today, we are in a much better situation.

We've created the credibility.

And in times of revolution or change like today, it is very important for independent media to have a voice.

It's very important for you to go to YemenTimes.com, and it's very important to listen to our voice. 

And this is probably something I'm going to share with you in Western media probably -- and how there's a lot of stereotypes -- thinking of Yemen in one single frame: this is what Yemen is all about.

And that's not fair.

It's not fair for me; it's not fair for my country.

A lot of reporters come to Yemen and they want to write a story on Al-Qaeda or terrorism.

And he ended up writing about a story that even surprised me -- hip hop -- that there are young Yemeni men who express themselves through dancing and puchu puchu.

(Laughter) 

PM: Yes, you are.

Actually, that's a documentary that's available online; the video's online. 

NA: ShaketheDust.org. 

So I wish that the world would know my Yemen, my country, my people.

I am an example, and there are others like me.

I think Yemen is going to be in a very bad situation in the next two or three years.

PM: Nadia, I think you've just given us a very different view of Yemen.

And certainly you yourself and what you do have given us a view of the future that we will embrace and be grateful for.

And the very best of luck to you.

YemenTimes.com. 

NA: On Twitter also. 

PM: So you are plugged in. 

