It's the Second World War.

The problem is that the men under his care are suffering from an excruciating and debilitating condition that Archie doesn't really understand.

The symptoms are this horrible swelling up of fluids under the skin.

But he doesn't know whether it's an infection, whether it's to do with malnutrition.

He doesn't know how to cure it.

And he's operating in a hostile environment.

And people do terrible things in wars.

And Archie Cochrane, as the camp doctor, was one of the first men in to clear up the mess.

And one more thing: Archie was suffering from this illness himself. 

So the situation seemed pretty desperate.

But Archie Cochrane was a resourceful person.

He'd already smuggled vitamin C into the camp, and now he managed to get hold of supplies of marmite on the black market.

Now some of you will be wondering what marmite is.

And importantly, it's a rich source of vitamin B12.

He very carefully and meticulously notes his results in an exercise book.

And after just a few days, it becomes clear that whatever is causing this illness, marmite is the cure. 

He hasn't been able to shave -- a sort of Billy Connolly figure.

And then he goes back to his quarters, breaks down and weeps because he's convinced that the situation is hopeless.

Now I can describe the symptoms of the God complex very, very easily.

So the symptoms of the complex are, no matter how complicated the problem, you have an absolutely overwhelming belief that you are infallibly right in your solution. 

Now Archie was a doctor, so he hung around with doctors a lot.

And doctors suffer from the God complex a lot.

And you know, with the future billions that we've been hearing about, the world is simply far too complex to understand in that way. 

Well let me give you an example.

Imagine for a moment that, instead of Tim Harford in front of you, there was Hans Rosling presenting his graphs.

And they are brilliant; it's wonderful work.

But a typical Hans Rosling graph: think for a moment, not what it shows, but think instead about what it leaves out.

So it'll show you GDP per capita, population, longevity, that's about it.

I mean, have a look at this graph. 

This is produced by the physicist Cesar Hidalgo.

He's at MIT.

Now you won't be able to understand a word of it, but this is what it looks like.

Cesar has trolled the database of over 5,000 different products, and he's used techniques of network analysis to interrogate this database and to graph relationships between the different products.

And it's wonderful, wonderful work.

You show all these interconnections, all these interrelations.

And I think it'll be profoundly useful in understanding how it is that economies grow.

Brilliant work.

Cesar and I tried to write a piece for The New York Times Magazine explaining how this works.

And what we learned is Cesar's work is far too good to explain in The New York Times Magazine. 

Five thousand products -- that's still nothing.

Five thousand products -- imagine counting every product category in Cesar Hidalgo's data.

Imagine you had one second per product category.

In about the length of this session, you would have counted all 5,000.

Now imagine trying to count every different specific product and service on sale in a major economy such as Tokyo, London or New York.

It's even more difficult in Edinburgh because you have to count all the whisky and the tartan.

If you wanted to count every product and service on offer in New York -- there are 10 billion of them -- it would take you 317 years.

This is how complex the economy we've created is.

The complexity here is unbelievable.

And just a piece of context -- the societies in which our brains evolved had about 300 products and services.

You could count them in five minutes. 

So this is the complexity of the world that surrounds us.

This perhaps is why we find the God complex so tempting.

We tend to retreat and say, "We can draw a picture, we can post some graphs, we get it, we understand how this works."

And we don't.

We never do.

Now I'm not trying to deliver a nihilistic message here.

I'm not trying to say we can't solve complicated problems in a complicated world.

We clearly can.

But the way we solve them is with humility -- to abandon the God complex and to actually use a problem-solving technique that works.

And we have a problem-solving technique that works.

Now you show me a successful complex system, and I will show you a system that has evolved through trial and error. 

Here's an example.

This baby was produced through trial and error.

I realize that's an ambiguous statement.

Maybe I should clarify it.

This baby is a human body: it evolved.

What is evolution?

You could use it in an industrial context. 

How do you do it?

How do you design that nozzle?

It turns out to be very important.

And he will, or she will, calculate the optimal design of the nozzle.

Now Unilever did this and it didn't work -- too complicated.

Even this problem, too complicated. 

But the geneticist Professor Steve Jones describes how Unilever actually did solve this problem -- trial and error, variation and selection.

You take a nozzle and you create 10 random variations on the nozzle.

You try out all 10; you keep the one that works best.

You try out 10 variations on that one.

You see how this works, right?

And after 45 generations, you have this incredible nozzle.

It looks a bit like a chess piece -- functions absolutely brilliantly.

We have no idea why it works, no idea at all.

And the moment you step back from the God complex -- let's just try to have a bunch of stuff; let's have a systematic way of determining what's working and what's not -- you can solve your problem. 

Now this process of trial and error is actually far more common in successful institutions than we care to recognize.

And we've heard a lot about how economies function.

The U.S. economy is still the world's greatest economy.

How did it become the world's greatest economy?

I could give you all kinds of facts and figures about the U.S. economy, but I think the most salient one is this: ten percent of American businesses disappear every year.

That is a huge failure rate.

Which leads us to conclude American businesses fail faster than Americans, and therefore American businesses are evolving faster than Americans.

But it's this process of trial and error that explains this great divergence, this incredible performance of Western economies.

Stop giving them lists of questions every single one of which has an answer.

And there's an authority figure in the corner behind the teacher's desk who knows all the answers.

And if you can't find the answers, you must be lazy or stupid.

When schools stop doing that all the time, I will admit that, yes, it's obvious that trial and error is a good thing.

Until then, until then I'm going to keep banging on about trial and error and why we should abandon the God complex.

Because it's so hard to admit our own fallibility.

It's so uncomfortable.

And Archie Cochrane understood this as well as anybody.

There's this one trial he ran many years after World War II.

He wanted to test out the question of, where is it that patients should recover from heart attacks?

Should they recover in a specialized cardiac unit in hospital, or should they recover at home?

All the cardiac doctors tried to shut him down.

They had the God complex in spades.

Nevertheless, Archie managed to get permission to do this.

But Cochrane would do that kind of thing.

It feels so much more comfortable simply to lay down the law.

Cochrane understood that uncertainty, that fallibility, that being challenged, they hurt.

And you sometimes need to be shocked out of that.

Now I'm not going to pretend that this is easy.

It isn't easy.

It's incredibly painful. 

And since I started talking about this subject and researching this subject, I've been really haunted by something a Japanese mathematician said on the subject.

So shortly after the war, this young man, Yutaka Taniyama, developed this amazing conjecture called the Taniyama-Shimura Conjecture.

It turned out to be absolutely instrumental many decades later in proving Fermat's Last Theorem.

In fact, it turns out it's equivalent to proving Fermat's Last Theorem.

You prove one, you prove the other.

But it was always a conjecture.

Taniyama tried and tried and tried and he could never prove that it was true.

And shortly before his 30th birthday in 1958, Yutaka Taniyama killed himself.

His friend, Goro Shimura -- who worked on the mathematics with him -- many decades later, reflected on Taniyama's life.

Thank you. 

