And I want to share with you how I came to that place and what I've learned since I left it. 

This is where it began.

And it raises an existential question, which is, if I'm having this experience of complete connection and full consciousness, why am I not visible in the photograph, and where is this time and place?

This is Los Angeles, California, where I live.

We're less than a mile from one of the largest hospitals in Los Angeles, called Cedars-Sinai.

And the situation is that a car full of paramedics on their way home from the hospital after work have run across the wreckage, and they've advised the police that there were no survivors inside the car, that the driver's dead, that I'm dead.

And the police are waiting for the fire department to arrive to cut apart the vehicle to extract the body of the driver.

And when they do, they find that behind the glass, they find me.

And my skull's crushed and my collar bone is crushed; all but two of my ribs, my pelvis and both arms -- they're all crushed, but there is still a pulse.

And they get me to that nearby hospital, Cedars-Sinai, where that night I receive, because of my internal bleeding, 45 units of blood -- which means full replacements of all the blood in me -- before they're able to staunch the flow.

I'm put on full life support, and I have a massive stroke, and my brain drops into a coma. 

From my family looking in from outside, what they're trying to figure out is a different kind of existential question, which is, how far is it going to be possible to bridge from the comatose potential mind that they're looking at to an actual mind, which I define simply as the functioning of the brain that is remaining inside my head.

Now to put this into a broader context, I want you to imagine that you are an eternal alien watching the Earth from outer space, and your favorite show on intergalactic satellite television is the Earth channel, and your favorite show is the Human Show.

And this is how we began.

We all began in the Awash Valley in Ethiopia.

Now you also continue to watch as consciousness evolved to the point that here in India, in Madhya Pradesh, there's one of the two oldest known pieces of rock art found.

It's a cupule that took 40 to 50,000 blows with a stone tool to create, and it's the first known expression of art on the planet.

And the reason it connects us with consciousness today is that all of us still today, the very first shape we draw as a child is a circle.

So watching all of this show from outer space, you think we get it, we understand that the most precious resource on the blue planet is our consciousness.

And the reason I'm so honored to be here to talk today in India is because India has the sad distinction of being the head injury capital of the world.

That statistic is so sad.

What you find in the United States is an injury every 20 seconds -- that's one and a half million every year -- stroke every 40 seconds, Alzheimer's disease, every 70 seconds somebody succumbs to that.

All of these represent gaps between potential mind and actual mind. 

I discovered during my recovery the third leading cause of death amongst teenagers is suicide.

All of this is leading -- computer addiction, just to cover that: the most frequent thing we do is use digital devices.

The average teenager sends 3,300 texts every [month].

We're talking about a society that is retreating into depression and disassociation when we are potentially confronting the next great catastrophic climate shift.

So what you'd be wondering, watching the Human Show, is are we going to confront and address the catastrophic climate shift that may be heading our way by growing our consciousness, or are we going to continue to retreat? 

And that then might lead you to watch an episode one day of Cedars-Sinai medical center and a consideration of the difference between potential mind and actual mind.

This is a dense array EEG MRI tracking 156 channels of information.

This is how I was when I returned from the hospital after nearly four months.

The horseshoe shape you can see on my skull is where they operated and went inside my brain to do the surgeries they needed to do to rescue my life.

And with all the internal regulators of my brain damaged, I felt everything simultaneously. 

But the system has moved me on because, as my family started to discover, there is no long-term concept in the health care system.

Neurological damage, 10 years of rehab, requires a long-term perspective. 

But let's take a look behind my eyes.

This is a gamma radiation spec scan that uses gamma radiation to map three-dimensional function within the brain.

It requires a laboratory to see it in three dimension, but in two dimensions I think you can see the beautiful symmetry and illumination of a normal mind at work.

Here's my brain.

That is the consequence of more than a third of the right side of my brain being destroyed by the stroke.

So my family, as we moved forward and discovered that the health care system had moved us by, had to try to find solutions and answers.

And during that process -- it took many years -- one of the doctors said that my recovery, my degree of advance, since the amount of head injury I'd suffered, was miraculous.

Plasticity means that there was always hope for our reason -- hope for our ability to rebuild that function.

Indeed, the mind can redefine itself, and this is demonstrated by two specialists called Hagen and Silva back in the 1970's.

Here's what my neuropsychologist provided for me when I actually found somebody who could apply it.

And you can see here there are three columns.

In the health care system, if you touch average, you're done.

This is not supposed to occur.

That was a fair question because my memoir was simply how I found solutions that worked for me. 

Two elements that worked for me here are -- the first is 90 percent, I learned, of head and neck pain is through muscular-skeletal imbalance.

Up to 30 percent of the population have a disorder, disease or dysfunction in the jaw that affects the entire body.

So my teeth actually hold my jaw in the correct position.

This affected my entire body. 

I still had migraine headaches. 

The next issue that resolved was that, if 90 percent of head and neck pain is caused by imbalance, the other 10 percent, largely -- if you set aside aneurysms, brain cancer and hormonal issues -- is the circulation.

Imagine the blood flowing through your body -- I was told at UCLA Medical Center -- as one sealed system.

There's a big pipe with the blood flowing through it, and around that pipe are the nerves drawing their nutrient supply from the blood.

That's basically it.

This is a level of pain that's only known to other people who suffer vascular migraines.

And in the following months and years, I felt the neurological flow of life itself returning. 

All consciousness is about communication.

Where does it go inside the body?

I don't have the ability to control my left foot.

A radio device is controlling every step I take, and a sensor picks up my foot for me every time I walk. 

And in closing, I want to share the personal reason why this meant so much to me and changed the direction of my life.

In my coma, one of the presences I sensed was someone I felt was a protector.

And when I came out of my coma, I recognized my family, but I didn't remember my own past.

Now in the dark years that followed, I had to work out what remained for me if everything that made today special was gone.

I believe that we can all rise and shine. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

And we have his book outside in the bookshop.

Tell a little bit about what you're wearing on your leg. 

Simon Lewis: I knew when I was timing this that there wouldn't be time for me to do anything about -- Well this is it.

The other things they've worked on -- I didn't have time to say this in my talk -- is they've restored functional hearing to thousands of deaf people. 

I could tell you the story: this was going to be an abandoned technology, but Alfred Mann met the doctor who was going to retire, [Dr.

And the other thing is they're working on artificial retinas for the blind.

I must tell you, they're an amazing -- there's a hundred people who work in that building -- engineers, scientists, and other team members -- all the time. 

He's a very, very remarkable man.

He's done a lot of very cutting-edge science. 

