Do you know how many species of flowering plants there are?

There are a quarter of a million -- at least those are the ones we know about -- a quarter of a million species of flowering plants.

And flowers are a real bugger.

They're really difficult for plants to produce.

They take an enormous amount of energy and a lot of resources.

Why would they go to that bother?

And the answer of course, like so many things in the world, is sex.

But they really need to spread their genes to mix with other genes so that they can adapt to environmental niches.

Evolution works that way. 

Now the way that plants transmit that information is through pollen.

Some of you may have seen some of these pictures before.

As I say, every home should have a scanning electron microscope to be able to see these.

And there is as many different kinds of pollen as there are flowering plants.

And that's actually rather useful for forensics and so on.

Because you have to chuck out masses and masses of it, hoping that your sex cells, your male sex cells, which are held within the pollen, will somehow reach another flower just by chance.

So all the grasses, which means all of the cereal crops, and most of the trees have wind-borne pollen.

The insects and other species can take the pollen, transfer it directly to where it's required. 

So we're aware, obviously, of the relationship between insects and plants.

The plant gets something, and the hawk-moth spreads the pollen somewhere else.

Plants have evolved to create little landing strips here and there for bees that might have lost their way.

There are markings on many plants that look like other insects.

And there's an orchid that might look to you as if it's got jaws, and in a way, it has; it forces the insect to crawl out, getting covered in pollen that it takes somewhere else. 

And they get up to all sorts of tricks.

They have to try and attract pollinators to do their bidding.

And I mean, normally it kind of rolls it away, but in its erect form, that's what it looks like. 

And this is the mimic.

So this is a plant that is mimicking the first plant.

So not only has the fly not got the nectar from the mimic plant, it's also -- if you look very closely just at the head end, you can see that it's got a bit of pollen that it would be transmitting to another plant, if only some botanist hadn't come along and stuck it to a blue piece of card. 

Now deceit carries on through the plant kingdom.

This flower with its black dots: they might look like black dots to us, but if I tell you, to a male insect of the right species, that looks like two females who are really, really hot to trot.

So it probably even feels good for the insect, as well as looking good. 

And these electron microscope pictures -- here's one of an orchid mimicking an insect -- you can see that different parts of the structure have different colors and different textures to our eye, have very, very different textures to what an insect might perceive.

And this one is evolved to mimic a glossy metallic surface you see on some beetles.

And under the scanning electron microscope, you can see the surface there -- really quite different from the other surfaces we looked at.

Sometimes the whole plant mimics an insect, even to us.

I mean, I think that looks like some sort of flying animal or beast.

It's a wonderful, amazing thing. 

I think of it as insidium sometimes.

The other thing it does is that this plant mimics another orchid that has a wonderful store of food for insects.

And this one doesn't have anything for them.

This one doesn't smell so good.

So flies love this.

It's really horrible.

And blowflies just can't help themselves.

They fly into this thing, and they fly all the way down it.

This is the philodendron selloum.

For anyone here from Brazil, you'll know about this plant.

This is the most amazing thing.

That sort of phallic bit there is about a foot long.

And that's twice the energy output, weight for weight, than a hummingbird -- absolutely astonishing.

This thing does something else which is unusual.

Not only will it raise itself to 115 Fahrenheit, 43 or 44 degrees Centigrade, for two days, but it keeps constant temperature.

There's a thermoregulation mechanism in there that keeps constant temperature.

"Now why does it do this," I hear you ask.

And what a wonderful thing it is. 

So there's something that goes on off the end there.

"And wouldn't it be great if we could somehow see what that is," I hear you ask.

Well yes we can.

So what is an insect seeing?

And this is what it looks like with visible light.

This is what it looks like if you take out the red.

Most bees don't perceive red.

And then I put some ultraviolet filters on my camera and took a very, very long exposure with the particular frequencies of ultraviolet light and this is what I got.

And that's a real fantastic bull's eye. 

And that's the sort of thing that it would be seeing.

So maybe the chemical in that would be useful. 

And I love the idea of something hidden.

Thank you very much. 

