They built it 30 ft. in the air, right through the middle of the city.

But with the rise of interstate trucking, it was used less and less.

And by 1980, the last train rode.

It was a train loaded with frozen turkeys -- they say, at Thanksgiving -- from the meatpacking district.

And then it was abandoned. 

And the goal at first was just saving it from demolition, but then we also wanted to figure out what we could do with it. 

And what first attracted me, or interested me, was this view from the street -- which is this steel structure, sort of rusty, this industrial relic.

And that's really where we started, the idea coalesced around, let's make this a park, and let's have it be sort of inspired by this wildscape. 

At the time, there was a lot of opposition.

Mayor Giuliani wanted to tear it down.

I'm going to fast-forward through a lot of lawsuits and a lot of community engagement.

This was after 9/11; the city was in tough times.

And it turns out, we got those numbers wrong.

We thought it would cost 100 million dollars to build.

So far it's cost about 150 million.

And the main case was, this is going to make good economic sense for the city.

It turns out we were wrong on that.

We did a design competition, selected a design team.

We opened the fist section in 2009.

It's been successful beyond our dreams.

Last year we had about two million people, which is about 10 times what we ever estimated.

This is one of my favorite features in section one.

There's a point, you can stand here and see buildings by Frank Gehry, Jean Nouvel, Shigeru Ban, Neil Denari.

And the Whitney is moving downtown and is building their new museum right at the base of the High Line.

And this has been designed by Renzo Piano.

And they're going to break ground in May. 

And we've already started construction on section two.

The High Line used to be covered in billboards, and so we've taken a playful take where, instead of framing advertisements, it's going to frame people in views of the city.

This was just installed last month.

And the city has planned -- for better or for worse -- 12 million square-feet of development that the High Line is going to ring around. 

But what really, I think, makes the High Line special is the people.

But what I found is it's in the people and how they use it that, to me, makes it so special.

Just one quick example is I realized right after we opened that there were all these people holding hands on the High Line.

And I realized New Yorkers don't hold hands; we just don't do that outside.

But you see that happening on the High Line, and I think that's the power that public space can have to transform how people experience their city and interact with each other. 

Thanks. 

