It's an amazing thing that we're here to talk about the year of patients rising.

I'm going to be sharing with you how four years ago I almost died -- found out I was, in fact, already almost dead.

And what I then found out about what's called the e-Patient movement -- I'll explain what that term means.

I had been blogging under the name Patient Dave, and when I discovered this, I just renamed myself e-Patient Dave. 

Regarding the word "patient," when I first started a few years ago getting involved in health care and attending meetings as just a casual observer, I noticed that people would talk about patients as if it was somebody who's not in the room here, somebody out there.

Some of our talks today, we still act like that.

But I'm here to tell you, "patient" is not a third-person word.

You, yourself, will find yourself in a hospital bed -- or your mother, your child -- there are heads nodding, people who say, "Yes, I know exactly what you mean."

So when you hear what I'm going to talk about here today, first of all, I want to say that I am here on behalf of all the patients that I have ever met, all the ones I haven't met.

This is about letting patients play a more active role in helping health care, in fixing health care.

One of the senior doctors at my hospital, Charlie Safran, and his colleague, Warner Slack, have been saying for decades that the most underutilized resource in all of health care is the patient.

They have been saying that since the 1970s. 

Now I'm going to step back in history.

And it was the first time we had ever seen from another surface -- that's the place where you and I are right now, where we live.

The world was changing.

It was about to change in ways that nobody could foresee.

A few weeks later, Woodstock happened.

Three days of fun and music.

Here, just for historical authenticity, is a picture of me in that year.

(Laughter) Yeah, the wavy hair, the blue eyes -- it was really something. 

That Fall of 1969, the Whole Earth Catalog came out.

It was a hippie journal of self-sufficiency.

We think of hippies of being just hedonists, but there's a very strong component -- I was in that movement -- a very strong component of being responsible for yourself.

This book's title's subtitle is: "Access to Tools."

And it talked about how to build your own house, how to grow your own food, all kinds of things.

In the 1980s, this young doctor, Tom Ferguson, was the medical editor of the Whole Earth Catalog.

And he saw that the great majority of what we do in medicine and health care is taking care of ourselves.

In fact, he said it was 70 to 80 percent of how we actually take care of our bodies.

Well he also saw that when health care turns to medical care because of a more serious disease, the key thing that holds us back is access to information.

Now I was an engaged patient long before I ever heard of the term.

In 2006, I went to my doctor for a regular physical, and I had said, "I have a sore shoulder."

Well, I got an X-ray, and the next morning -- you may have noticed, those of you who have been through a medical crisis will understand this.

This morning, some of the speakers named the date when they found out about their condition.

For me, it was 9:00 AM on January 3, 2007.

The phone rang and it was my doctor.

He said, "Dave, I pulled up the X-ray image on the screen on the computer at home."

This is the advice your doctor gives you: "just go home and have a glass of wine with your wife."

I went in for the CAT scan, and it turns out there were five of these things in both my lungs.

So at that point we knew that it was cancer.

We knew it wasn't lung cancer.

So I went in for an ultrasound.

She's a veterinarian, so she's seen lots of ultrasounds.

I mean, she knows I'm not a dog.

But what we saw -- this is an MRI image.

This is much sharper than an ultrasound would be.

What we saw in that kidney was that big blob there.

And there were actually two of these.

One was growing out the front and it had already erupted, and it latched onto the bowel.

One was growing out the back, and it attached to the soleus muscle, which is a big muscle in the back that I'd never heard of, but all of a sudden I cared about it.

I went home. 

I went home, and I know you can't read the details here; that's not important.

I also found my wife online.

Before I met her, I went through some suboptimal search results.

(Laughter) So I looked for quality information.

There's so much about trust -- what sources of information can we trust?

Where does my body end and an invader start?

And cancer, a tumor, is something you grow out of your own tissue.

How does that happen?

Where does medical ability end and start?

I mean, I'd been getting tired in the evening, but I was 56 years old.

I was slowly losing weight, but for me, that was what the doctor told me to do.

It was really something. 

And this is the diagram of stage four kidney cancer from the drug I eventually got.

Totally by coincidence, there's that thing in my lung.

I fainted and landed on it, and it broke.

I had kidney cancer growing out of my tongue.

And what I read was that my median survival was 24 weeks.

This was bad.

I was facing the grave.

Because if you wonder why patients are motivated and want to help, think about this. 

Here's the thing.

Here we are, four years later: you can't find a website that gives patients that information.

Government-approved, American Cancer Society, but patients know what patients want to know.

It's the power of patient networks.

This amazing substance -- again I mentioned, where does my body end?

And the story of how all that happens is in this book. 

Anyway, this is the way the numbers unfolded.

Me being me, I put the numbers from my hospital's website from my tumor sizes into a spreadsheet.

Don't worry about the numbers.

You see, that's the immune system.

And look at how the tumor sizes plummeted in between.

Just incredible.

Who knows what we'll be able to do when we learn to make more use of it. 

The punch line is that a year and a half later, I was there when this magnificent young woman, my daughter, got married.

And when she came down those steps, and it was just her and me for that moment, I was so glad that she didn't have to say to her mother, "I wish Dad could have been here."

And this is what we're doing when we make health care better. 

Now I want to talk briefly about a couple of other patients who are doing everything in their power to improve health care.

She's painting here a mural of his horrible final weeks in the hospital.

One of the things that she discovered was that her husband's medical record in this paper folder was just disorganized.

She then, last year, painted this diagram. 

She studied health care like me.

She came to realize that there were a lot of people who'd written patient advocate books that you just don't hear about at medical conferences.

Patients are such an underutilized resource.

Well as it says in my introduction, I've gotten somewhat known for saying that patients should have access to their data.

And in fact, I want to do a little something improvisational for you here.

(Laughter) 

Think about the possibility, why is it that iPhones and iPads advance far faster than the health tools that are available to you to help take care of your family?

Here's a website, VisibleBody.com, that I stumbled across.

And I thought, "You know, I wonder what my soleus muscle is?"

So you can click on things and remove it.

Now there's Google Body browser.

But you see, it's still generic.

It's not my data.

But if we can get that data out from behind the dam so software innovators can pounce on it, the way software innovators like to do, who knows what we'll be able to come up with. 

One final story: this is Kelly Young, a rheumatoid arthritis patient from Florida.

This is a live story unfolding just in the last few weeks.

And that makes it just really hard to tell how the disease is going.

And some doctors think, "Yeah right, you're really in pain."

Well she found, through her online research, a nuclear bone scan that's usually used for cancer, but it can also reveal inflammation.

And she saw that if there is no inflammation then the scan is a uniform gray.

So she took it.

And the radiologist report said, "No cancer found."

Well that's not what he was supposed to do with it.

So she had it read again, she wanted to have it read again, and her doctor fired her.

She pulled up the CD.

He said, "If you don't want to follow my instructions, go away."

So she pulled up the CD of the scan images, and look at all those hot spots.

We are, you are, the most underused resource in health care.

What she was able to do was because she had access to the raw data.

How big a deal was this?

Well at TED2009, Tim Berners-Lee himself, inventor of the Web, gave a talk where he said the next big thing is not to have your browser go out and find other people's articles about the data, but the raw data.

For all the patients around the world watching this on the webcast, God bless you, everyone -- let patients help. 

