I was born in 1976.

I grew up in a traditional Mexican family.

What I'm about to say, at least some of what I'm about to say, will cause controversy.

Firstly, because I'm the one who's going to say it.

It will also make members of criminal organizations nervous for the same reasons.

I'm going to talk about the role we members of society play in this phenomenon, and about four different response levels we citizens have against violence.

I know many will find it difficult to separate the fact that I'm Carlos Salinas de Gortari's son from the fact that I'm a citizen concerned about the country's current situation.

I think we have a problem in Mexico.

No one argues -- we all agree there's a problem.

I think none of these is the problem.

I don't mean they don't deserve attention.

But we won't be able to take care of any of those things if we don't solve the real problem we have in Mexico first. 

The real problem we have is most of us Mexicans, we believe we are victims of our circumstances.

We are a country of victims.

Historically, we've always acted as victims of something or somebody.

Then we were victims of the PRI.

And now of the Zetas and the traffickers and the criminals and the kidnappers ...

The problem is that we play the role of victims.

We need to open our eyes and see that we are not victims.

If only we stopped feeling like victims, if we stopped acting as victims, our country would change so much! 

I'm going to talk about how to go from a society that acts as a victim of circumstances to a responsible, involved society that takes the future of its country in its own hands.

The first level, the weakest level of civil response against violence, is denial and apathy.

Today, much of Mexican society is in denial of the situation we're going through.

Daily life in our country is, to say the least, under extraordinary, exceptional circumstances.

It's like someone who has a serious illness and pretends it's the flu and it will just go away.

Mexico has cancer.

And if we don't do something about it, the cancer will end up killing it. 

We need to move Mexican society from denial and apathy to the next level of citizen response, which is, effectively, recognition.

Many people in Mexico are afraid today.

We're very afraid.

And we're acting out of that fear.

And let me tell you what the problem is with acting out of fear -- and this is the second level of civil response: fear. 

Does that make streets more or less safe?

Less safe!

We need to face our fears and take back our streets, our cities, our neighborhoods.

For many people, acting involves courage.

We go from fear to courage.

Recently -- this is a sensitive figure -- 35 public lynchings have been recorded so far in 2010 in Mexico.

Usually it's one or two a year.

Now we're experiencing one every week.

This shows that society is desperate and it's taking the law into its own hands.

Unfortunately, violent action -- though action is better than no action -- but taking part in it only disguises violence.

If I'm violent with you and you respond with violence, you become part of the violence and you just disguise my violence. 

So civil action is vital, but it's also vital to take people who are at the level of courage and violent action to the next level, which is non-violent action.

There are examples of this kind of action in Mexico.

In the end, Benjamín and Julián decided the best thing they could do was to organize the community and act together.

So what did they do?

Seven days later, Eric was set free and was able to return home.

This is an example of what an organized society can do, a society that acts. 

Of course, criminals can respond.

And in this case, they did.

On July 7th, 2009, Benjamín Le Barón was murdered.

These heroic acts are present all over the country.

With a thousand Juliáns working together, Mexico would be a very different country.

And they're out there!

They just have to raise their hands.

I think anyone who has stepped foot on this land -- not to mention all Mexican people -- will agree that it's not difficult to love Mexico. 

Mexico is our mother and today she cries out for her children.

We are going through the darkest moment in our recent history.

Our mother, Mexico, is being violated before our very eyes.

What are we going to do?

We need Gandhis.

We need men and women who love Mexico and who are willing to take action.

This is a call for every true Mexican to join this initiative.

They can take a man's life.

But no one can kill the spirit of true Mexicans.

The battle is won, but we still have to fight it.

2000 years ago, the Roman poet Juvenal said something that today echoes in the heart of every true Mexican.

