Space, we all know what it looks like.

But whilst we have an overwhelmingly vivid visual understanding of space, we have no sense of what space sounds like. 

And indeed, most people associate space with silence.

But the story of how we came to understand the universe is just as much a story of listening as it is by looking.

And yet despite this, hardly any of us have ever heard space.

How many of you here could describe the sound of a single planet or star?

This is the planet Jupiter. 

And this is the space probe Cassini pirouetting through the ice rings of Saturn. 

This is a a highly condensed clump of neutral matter, spinning in the distant universe. 

So my artistic practice is all about listening to the weird and wonderful noises emitted by the magnificent celestial objects that make up our universe.

And you may wonder, how do we know what these sounds are?

How can we tell the difference between the sound of the Sun and the sound of a pulsar?

Well the answer is the science of radio astronomy.

So today, I'm going to tell you a short story of the history of the universe through listening.

It's 1876, it's in Boston, and this is Alexander Graham Bell who was working with Thomas Watson on the invention of the telephone.

The line carried the telephone signals that would later make Bell a household name.

So what were these strange noises?

Watson was in fact listening to very low-frequency radio emissions caused by nature.

Some of the crackles and pops were lightning, but the eerie whistles and curiously melodious chirps had a rather more exotic origin.

Using the very first telephone, Watson was in fact dialed into the heavens.

As he correctly guessed, some of these sounds were caused by activity on the surface of the Sun.

It was a solar wind interacting with our ionosphere that he was listening to -- a phenomena which we can see at the extreme northern and southern latitudes of our planet as the aurora.

So whilst inventing the technology that would usher in the telecommunications revolution, Watson had discovered that the star at the center of our solar system emitted powerful radio waves.

He had accidentally been the first person to tune in to them. 

But going from slinging some wire across rooftops in Boston to laying thousands and thousands of miles of cable on the Atlantic Ocean seabed is no easy matter.

And so before long, Bell were looking to new technologies to optimize their revolution.

Radio could carry sound without wires.

But there was one persistent noise that Jansky couldn't identify, and it seemed to appear in his radio headset four minutes earlier each day.

Now any astronomer will tell you, this is the telltale sign of something that doesn't originate from Earth.

Fifty years on from Watson's accidental encounter with the Sun, Jansky's careful listening ushered in a new age of space exploration: the radio astronomy age.

Over the next few years, astronomers connected up their antennas to loudspeakers and learned about our radio sky, about Jupiter and the Sun, by listening. 

Let's jump ahead again.

It's 1964, and we're back at Bell Labs.

And once again, two scientists have got a problem with noise.

Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson were using the horn antenna at Bell's Holmdel laboratory to study the Milky Way with extraordinary precision.

They were really listening to the galaxy in high fidelity.

There was a glitch in their soundtrack.

A mysterious persistent noise was disrupting their research.

But the noise didn't disappear.

The mysterious noise that Penzias and Wilson were listening to turned out to be the oldest and most significant sound that anyone had ever heard.

It was cosmic radiation left over from the very birth of the universe.

This was the first experimental evidence that the Big Bang existed and the universe was born at a precise moment some 14.7 billion years ago.

So our story ends at the beginning -- the beginning of all things, the Big Bang.

Thanks. 

