By birth and by choice, I've been involved with the auto industry my entire life, and for the past 30 years, I've worked at Ford Motor Company.

And for most of those years, I worried about, how am I going to sell more cars and trucks?

But today I worry about, what if all we do is sell more cars and trucks?

What happens when the number of vehicles on the road doubles, triples, or even quadruples? 

I literally grew up with the Ford Motor Company.

I thought it was so cool as a little boy when my dad would bring home the latest Ford or Lincoln and leave it in the driveway.

And I decided about that time, about age 10, that it would be really cool if I was a test driver.

And it was snowing that day.

My dad finished dinner early that evening.

So it kind of cooled my test-driving for a little while.

But I really began to love cars then.

And my first car was a 1975 electric-green Mustang.

But my great grandfather, Henry Ford, really believed that the mission of the Ford Motor Company was to make people's lives better and make cars affordable so that everyone could have them.

Because he believed that with mobility comes freedom and progress.

And that's a belief that I share. 

My other great passion is the environment.

But it never really occurred to me that my love of cars and trucks would ever be in conflict with nature.

And that was true until I got to college.

And when I got to college, you can imagine my surprise when I would go to class and a number of my professors would say that Ford Motor Company and my family was everything that was wrong with our country.

They thought that we were more interested, as an industry, in profits, rather than progress, and that we filled the skies with smog -- and frankly, we were the enemy. 

I joined Ford after college, after some soul searching whether or not this is really the right thing to do.

But I decided that I wanted to go and see if I could affect change there.

And as I look back over 30 years ago, it was a little naive to think at that age that I could.

And I really discovered that my professors weren't completely wrong.

In fact, when I got back to Detroit, my environmental leanings weren't exactly embraced by those in my own company, and certainly by those in the industry.

I had some very interesting conversations, as you can imagine.

There were some within Ford who believed that all this ecological nonsense should just disappear and that I needed to stop hanging out with "environmental wackos."

I was considered a radical.

And I'll never forget the day I was called in by a member of top management and told to stop associating with any known or suspected environmentalists.

And in time, my views went from controversial to more or less consensus today.

I mean, I think most people in the industry understand that we've got to get on with it. 

And the good news is today we are tackling the big issues, of cars and the environment -- not only at Ford, but really as an industry.

We're pushing fuel efficiency to new heights.

And actually, although we've got a long way to go and a lot of work to do, I can see the day where my two great passions -- cars and the environment -- actually come into harmony. 

The problem, put in its simplest terms, is one of mathematics.

And at that population level, our planet will be dealing with the limits of growth.

When we look at the population growth in terms of cars, it becomes even clearer.

Today there are about 800 million cars on the road worldwide.

But with more people and greater prosperity around the world, that number's going to grow to between two and four billion cars by mid century.

And this is going to create the kind of global gridlock that the world has never seen before.

But that's nothing compared to what's going on in the nations that are growing the fastest.

Today the average driver in Beijing has a five-hour commute.

And last summer -- many of you probably saw this -- there was a hundred-mile traffic jam that took 11 days to clear in China.

So you can see the size of the issue that we're facing.

When you factor in population growth, it's clear that the mobility model that we have today simply will not work tomorrow.

So, if we make no changes today, what does tomorrow look like?

Well I think you probably already have the picture.

Traffic jams are just a symptom of this challenge, and they're really very, very inconvenient, but that's all they are.

But the bigger issue is that global gridlock is going to stifle economic growth and our ability to deliver food and health care, particularly to people that live in city centers.

And our quality of life is going to be severely compromised.

So what's going to solve this? 

Well the answer isn't going to be more of the same.

Today we need that same leap in thinking for us to create a viable future.

We don't want to waste our time sitting in traffic, sitting at tollbooths or looking for parking spots.

We need an integrated system that uses real time data to optimize personal mobility on a massive scale without hassle or compromises for travelers.

And frankly, that's the kind of system that's going to make the future of personal mobility sustainable. 

Now the good news is some of this work has already begun in different parts of the world.

The city of Masdar in Abu Dhabi uses driverless electric vehicles that can communicate with one another, and they go underneath the city streets.

And up above, you've got a series of pedestrian walkways.

On New York City's 34th Street, gridlock will soon be replaced with a connected system of vehicle-specific corridors.

Pedestrian zones and dedicated traffic lanes are going to be created, and all of this will cut down the average rush hour commute to get across town in New York from about an hour today at rush hour to about 20 minutes.

Now if you look at Hong Kong, they have a very interesting system called Octopus there.

It's a system that really ties together all the transportation assets into a single payment system.

So parking garages, buses, trains, they all operate within the same system.

They're relieving congestion, and they're frankly starting to save some fuel. 

These are all really good ideas that will move us forward.

But what really inspires me is what's going to be possible when our cars can begin talking to each other.

Very soon, the same systems that we use today to bring music and entertainment and GPS information into our vehicles are going to be used to create a smart vehicle network.

Every morning I drive about 30 miles from my home in Ann Arbor to my office in Dearborn, Michigan.

And every night I go home, my commute is a total crapshoot.

And I often have to leave the freeway and look for different ways for me to try and make it home.

But very soon we're going to see the days when cars are essentially talking to each other.

And these systems are being tested right now, and frankly they're going to be ready for prime time pretty soon. 

But the potential of a connected car network is almost limitless.

Or being at a future TED Conference and having your car talk to the calendars of everybody here and telling you all the best route to take home and when you should leave so that you can all arrive at your next destination on time.

This is the kind of technology that will merge millions of individual vehicles into a single system. 

So I think it's clear we have the beginnings of a solution to this enormous problem.

But as we found out with addressing CO2 issues, and also fossil fuels, there is no one silver bullet.

We need our best and our brightest to start entertaining this issue.

Companies, entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, they all need to understand this is a huge business opportunity, as well as an enormous social problem.

We need that same kind of passion and energy to attack global gridlock.

But we need people like all of you in this room, leading thinkers.

I mean, frankly, I need all of you to think about how you can help solve this huge issue.

This isn't going to be solved by any one person or one group.

And we must have an infrastructure that's designed to support this flexible future. 

You know, we've come a long way.

Since the Model T, most people never traveled more than 25 miles from home in their entire lifetime.

Because in doing so, we're going to preserve what we've really come to take for granted, which is the freedom to move and move very effortlessly around the world.

And it frankly will enhance our quality of life if we fix this.

Because, if you can envision, as I do, a future of zero emissions and freedom to move around the country and around the world like we take for granted today, that's worth the hard work today to preserve that for tomorrow. 

I believe we're at our best when we're confronted with big issues.

This is a big one, and it won't wait.

So let's get started now. 

Thank you. 

