Will we do whatever it takes to tackle climate change? 

I come at it as a professional observer of financial policy making and someone that wonders how history will judge us. 

One day, this ring that belonged to my grandfather will pass to my son, Charlie.

And I wonder what his generation and perhaps the one that follows will make of the two lives this ring has worked. 

My grandfather was a coal miner.

In his time, burning fossil fuels for energy and for allowing economies to develop was accepted.

That promise is already in jeopardy.

And that's a real problem, because that transition to cleaner energy needs to happen sooner rather than later. 

Firstly, because greenhouse gases, once released, stay in the atmosphere for decades.

And secondly, if a developing economy builds its power grid around fossil fuels today, it's going to be way more costly to change later on.

So for the climate, history may judge that the banking crisis happened at just the wrong time.

The story need not be this gloomy, though. 

And these arguments are getting stronger, not weaker, with time.

Let's take a brief reminder of what those tools looked like. 

And boy, did they print.

The US alone created four trillion dollars' worth of its own currency.

This was not done in isolation.

When the financial crisis moved to Europe, the European Central Bank President, Mario Draghi, promised "to do whatever it takes."

What this shows is that when faced with some global challenges, policy makers are able to act collectively, with urgency, and run the risks of unconventional policies like money printing. 

Three years ago, the idea of using money in this way was something of a taboo.

But it's important the debate doesn't stop here, with printing national currencies.

And it's truly global.

These are national stores of wealth that countries keep to protect themselves against currency crises.

And that global nature is why, at the height of the financial crisis in 2009, the IMF issued those extra 250 billion dollars -- because it served as a collective global action that safeguarded countries large and small in one fell swoop. 

But here -- here's the intriguing part.

So those extra reserves that were printed in 2009, in the end, for developed market countries at least, weren't really needed.

And they remain unused today. 

This was a fund created in 2009, following that climate agreement in Copenhagen.

It could also -- it could also serve as a test case.

Printing international money in this way has several advantages over printing national currencies.

The first is it's really easy to argue that spending money to mitigate climate change benefits everyone.

No one section of society benefits from the printing press over another.

That problem of competing claims is mitigated.

It's also fair to say that because it takes so many countries to agree to issue these extra SDRs, it's highly unlikely that money printing would get out of control.

Because even with that cap in place, the IMF could have followed up its issuance -- its massive issuance of SDRs in 2009 -- with a further 200 billion dollars of SDRs in 2014. 

That program has since delivered a 70 percent reduction in deforestation in the past decade.

So what could we do with 300 other pay-for-performance climate projects like that, organized on a global scale?

We could take cars off the roads for a generation. 

The real question is: Do we care enough about future generations to take the very same policy risks we took to save the financial system?

After all, we could do it, we did do it and we are doing it today. 

We must, must, must do "whatever it takes."

Thank you. 

