I'm here today to start a revolution.

Now before you get up in arms, or you break into song, or you pick a favorite color, I want to define what I mean by revolution.

We need a revolution because things aren't working; they're just not working.

And that makes me really sad because I'm sick and tired of things not working.

You know, I'm sick and tired of us not living up to our potential.

I'm sick and tired of us being last. 

We're last place in health care, and that's important for a sense of well-being.

Why as a result, what happens?

The lowest percentage of entrepreneurs starting businesses.

And this is despite the fact that everybody knows that small business is the engine of economies.

Last in Europe GDP per capita.

We're unhappy, we have bad education, and we have the worst businesses. 

So I think it should be really, really clear that our system is broken.

The way we think, the way we behave, our operating system of behaving is broken.

How did this happen?

I think we're last because -- and this is going to be drastic to some of you -- because we are handicapping ourselves.

We're holding ourselves back because we don't value play.

I said "play," all right. 

We don't value play.

In fact, we devalue play.

And we devalue it in three areas.

Let's go back to the same three areas.

And instead, what do we value?

Because it's shown the way we apply, generate and use knowledge is affected by our social and institutional context, which told us what in communism?

To be serious.

To be really, really serious.

It did.

(Applause) Be serious.

We have a serious meme running through.

It's a social gene running through us.

It's a serious gene.

It's 45 years of it that's created what I call the "baba factor."

I'm going to give bebko to baba.

So what happens?

What happens then?

It's a crap system.

True story: I went looking for a school for my kid.

But I'm sorry, the problems of today are not the problems of the Industrial Revolution.

We don't need mechanized workers.

But no, now our meme goes into work where we don't value play.

We create robotic workers that we treat like assets, to lever and just throw away. 

What are qualities of a Bulgarian work?

In social, in education and in our business, don't value play.

Well I'm going to say no.

And I will prove it to you in the next part of the speech -- that play is the catalyst, it is the revolution, that we can use to transform Bulgaria for the better.

Play: our brains are hardwired for play.

Evolution has selected, over millions and billions of years, for play in animals and in humans.

And you know what?

Evolution does a really, really good job of deselecting traits that aren't advantageous to us and selecting traits for competitive advantage.

Nature isn't stupid, and it selected for play.

Throughout the animal kingdom, for example: ants.

Maybe you didn't know that.

But when they're playing, they're learning the social order and dynamics of things.

But what you may not know is that kittens deprived of play are unable to interact socially.

They can still hunt, but they can't be social.

Bears play.

But what you may not know is that bears that play more survive longer.

It's not the bears that learn how to fish better.

It's the ones that play more. 

And a final really interesting study -- it's been shown, a correlation between play and brain size.

The more you play, the bigger the brains there are.

Dolphins, pretty big brains, play a lot.

But who do you think with the biggest brains are the biggest players?

Yours truly: humans.

Kids play, we play -- of every nationality, of every race, of every color, of every religion.

It's a universal thing -- we play.

And it's not just kids, it's adults too. 

Really cool term: neoteny -- the retention of play and juvenile traits in adults.

We do it for fun, or as Olympians, or as professionals.

We play musical instruments.

We're designed to do that continuously -- to play and play a lot and not stop playing.

It is a huge benefit.

Just like there's benefits to animals, there's benefits to humans.

For example, it's been shown to stimulate neural growth in the amygdala, in the area where it controls emotions.

It's been shown to promote pre-frontal cortex development where a lot of cognition is happening.

These guys are facts.

It's not fiction, it's not story tales, it's not make-believe; it's cold, hard science.

These are the benefits to play.

And if we handicap ourselves with play, we handicap ourselves as if we would with any other birthright that we have.

We hold ourselves back.

What does this world look like?

It's pretty bleak.

It's pretty glum. 

We have this concept that the opposite of play is work.

The opposite of play is not work.

The opposite of play is depression.

The opposite of play is depression.

In fact, play improves our work.

Just like there's benefits for humans and animals, there's benefits for play at work.

For example, it stimulates creativity.

It increases our openness to change.

It improves our ability to learn.

It provides a sense of purpose and mastery -- two key motivational things that increase productivity, through play.

So before you start thinking of play as just not serious, play doesn't mean frivolous.

You know, the professional athlete that loves skiing, he's serious about it, but he loves it.

He's having fun, he's in the groove, he's in the flow.

A doctor might be serious, but laughter's still a great medicine.

Our thinking is backwards.

We shouldn't be feeling guilty.

We should be celebrating play. 

They buy more of your service and they tell more of their friends, which leads to more profit.

One, play is universal.

When I got there, we had zero happy customers.

Not one customer would refer us.

I asked them all.

We had marginal profit -- I did.

We had marginal profits, and we had unhappy stakeholders.

I care that your customer and your team is happy and you're organized with that.

Why do I care if you get in at nine o'clock?

Basically promoting fun.

And you can say, "Well how do you know they're happy?"

Well we did win, every year that we entered, one of the rankings for best employer for small business.

Independent analysis from anonymous employees on their surveys.

It does, and it can, work in Bulgaria.

There's nothing holding us back, except our own mentality about play. 

So some steps that we can take -- to finish up -- how to make this revolution through play.

First of all, you have to believe me.

Whatever it was that as a kid you used to enjoy, that you enjoyed only six months ago, but now that you've got that promotion you can't enjoy, because you feel like you have to be serious, rediscover it.

I don't care if it's mountain biking or reading a book or playing a game.

I'm going to encourage constructive criticism.

I'm going to let you challenge authority.

We're not always right as leaders.

We're going to eradicate fear.

Fear is the enemy of play.

And we're going to do things like eliminate restrictions.

You know what, let them use their mobile phone for personal calls -- heaven forbid.

Let them be on the Internet.

Let them be on instant messengers.

Let them take long lunches.

Lunch is like the recess for work.

(Laughter) 

Seriously, we need to band together.

Today is the start of the uprising.

But what you need to do is fan the flames of the revolution.

Thank you. 

