Hello.

I'm so happy to be here. 

But that didn't happen.

Simply, I live in Gaza, there is no airport.

All borders are closed on every side.

We live in one of the biggest prisons in the world.

The only thing I can do is just to look up to the sky.

Sometimes we make food, too. 

Many mornings, I had to go to the border area to collect a journalist.

But like me, they are human beings. 

I have built up many relationships over 10 years.

And guess what?

This gives me the chance to get access to people, to stories that others can't.

In some certain situations, I feel, as a woman, I have more power.

Many male journalists in my society, they want to cover a story about drug addiction in my country.

That problem started when the Gaza tunnel was being built.

But not anymore, because the Egyptian side flooded them up with water and they are not working anymore.

Drugs were being smuggled, and many young people got addicted, too.

In the tradition of the Palestinian society, it's forbidden for men to enter the household.

So, no male journalists get the story.

But I did. 

One of the times in Gaza, during the kidnapping of the British journalist Alan Johnston, I was asked by an American magazine to set up a meeting with the kidnappers in Gaza, and I did.

The journalist covering the story and I were asked to meet outside of his hotel.

And they drove us away, far away in the middle of a field.

So, why do I do what I do?

I do it because I believe if I didn't, a huge part of the story about Gaza will be missing.

There are some more stories I could tell you about my country.

And not all of them are bad.

There are people who are dreamers and amazing people full of energy.

We have wonderful music, and a great music school.

We have parkour dancers who dance in the rubble of their homes.

And Gaza is the only place in the Arab world where Muslims and Christians live in strong brotherhood. 

Being a fixer and a journalist is difficult and dangerous in Gaza.

When my children were small and we heard the sound of the war, I used to tell them that they were fireworks.

Now they are older, they understand.

I still remember a little girl, her name is Hala.

She's the only survivor from her family.

Her picture will be with me forever.

I will never forget her. 

I'm proud that I can stand here and be here today with you.

I'm proud that I am the first female fixer working in Gaza.

And the funny thing is they call me Mr. Rambo in Gaza. 

Thank you. 

