I'm Jessi, and this is my suitcase.

I love finding, wearing, and more recently, photographing and blogging a different, colorful, crazy outfit for every single occasion.

But I don't buy anything new.

I get all my clothes secondhand from flea markets and thrift stores.

Aww, thank you.

Secondhand shopping allows me to reduce the impact my wardrobe has on the environment and on my wallet.

If all the answers are yes, I feel as though I've won. 

I want to get back to my suitcase and tell you what I packed for this exciting week here at TED.

I mean, what does somebody with all these outfits bring with her?

So I'm going to show you exactly what I brought.

Exactly one week's worth of undies is all I put in my suitcase.

I was betting that I'd be able to find everything else I could possible want to wear once I got here to Palm Springs.

And since you don't know me as the woman walking around TED in her underwear -- (Laughter) that means I found a few things.

And I'd really love to show you my week's worth of outfits right now.

Does that sound good?

(Applause) So as I do this, I'm also going to tell you a few of the life lessons that, believe it or not, I have picked up in these adventures wearing nothing new. 

So let's start with Sunday.

I call this "Shiny Tiger."

You do not have to spend a lot of money to look great.

You can almost always look phenomenal for under $50.

This whole outfit, including the jacket, cost me $55, and it was the most expensive thing that I wore the entire week. 

It is almost physiologically impossible to be in a bad mood when you're wearing bright red pants.

(Laughter) If you are happy, you are going to attract other happy people to you. 

I've spent a whole lot of my life trying to be myself and at the same time fit in.

Just be who you are.

If you are surrounding yourself with the right people, they will not only get it, they will appreciate it. 

Sometimes people tell me that I look like I'm playing dress-up, or that I remind them of their seven-year-old.

I like to smile and say, "Thank you."

If you think you look good in something, you almost certainly do.

And if you don't think you look good in something, you're also probably right.

And I'm going to break it down for you for just a second.

If you believe you're a beautiful person inside and out, there is no look that you can't pull off.

So there is no excuse for any of us here in this audience.

We should be able to rock anything we want to rock.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

So obviously this is not all going to fit back in my tiny suitcase.

So before I go home to Brooklyn, I'm going to donate everything back.

Because the lesson I'm trying to learn myself this week is that it's okay to let go.

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

