Many believe driving is an activity solely reserved for those who can see.

Now this was about building a robotic car that can drive itself.

(Laughter) We couldn't have been more wrong.

What NFB wanted was not a vehicle that can drive a blind person around, but a vehicle where a blind person can make active decisions and drive.

So we had to throw everything out the window and start from scratch. 

It was an absolutely amazing experience.

So how does it work?

So we have three steps.

We have perception, computation and non-visual interfaces.

For that, we use an initial measurement unit.

We fuse that information with a GPS unit to get an estimate of the location of the car.

We also use two cameras to detect the lanes of the road.

And we also use three laser range finders.

So all this vast amount of information is then fed into the computer, and the computer can do two things.

The system is also smart enough to figure out the safest way to operate the car.

So for this, we developed many different types of non-visual user interface technology.

So starting from a three-dimensional ping sound system, a vibrating vest, a click wheel with voice commands, a leg strip, even a shoe that applies pressure to the foot.

But today we're going to talk about three of these non-visual user interfaces. 

Now the first interface is called a DriveGrip.

So these two devices, DriveGrip and SpeedStrip, are very effective.

A good example for this informational non-visual user interface is called AirPix.

So think of it as a monitor for the blind.

So even though you are blind, you can put your hand over it, you can see the lanes of the road and obstacles.

Actually, you can also change the frequency of the air coming out and possibly the temperature.

So it's actually a multi-dimensional user interface.

So basically that's how it works. 

There's the grandstand now.

And he's [unclear] following that van that's out in front of him.

Well there comes the first box.

And he's perfectly making his way between the two.

And I truly believe that this can happen. 

But still, will the society, would they accept such a radical idea?

How are we going to handle insurance?

How are we going to issue driver's licenses?

Of course, the main goal of this project is to develop a car for the blind.

And together with this new type of interfaces, we can use these technologies and apply them to safer cars for sighted people.

This is priceless.

So today, the things I've showed you today, is just the beginning. 

Thank you very much. 

