A few weeks ago, I had a chance to go to Saudi Arabia.

In other words, men and women were worshiping all together.

In other words, as men, you are not simply supposed to be in the same physical space with women.

And I noticed this in a very funny way.

And I went there -- I noticed that there was a male section, which was carefully separated from the female section.

And I had to pay, order and eat at the male section.

"It's funny," I said to myself, "You can mingle with the opposite sex at the holy Kaaba, but not at the Burger King."

Quite ironic.

And if there was a big emphasis at the time to separate men from women, the rituals around the Kaaba could have been designed accordingly.

This is also, I think, confirmed by the fact that the seclusion of women in creating a divided society is something that you also do not find in the Koran, the very core of Islam -- the divine core of Islam that all Muslims, and equally myself, believe.

And I think it's not an accident that you don't find this idea in the very origin of Islam.

And actually this is just one example of a much larger phenomenon.

What we call today Islamic Law, and especially Islamic culture -- and there are many Islamic cultures actually; the one in Saudi Arabia is much different from where I come from in Istanbul or Turkey.

And these were traditions of the Middle East -- medieval traditions. 

And there are two important messages, or two lessons, to take from that reality.

First of all, Muslims -- pious, conservative, believing Muslims who want to be loyal to their religion -- should not cling onto everything in their culture, thinking that that's divinely mandated.

Maybe some things are bad traditions and they need to be changed.

On the other hand, the Westerners who look at Islamic culture and see some troubling aspects should not readily conclude that this is what Islam ordains.

Maybe it's a Middle Eastern culture that became confused with Islam. 

There is a practice called female circumcision.

It's something terrible, horrible.

It is basically an operation to deprive women of sexual pleasure.

And Westerners, Europeans or Americans, who didn't know about this before faced this practice within some of the Muslim communities who migrated from North Africa.

And they've thought, "Oh, what a horrible religion that is which ordains something like that."

But actually when you look at female circumcision, you see that it has nothing to do with Islam, it's just a North African practice, which predates Islam.

It was there for thousands of years.

And quite tellingly, some Muslims do practice that.

The Muslims in North Africa, not in other places.

But also the non-Muslim communities of North Africa -- the Animists, even some Christians and even a Jewish tribe in North Africa is known to practice female circumcision.

So what might look like a problem within Islamic faith might turn out to be a tradition that Muslims have subscribed to. 

The same thing can be said for honor killings, which is a recurrent theme in the Western media -- and which is, of course, a horrible tradition.

And we see truly in some Muslim communities that tradition.

But in the non-Muslim communities of the Middle East, such as some Christian communities, Eastern communities, you see the same practice.

We had a tragic case of an honor killing within Turkey's Armenian community just a few months ago. 

And it is no secret that many Islamic movements in the Middle East tend to be authoritarian, and some of the so-called "Islamic regimes" such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and the worst case was the Taliban in Afghanistan -- they are pretty authoritarian.

For example, in Saudi Arabia there is a phenomenon called the religious police.

Now that is pretty authoritarian, and that's something I'm very much critical of.

It should be the citizen's decision. 

But when I saw that, I said, "Maybe the problem is just an authoritarian culture in the region, and some Muslims have been influenced by that.

But the secular-minded people can be influenced by that.

Maybe it's a problem of the political culture, and we have to think about how to change that political culture."

Now these are some of the questions I had in mind a few years ago when I sat down to write a book.

I said, "Well I will make a research about how Islam actually came to be what it is today, and what roads were taken and what roads could have been taken."

The name of the book is "Islam Without Extremes: A Muslim Case for Liberty."

And as the subtitle suggests, I looked at Islamic tradition and the history of Islamic thought from the perspective of individual liberty, and I tried to find what are the strengths with regard to individual liberty. 

And there are strengths in Islamic tradition.

Islam actually, as a monotheistic religion, which defined man as a responsible agent by itself, created the idea of the individual in the Middle East and saved it from the communitarianism, the collectivism of the tribe.

You can derive many ideas from that.

But besides that, I also saw problems within Islamic tradition.

But one thing was curious: most of those problems turn out to be problems that emerged later, not from the very divine core of Islam, the Koran, but from, again, traditions and mentalities, or the interpretations of the Koran that Muslims made in the Middle Ages.

The Koran, for example, doesn't condone stoning.

These things which make Islamic Law, the troubling aspects of Islamic Law, were later developed into later interpretations of Islam.

Now we are living in a different world with different values and different political systems."

That interpretation is quite possible and feasible. 

Now if I were the only person thinking that way, we would be in trouble.

But that's not the case at all.

Actually, from the 19th century on, there's a whole revisionist, reformist -- whatever you call it -- tradition, a trend in Islamic thinking.

That trend is generally called Islamic modernism, and it was advanced by intellectuals and statesmen, not just as an intellectual idea though, but also as a political program.

And that's why actually in the 19th century the Ottoman Empire, which then covered the whole Middle East, made very important reforms -- reforms like giving Christians and Jews an equal citizenship status, accepting a constitution, accepting a representative parliament, advancing the idea of freedom of religion.

Similarly, in the Arab world, there was what the great Arab historian Albert Hourani defines as the Liberal Age.

He has a book, "Arabic Thought in the Liberal Age," and the Liberal Age, he defines as 19th century and early 20th century.

Quite notably, this was the dominant trend in the early 20th century among Islamic thinkers and statesmen and theologians.

But there is a very curious pattern in the rest of the 20th century, because we see a sharp decline in this Islamic modernist line.

And in place of that, what happens is that Islamism grows as an ideology which is authoritarian, which is quite strident, which is quite anti-Western, and which wants to shape society based on a utopian vision. 

So Islamism is the problematic idea that really created a lot of problems in the 20th century Islamic world.

And this is a question, I think, which needs to be discussed carefully.

And in my book, I went into that question as well.

And actually you don't need to be a rocket scientist to understand that.

You just look at the political history of the 20th century, and you see things have changed a lot.

The context has changed. 

In the 19th century, when Muslims were looking at Europe as an example, they were independent; they were more self-confident.

In the early 20th century, with the fall of the Ottoman Empire, the whole Middle East was colonized.

And when you have colonization what do you have?

You have anti-colonization.

So Europe is not just an example now to emulate; it's an enemy to fight and to resist.

So there's a very sharp decline in liberal ideas in the Muslim world, and what you see is more of a defensive, rigid, reactionary strain, which led to Arab socialism, Arab nationalism and ultimately to the Islamist ideology.

And when the colonial period ended, what you had in place of that was, generally, secular dictators, which say they're a country, but did not bring democracy to the country, and established their own dictatorship.

But the fact that those dictators suppressed democracy in their country and suppressed Islamic groups in their country actually made the Islamists much more strident. 

So in the 20th century, you had this vicious cycle in the Arab world where you have a dictatorship suppressing its own people including the Islamic-pious, and they're reacting in reactionary ways.

Turkey has never been colonized, so it remained as an independent nation after the fall of the Ottoman Empire.

That's one thing to remember.

They did not share the same anti-colonial hype that you can find in some other countries in the region.

Secondly, and most importantly, Turkey became a democracy earlier than any of the countries we are talking about.

In 1950, Turkey had the first free and fair elections, which ended the more autocratic secular regime, which was the beginning of Turkey.

And the pious Muslims in Turkey saw that they can change the political system by voting.

And they realize that democracy is something that is compatible with Islam, compatible with their values, and they've been supportive of democracy.

That's an experience that not every other Muslim nation in the Middle East had until very recently. 

Secondly, in the past two decades, thanks to globalization, thanks to the market economy, thanks to the rise of a middle-class, we in Turkey see what I define as a rebirth of Islamic modernism.

And they look at Europe, and they see an example, again, to follow.

And thanks to that, Turkey has been able to reasonably create a success story in which Islam and the most pious understandings of Islam have become part of the democratic game, and even contributes to the democratic and economic advance of the country.

And this has been an inspiring example right now for some of the Islamic movements or some of the countries in the Arab world. 

You must have all seen the Arab Spring, which began in Tunis and in Egypt.

And they did not turn out to be the Islamist boogyman that the dictators were always using to justify their regime.

Of course, this is a long road.

Democracy is not an overnight achievement; it's a process.

But this is a promising era in the Muslim world. 

And I believe that the Islamic modernism which began in the 19th century, but which had a setback in the 20th century because of the political troubles of the Muslim world, is having a rebirth.

And I think the getaway message from that would be that Islam, despite some of the skeptics in the West, has the potential in itself to create its own way to democracy, create its own way to liberalism, create its own way to freedom.

They just should be allowed to work for that. 

Thanks so much. 

