I want to share with you over the next 18 minutes a pretty incredible idea.

Actually, it's a really big idea.

The disease was so terrifying that the president of the United States launched an extraordinary national effort to find a way to stop it.

Now we don't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this, to eradicating diseases.

And at the same time, the polio eradication program has been working to help with a lot of other areas.

It's been working to help control pandemic flu, SARS for example.

It's also tried to save children by doing other things -- giving vitamin A drops, giving measles shots, giving bed nets against malaria even during some of these campaigns.

The first problem we ran into was that, in these last four countries, the strongholds of this virus, we just couldn't seem to get the virus rooted out.

Now as seductive as the idea of control sounds, it's a false premise.

The brutal truth is, if we don't have the will or the skill, or even the money that we need to reach children, the most vulnerable children in the world, with something as simple as an oral polio vaccine, then pretty soon, more than 200,000 children are again going to be paralyzed by this disease every single year.

There's absolutely no question. 

These are children like Umar.

Umar is seven years old, and he's from northern Nigeria.

He lives in a family home there with his eight brothers and sisters.

Umar also has polio.

Umar was paralyzed for life.

He got 100 percent in all the important things, like nursery rhymes, for example there.

Umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances. 

The reality of polio today is something very different.

We think children deserve better.

In northern India, we started mapping the cases using satellite imaging like this, so that we could guide our investments and vaccinator shelters, so we could get to the millions of children on the Koshi River basin where there are no other health services.

In northern Nigeria, the political leaders and the traditional Muslim leaders, they got directly involved in the program to help solve the problems of logistics and community confidence. 

This is the kind of commitment now we're seeing to try and reach all of the children we've been missing.

And we didn't start with the easy places.

Now here at TED, over the last couple of days, I've seen people challenging the audience again and again to believe in the impossible.

And only two years ago, people were saying that this is impossible.

Now remember, northern India is the perfect storm when it comes to polio.

And yet, the impossible is happening.

India's not unique.

Ladies and gentlemen, with a combination of smart people, smart technology and smart investments, polio can now be eradicated anywhere.

And as long as any child anywhere is paralyzed by this virus, it's a stark reminder that we are failing, as a society, to reach children with the most basic of services.

And for that reason, polio eradication: it's the ultimate in equity and it's the ultimate in social justice.

The huge social movement that's been involved in polio eradication is ready to do way more for these children.

It's ready to reach them with bed nets, with other things.

But capitalizing on their enthusiasm, capitalizing on their energy means finishing the job that they started 20 years ago. 

Finishing polio eradication is the right thing to do.

We have the chance to write an entirely new polio-free chapter in human history.

Bill Gates: Well Bruce, where do you think the toughest places are going to be?

Where would you say we need to be the smartest? 

BG: Now what about the money?

Give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year.

And is it easy to raise that money?

And what's it going to be like the next couple of years? 

BA: It's interesting.

We spend right now about 750 million to 800 million dollars a year.

That's what it costs to reach 500 million children.

It sounds like a lot of money; it is a lot of money.

And that great buy costs us a little bit more. 

