I don't paint.

I can't draw.

You probably don't really want to see my photographs.

I can code. 

And that's true. 

And if you think about what music is -- notes and chords and keys and harmonies and melodies -- these things are algorithms.

These things are systems that are designed to unfold over time, to make us feel.

I came to the arts through music.

I was trained as a composer, and about 15 years ago, I started making pieces that were designed to look at the intersection between sound and image, to use an image to unveil a musical structure or to use a sound to show you something interesting about something that's usually pictorial. 

So once you know how to do this, once you know how to code with media, you can do some pretty cool stuff. 

And so in 75 minutes, I can show you the history of Hollywood cinema.

And what it really shows you is the history of editing in Hollywood cinema.

So on the left, we've got Casablanca; on the right, we've got Chicago.

And you can see that Casablanca is a little easier to read.

We are very fraught with anxiety about being watched, but then we obsess over celebrity. 

What you're seeing on the screen here is a collaboration I did with an artist named Lián Amaris.

What she did is very simple to explain and describe, but very hard to do.

I was there, too, with a film crew.

At a certain point, I figured out that what I was doing was making portraits.

When you think about portraiture, you tend to think about stuff like this.

The guy on the left is named Gilbert Stuart.

He's sort of the first real portraitist of the United States.

And on the right is his portrait of George Washington from 1796.

All of these things are meant to evoke George Washington as the father of the nation. 

This is my portrait of George Washington.

And what the words are is the 66 words in George Washington's State of the Union addresses that he uses more than any other president.

So "gentlemen" has its own symbolism and its own rhetoric.

And it's really kind of significant that that's the word he used the most.

And how you get there, from "gentlemen" to "terror" in 43 easy steps, tells us a lot about American history, and gives you a different insight than you would have looking at a series of paintings.

And Richard Nixon, or more accurately, his speechwriter, a guy named William Safire, spent a lot of time thinking about language and making sure that his boss portrayed a rhetoric of honesty. 

This project is shown as a series of monolithic sculptures.

It's an outdoor series of light boxes.

And it's important to note that they're to scale, so if you stand 20 feet back and you can read between those two black lines, you have 20/20 vision. 

There's a lot of ways to do this with data.

Every 10 years, we make a census in the United States.

But it doesn't really tell us who we are.

It doesn't tell us about our dreams and our aspirations. 

And so in 2010, I decided to make my own census.

And I started looking for a corpus of data that had a lot of descriptions written by ordinary Americans.

And it turns out that there is such a corpus of data that's just sitting there for the taking.

It's called online dating. 

I have obsessive-compulsive disorder.

These are some dating profiles from 2010 with the word "lonely" highlighted.

If you look at these things topographically, if you imagine dark colors to light colors are more use of the word, you can see that Appalachia is a pretty lonely place.

You can also see that Nebraska ain't that funny.

This is the kinky map, so what this is showing you is that the women in Alaska need to get together with the men in southern New Mexico, and have a good time.

This will be your one takeaway from this whole conference.

You're going to remember that fact for, like, 30 years. 

When you bring this down to a cartographic level, you can make maps and do the same trick I was doing with the eye charts.

You can replace the name of every city in the United States with the word people use more in that city than anywhere else.

They play in a band and they smoke.

And right above that you can see "email."

Some of these you can guess -- so, Los Angeles is "acting" and San Francisco is "gay."

Some are a little bit more heartbreaking.

In Baton Rouge, they talk about being curvy; downstream in New Orleans, they still talk about the flood.

Folks in the American capital will say they're interesting.

People in Baltimore, Maryland, will say they're afraid.

This is New Jersey.

I grew up somewhere between "annoying" and "cynical."

That's Syracuse.

The best place to eat in Syracuse, New York, is a Hell's Angels barbecue joint called Dinosaur Barbecue.

That's where you would take somebody on a date.

I live somewhere between "unconditional" and "midsummer," in Midtown Manhattan.

This is a self-portrait.

This is based on my email, about 500,000 emails sent over 20 years.

You can think of this as a quantified selfie.

So what I'm doing is running a physics equation based on my personal data.

You have to imagine everybody I've ever corresponded with.

It started out in the middle and it exploded with a big bang.

And you attract to my email addresses in the middle, which act like mainline stars.

And all the names are handwritten. 

Sometimes you do this data and this work with real-time data to illuminate a specific problem in a specific city.

Those are my cigarettes.

This is the house where the shooting took place.

This project involved a little bit of engineering.

I've got a bike chain rigged up as a cam shaft, with a computer driving it.

You guys know what this is -- you call this "data visualization."

It reduces people to numbers.

So watch out. 

One last piece for you.

I spent the last summer as the artist in residence for Times Square.

And Times Square in New York is literally the crossroads of the world.

One of the things people don't notice about it is it's the most Instagrammed place on Earth.

That's 17,000 a day, and I have them all. 

These are some of them with their eyes centered. 

Every civilization, will use the maximum level of technology available to make art.

And it's the responsibility of the artist to ask questions about what that technology means and how it reflects our culture. 

We're people, and we have dreams and ideas.

And reducing us to statistics is something that's done at our peril. 

Thank you very much. 

