So I think data can actually make us more human.

We're collecting and creating all kinds of data about how we're living our lives, and it's enabling us to tell some amazing stories.

Recently, a wise media theorist Tweeted, "The 19th century culture was defined by the novel, the 20th century culture was defined by the cinema, and the culture of the 21st century will be defined by the interface."

And I believe this is going to prove true.

This is a project called Flight Patterns.

What you're looking at is airplane traffic over North America for a 24-hour period.

As you see, everything starts to fade to black, and you see people going to sleep.

Everybody's moving from the East coast to the West coast.

You see San Francisco and Los Angeles start to make their journeys down to Hawaii in the lower left-hand corner. 

You can also toggle between altitude for model and manufacturer.

This is scrolling up the East coast.

You can see some of the chaos that's happening in New York with the air traffic controllers having to deal with all those major airports next to each other. 

So zooming back out real quick, we see, again, the U.S. -- you get Florida down in the right-hand corner.

And that's us down there in L.A. and Long Beach on the bottom.

This is looking at ascending versus descending flights.

And you can see, over time, the ways the airports change.

You see the holding patterns that start to develop in the bottom of the screen.

And you can see, eventually the airport actually flips directions. 

So this is another project that I worked on with the Sensible Cities Lab at MIT.

This is visualizing international communications.

So it's how New York communicates with other international cities.

And we set this up as a live globe in the Museum of Modern Art in New York for the Design the Elastic Mind exhibition.

And it's visualizing SMS messages being sent in the city of Amsterdam.

So you're seeing the daily ebb and flow of people sending SMS messages from different parts of the city, until we approach New Year's Eve, where everybody says, "Happy New Year!"

So now on to something completely different.

Some of you may recognize this.

This is Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen's mechanical chess playing machine.

There's actually a legless man that sits in that box and controls this chess player.

What does this mean for the future of mankind, where we're all plugged into this borg?"

I was probably being a little extreme.

So I created this drawing tool.

I asked people to draw a sheep facing to the left.

And I said, "I'll pay you two cents for your contribution."

And I started collecting sheep.

And I collected a lot, a lot of different sheep.

Lots of sheep.

I think it was really interesting to juxtapose this humanity versus this massive distributed grid.

Kind of amazing what some people did. 

So here's a few statistics from the project.

Approximate collection rate of 11 sheep per hour, which would make a working wage of 69 cents per hour.

(Laughter) The amount of time spent drawing ranged from four seconds to 46 minutes.

That gives you an idea of the different types of motivations and dedication.

But only one of them out of the 7,599 said this.

(Laughter) Which I was pretty surprised by.

I expected people to be wondering, "Why did I draw a sheep?"

And I think it's a pretty valid question. 

And there's a lot of reasons why I chose sheep.

Obviously, we think of sheep as followers.

He draws sheep after sheep.

The narrator's only appeased when he draws a box.

And I like that. 

So this is a clip from Charlie Chaplin's "Modern Times."

It's showing Charlie Chaplin dealing with some of the major changes during the Industrial Revolution.

And the whole idea of one's relationship to their work changed a lot.

And this was the inspiration for a project that I worked on with my friend Takashi Kawashima.

We decided to use the Mechanical Turk for exactly what it was meant for, which is making money.

So we took a hundred dollar bill and divided it into 10,000 teeny pieces, and we fed those into the Mechanical Turk.

We asked people to draw what it was that they saw.

But here there was no sheep-like criteria.

People, if they drew a stick figure or a smiley face, it actually made it into the bill.

So what you see is actually a representation of how well people did what it was they were asked to do.

And you can also trade real hundred-dollar bills for fake hundred-dollar bills and make a donation to the Hundred Dollar Laptop Project, which is now known as One Laptop Per Child.

This is again showing all the different contributions.

You see some people did beautiful stipple renderings, like this one on top -- spent a long time making realistic versions.

And other people would draw stick figures or smiley faces.

So the last Mechanical Turk project I'm going to talk to you about is called Bicycle Built for 2000.

This is a collaboration with my friend Daniel Massey.

You may recognize these two guys.

You may recognize it from "2001: A Space Odyssey."

When HAL's dying at the end of the film he starts singing this song, as a reference to when computers became human.

So we resynthesized this song.

This is what that sounded like.

We broke down all the individual notes in the singing as well as the phonemes in the singing. 

Aaron Koblin: And we took all of those individual pieces, and we fed them into another Turk request.

This is what it would look like if you went to the site.

You'd be fed a simple audio clip.

(Honk) And then you'd do your best to recreate that with your own voice.

After previewing it and confirming it's what you submitted, you could submit it into the Mechanical Turk with no other context.

And this is what we first got back from the very first set of submissions. 

Recording: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫ ♫ give me your answer do ♫ ♫ I'm half crazy ♫ ♫ all for the love of you ♫ ♫ It can't be a stylish marriage ♫ ♫ I can't afford a carriage ♫ ♫ But you'll look sweet upon the seat ♫ ♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫ 

We wanted to see how this applies to collaborative, distributed music making, where nobody has any idea what it is they're working on.

So if you go to the BicycleBuiltforTwoThousand.com you can actually hear what all this sounds like together.

I'm sorry for this. 

Chorus: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫ ♫ Give me your answer do ♫ ♫ I'm half crazy ♫ ♫ all for the love of you ♫ ♫ It can't be a stylish marriage ♫ ♫ I can't afford a carriage ♫ ♫ But you'd look sweet upon the seat ♫ ♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫ 

And I was writing software to visualize laser scanners.

So basically motion through 3D space.

We made a music video for one of my favorite bands, Radiohead.

And people were making some amazing things.

And I met a music video director named Chris Milk.

And we started bouncing around ideas to make a collaborative music video project.

But we knew we really needed the right person to kind of rally behind and build something for.

So we put the idea on the back burner for a few months.

As you know, an animation is a series of images.

One is the beginning of the music video.

And that's going to be followed by a short clip of people who have already contributed to the project talking about it briefly. 

(Video) Johnny Cash: ♫ There ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold my body down ♫ ♫ There ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold body down ♫ ♫ When I hear the trumpet sound ♫ ♫ I'm going to ride right out of the ground ♫ ♫ Ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold my body ... ♫ 

AK: What better way to pay tribute to the man than to make something for one of his songs. 

Collaborator: I felt really sad when he died.

And I just thought it'd be wonderful, it'd be really nice to contribute something to his memory. 

Collaborator Two: It really allows this last recording of his to be a living, breathing memorial. 

Collaborator Three: For all of the frames to be drawn by fans, each individual frame, it's got a very powerful feeling to it. 

Collaborator Four: I've seen everybody from Japan, Venezuela, to the States, to Knoxville, Tennessee. 

Collaborator Six: Watching the video in my room, I could see me not understanding at the beginning of it.

You can actually see the point when I know what I'm doing, and a lot of light and dark comes into it.

And in a weird way, that's what I actually like about Johnny Cash's music as well.

You're hearing a person's life. 

AK: So if you go to the website JohnnyCashProject.com, what you'll see is the video playing above.

And below it are all the individual frames that people have been submitting to the project.

If you roll over any one of those individual thumbnails, you can see the person who drew that individual thumbnail and where they were located.

And if you find one that you're interested in, you can actually click on it and open up an information panel where you're able to rate that frame, which helps it bubble up to the top.

And you can also see the way that it was drawn.

Again, you can get the playback and personal contribution.

But there's a bunch of different styles.

And you can sort the video a number of different ways.

So the last project I want to talk to you about is another collaboration with Chris Milk.

And this is called "The Wilderness Downtown."

It's an online music video for the Arcade Fire.

Chris and I were really amazed by the potential now with modern web browsers, where you have HTML5 audio and video and the power of JavaScript to render amazingly fast.

And we wanted to push the idea of the music video that was meant for the Web beyond the four-by-three or sixteen-by-nine window and try to make it play out and choreograph throughout the screen.

What if we had a very low commitment, but delivered something individually unique to each person who contributed? 

So the project starts off by asking you to enter the address of the home where you grew up.

(Video) Win Butler: ♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫ ♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫ ♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫ ♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Sometimes it never came ♫ ♫ Sometimes it never came ♫ ♫ Still moving through the pain ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ 

AK: So I think, if there's one thing to take away from my talk today, it's that an interface can be a powerful narrative device.

And as we collect more and more personally and socially relevant data, we have an opportunity, and maybe even an obligation, to maintain the humanity and tell some amazing stories as we explore and collaborate together. 

Thanks a lot. 

