Hello, my name is Thomas Heatherwick.

I have a studio in London that has a particular approach to designing buildings.

And there on the smaller scale, the scale of an earring or a ceramic pot or a musical instrument, was a materiality and a soulfulness.

I spent a lot of time counting beads and things like that. 

I'm just going to show, for people who don't know my studio's work, a few projects that we've worked on.

This is a hospital building.

This is a shop for a bag company.

This is studios for artists.

And this is a window display.

And this is a temple in Japan for a Buddhist monk.

And this is a cafe by the sea in Britain. 

But they aren't in London.

But the mayor of London wanted to reintroduce buses with this open platform.

And so we've been very lucky to have a chance to work.

The brief is that the bus should use 40 percent less energy.

So it's got hybrid drive.

I was going to show four main projects.

And this is a project for a bridge.

And so we were commissioned to design a bridge that would open.

I think we all kind of stand and watch.

It's just steel and timber.

So that's it speeded up. 

In the news, the subject of where our future water is going to come from and where our power is going to come from is in all the papers all the time.

And we used to be quite proud of the way we generated power.

But recently, any annual report of a power company doesn't have a power station on it.

It has a child running through a field, or something like that. 

And so when a consortium of engineers approached us and asked us to work with them on this power station, our condition was that we would work with them and that, whatever we did, we were not just going to decorate a normal power station.

And instead, we had to learn -- we kind of forced them to teach us.

So we looked at how we could compose all those elements -- instead of just litter, create one composition.

And what we found -- this area is one of the poorest parts of Britain.

It was voted the worst place in Britain to live.

So it felt this has a social dimension.

It has a symbolic importance.

And it has to be -- I'm trying to get my -- 250 feet high.

Because just that soil could make the acoustic difference.

And we also found that we could make a more efficient structure and have a cost-effective way of making a structure to do this. 

The finished project is meant to be more than just a power station.

It has a space where you could have a bar mitzvah at the top.

(Laughter) And it's a power park.

There's 250 pavilions.

It's the world's biggest ever expo that had ever happened.

So there are up to a million people there everyday.

And so that became the governmental goal -- is, how do you stand out in this chaos, which is an expo of stimulus?

And the world's first public park of modern times was in Britain.

So we suddenly realized that there was this thing.

And the same with flowers.

I've never met anyone who says, "I don't like flowers."

But we realized that seeds -- there's been this very serious project happening -- but that seeds -- at these major botanical gardens, seeds aren't on show.

But you just have to go to a garden center, and they're in little paper packets.

But this phenomenal project's been happening.

So we realized we had to make a project that would be seeds, some kind of seed cathedral. 

But how could we show these teeny-weeny things?

And the film "Jurassic Park" actually really helped us.

So the challenge was, how are we going to bring light and expose these things?

We didn't want to make a separate building and have separate content.

So we were trying to think, how could we make a whole thing emanate.

By the way, we had half the budget of the other Western nations.

Thomas Heatherwick: Okay, you get the idea.

So the whole thing can gently move when the wind blows.

And inside, the daylight -- each one is an optic and it brings light into the center.

And by night, artificial light in each one emanates and comes out to the outside.

And so the rest of the site was a public space.

And with a million people there a day, it just felt like offering some public space. 

There's just silence and a cool temperature.

And if a cloud goes past, you can see a cloud on the tips where it's letting the light through.

This is the only project that we've done where the finished thing looked more like a rendering than our renderings. 

A key thing was how people would interact.

I mean, in a way it was the most serious thing you could possible do at the expo.

And there was a lot of terror.

But there was an underlying support.

And so there was a moment when suddenly -- actually, the next thing.

TH: I'm sorry about my stupid voice there. 

So finally, texture is something.

And the project that we're building in Malaysia is apartment buildings for a property developer.

And it's in a piece of land that's this site.

So we're building these buildings.

They're actually identical, so it's quite cost-effective.

They're just chopped at different heights.

But the key part is trying to give back an extraordinary piece of landscape, rather than engulf it.

And that's my final slide. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Since we have an extra minute here, I thought perhaps you could tell us a little bit about these seeds, which maybe came from the shaved bit of the building. 

TH: These are a few of the tests we did when we were building the structure.

So there were 66,000 of these.

This optic was 22 feet long.

And so the daylight was just coming -- it was caught on the outside of the box and was coming down to illuminate each seed.

Waterproofing the building was a bit crazy.

