My name is Amit.

And it took 18 months.

A lot of fun, negotiations and stories, I can tell you, with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries.

But I'm going to focus on the demo.

There are a lot of stories about why we did this. 

I think my personal story is explained very simply on the slide, and it's access.

And so when I started traveling and going to these museums, I started learning a lot.

And while working at Google, I tried to put this desire to make it more accessible with technology together.

So we formed a team, a great team of people, and we started doing this. 

You look around at all these museums here.

You've got the Uffizi, you've got the MoMA, the Hermitage, the Rijks, the Van Gogh.

Click and, bang, you're in this museum.

You move around, you have fun.

You want to navigate around the museum?

Explore. 

I see this plus sign.

If the museum has given us the image, you click on it.

Now this is one of the images.

So this is all of the meta-data information.

And this is one of these images that we captured in what we call gigapixel technology.

So this image, for example, has close to, I think, around 10 billion pixels.

You can zoom around very simply.

But then you really want to go deep.

Went in, and I started noticing that these kids were actually beating something.

I did a little research, spoke to a couple of my contacts at the Met, and actually found out that this is a game called squall, which involves beating a goose with a stick on Shrove Tuesday.

And apparently it was quite popular.

Here is where we were, and this is the painting. 

So now let's just quickly jump into the MoMA, again in New York.

So another one of my favorites, "The Starry Night."

Now the example I showed you was all about finding details.

But what if you want to see brush strokes?

I'm going to show you my other favorite feature.

This is "The Ambassadors," based in the National Gallery.

It doesn't, in my opinion, even come from the museums.

I probably shouldn't say that.

It really comes from these artists.

And that's been my humbling experience in this.

I mean, I hope in this digital medium that we do justice to their artwork and represent it properly online.

And the biggest question I get asked nowadays is, "Did you do this to replicate the experience of going to a museum?"

And the answer is no.

It's to supplement the experience. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

