How much do you need to know about a person before you'd feel comfortable making a loan? 

Suppose you wanted to lend 1,000 dollars to the person sitting two rows behind you.

What would you need to know about that person before you'd feel comfortable? 

My mom came to the US from India in her late thirties.

She's a doctor in Brooklyn, and she often lets friends and neighbors come to see her for health services, whether they can pay right away or not.

She would thank them, and ask them about their families and their health.

She gave them credit because she trusted them. 

Most of us are like my mom.

We would give credit to someone we know or that we live next to.

But most of us are probably not going to lend to a stranger unless we know a little something about them. 

Our credit scores have been created through an aggregation and analysis of our public consumer credit data.

But ... there are 2.5 billion people around the world that don't have a credit score.

That's a third of the world's population.

They don't have a score because there are no formal public records on them -- no bank accounts, no credit histories and no social security numbers.

And because they don't have a score, they don't have access to the credit or financial products that can improve their lives.

They are not trusted. 

So we wanted to find a way to build trust and to open up financial access for these 2.5 billion.

So we created a mobile application that builds credit scores for them using mobile data.

Over time, this data is getting captured on our phones, and it provides a really rich picture of a person's life.

Our customers give us access to this data and we capture it through our mobile application.

It helps us understand the creditworthiness of people like Jenipher, a small-business owner in Nairobi, Kenya.

Jenipher is 65 years old, and for decades has been running a food stall in the central business district.

She has three sons who she put through vocational school, and she's also the leader of her local chama, or savings group. 

Jenipher's food stall does well.

Any emergency could force her into debt.

If Jenipher wants credit, her options are limited.

She could get a microloan, but she'd have to form a group that could help vouch for her credibility.

Loan sharks are always an option, but with interest rates that are well above 300 percent, they're financially risky.

And because Jenipher doesn't have collateral or a credit history, she can't walk into a bank and ask for a business loan. 

But one day, Jenipher's son convinced her to download our application and apply for a loan.

Jenipher answered a few questions on her phone and she gave us access to a few key data points on her device. 

And here's what we saw.

So for one, we saw that she made regular phone calls to her family in Uganda.

Well, it turns out that the data shows a four percent increase in repayment among people who consistently communicate with a few close contacts.

We could also see that though she traveled around a lot throughout the day, she actually had pretty regular travel patterns, and she was either at home or at her food stall.

And the data shows a six percent increase in repayment among customers who are consistent with where they spend most of their time. 

Our data shows that people who communicate with more than 58 different contacts tend to be more likely to be good borrowers.

In Jenipher's case, she communicated with 89 different individuals, which showed a nine percent increase in her repayment. 

These are just some of the thousands of different data points that we look at to understand a person's creditworthiness.

And after analyzing all of these different data points, we took the first risk and gave Jenipher a loan.

By looking beyond income, we can see that people in emerging markets that may seem risky and unpredictable on the surface are actually willing and have the capacity to repay. 

Our credit scores have helped us deliver over 200,000 loans in Kenya in just the past year.

With something as simple as a credit score, we're giving people the power to build their own futures.

Our customers have used their loans for family expenses, emergencies, travel and for investing back into growing their businesses.

Over the past two years of using our product, Jenipher has increased her savings by 60 percent.

She's also started two additional food stalls and is now making plans for her own restaurant.

She said, "Only my son believed I could do this.

She's lived her whole life believing that there was a part of the world that was closed off to her. 

Our job now is to open the world to Jenipher and the billions like her that deserve to be trusted. 

Thank you. 

