Phyllis Rodriguez: We are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship.

At the time, we knew that it was political.

We were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son -- my husband, Orlando, and I and our family.

And when I saw it -- and yet, through the shock, the terrible shock, and the terrible explosion in our lives, literally, we were not vengeful.

And a couple of weeks later when Zacarias Moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism, and the U.S. government called for a death penalty for him, if convicted, my husband and I spoke out in opposition to that, publicly.

Through that and through human rights groups, we were brought together with several other victims' families. 

I knew I would find her someday, or we would find each other.

Because, when people heard that my son was a victim, I got immediate sympathy.

But when people learned what her son was accused of, she didn't get that sympathy.

But her suffering is equal to mine. 

And I asked the Organization of Human Rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims.

So they introduced me to five families.

And I saw Phyllis, and I watched her.

She was the only mother in the group.

The others were brothers, sisters.

I suffered a lot as a mother.

So the story with Zacarias was too much really.

I know she really cried for her son.

But she knows where he is.

I don't know what happened to him. 

For all the women, all the mothers that give life, you can give back, you can change.

We must be hand-in-hand and do something together.

I talk against violence, against terrorism.

So if I can save one of the young girls, and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as I did, well this is something good.

This is why I'm here in front of you. 

But we were all so nervous.

Before we knew each others' names, or anything, we had embraced and wept.

Then we sat in a circle with support, with help, from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation.

And what happened then is we all told our stories, and we all connected as human beings.

By the end of the afternoon -- it was about three hours after lunch -- we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever. 

Now what I learned from her, is a woman, not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then, and what was being done to her son, but the life she's had.

I never had met someone with such a hard life, from such a totally different culture and environment from my own.

And I feel that we have a special connection, which I value very much.

So, Aicha, do you have a couple of words for conclusion?

Because our time is up. 

(Translator) AW: I wanted to say that we have to try to know other people, the other.

You must be tolerant.

You have to fight against violence.

And I hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other.

This is what I wanted to say. 

