I'm very fortunate to be here.

I feel so fortunate.

I've been so impressed by the kindness expressed to me.

And she's a very high-tech superintendent.

She's a technology leader and instructional leader.

It all started back in 1977.

And my parents were very patient, but I had been doing intermittent sojourns to India on a mystical quest.

It was an experimental education program.

It could have been dentistry, but the word "experimental" was in it, and so that's what I had to go for. 

There was no program directive, no manual to follow, no standards in gifted education in that way.

Chris Farina is here today at his own cost.

So we made a film and it turns out to be more than a story about me, more than a story about one teacher.

It's a story that's a testament to teaching and teachers.

And it's a beautiful thing. 

I saw Jan Polo's flashing eyes.

And you know, she had that old-school teacher stare.

You know the one.

(Laughter) You know that teacher?

I didn't use that stare very often, but I do have it in my repertoire.

And Miss Banks was there as a great mentor for me. 

And really, I feel as though, when I see the film -- I have a gesture she does, like this -- I feel like I am a continuation of her gesture.

I am one of her teaching gestures.

And the beautiful thing was, I got to teach my daughter in elementary school, Madeline.

And so that gesture of my mother's continues through many generations.

It's an amazing feeling to have that lineage.

And so I'm here standing on the shoulders of many people.

I'm not here alone.

There are many people on this stage right now. 

And so this World Peace Game I'd like to tell you about.

I was creating a lesson for students on Africa.

We put all the problems of the world there, and I thought, let's let them solve it.

I didn't want to lecture or have just book reading.

I wanted to have them be immersed and learn the feeling of learning through their bodies.

And so we made the game, and it has since evolved to a four-foot by four-foot by four-foot Plexiglass structure.

And it has four Plexiglass layers. 

There's an outer space layer with black holes and satellites and research satellites and asteroid mining.

There are four countries around the board.

The kids make up the names of the countries -- some are rich; some are poor.

They have different assets, commercial and military.

And each country has a cabinet.

There's a Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Minister of Defense and a CFO, or Comptroller.

I choose the Prime Minister based on my relationship with them.

I offer them the job, they can turn it down, and then they choose their own cabinet.

There's a World Bank, arms dealers and a United Nations.

(Laughter) 

That's not all.

And then there's a 13-page crisis document with 50 interlocking problems.

So that, if one thing changes, everything else changes.

And so with all these crises, we have -- let's see -- ethnic and minority tensions; we have chemical and nuclear spills, nuclear proliferation.

There's oil spills, environmental disasters, water rights disputes, breakaway republics, famine, endangered species and global warming.

(Laughter) (Applause) And they've done it several times too. 

(Laughter) 

They learn to overlook short-sighted reactions and impulsive thinking, to think in a long-term, more consequential way. 

And in the game, sometimes students actually form a peace force.

I'm just a clock watcher.

The students run the game.

(Video) Boy: The World Peace Game is serious.

And because I don't know, they've got to dig up the answer.

And so I apologize to them as well.

Now you may be wondering what all this complexity looks like.

Well when we have the game start, here's what you see. 

It's a serious question: who is really in charge?

I've learned to cede control of the classroom over to the students over time.

So I'll just share with you some stories very quickly of some magical things that have happened. 

In this game we had a little girl, and she was the Defense Minister of the poorest nation.

And the Defense Minister -- she had the tank corps and Air Force and so forth.

And she was next door to a very wealthy, oil-rich neighbor.

Without provocation, suddenly she attacked, against her Prime Minister's orders, the next-door neighbor's oil fields.

She marched into the oil field reserves, surrounded it, without firing a shot, and secured it and held it.

(Laughter) They are the toughest opponents.

And we were very upset.

So a few game days later it came to light that we found out this major country was planning a military offensive to dominate the entire world.

Had they had their fuel supplies, they would have done it.

That's the kind of thinking that we put them in, the situations.

(Applause) 

We have a letter in the game.

If you're a military commander and you wage troops -- the little plastic toys on the board -- and you lose them, I put in a letter.

So you have a little bit more thought before you commit to combat.

I was in tears.

Everybody understood that when we lose somebody, the winners are not gloating.

We all lose.

And it was an amazing occurrence and an amazing understanding. 

I'll show you what my friend David says about this.

He's been in many battles. 

(Video) David: We've really had enough of people attacking.

I mean, we've been lucky [most of] the time.

JH: I get chills every time I see that.

That's the kind of engagement you want to have happen.

And I can't design that, I can't plan that, and I can't even test that.

But it's self-evident assessment.

We know that's an authentic assessment of learning.

We have a lot of data, but I think sometimes we go beyond data with the real truth of what's going on. 

So I'll just share a third story.

This is about my friend Brennan.

So the team that was the poorest had gotten even poorer.

There was no way they could win.

And we were approaching four o'clock, our cut-off time -- there was about a minute left -- and despair just settled over the room.

I thought, I'm failing as a teacher.

I've failed them.

And I was just feeling so sad and dejected.

They get these dossiers full of secret documents.

Principal walks in, I'm out of a job.

The parents were looking in the window. 

Every game we play is different.

Some games are more about social issues, some are more about economic issues.

I allow them to go there and, through their own experience, learn, in a bloodless way, how not to do what they consider to be the wrong thing.

And they find out what is right their own way, their own selves.

If only. 

And on behalf of all of my teachers on whose shoulders I'm standing, thank you.

(Applause) 

