It's not.

And the answer relies on a formula that all paleontologists use.

And I'm going to tell you the secret. 

First, find rocks of the right age.

Second, those rocks must be sedimentary rocks.

And third, layers of those rocks must be naturally exposed.

That's it.

Find those three things and get yourself on the ground, chances are good that you will find fossils. 

Now let me break down this formula.

Organisms exist only during certain geological intervals.

If you want to find trilobites, you have to find the really, really old rocks of the Paleozoic -- rocks between a half a billion and a quarter-billion years old.

Now, if you want to find dinosaurs, don't look in the Paleozoic, you won't find them.

They hadn't evolved yet.

Now, it's fairly easy to find rocks of the right age at this point, because the Earth is, to a coarse degree, geologically mapped.

This is hard-won information.

The library of Earth is an old one.

It has no librarian to impose order.

Operating over vast swaths of time, myriad geological processes offer every possible insult to the rocks of ages.

Most pages are destroyed soon after being written.

Some pages are overwritten, creating difficult-to-decipher palimpsests of long-gone landscapes.

Pages that do find sanctuary under the advancing sands of time are never truly safe.

Unlike the Moon -- our dead, rocky companion -- the Earth is alive, pulsing with creative and destructive forces that power its geological metabolism.

Lunar rocks brought back by the Apollo astronauts all date back to about the age of the Solar System.

Moon rocks are forever.

Earth rocks, on the other hand, face the perils of a living lithosphere.

All will suffer ruination, through some combination of mutilation, compression, folding, tearing, scorching and baking. 

Thus, the volumes of Earth history are incomplete and disheveled.

The library is vast and magnificent -- but decrepit.

And it was this tattered complexity in the rock record that obscured its meaning until relatively recently.

Five thousand years after the Sumerians learned to record their thoughts on clay tablets, the Earth's volumes remained inscrutable to humans.

We were geologically illiterate, unaware of the antiquity of our own planet and ignorant of our connection to deep time. 

After that, you could say things like, "If we go over there, we should be in the Jurassic," or, "If we go up over that hill, we should find the Cretaceous."

So now, if you want to find trilobites, get yourself a good geological map and go to the rocks of the Paleozoic.

You can't have a fossil in an igneous rock formed by magma, like a granite, or in a metamorphic rock that's been heated and squeezed.

And you have to get yourself in a desert.

It's that you need to go to a place that's a desert today, a place that doesn't have too many plants covering up the rocks, and a place where erosion is always exposing new bones at the surface.

Here's a picture that I took in Southern Patagonia.

Every pebble that you see on the ground there is a piece of dinosaur bone.

So when you're in that right situation, it's not a question of whether you'll find fossils or not; you're going to find fossils.

The question is: Will you find something that is scientifically significant?

It's not that I don't like other paleontologists.

When you go to a place that's relatively unexplored, you have a much better chance of not only finding fossils but of finding something that's new to science.

So that's my formula for finding dinosaurs, and I've applied it all around the world. 

And we found this.

This is a femur, a thigh bone, of a giant, plant-eating dinosaur.

Now, unfortunately, that bone was isolated.

We dug and dug and dug, and there wasn't another bone around.

But it made us hungry to go back the next year for more.

And after three more hard, really brutal field seasons, the quarry came to look like this.

And there you see the tail of that great beast wrapping around me.

The giant that lay in this grave, the new species of dinosaur, we would eventually call "Dreadnoughtus schrani."

Now, one of the really cool things about being a paleontologist is when you find a new species, you get to name it.

And I've always thought it a shame that these giant, plant-eating dinosaurs are too often portrayed as passive, lumbering platters of meat on the landscape. 

They're not.

The bison in Yellowstone injure far more people than do the grizzly bears.

So can you imagine a big bull, 65-ton Dreadnoughtus in the breeding season, defending a territory?

And thus the name, "Dreadnoughtus," or, "fears nothing."

Now, to grow so large, an animal like Dreadnoughtus would've had to have been a model of efficiency.

That long neck and long tail help it radiate heat into the environment, passively controlling its temperature.

And that long neck also serves as a super-efficient feeding mechanism.

Yeah, these animals are big and tough, but they won't take a blow like that.

If you're a big 65-ton Dreadnoughtus, you don't get to fall down in life -- even once. 

Now, after this particular Dreadnoughtus carcass was buried and de-fleshed by a multitude of bacteria, worms and insects, its bones underwent a brief metamorphosis, exchanging molecules with the groundwater and becoming more and more like the entombing rock.

As layer upon layer of sediment accumulated, pressure from all sides weighed in like a stony glove whose firm and enduring grip held each bone in a stabilizing embrace. 

And then came the long ... nothing.

Meanwhile, Earth history unfolded above.

The Ice Age came. 

And then, in East Africa, an unpromising species of ape evolved the odd trick of sentient thought.

These brainy primates were not particularly fast or strong.

With seven billion peripatetic Homo sapiens on the planet, it was perhaps inevitable that one of them would eventually trod on the grave of the magnificent titan buried beneath the badlands of Southern Patagonia.

I was that ape.

And standing there, alone in the desert, it was not lost on me that the chance of any one individual entering the fossil record is vanishingly small.

But the Earth is very, very old.

And over vast tracts of time, the improbable becomes the probable.

That's the magic of the geological record.

Thus, multitudinous creatures living and dying on an old planet leave behind immense numbers of fossils, each one a small miracle, but collectively, inevitable. 

Sixty-six million years ago, an asteroid hits the Earth and wipes out the dinosaurs.

This easily might not have been.

But we only get one history, and it's the one that we have.

But this particular reality was not inevitable.

The tiniest perturbation of that asteroid far from Earth would have caused it to miss our planet by a wide margin.

The pivotal, calamitous day during which the dinosaurs were wiped out, setting the stage for the modern world as we know it didn't have to be.

But over geological time, improbable, nearly impossible events do occur.

Along the path from our wormy, Cambrian ancestors to primates dressed in suits, innumerable forks in the road led us to this very particular reality.

The bones of Dreadnoughtus lay underground for 77 million years.

There, it's nothing more than a gurgle of water that issues forth from beneath a rock in a boulder in a pasture, high in the Bitterroot Mountains.

The stream next to it runs a few hundred yards and ends in a small pond.

Now go down to the mouth of the Missouri, near St. Louis, and it's pretty obvious that that river is a big deal.

But go up into the Bitterroots and look at the Missouri, and human prospection does not allow us to see it as anything special.

Now go back to the Cretaceous Period and look at our tiny, fuzzball ancestors.

You would never guess that they would amount to anything special, and they probably wouldn't have, were it not for that pesky asteroid. 

Now, make a thousand more worlds and a thousand more solar systems and let them run.

You will never get the same result.

No doubt, those worlds would be both amazing and amazingly improbable, but they would not be our world and they would not have our history.

There are an infinite number of histories that we could've had.

We only get one, and wow, did we ever get a good one.

Dinosaurs like Dreadnoughtus were real.

Sea monsters like the mosasaur were real.

Dragonflies with the wingspan of an eagle and pill bugs the length of a car really existed. 

Why study the ancient past?

Because it gives us perspective and humility.

They didn't see it coming, and they didn't have a choice.

We, on the other hand, do have a choice.

And the nature of the fossil record tells us that our place on this planet is both precarious and potentially fleeting.

Right now, our species is propagating an environmental disaster of geological proportions that is so broad and so severe, it can rightly be called the sixth extinction.

Only unlike the dinosaurs, we can see it coming.

And unlike the dinosaurs, we can do something about it.

That choice is ours. 

Thank you. 

