Here, I'll give you an example.

And they got fabulously wealthy in doing so.

And they built beautiful cities all powered on that coal.

And back here in the United States, we saw economic despair, deprivation.

This is what I saw.

I saw people struggling to get by, not knowing what was what and what was next.

And then I asked myself the question.

And the rest of us, the vast majority of us, struggle to get by.

And the Chinese gave this small ruling elite loads of military weapons and sophisticated technology in order to ensure that people like me would not speak out against this relationship.

Does this sound familiar? 

And they did things like train Americans to help protect the coal.

And we fight back, and it gets really ugly.

And the Chinese respond in a very ugly way.

Can you imagine what you would feel if you were in my shoes?

Can you imagine walking out of this building and seeing a tank sitting out there or a truck full of soldiers?

And just imagine what you would feel.

Because you know why they're here, and you know what they're doing here.

And you've got to feel that. 

Okay, so that's the warm up.

That's the warm up.

Now we're going to have the real radical experiment.

And so for the remainder of my talk, what I want you to do is put yourselves in the shoes of an ordinary Arab Muslim living in the Middle East -- in particular, in Iraq.

And sometimes you even watch satellite, CNN, from the United States.

So you have a sense of what the Americans are thinking.

But really, you just want a better life for yourself.

That's what you want.

You're Arab Muslim living in Iraq.

You want a better life for yourself. 

So here, let me help you.

Let me help you with some things that you might be thinking.

People here back in the United States know it's about oil.

It's because somebody else has a design for your resource.

It's your resource; it's not somebody else's.

It's your land; it's your resource.

Somebody else has a design for it.

And you know why they have a design?

You know why they have their eyes set on it?

Because they have an entire economic system that's dependent on that oil -- foreign oil, oil from other parts of the world that they don't own. 

And what else do you think about these people?

Poverty, despair, struggle.

Look, you don't live in a wealthy country.

This is Iraq.

This is what you see.

And you feel something about this.

And you feel it; you see it every day.

It's part of your life.

And back when Saddam Hussein was in power, the Americans didn't care about his crimes.

When he was gassing the Kurds and gassing Iran, they didn't care about it.

When oil was at stake, somehow, suddenly, things mattered.

There are a lot of countries, oil-producing countries, that aren't very democratic, but supported by the United States.

That's odd. 

Oh, these incursions, these two wars, the 10 years of sanctions, the eight years of occupation, the insurgency that's been unleashed on your people, the tens of thousands, the hundreds of thousands of civilian deaths, all because of oil.

You can't help but think that.

Not a single person in your country has not been touched. 

But there's something else.

They're Christians.

They're Christians.

They worship the Christian God, they have crosses, they carry Bibles.

Their Bibles have a little insignia that says "U.S. Army" on them.

And their leaders, their leaders: before they send their sons and daughters off to war in your country -- and you know the reason -- before they send them off, they go to a Christian church, and they pray to their Christian God, and they ask for protection and guidance from that god.

Why?

And they do wonderful things.

And this guy, you get a guy like Lt. Gen. William Boykin.

I mean, here's a guy who says that your God is a false God.

Your God's an idol; his God is the true God.

It's a holy war against Muslims.

Look, invade, subdue them, take their resources.

If they won't submit, kill them.

Because in the context of everything else, all the pieces fit.

Of course you're going to think this. 

For you, this is like all Christians.

It's all over the Web, Bible Boot Camp.

Isn't that interesting.

And it scares you, and it frightens you. 

That's what they are to you.

You don't understand the Americans.

It's not a Christian invasion.

But some of you do.

And this is a perspective.

Okay, so now, here's what we're going to do. 

Now here comes the radical experiment.

So we're all back home.

This photo: this woman, man, I feel her.

I feel her.

She's my sister, my wife, my cousin, my neighbor.

She's anybody to me.

These guys standing there, everybody in the photo, I feel this photo, man.

So here's what I want you to do. 

Let's go back to my first example of the Chinese.

And what I want you to do is picture her as a Chinese woman receiving a Chinese flag because her loved one has died in America in the coal uprising.

As an American, how do you feel about this picture?

What do you think about that scene? 

And so I'm going to invite you to take a risk with me.

These gentlemen here, they're insurgents.

Can you feel that you just want to take these guys and wring their necks?

Can you go there?

It shouldn't be that difficult.

Which one?

Can you feel their anger, their fear, their rage at what has happened in their country?

What do you think they're feeling?

You see, that's empathy.

It's also understanding. 

You're allowed to hate these people.

You're allowed to just hate them with every fiber of your being.

Whatever it is, you can go so far.

And they build a big, complex world.

And suddenly, without realizing it, you're seeing the world differently.

Everything has changed.

Everything in your life has changed.

And that's, of course, what this is about. 

And now perhaps -- perhaps -- you do too. 

Thank you. 

