I returned to Singapore and, in 1990, performed Asia's first successful cadaveric liver transplant procedure, but against all odds.

Now when I look back, the transplant was actually the easiest part.

Next, raising the money to fund the procedure.

But 20 years on, my patient, Surinder, is Asia's longest surviving cadaveric liver transplant to date.

(Applause) And perhaps more important, I am the proud godmother to her 14 year-old son. 

(Applause) 

But not all patients on the transplant wait list are so fortunate.

The truth is, there are just simply not enough donor organs to go around.

As the demand for donor organs continues to rise, in large part due to the aging population, the supply has remained relatively constant.

In the United States alone, 100,000 men, women and children are on the waiting list for donor organs, and more than a dozen die each day because of a lack of donor organs.

The transplant community has actively campaigned in organ donation.

But as there was still a dire shortage of donor organs, the gift of life was then extended from living, related donors to now living, unrelated donors.

And this then has given rise to unprecedented and unexpected moral controversy.

How can one distinguish a donation that is voluntary and altruistic from one that is forced or coerced from, for example, a submissive spouse, an in-law, a servant, a slave, an employee?

Where and how can we draw the line?

In my part of the world, too many people live below the poverty line.

And in some areas, the commercial gifting of an organ in exchange for monetary reward has led to a flourishing trade in living, unrelated donors. 

Pregnancies are meant to be happy and fulfilling moments in any woman's life.

And at each time, I would feel the chilling stares of condemned prisoners' eyes follow me.

And for two years, I struggled with the dilemma of waking up at 4:30 am on a Friday morning, driving to the prison, getting down, gloved and scrubbed, ready to receive the body of an executed prisoner, remove the organs and then transport these organs to the recipient hospital and then graft the gift of life to a recipient the same afternoon.

No doubt, I was informed, the consent had been obtained. 

In my team, the lives of one or two of my colleagues were tainted by this experience.

Some of us may have been sublimated, but really none of us remained the same.

I was troubled that the retrieval of organs from executed prisoners was at least as morally controversial as the harvesting of stem cells from human embryos.

And in my mind, I realized as a surgical pioneer that the purpose of my position of influence was surely to speak up for those who have no influence.

Now just about that time, the practice of surgery evolved from big to small, from wide open incisions to keyhole procedures, tiny incisions.

And in transplantation, concepts shifted from whole organs to cells.

In 1988, at the University of Minnesota, I participated in a small series of whole organ pancreas transplants.

I witnessed the technical difficulty.

And this inspired in my mind a shift from transplanting whole organs to perhaps transplanting cells.

And at that time, stem cell research had gained momentum, following the isolation of the world's first human embryonic stem cells in the 1990s.

The observation that stem cells, as master cells, could give rise to a whole variety of different cell types -- heart cells, liver cells, pancreatic islet cells -- captured the attention of the media and the imagination of the public.

And I focused my research on stem cells as a possible source for cell transplants. 

Today we realize that there are many different types of stem cells.

Embryonic stem cells have occupied center stage, chiefly because of their pluripotency -- that is their ease in differentiating into a variety of different cell types.

But the moral controversy surrounding embryonic stem cells -- the fact that these cells are derived from five-day old human embryos -- has encouraged research into other types of stem cells. 

Fat-derived stem cells are adult stem cells.

And adult stem cells are found in you and me -- in our blood, in our bone marrow, in our fat, our skin and other organs.

And as it turns out, fat is one of the best sources of adult stem cells.

But adult stem cells are not embryonic stem cells.

But in 2007, two remarkable individuals, Shinya Yamanaka of Japan and Jamie Thomson of the United States, made an astounding discovery.

They discovered that adult cells, taken from you and me, could be reprogrammed back into embryonic-like cells, which they termed IPS cells, or induced pluripotent stem cells.

And in our lab, we are focused on taking fat and reprogramming mounds of fat into fountains of youthful cells -- cells that we may use to then form other, more specialized, cells, which one day may be used as cell transplants.

If this research is successful, it may then reduce the need to research and sacrifice human embryos. 

In May 2006, something horrible happened to me.

Earlier that week, I had taken a rather hard knock during late spring skiing -- yes, I fell.

And I started to see floaters and stars, which I casually dismissed as too much high-altitude sun exposure.

What happened to me might have been catastrophic, if not for the fact that I was in reach of good surgical access.

And I had my vision restored, but not before a prolonged period of convalescence -- three months -- in a head down position.

This experience taught me to empathize more with my patients, and especially those with retinal diseases. 

37 million people worldwide are blind, and 127 million more suffer from impaired vision.

Stem cell-derived retinal transplants, now in a research phase, may one day restore vision, or part vision, to millions of patients with retinal diseases worldwide.

Indeed, we live in both challenging as well as exciting times.

As the world population ages, scientists are racing to discover new ways to enhance the power of the body to heal itself through stem cells. 

It is a fact that when our organs or tissues are injured, our bone marrow releases stem cells into our circulation.

And these stem cells then float in the bloodstream and hone in to damaged organs to release growth factors to repair the damaged tissue.

Stem cells may be used as building blocks to repair damaged scaffolds within our body, or to provide new liver cells to repair damaged liver.

As we speak, there are 117 or so clinical trials researching the use of stem cells for liver diseases. 

What lies ahead?

Heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide.

1.1 million Americans suffer heart attacks yearly.

4.8 million suffer cardiac failure.

Stem cells may be used to deliver growth factors to repair damaged heart muscle or be differentiated into heart muscle cells to restore heart function.

There are 170 clinical trials investigating the role of stem cells in heart disease.

While still in a research phase, stem cells may one day herald a quantum leap in the field of cardiology. 

Stem cell therapies may one day reduce the need for donor organs.

Powerful new technologies always present enigmas.

As we speak, the world's first human embryonic stem cell trial for spinal cord injury is currently underway following the USFDA approval.

And in the U.K., neural stem cells to treat stroke are being investigated in a phase one trial. 

The research success that we celebrate today has been made possible by the curiosity and contribution and commitment of individual scientists and medical pioneers.

Each one has his story.

Thank you. 

