Roger Ebert: These are my words, but this is not my voice.

For most of my life, I never gave a second thought to my ability to speak.

It was like breathing.

In those days, I was living in a fool's paradise.

For several days now, we have enjoyed brilliant and articulate speakers here at TED.

I used to be able to talk like that.

Maybe I wasn't as smart, but I was at least as talkative.

I will start with my wife, Chaz. 

Chaz Ebert: It was Chaz who stood by my side through three attempts to reconstruct my jaw and restore my ability to speak.

Going into the first surgery for a recurrence of salivary cancer in 2006, I expected to be out of the hospital in time to return to my movie review show, 'Ebert and Roeper at the Movies.'

I had pre-taped enough shows to get me through six weeks of surgery and recuperation.

The doctors took a fibula bone from my leg and some tissue from my shoulder to fashion into a new jaw.

My tongue, larynx and vocal cords were still healthy and unaffected. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

CE: I was optimistic, and all was right with the world.

The first surgery was a great success.

I saw myself in the mirror and I looked pretty good.

Suddenly, I had an episode of catastrophic bleeding.

My carotid artery had ruptured.

Thank God I was still in my hospital room and my doctors were right there.

There was a second surgery -- which held up for five or six days and then it also fell apart.

And then a third attempt, which also patched me back together pretty well, until it failed.

A doctor from Brazil said he had never seen anyone survive a carotid artery rupture.

And before I left the hospital, after a year of being hospitalized, I had seven ruptures of my carotid artery. 

There was no particular day when anyone told me I would never speak again; it just sort of became obvious.

Human speech is an ingenious manipulation of our breath within the sound chamber of our mouth and respiratory system.

We need to be able to hold and manipulate that breath in order to form sounds.

Because I had lost my jaw, I could no longer form a seal, and therefore my tongue and all of my other vocal equipment was rendered powerless. 

Dean Ornish: At first for a long time, I wrote messages in notebooks.

Then I tried typing words on my laptop and using its built in voice.

(Laughter) "It was the clearest I could find.

It knew things like the difference between an exclamation point and a question mark.

When it saw a period, it knew how to make a sentence sound like it was ending instead of staying up in the air.

For me, they share a fundamental problem: they're too slow.

When I find myself in a conversational situation, I need to type fast and to jump right in.

People don't have the time or the patience to wait for me to fool around with the codes for every word or phrase. 

But what value do we place on the sound of our own voice?

How does that affect who you are as a person?

When people hear Alex speaking my words, do they experience a disconnect?

Does that create a separation or a distance from one person to the next?

How did I feel not being able to speak?

I felt, and I still feel, a lot of distance from the human mainstream.

I've become uncomfortable when I'm separated from my laptop.

Even then, I'm aware that most people have little patience for my speaking difficulties. 

At first I was against it.

I thought it would be creepy to hear my own voice coming from a computer.

There was something comforting about a voice that was not my own.

But I decided then to just give it a try.

So we contacted a company in Scotland that created personalized computer voices.

They'd never made one from previously-recorded materials.

All of their voices had been made by a speaker recording original words in a control booth.

But they were willing to give it a try. 

So I sent them many hours of recordings of my voice, including several audio commentary tracks that I'd made for movies on DVDs.

And it sounded like me, it really did.

There was a reason for that; it was me.

But it wasn't that simple.

I'll let you hear a sample of that voice.

These are a few of the comments I recorded for use when Chaz and I appeared on the Oprah Winfrey program.

And here's the voice we call Roger Jr. or Roger 2.0. 

Roger 2.0: Oprah, I can't tell you how great it is to be back on your show.

We have been talking for a long time, and now here we are again.

This is the first version of my computer voice.

When I heard it the first time, it sent chills down my spine.

When I type anything, this voice will speak whatever I type.

When I read something, it will read in my voice.

The voice was created by a company in Scotland named CereProc.

It makes me feel good that many of the words you are hearing were first spoken while I was commenting on "Casablanca" and "Citizen Kane."

This is the first voice they've created for an individual.

There are several very good voices available for computers, but they all sound like somebody else, while this voice sounds like me.

I plan to use it on television, radio and the Internet.

People who need a voice should know that most computers already come with built-in speaking systems.

Many blind people use them to read pages on the Web to themselves.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Roger Ebert: As you can hear, it sounds like me, but the words jump up and down.

The flow isn't natural.

But so far, the Apple Alex voice is the best one I've heard.

He said he recorded many long hours in various intonations to be used in the voice.

A very large sample is needed. 

John Hunter: All my life I was a motormouth.

I feel like the hero of that Harlan Ellison story titled "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream."

For almost all of its millions and billions of years, there was no life on Earth at all.

For almost all the years of life on Earth, there was no intelligent life.

Only after we learned to pass knowledge from one generation to the next, did civilization become possible.

In cosmological terms, that was about 10 minutes ago.

That has mostly happened in my lifetime. 

Some of the famous early computers were being built in my hometown of Urbana, the birthplace of HAL 9000.

When I heard the amazing talk by Salman Khan on Wednesday, about the Khan Academy website that teaches hundreds of subjects to students all over the world, I had a flashback.

It was about 1960.

The programmers said it could assist students in their learning. 

It continued to evolve and operated in one form or another on more and more sophisticated computers, until only five years ago.

I have learned from Wikipedia that, starting with that humble beginning, PLATO established forums, message boards, online testing, email, chat rooms, picture languages, instant messaging, remote screen sharing and multiple-player games. 

(Laughter) I'm here as a man who wants to communicate. 

(Laughter) I'm here as a man who wants to communicate. 

I was in line at Radio Shack to buy one of the first Model 100's.

And when I told the people in the press room at the Academy Awards that they'd better install some phone lines for Internet connections, they didn't know what I was talking about.

When I bought my first desktop, it was a DEC Rainbow.

Does anybody remember that?"

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

CE: All of this has happened in the blink of an eye.

It is unimaginable what will happen next.

It makes me incredibly fortunate to live at this moment in history.

For billions of years, the universe evolved completely without notice.

Now we live in the age of the Internet, which seems to be creating a form of global consciousness.

And because of it, I can communicate as well as I ever could.

We are born into a box of time and space.

We use words and communication to break out of it and to reach out to others. 

Computer voices are sometimes not very sophisticated, but with my computer, I can communicate more widely than ever before.

I feel as if my blog, my email, Twitter and Facebook have given me a substitute for everyday conversation.

They aren't an improvement, but they're the best I can do.

They give me a way to speak.

Not everybody has the patience of my wife, Chaz.

But online, everybody speaks at the same speed. 

This whole adventure has been a learning experience.

Every time there was a surgery that failed, I was left with a little less flesh and bone.

Now I have no jaw left at all.

While harvesting tissue from both my shoulders, the surgeries left me with back pain and reduced my ability to walk easily.

Ironic that my legs are fine, and it's my shoulders that slow up my walk.

When you see me today, I look like the Phantom of the Opera. 

But no you don't. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I'm so sorry.

Excuse me. 

People talk loudly and slowly to me.

Sometimes they assume I am deaf.

There are people who don't want to make eye contact. 

Believe me, he didn't mean this as -- anyway, let me just read it.

(Laughter) You should never let your wife read something like this. 

(Laughter) You should never let your wife read something like this. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It is human nature to look away from illness.

We don't enjoy a reminder of our own fragile mortality.

That's why writing on the Internet has become a lifesaver for me.

My ability to think and write have not been affected.

And on the Web, my real voice finds expression.

I have also met many other disabled people who communicate this way.

One of my Twitter friends can type only with his toes.

So I have not come here to complain.

I have much to make me happy and relieved.

I seem, for the time being, to be cancer-free.

If I were in this condition at any point before a few cosmological instants ago, I would be as isolated as a hermit.

I would be trapped inside my head.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

A human judge has a conversation with a human and a computer.

If a computer voice can successfully tell a joke and do the timing and delivery as well as Henny Youngman, then that's the voice I want. 

