How often do we hear that people just don't care?

And I'll give you some examples of what I mean.

This is a newspaper ad.

It's a notice of a zoning application change for a new office building so the neighborhood knows what's happening.

As you can see, it's impossible to read.

You need to get halfway down to even find out which address they're talking about, and then farther down, in tiny 10-point font, to find out how to actually get involved.

Imagine if the private sector advertised in the same way -- if Nike wanted to sell a pair of shoes and put an ad in the paper like that.

(Applause) Now that would never happen.

You'll never see an ad like that because Nike actually wants you to buy their shoes.

As long as the city's putting out notices like this to try to get people engaged, then of course people aren't going to be engaged.

But that's not apathy; that's intentional exclusion. 

Whoever has the most money gets the loudest voice, dominating the visual and mental environment.

The problem with this model is that there are some amazing messages that need to be said that aren't profitable to say.

So you're never going to see them on a billboard. 

And I'll give you an example: the Now magazine from last week -- progressive, downtown weekly in Toronto.

This is the cover story.

It's an article about a theater performance, and it starts with basic information about where it is, in case you actually want to go and see it after you've read the article -- where, the time, the website.

Same with this -- it's a movie review, an art review, a book review -- where the reading is in case you want to go.

Then you get to their political articles.

Here's a great article about an important election race that's happening.

It talks about the candidates -- written very well -- but no information, no follow-up, no websites for the campaigns, no information about when the debates are, where the campaign offices are.

The message seems to be that the readers are most likely to want to eat, maybe read a book, maybe see a movie, but not be engaged in their community.

Number two, it's imperfect; it's not very glamorous, and it doesn't suddenly start and suddenly end.

It's an ongoing process your whole life.

But most importantly, it's voluntary.

It's voluntary.

As long as we're teaching our kids that heroism starts when someone scratches a mark on your forehead, or someone tells you that you're part of a prophecy, they're missing the most important characteristic of leadership, which is that it comes from within.

It's about following your own dreams -- uninvited, uninvited -- and then working with others to make those dreams come true. 

Instead, they've become, sadly, uninspiring and uncreative organizations that rely so heavily on market research and polling and focus groups that they end up all saying the same thing, pretty much regurgitating back to us what we already want to hear at the expense of putting forward bold and creative ideas.

Charitable status: Groups who have charitable status in Canada aren't allowed to do advocacy.

Which leads us to the last one, which is our elections. 

As you may have noticed, our elections in Canada are a complete joke.

We use out-of-date systems that are unfair and create random results.

Canada's currently led by a party that most Canadians didn't actually want.

How can we honestly and genuinely encourage more people to vote when votes don't count in Canada?

Now I'm not trying to be negative by throwing all these obstacles out and explaining what's in our way.

Quite the opposite: I actually think people are amazing and smart and that they do care.

But that, as I said, we live in this environment where all these obstacles are being put in our way.

As long as we believe that people, our own neighbors, are selfish, stupid or lazy, then there's no hope.

But we can change all those things I mentioned.

We can open up city hall.

Thank you. 

