Can any of you remember what you wanted to be when you were 17?

Because big sisters are always supposed to support their little sisters.

And then there was a silence -- one of those awful silences when you know something's wrong.

And you know, how on earth did I get to 17 and not know that?

So let me just tell you, the great part of all of this?

The really strange part is that, at three and a half, just before I was going to school, my parents made a bizarre, unusual and incredibly brave decision.

And they decided to tell me that I could see.

So just like Johnny Cash's Sue, a boy given a girl's name, I would grow up and learn from experience how to be tough and how to survive, when they were no longer there to protect me, or just take it all away.

But more significantly, they gave me the ability to believe, totally, to believe that I could.

And with the same dogged determination that my father had bred into me since I was such a child -- he taught me how to sail, knowing I could never see where I was going, I could never see the shore, and I couldn't see the sails, and I couldn't see the destination.

But he told me to believe and feel the wind in my face.

And that wind in my face made me believe that he was mad and I would drive.

And for the next 11 years, I swore nobody would ever find out that I couldn't see, because I didn't want to be a failure, and I didn't want to be weak.

And I believed I could do it.

So I rammed through life as only a Casey can do.

And I was an archeologist, and then I broke things.

And then I went in and I got a global consulting job with Accenture.

And I'm in one of the most competitive environments in the world, where you work hard, play hard, you gotta be the best, you gotta be the best.

Have you ever tried to see that if you have Vaseline in front of your eyes?

It's such a small thing, right?

And you know how exhausting it can be to try to be perfect when you're not, or to be somebody that you aren't? 

And so after admitting I couldn't see to HR, they sent me off to an eye specialist.

And he said, "Do you love it?"

And then he said to me, "What did you want to be when you were little?"

And I went home, and, because the pain in my chest ached so much, I thought, "I'll go out for a run."

Really not a very sensible thing to do.

And I went on a run that I know so well.

I know this run so well, by the back of my hand.

And there was a rock that I always missed.

And I was floored, and I was broken, and I was angry.

And I didn't know what to do.

What am I going to be?"

And I thought about my dad, and I thought, "Good God, I'm so not Sue now."

I had lost my belief.

And really slowly, slowly, slowly, it happened.

And it did happen this way.

And nobody can tell me no.

And so I got off that rock, and, oh my God, did I run home.

And I had no idea how I was going to be an elephant handler.

Nine months later, after that day on snot rock, I had the only blind date in my life with a seven and a half foot elephant called Kanchi.

But you know, I was believing in the wrong thing.

Do you know how much of us all pretend to be somebody we're not?

And you know what, when you really believe in yourself and everything about you, it's extraordinary what happens. 

And you know what, that trip, that thousand kilometers, it raised enough money for 6,000 cataract eye operations.

Six thousand people got to see because of that.

When I came home off that elephant, do you know what the most amazing part was?

I chucked in my job at Accenture.

And I wanted to make you see it in a positive way -- no charity, no pity.

But I wanted to work only and truly with business and media leadership to totally reframe disability in a way that was exciting and possible.

It was extraordinary.

It just seemed that it was possible. 

And I got my way here being happily proud that I couldn't see.

And the one thing is that a really good friend of mine, he texted me on the way over, knowing I was scared.

Even though I present confident, I was scared.

He said, "Be you."

And so here I am.

This is me, all of me. 

Being absolutely true to yourself is freedom.

And I never needed eyes to see -- never.

I simply needed vision and belief.

And if you truly believe -- and I mean believe from the bottom of your heart -- you can make change happen.

We are extraordinary, different, wonderful people. 

Thank you. 

