A phenomenon that is so significant that the survival and propagation of our species depends on it.

Yet we consider it a taboo.

We feel awkward and shameful talking about it. 

Later when this chapter appeared in our textbooks, our biology teacher skipped the subject. 

I learned to be ashamed of my body.

I learned to stay unaware of periods in order to stay decent. 

Research in various parts of India shows that three out of every 10 girls are not aware of menstruation at the time of their first periods.

And in some parts of Rajasthan this number is as high as nine out of 10 girls being unaware of it.

You'd be surprised to know that most of the girls that I have spoken to, who did not know about periods at the time of their first menstruation thought that they have got blood cancer and they're going to die soon. 

But in India, only 12 percent of girls and women have access to hygienic ways of managing their periods.

If you do the math, 88 percent of girls and women use unhygienic ways to manage their periods. 

I was one of them.

So when I started getting my periods, I began with using rags.

After every use I would wash and reuse them.

Due to repeated washing the rags would become coarse, and I would often get rashes and infections using them. 

I wore these already for five years until I moved out of that town.

I think you all must be aware of it, but I'll still list it for the few who don't. 

I was not allowed to touch or eat pickles.

You'll find signposts outside temples denying the entry of menstruating girls and women. 

Ironically, most of the time it is the older woman who imposes such restrictions on younger girls in a family.

After all, they have grown up accepting such restrictions as norms.

And in the absence of any intervention, it is the myth and misconception that propagate from generation to generation. 

About 85 percent of girls and women in India would follow one or more restrictive customs on their periods every month.

Can you imagine what this does to the self-esteem and self-confidence of a young girl?

The psychological trauma that this inflicts, affecting her personality, her academic performance and every single aspect of growing up during her early formative years? 

I religiously followed all these restrictive customs for 13 years, until a discussion with my partner, Tuhin, changed my perception about menstruation forever.

Tuhin knew little about periods. 

He was astonished to know that girls get painful cramps and we bleed every month. 

Yeah.

When he shared his findings with me, I realized how little I knew about menstruation myself.

And many of my beliefs actually turned out to be myths. 

While it is generally believed that menstrual unawareness and misconception is a rural phenomenon, during my research, I found that it is as much an urban phenomenon as well.

And it exists with the educated urban class, also.

And -- but they lacked the proper means themselves.

And since it is a taboo, they feel inhibition and shameful in talking about it. 

And since it is a taboo, teachers still skip the subject altogether. 

Where do the girls go?

Two decades ago and now -- nothing has changed.

These stories would make girls curious and interested in talking about menstruation in their close circle.

That's what we wanted.

We wanted something that would make the girls curious and drive them to learn about it.

We wanted to use these stories to teach girls about periods. 

To represent girls in their different phases of puberty, we have three characters.

There is a fourth character, Priya Didi.

Through her, girls come to know about the various aspects of growing up and menstrual hygiene management. 

During our prototype testing, we found that the girls loved the book.

The comic book helped in creating an environment where menstruation ceased to be a taboo.

Many of the volunteers took this prototype themselves to educate girls and take menstrual awareness workshops in five different states in India.

And one of the volunteers took this prototype to educate young monks and took it to this monastery in Ladakh. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

And 10 different countries.

And I would like to end this with a small request to all the parents here. 

Dear parents, if you would be ashamed of periods, your daughters would be, too.

So please be period positive. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

