Ten years ago, on a Tuesday morning, I conducted a parachute jump at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

You do some routine refresher training, and then you go to put on your parachute and a buddy helps you.

And then you put on your reserve, and then you put on your heavy rucksack.

And then a jumpmaster comes, and he's an experienced NCO in parachute operations.

You didn't really want to jump, but you want out.

And of course, you're responding with all of these.

And that's to boost everybody's confidence, to show that you're not scared.

Then they give you, "Get ready."

Then they go, "Outboard personnel, stand up."

If you're an outboard personnel, now you stand up.

And this was that Tuesday morning in September, and it was pretty nice outside.

So nice air comes flowing in.

The jumpmasters start to check the door.

You fall outside the door, you're caught in the slipstream.

You do that because, 27 years before, an airborne sergeant had taught me to do that.

And then you wait for the opening shock for your parachute to open.

You are going to hit the ground.

You can't delay that much.

So you look around, where you're going to land, you try to make yourself ready.

It's this elegant little land, twist and roll.

And that's not going to hurt.

In 30-some years of jumping, I never did one.

(Laughter) I always landed like a watermelon out of a third floor window. 

(Laughter) 

And as soon as I hit, the first thing I did is I'd see if I'd broken anything that I needed.

They'd be doing everything that we had taught them.

When we landed on the drop-zone, everything had changed.

But things had changed; I was a 46-year-old brigadier general.

I was raised with traditional stories of leadership: Robert E. Lee, John Buford at Gettysburg.

And I also was raised with personal examples of leadership.

This was my father in Vietnam.

And I still believe real leaders are like that.

But in my first 25 years of career, I had a bunch of different experiences. 

And I'm not sure that was real interaction.

But then a couple of years later, when I was a company commander, I went out to the National Training Center.

And we did an operation, and my company did a dawn attack -- you know, the classic dawn attack: you prepare all night, move to the line of departure.

And I had an armored organization at that point.

The enemy didn't break a sweat doing it.

Sort of leadership by humiliation.

When 9/11 came, 46-year-old Brig.

First, the things that are obvious, that you're familiar with: the environment changed -- the speed, the scrutiny, the sensitivity of everything now is so fast, sometimes it evolves faster than people have time to really reflect on it.

But everything we do is in a different context.

More importantly, the force that I led was spread over more than 20 countries.

And instead of being able to get all the key leaders for a decision together in a single room and look them in the eye and build their confidence and get trust from them, I'm now leading a force that's dispersed, and I've got to use other techniques.

A 22-year-old individual operating alone, thousands of miles from me, has got to communicate to me with confidence.

I have to have trust in them and vice versa.

And I also have to build their faith.

And that's a new kind of leadership for me. 

We had one operation where we had to coordinate it from multiple locations.

An emerging opportunity came -- didn't have time to get everybody together.

So we had to get complex intelligence together, we had to line up the ability to act.

We failed.

The mission didn't work.

Entirely new requirement. 

Also, the people had changed.

You probably think that the force that I led was all steely-eyed commandos with big knuckle fists carrying exotic weapons.

In reality, much of the force I led looked exactly like you.

We talked about the operation, and then at the end I did what I often do with a force like that.

And yet, we need to have that shared sense. 

So how does a leader stay credible and legitimate when they haven't done what the people you're leading are doing?

And it's a brand new leadership challenge.

And it forced me to become a lot more transparent, a lot more willing to listen, a lot more willing to be reverse-mentored from lower.

And yet, again, you're not all in one room.

Then another thing.

You don't reset, or recharge your battery every time. 

Think about knowing that over time.

And it's a new cumulative pressure on leaders. 

And you have to watch and take care of each other.

I probably learned the most about relationships.

It's a promise.

It's probably more powerful than marriage vows.

And they've lived up to it, which gives it special power.

And so the organizational relationship that bonds them is just amazing. 

And I learned personal relationships were more important than ever.

And I learned that you have to give that in this environment, because it's tough.

That was my journey.

I hope it's not over.

I came to believe that a leader isn't good because they're right; they're good because they're willing to learn and to trust.

This isn't easy stuff.

It's not like that electronic abs machine where, 15 minutes a month, you get washboard abs.

(Laughter) And it isn't always fair.

But if you're a leader, the people you've counted on will help you up.

And if you're a leader, the people who count on you need you on your feet. 

Thank you. 

