Adrian Kohler: Well, we're here today to talk about the evolution of a puppet horse. 

Basil Jones: But actually we're going to start this evolution with a hyena. 

AK: The ancestor of the horse.

Okay, we'll do something with it.

This production was directed by South African artist and theater director, William Kentridge.

So it needed a very articulate front paw.

But, like all puppets, it has other attributes. 

BJ: One of them is breath, and it kind of breathes. 

BJ: Breath is really important for us.

It's the kind of original movement for any puppet for us onstage.

It's the thing that distinguishes the puppet -- 

BJ: From an actor.

Puppets always have to try to be alive.

It's their kind of ur-story onstage, that desperation to live. 

An actor struggles to die onstage, but a puppet has to struggle to live.

And in a way that's a metaphor for life. 

BJ: So every moment it's on the stage, it's making the struggle.

AK: It has ears that move passively when the head goes. 

AK: In Port Elizabeth, the village outside Port Elizabeth in South Africa. 

BJ: His mother was a puppeteer.

I really thought they were so beneath me.

And, in fact, it took about 10 years 

AK: So in 1981, I persuaded Basil and some friends of mine to form a puppet company.

It was just called "Tall Horse," which was a life-sized giraffe. 

BJ: And here again, you see the same structure.

The bulkheads have now turned into hoops of cane, but it's ultimately the same structure.

It's got two people inside it on stilts, which give them the height, and somebody in the front who's using a kind of steering wheel to move that head. 

And he's controlling the ear movement. 

BJ: So this production was seen by Tom Morris of the National Theatre in London.

And just around that time, his mother had said, "Have you seen this book by Michael Morpurgo called 'War Horse'?"

AK: It's about a boy who falls in love with a horse.

The horse is sold to the First World War, and he joins up to find his horse. 

BJ: So Tom gave us a call and said, "Do you think you could make us a horse for a show to happen at the National Theatre?"

AK: It seemed a lovely idea. 

AK: It had to have a rider, and it had to participate in cavalry charges.

(Laughter) A play about early 20th century plowing technology and cavalry charges was a little bit of a challenge for the accounting department at the National Theatre in London.

But they agreed to go along with it for a while.

So we began with a test. 

The weight is really difficult when it's up above your head. 

AK: And once we put Katherine through that particular brand of hell, we knew that we might be able to make a horse, which could be ridden.

So we made a model.

This is a cardboard model, a little bit smaller than the hyena.

You'll notice that the legs are plywood legs and the canoe structure is still there. 

BJ: And the two manipulators are inside.

We had to throw out the plywood legs and make new cane ones.

And we had a crate built for it.

It had to be shipped to London.

We were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in Cape Town, and it got to midnight and we hadn't done that yet. 

BJ: So we got a camera, and we posed the puppet in various galloping stances.

(Laughter) 

BJ: About 40 people. 

AK: We were terrified.

We opened the lid, we took the horse out, and it did work; it walked and it was able to be ridden.

Here I have an 18-second clip of the very first walk of the prototype.

It had by no means got the green light yet.

And so the show was given the green light.

And we went back to Cape Town and redesigned the horse completely.

Here is the plan. 

(Laughter) 

You can see quite a lot of skeletons in the background there.

The horses are completely handmade.

There is very little 20th century technology in them.

We used a bit of laser cutting on the plywood and some of the aluminum pieces.

But because they have to be light and flexible, and each one of them is different, they can't be mass-produced, unfortunately.

So here are some half-finished horses ready to be worked in London.

Here, Craig is working the head.

He has bicycle brake cables going down to the head control in his hand.

Each one of them operates either an ear, separately, or the head, up and down.

But he also controls the head directly by using his hand.

The ears are obviously a very important emotional indicator of the horse.

Or, when he's more relaxed, the head comes down and the ears listen, either side.

Horses' hearing is very important.

It's almost more important than their eyesight.

Over here, Tommy's got what you call the heart position.

He's working the leg.

(Laughter) Horses are so unpredictable.

(Laughter) The way a hoof comes up with a horse immediately gives you the feeling that it's a convincing horse action.

The hind legs have got the same action. 

And together, there's quite a complex possibility of tail expression. 

AK: You want to say something about the breathing? 

BJ: We had a big challenge with breathing.

But we realized that, if that were to be happening, you wouldn't, as an audience, see the breath.

So he made a channel in here, and the chest moves up and down in that channel.

So it's anti-naturalistic really, the up and down movement, but it feels like breath.

AK: Other emotional stuff.

If I were to touch the horse here on his skin, the heart puppeteer can shake the body from inside and get the skin to quiver.

You'll notice, of course, that the puppet is made out of cane lines.

And I would like you to believe that it was an aesthetic choice, that I was making a three-dimensional drawing of a horse that somehow moves in space.

But of course, it was the cane is light, the cane is flexible, the cane is durable and the cane is moldable.

And so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane. 

You see the skeletal structure of it.

Or if you light it from above, it becomes more solid.

Again, that was a practical consideration.

The guys inside the horse have to be able to see out.

They have to be able to act along with their fellow actors in the production.

And it's very much an in-the-moment activity that they're engaged in.

It's three heads making one character. 

But now we would like you to put Joey through some paces.

And plant. 

Thank you.

And now just -- (Applause) All the way from sunny California we have Zem Joaquin who's going to ride the horse for us. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

The sound that that very large chest makes, of the horse -- the whinnying and the nickering and everything -- that starts usually with one performer, carries on with a second person and ends with a third. 

AK: Mikey Brett from Leicestershire.

(Applause) Mikey Brett, Craig, Leo, Zem Joaquin and Basil and me. 

(Applause) 

Thank you.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

