The idea behind the Stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple.

We don't want Iran to get the bomb.

Their major asset for developing nuclear weapons is the Natanz uranium enrichment facility.

The gray boxes that you see, these are real-time control systems.

Now if we manage to compromise these systems that control drive speeds and valves, we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge.

But if we manage to place a good Windows virus on a notebook that is used by a maintenance engineer to configure this gray box, then we are in business.

And this is the plot behind Stuxnet. 

So we start with a Windows dropper.

That's easy, huh?

I want to tell you how we found that out.

When we started our research on Stuxnet six months ago, it was completely unknown what the purpose of this thing was.

And then some very funny things happened.

Didn't make sense to me.

And if not, Stuxnet does nothing. 

It could be, let's say for example, a U.S. power plant, or a chemical plant in Germany.

So we better find out what the target is soon."

So we extracted and decompiled the attack code, and we discovered that it's structured in two digital bombs -- a smaller one and a bigger one.

And we also saw that they are very professionally engineered by people who obviously had all insider information.

They knew all the bits and bites that they had to attack.

They probably even know the shoe size of the operator.

So they know everything. 

It's way above everything that we have ever seen before.

Here you see a sample of this actual attack code.

We are talking about -- around about 15,000 lines of code.

Looks pretty much like old-style assembly language.

And I want to tell you how we were able to make sense out of this code.

And then we were looking for timers and data structures and trying to relate them to the real world -- to potential real world targets.

So we do need target theories that we can prove or disprove.

Now you don't find several thousand targets in that area.

It basically boils down to the Bushehr nuclear power plant and to the Natanz fuel enrichment plant. 

And that worked pretty well.

So we were able to associate the small digital warhead with the rotor control.

The rotor is that moving part within the centrifuge, that black object that you see.

And if you manipulate the speed of this rotor, you are actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even have the centrifuge explode.

What we also saw is that the goal of the attack was really to do it slowly and creepy -- obviously in an effort to drive maintenance engineers crazy, that they would not be able to figure this out quickly. 

I started to research scientific literature on how these centrifuges are actually built in Natanz and found they are structured in what is called a cascade, and each cascade holds 164 centrifuges.

So that made sense, that was a match. 

And it even got better.

These centrifuges in Iran are subdivided into 15, what is called, stages.

And guess what we found in the attack code?

An almost identical structure.

So again, that was a real good match.

These results have been obtained over several weeks of really hard labor.

And we often went into just a dead end and had to recover. 

Anyway, so we figured out that both digital warheads were actually aiming at one and the same target, but from different angles.

So we don't have to worry that other targets might be hit by Stuxnet. 

Down there is the gray box, and on the top you see the centrifuges.

And as a matter of fact, this fake input data is actually prerecorded by Stuxnet.

The idea here is obviously not only to fool the operators in the control room.

It actually is much more dangerous and aggressive.

The idea is to circumvent a digital safety system.

We need digital safety systems where a human operator could not act quick enough.

So for example, in a power plant, when your big steam turbine gets too over speed, you must open relief valves within a millisecond.

Obviously, this cannot be done by a human operator.

So this is where we need digital safety systems.

And when they are compromised, then real bad things can happen.

Your plant can blow up.

But it gets worse.

And this is very important, what I'm going to say.

It doesn't have anything to do, in specifics, with centrifuges, with uranium enrichment.

So it would work as well, for example, in a power plant or in an automobile factory.

It is generic.

And you don't have -- as an attacker -- you don't have to deliver this payload by a USB stick, as we saw it in the case of Stuxnet.

You could also use conventional worm technology for spreading.

Just spread it as wide as possible.

And if you do that, what you end up with is a cyber weapon of mass destruction.

That's the consequence that we have to face.

So unfortunately, the biggest number of targets for such attacks are not in the Middle East.

They're in the United States and Europe and in Japan.

So all of the green areas, these are your target-rich environments.

We have to face the consequences, and we better start to prepare right now. 

Thanks. 

Chris Anderson: I've got a question.

Ralph, it's been quite widely reported that people assume that Mossad is the main entity behind this.

Is that your opinion? 

So the leading force behind that is the cyber superpower.

Because otherwise, our problems would even be bigger. 

