I know what you're thinking.

(Applause) I get that all the time in Dubai.

Well actually, I hope for a while longer yet.

I have been living and teaching in the Gulf for over 30 years.

(Applause) And in that time, I have seen a lot of changes.

I want to tell you about my friend who was teaching English to adults in Abu Dhabi.

How did those students get all that knowledge?

Of course, from their grandparents and even their great-grandparents.

It's not necessary to tell you how important it is to be able to communicate across generations. 

A language dies every 14 days.

Now, at the same time, English is the undisputed global language.

Could there be a connection?

Well I don't know.

But I do know that I've seen a lot of changes.

When I first came out to the Gulf, I came to Kuwait in the days when it was still a hardship post.

Actually, not that long ago.

That is a little bit too early.

But nevertheless, I was recruited by the British Council, along with about 25 other teachers.

And we were the first non-Muslims to teach in the state schools there in Kuwait.

And of course, the U.K. benefited from some of that lovely oil wealth. 

Okay.

And why not?

After all, the best education -- according to the latest World University Rankings -- is to be found in the universities of the U.K. and the U.S.

So everybody wants to have an English education, naturally.

But if you're not a native speaker, you have to pass a test. 

Now can it be right to reject a student on linguistic ability alone?

Perhaps you have a computer scientist who's a genius.

Would he need the same language as a lawyer, for example?

Well, I don't think so.

We English teachers reject them all the time.

We put a stop sign, and we stop them in their tracks.

I don't think so.

But indeed, that is exactly what we do.

Now it can be dangerous to give too much power to a narrow segment of society.

Maybe the barrier would be too universal. 

Okay.

(Applause) 

And I want to remind you that the giants upon whose shoulders today's intelligentsia stand did not have to have English, they didn't have to pass an English test.

But fortunately for the world, he did not have to pass an English test.

Because they didn't start until 1964 with TOEFL, the American test of English.

Now it's exploded.

There are lots and lots of tests of English.

And millions and millions of students take these tests every year.

(Applause) 

They want to give their children the best chance in life.

And to do that, they need a Western education.

They were doing an experiment to do with genetics and the forelimbs and the hind limbs of animals.

But they couldn't get the results they wanted.

So bingo, problem solved.

If you can't think a thought, you are stuck.

But if another language can think that thought, then, by cooperating, we can achieve and learn so much more. 

My daughter came to England from Kuwait.

She had studied science and mathematics in Arabic.

It's an Arabic-medium school.

She had to translate it into English at her grammar school.

And she was the best in the class at those subjects.

When a language dies, we don't know what we lose with that language. 

So he invented a cost-free solar lamp.

And now the children in his village get the same grades at school as the children who have electricity at home.

People who have no light, whether it's physical or metaphorical, cannot pass our exams, and we can never know what they know.

Let us not keep them and ourselves in the dark.

Let us celebrate diversity.

Mind your language.

Use it to spread great ideas. 

(Applause) 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

