I want you now to imagine a wearable robot that gives you superhuman abilities, or another one that takes wheelchair users up standing and walking again.

We at Berkeley Bionics call these robots exoskeletons.

These are nothing else than something that you put on in the morning, and it will give you extra strength, and it will further enhance your speed, and it will help you, for instance, to manage your balance.

It is actually the true integration of the man and the machine.

But not only that -- it will integrate and network you to the universe and other devices out there. 

This is just not some blue sky thinking.

To show you now what we are working on by starting out talking about the American soldier, that on average does carry about 100 lbs.

So we thought we would look at this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this issue.

Soldier: With the HULC exoskeleton, I can carry 200 lbs.

Its flexible design allows for deep squats, crawls and high-agility movements.

It senses what I want to do, where I want to go, and then augments my strength and endurance. 

Eythor Bender: We are ready with our industry partner to introduce this device, this new exoskeleton this year.

So this is for real.

There are 68 million people estimated to be in wheelchairs worldwide.

This is about one percent of the total population.

And that's actually a conservative estimate.

But it is also the aging population that is multiplying in numbers.

And the only option, pretty much -- when it's stroke or other complications -- is the wheelchair.

So we thought we would start writing a brand new chapter of mobility.

Amanda Boxtel: Thank you. 

EB: Amanda is wearing our eLEGS set.

AB: I was 24 years old and at the top of my game when a freak summersault while downhill skiing paralyzed me.

In a split second, I lost all sensation and movement below my pelvis.

He robbed every ounce of hope from my being.

Adaptive technology has since enabled me to learn how to downhill ski again, to rock climb and even handcycle.

Thank you. 

EB: As you can see, we have the technology, we have the platforms to sit down and have discussions with you.

AB: Thanks. 

