In the history of our planet, there have been three great waves of evolution. 

The first wave of evolution is what we think of as Darwinian evolution.

So, as you all know, species lived in particular ecological niches and particular environments, and the pressures of those environments selected which changes, through random mutation in species, were going to be preserved.

We altered our ecological niche by creating civilization.

And that has been the second great -- couple 100,000 years, 150,000 years -- flow of our evolution.

By changing our environment, we put new pressures on our bodies to evolve.

Whether it was through settling down in agricultural communities, all the way through modern medicine, we have changed our own evolution.

Now we actually have been doing it for a long time.

We started selectively breeding animals many, many thousands of years ago.

And if you think of dogs for example, dogs are now intentionally-designed creatures.

There isn't a dog on this earth that's a natural creature.

Dogs are the result of selectively breeding traits that we like.

But we had to do it the hard way in the old days by choosing offspring that looked a particular way and then breeding them.

We don't have to do it that way anymore. 

This is a beefalo.

A beefalo is a buffalo-cattle hybrid.

And they are now making them, and someday, perhaps pretty soon, you will have beefalo patties in your local supermarket.

The scientists that made this cute little creature ended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards.

I think they said it tasted like chicken.

This is a cama.

And they are now using these in certain cultures.

Then there's the liger.

It's bigger than a tiger.

And in the case of the liger, there actually have been one or two that have been seen in the wild.

But these were created by scientists using both selective breeding and genetic technology.

And so one of the things we've been doing is using genetic enhancement, or genetic manipulation, of normal selective breeding pushed a little bit through genetics.

And if that were all this was about, then it would be an interesting thing.

But something much, much more powerful is happening now. 

These are normal mammalian cells genetically engineered with a bioluminescent gene taken out of deep-sea jellyfish.

We all know that some deep-sea creatures glow.

Well, they've now taken that gene, that bioluminescent gene, and put it into mammal cells.

These are normal cells.

And what you see here is these cells glowing in the dark under certain wavelengths of light.

Once they could do that with cells, they could do it with organisms.

So they did it with mouse pups, kittens.

And by the way, the reason the kittens here are orange and these are green is because that's a bioluminescent gene from coral, while this is from jellyfish.

In other words, it is theoretically possible that before too long we will be biotechnologically capable of creating human beings that glow in the dark.

Be easier to find us at night. 

Other states have banned them.

Nobody knows what to do with these kinds of creatures.

Some of you may have read about the FDA's consideration right now of genetically-engineered salmon.

And before you get too worried about it, here in the United States, the majority of food you buy in the supermarket already has genetically-modified components to it.

These are all the first cloned animals of their type.

This is Prometea, the first cloned horse.

In other words, the equipment to put them out to stud has been removed.

But if you can clone that horse, you can have both the advantage of having a gelding run in the race and his identical genetic duplicate can then be put out to stud.

In addition, we've started to use cloning technology to try to save endangered species.

This is the use of animals now to create drugs and other things in their bodies that we want to create.

And then in addition, transgenic pigs, knockout pigs, from the National Institute of Animal Science in South Korea, are pigs that they are going to use, in fact, to try to create all kinds of drugs and other industrial types of chemicals that they want the blood and the milk of these animals to produce for them, instead of producing them in an industrial way. 

These are two creatures that were created in order to save endangered species.

The guar is an endangered Southeast Asian ungulate.

A somatic cell, a body cell, was taken from its body, gestated in the ovum of a cow, and then that cow gave birth to a guar.

Same thing happened with the mouflon, where it's an endangered species of sheep.

It was gestated in a regular sheep body, which actually raises an interesting biological problem.

We have two kinds of DNA in our bodies.

That DNA is passed down through our mothers.

So really, what you end up having here is not a guar and not a mouflon, but a guar with cow mitochondria, and therefore cow mitochondrial DNA, and a mouflon with another species of sheep's mitochondrial DNA.

These are really hybrids, not pure animals.

This lovely creature is an Asian cockroach.

They've created a kind of insect bot, or bugbot.

It gets worse than that -- or perhaps better than that.

These goliath beetles are wired in their wings.

They can't actually make them land.

They put them about one inch above the ground, and then they shut everything off and they go pfft.

But it's the closest they can get to a landing. 

They can put little cameras on them and perhaps someday deliver other kinds of ordinance to warzones. 

The scientists can make this creature go left, right.

They have it running through mazes, controlling where it's going.

They've now created an organic robot.

There's also been work done with monkeys.

This is Miguel Nicolelis of Duke.

The computer learned what the monkey brain did to move its arm in various ways.

They then hooked it up to a prosthetic arm, which you see here in the picture, put the arm in another room.

Pretty soon, the computer learned, by reading the monkey's brainwaves, to make that arm in the other room do whatever the monkey's arm did.

Then he put a video monitor in the monkey's cage that showed the monkey this prosthetic arm, and the monkey got fascinated.

The monkey recognized that whatever she did with her arm, this prosthetic arm would do.

And eventually she was moving it and moving it, and eventually stopped moving her right arm and, staring at the screen, could move the prosthetic arm in the other room only with her brainwaves -- which means that monkey became the first primate in the history of the world to have three independent functional arms. 

And it's not just technology that we're putting into animals.

This is Thomas DeMarse at the University of Florida.

He took 20,000 and then 60,000 disaggregated rat neurons -- so these are just individual neurons from rats -- put them on a chip.

They self-aggregated into a network, became an integrated chip.

And he used that as the IT piece of a mechanism which ran a flight simulator.

So now we have organic computer chips made out of living, self-aggregating neurons.

Finally, Mussa-Ivaldi of Northwestern took a completely intact, independent lamprey eel brain.

This is a brain from a lamprey eel.

It's photophilic.

So now we have a complete living lamprey eel brain.

Is it thinking lamprey eel thoughts, sitting there in its nutrient medium?

So, we are now at the stage where we are creating creatures for our own purposes.

This is a mouse created by Charles Vacanti of the University of Massachusetts.

Genetic engineering coupled with polymer physiotechnology coupled with xenotransplantation.

This is where we are in this process. 

And so, asks The Economist: "The first artificial organism and its consequences."

So you may have thought that the creation of life was going to happen in something that looked like that.

(Laughter) But in fact, that's not what Frankenstein's lab looks like.

This is what Frankenstein's lab looks like.

And so, we need to ask ourselves some questions.

For the first time in the history of this planet, we are able to directly design organisms.

Is everything okay?

Is it okay to manipulate and create whatever creatures we want?

Do we have free reign to design animals?

Do we get to create organic robots, where we remove the autonomy from these animals and turn them just into our playthings? 

We are not only already using these things in animals, some of them we're already beginning to use on our own bodies. 

We are now taking control of our own evolution.

We are directly designing the future of the species of this planet.

Thanks. 

