I just came back from a community that holds the secret to human survival.

It's a place where women run the show, have sex to say hello, and play rules the day -- where fun is serious business.

And no, this isn't Burning Man or San Francisco.

(Laughter) Ladies and gentlemen, meet your cousins.

This is the world of wild bonobos in the jungles of Congo.

Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees, your living closest relative.

That means we all share a common ancestor, an evolutionary grandmother, who lived around six million years ago.

Now, chimpanzees are well-known for their aggression. 

But unfortunately, we have made too much of an emphasis of this aspect in our narratives of human evolution.

But bonobos show us the other side of the coin.

While chimpanzees are dominated by big, scary guys, bonobo society is run by empowered females.

They live in the depths of the Congolese jungle, and it has been very difficult to study them. 

Not surprisingly, this destruction also endangers bonobo survival.

Yet, in this land of violence and chaos, you can hear hidden laughter swaying the trees. 

Who are these cousins?

Bonobos, like humans, love to play throughout their entire lives.

Play is not just child's games.

For us and them, play is foundational for bonding relationships and fostering tolerance.

It's where we learn to trust and where we learn about the rules of the game.

And when you watch bonobo play, you're seeing the very evolutionary roots of human laughter, dance and ritual.

Play is the glue that binds us together. 

Now, I don't know how you play, but I want to show you a couple of unique clips fresh from the wild.

So here, we have a young female and a male engaged in a chase game.

But play's a shapeshifter.

I think, like her, we sometimes play alone, and we explore the boundaries of our inner and our outer worlds.

So these are just small tasters into the insights that bonobo give us to our past and present.

The secret is that play is the key to these capacities.

In other words, play is our adaptive wildcard.

In order to adapt successfully to a changing world, we need to play.

But will we make the most of our playfulness?

Play is not frivolous.

Play's essential.

For bonobos and humans alike, life is not just red in tooth and claw.

In times when it seems least appropriate to play, it might be the times when it is most urgent. 

And so, my fellow primates, let us embrace this gift from evolution and play together, as we rediscover creativity, fellowship and wonder. 

Thank you. 

