I was only four years old when I saw my mother load a washing machine for the very first time in her life.

That was a great day for my mother.

And Grandma was even more excited.

Throughout her life she had been heating water with firewood, and she had hand washed laundry for seven children.

And now she was going to watch electricity do that work. 

My mother carefully opened the door, and she loaded the laundry into the machine, like this.

She was mesmerized.

To my grandmother, the washing machine was a miracle. 

Today, in Sweden and other rich countries, people are using so many different machines.

Look, the homes are full of machines.

I can't even name them all.

And they also, when they want to travel, they use flying machines that can take them to remote destinations.

And yet, in the world, there are so many people who still heat the water on fire, and they cook their food on fire.

There are two billion fellow human beings who live on less than two dollars a day.

And the richest people over there -- there's one billion people -- and they live above what I call the "air line," because they spend more than $80 a day on their consumption. 

They have electricity, but the question is, how many have washing machines?

I've done the scrutiny of market data, and I've found that, indeed, the washing machine has penetrated below the air line, and today there's an additional one billion people out there who live above the "wash line."

(Laughter) And they consume more than $40 per day.

So two billion have access to washing machines. 

And the remaining five billion, how do they wash?

Or, to be more precise, how do most of the women in the world wash?

It's a hard, time-consuming labor, which they have to do for hours every week.

And they want the washing machine.

They don't want to spend such a large part of their life doing this hard work with so relatively low productivity.

They want the washing machine in exactly the same way. 

Even the hardcore in the green movement use washing machines. 

I had to do an analysis about the energy used in the world.

One unit like this is an energy unit of fossil fuel -- oil, coal or gas.

That's what most of electricity and the energy in the world is.

And it's 12 units used in the entire world, and the richest one billion, they use six of them.

Half of the energy is used by one seventh of the world's population.

This group uses three, one each.

And they also have electricity.

And over there they don't even use one each.

That makes 12 of them. 

First, population growth.

Second, economic growth.

And [with] that you will get two extra, but that won't change the energy use very much. 

What will happen is economic growth.

And they will start to use as much as the Old West are doing already.

And they will double their energy use.

And we hope that the poor people will get into the electric light.

And they'll get a two-child family without a stop in population growth.

But the total energy consumption will increase to 22 units.

And these 22 units -- still the richest people use most of it.

So what needs to be done?

Because the risk, the high probability of climate change is real.

It's real.

Of course they must be more energy-efficient.

They must change behavior in some way.

They must also start to produce green energy, much more green energy.

But until they have the same energy consumption per person, they shouldn't give advice to others -- what to do and what not to do.

(Applause) Here we can get more green energy all over. 

This is what we hope may happen.

It's a real challenge in the future.

But I can assure you that this woman in the favela in Rio, she wants a washing machine.

If you have democracy, people will vote for washing machines.

They love them. 

And what's the magic with them?

And she also got books for herself.

She managed to study English and learn that as a foreign language.

And we really, we really loved this machine. 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

