We can stand on the Earth and look up at the night sky and see stars with our bare eyes.

And in the time since Galileo pointed that rudimentary telescope at the celestial bodies, the known universe has come to us through light, across vast eras in cosmic history.

And with all of our modern telescopes, we've been able to collect this stunning silent movie of the universe -- these series of snapshots that go all the way back to the Big Bang. 

And yet, the universe is not a silent movie because the universe isn't silent.

I'd like to convince you that the universe has a soundtrack and that soundtrack is played on space itself, because space can wobble like a drum.

It can ring out a kind of recording throughout the universe of some of the most dramatic events as they unfold.

Now we'd like to be able to add to a kind of glorious visual composition that we have of the universe -- a sonic composition.

And while we've never heard the sounds from space, we really should, in the next few years, start to turn up the volume on what's going on out there. 

They're not brought to us with light, at least not directly.

They destroy stars around them.

They churn up debris in their surroundings.

But they won't come to us directly through light.

Now we owe the idea that space can ring like a drum to Albert Einstein -- to whom we owe so much.

It was Einstein's great general theory of relativity.

Now even light will be bent by those paths.

And you can be bent so much that you're caught in orbit around the Sun, as the Earth is, or the Moon around the Earth.

These are the natural curves in space. 

What Einstein did not realize was that, if you took our Sun and you crushed it down to six kilometers -- so you took a million times the mass of the Earth and you crushed it to six kilometers across, you would make a black hole, an object so dense that if light veered too close, it would never escape -- a dark shadow against the universe.

And he was reading Einstein's recently published general theory of relativity, and he was thrilled by this theory.

This is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions.

And he took Schwarzschild's idea to the Prussian Academy of Sciences the next week.

But Einstein always thought black holes were a mathematical oddity.

He did not believe they existed in nature.

He thought nature would protect us from their formation.

Now our Sun will not collapse to a black hole.

It's actually not massive enough.

And you would realize you could put the Earth in a happy orbit even 30 km outside of this crushed black hole.

This crushed black hole actually would fit inside Manhattan, more or less.

It might spill off into the Hudson a little bit before it destroyed the Earth.

But basically that's what we're talking about.

We're talking about an object that you could crush down to half the square area of Manhattan. 

So we move this Earth very close -- 30 kilometers outside -- and we notice it's perfectly fine orbiting around the black hole.

There's a sort of myth that black holes devour everything in the universe, but you actually have to get very close to fall in.

But what's very impressive is that, from our vantage point, we can always see the Earth.

It cannot hide behind the black hole.

The light from the Earth, some of it falls in, but some of it gets lensed around and brought back to us.

So you can't hide anything behind a black hole.

If this were Battlestar Galactica and you're fighting the Cylons, don't hide behind the black hole.

They can see you. 

Now, our Sun will not collapse to a black hole -- it's not massive enough -- but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy.

And if one were to eclipse the Milky Way, this is what it would look like.

We would see a shadow of that black hole against the hundred billion stars in the Milky Way Galaxy and its luminous dust lanes.

And if we were to fall towards this black hole, we would see all of that light lensed around it, and we could even start to cross into that shadow and really not notice that anything dramatic had happened.

And even though, due to a relativistic effect known as time dilation, our clocks would seem to slow down relative to galactic time, it would look as though the evolution of the galaxy had been sped up and shot at us, right before we were crushed to death by the black hole.

It would be like a near-death experience where you see the light at the end of the tunnel, but it's a total death experience.

(Laughter) And there's no way of telling anybody about the light at the end of the tunnel. 

Now we've never seen a shadow like this of a black hole, but black holes can be heard, even if they're not seen.

Imagine now taking an astrophysically realistic situation -- imagine two black holes that have lived a long life together.

Maybe they started as stars and collapsed to two black holes -- each one 10 times the mass of the Sun.

So now we're going to crush them down to 60 kilometers across.

They can be spinning hundreds of times a second.

At the end of their lives, they're going around each other very near the speed of light.

Space squeezes and stretches as it emanates out from these black holes banging on the universe.

And they travel out into the cosmos at the speed of light. 

This computer simulation is due to a relativity group at NASA Goddard.

It took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem.

This was one of the groups.

And if you can see -- it's kind of faint -- but if you can see the red waves emanating out, those are the gravitational waves.

If you were standing near enough, your ear would resonate with the squeezing and stretching of space.

You would literally hear the sound.

Now of course, your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully, so you might have trouble understanding what's going on.

But I'd like to play for you the sound that we predict. 

The sound you're hearing is the light black hole banging on space each time it gets close.

If it gets far away, it's a little too quiet.

But it comes in like a mallet, and it literally cracks space, wobbling it like a drum.

And we can predict what the sound will be.

We know that, as it falls in, it gets faster and it gets louder.

And eventually, we're going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy.

(Thumping) Then it's gone.

Now I've never heard it that loud -- it's actually more dramatic.

At home it sounds kind of anticlimactic.

It's sort of like ding, ding, ding. 

This is another sound from my group.

Both black holes are moving.

Both black holes are getting closer together.

In this case, they're both wobbling quite a lot.

And then they're going to merge.

Now that's our prediction for what we'll see. 

Luckily we're at this safe distance in Long Beach, California.

And surely, somewhere in the universe two black holes have merged.

But the sound is too quiet for any of us to ever hear.

It's a remarkably ambitious experiment, and it's going to be at advanced sensitivity within the next few years -- to pick this up.

And LISA will be able to see super-massive black holes -- black holes millions or billions of times the mass of the Sun. 

In this Hubble image, we see two galaxies.

They look like they're frozen in some embrace.

And each one probably harbors a super-massive black hole at its core.

But they're not frozen; they're actually merging.

It's beyond our human perception to pick up a song of that duration.

But LISA could see the final stages of two super-massive black holes earlier in the universe's history, the last 15 minutes before they fall together.

When that expression was coined, it was derisive -- like, "Oh, who would believe in a Big Bang?"

So imagine you're inside the Big Bang.

Fourteen billion years pass and this song is still ringing all around us.

Imagine a billion years ago, two black holes collided.

That song has been ringing through space for all that time.

We weren't even here.

It gets closer and closer -- 40,000 years ago, we're still doing cave paintings.

It's like hurry, build your instruments.

If it was the Big Bang we were going to pick up, it would sound like this.

(Static) It's a terrible sound.

So within the next few years, we'll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit, render the universe in audio.

Will it happen again?

But we have to ask: Is it possible that our universe is just a plume off of some greater history?

Here's my multiverse creatures.

Are there other creatures in the multiverse, wondering about us and wondering about their own origins?

