So I was born on the last day of the last year of the '70s.

I was raised with a very heavy sense of unfinished legacy. 

The first paradox is that growing up is about rejecting the past and then promptly reclaiming it.

Feminism was the water I grew up in.

When I was just a little girl, my mom started what is now the longest-running women's film festival in the world.

You can see how this had an influence.

But she was not the only feminist in the house. 

(Applause) He's actually here today.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Fishnet stockings.

Jennifer Baumgardner was wearing them.

I thought they were really hot.

I decided, okay, I can claim the feminist label.

There are lots of very modern political movements that have caught fire in no small part because of cultural hipness.

Anyone heard of these two guys as an example? 

So my feminism is very indebted to my mom's, but it looks very different.

Feminist blogging is basically the 21st century version of consciousness raising.

But we also have a straightforward political impact.

Feministing has been able to get merchandise pulled off the shelves of Walmart.

We got a misogynist administrator sending us hate-mail fired from a Big Ten school.

We don't want one hero.

We don't want one icon.

We don't want one face.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

These are three words many of us were raised with.

We walk across graduation stages, high on our overblown expectations, and when we float back down to earth, we realize we don't know what the heck it means to actually save the world anyway.

It's enough to make you feel very overwhelmed. 

I experienced this firsthand myself when I graduated from Barnard College in 2002.

I was fired up; I was ready to make a difference.

Which brings me to my third paradox.

Growing up is about aiming to succeed wildly and being fulfilled by failing really well.

I wrote the book I needed to read.

I wrote a book about eight incredible people all over this country doing social justice work.

Instead, what she really wanted to do was make films.

What I learned from these people and others was that I couldn't judge them based on their failure to meet their very lofty goals.

But what they managed to do within those systems was be a humanizing force.

And at the end of the day, what could possibly be more important than that?

This isn't to say we give up our wildest, biggest dreams.

It's to say we operate on two levels.

On one, we really go after changing these broken systems of which we find ourselves a part.

But on the other, we root our self-esteem in the daily acts of trying to make one person's day more kind, more just, etc. 

So when I was a little girl, I had a couple of very strange habits.

One of them was I used to lie on the kitchen floor of my childhood home, and I would suck the thumb of my left hand and hold my mom's cold toes with my right hand.

She was talking about board meetings, she was founding peace organizations, she was coordinating carpools, she was consoling friends -- all these daily acts of care and creativity.

It's about embracing the paradox.

It's about acting in the face of overwhelm.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

