Well, this is about state budgets.

The understanding is very low.

Many of the people involved have special interests or short-term interests that get them not thinking about what the implications of the trends are.

And these budgets are the key for our future; they're the key for our kids.

Most education funding -- whether it's K through 12, or the great universities or community colleges -- most of the money for those things is coming out of these state budgets. 

But we have a problem.

Here's the overall picture.

Now out of that pie, the government spends 36 percent.

So this is combining the federal level, which is the largest, the state level and the local level.

But we're spending 36 percent.

Well what are we taking in?

Simple business question.

Answer is 26 percent.

And some of that, in fact, is due to the fact that we've had an economic recession.

Most of it is because of ways that the liabilities are building up and the trends, and that creates a huge challenge.

In fact, this is the forecast picture.

It is an increasingly difficult picture, even assuming the economy does quite well -- probably better than it will do.

This is what you see at this overall level. 

Now how did we get here?

How could you have a problem like this?

After all, at least on paper, there's this notion that these state budgets are balanced.

Only one state says they don't have to balance the budget.

But what this means actually is that there's a pretense.

When Jerry Brown was elected, this was the challenge that was put to him.

That is, through various gimmicks and things, a so-called balanced budget had led him to have 25 billion missing out of the 76 billion in proposed spending.

But even so, as you go out into those future years, various pension costs, health costs go up enough, and the revenue does not go up enough.

So you get a big squeeze. 

What were those things that allowed us to hide this?

Well, some really nice little tricks.

And these were somewhat noticed.

And really when you get down to it, the guys at Enron never would have done this.

This is so blatant, so extreme.

Is anyone paying attention to some of the things these guys do?

They borrow money.

They're not supposed to, but they figure out a way.

They make you pay more in withholding just to help their cash flow out.

They sell off the assets.

They defer the payments.

They sell off the revenues from tobacco.

And California's not unique.

In fact, there's about five states that are worse and only really four states that don't face this big challenge.

So it's systemic across the entire country.

This is the retiree health care benefits.

And everybody looked at that and knew that that was headed toward a huge problem.

The forecast for the medical piece alone is to go from 26 percent of the budget to 42 percent. 

Well what's going to give?

Well in order to accommodate that, you would have to cut education spending in half.

It really is this young versus the old to some degree.

If you don't change that revenue picture, if you don't solve what you're doing in health care, you're going to be deinvesting in the young.

The great University of California university system, the great things that have gone on, won't happen.

So far it's meant layoffs, increased class sizes.

It's also really a problem for where we need to go.

Technology has a role to play.

Well we need money to experiment with that, to get those tools in there.

There's the idea of paying teachers for effectiveness, measuring them, giving them feedback, taking videos in the classroom.

That's something I think is very, very important.

Well you have to allocate dollars for that system and for that incentive pay.

But with the type of cuts we're talking about, it will be far, far harder to get these incentives for excellence, or to move over to use technology in the new way. 

So what's going on?

Where's the brain trust that's in error here?

Well there really is no brain trust.

(Laughter) It's sort of the voters.

Just look at this spending.

Everybody has an opinion.

There's great feedback.

And the numbers are used to make decisions.

If you go over the education spending and the health care spending -- particularly these long-term trends -- you don't have that type of involvement on a number that's more important in terms of equity, in terms of learning. 

So what do we need to do?

We need better tools.

We can get some things out on the Internet.

I'm going to use my website to put up some things that will give the basic picture.

We need lots more.

We need better accounting.

We need to take the fact that the current employees, the future liabilities they create, that should come out of the current budget.

We need to understand why they've done the pension accounting the way they have.

It should be more like private accounting.

It's the gold standard.

And finally, we need to really reward politicians.

But in fact, their work was sort of pushed off.

In fact, the week afterwards, some tax cuts were done that made the situation even worse than their assumptions.

So we need these pieces. 

Now I think this is a solvable problem.

It's a great country with lots of people.

And that's the kind of thing -- the investment in the young -- that makes us great, allows us to contribute.

It allows us to do the art, the biotechnology, the software and all those magic things.

Thank you. 

