I'm turning 44 next month, and I have the sense that 44 is going to be a very good year, a year of fulfillment, realization.

I have that sense, not because of anything particular in store for me, but because I read it would be a good year in a 1968 book by Norman Mailer. 

"He felt his own age, forty-four ..." wrote Mailer in "The Armies of the Night," "... felt as if he were a solid embodiment of bone, muscle, heart, mind, and sentiment to be a man, as if he had arrived."

Yes, I know Mailer wasn't writing about me.

There are patterns to life, and they are shared.

As Thomas Mann wrote: "It will happen to me as to them."

We record them, too.

We write them down in books, where they become narratives that we can then read and recognize.

Books tell us who we've been, who we are, who we will be, too.

So they have for millennia.

As James Salter wrote, "Life passes into pages if it passes into anything."

I was then 37 years old, "an age of discretion," wrote William Trevor.

I was prone to meditating on time and age.

An illness in the family and later an injury to me had long made clear that growing old could not be assumed.

A list, though, would last.

To chronicle a life year by vulnerable year would be to clasp and to ground what was fleeting, would be to provide myself and others a glimpse into the future, whether we made it there or not.

And when I then began to compile my list, I was quickly obsessed, searching pages and pages for ages and ages.

I was mindful, of course, that such insights were relative.

For starters, we now live longer, and so age more slowly.

Christopher Isherwood used the phrase "the yellow leaf" to describe a man at 53, only one century after Lord Byron used it to describe himself at 36. 

Of course, there we all are.

And indeed, when I shared the list with my grandfather, he nodded in recognition.

It had happened to him, as to them. 

Now the list is done: a hundred years.

And looking back over it, I know that I am not done.

I still have my life to live, still have many more pages to pass into.

And mindful of Mailer, I await 44. 

Thank you. 

