Because everyone was a hero.

Everyone has done something.

We all use Wikipedia.

From just an idea that sounded crazy, you have the largest encyclopedia in the world. 

And in the Egyptian revolution, the Revolution 2.0, everyone has contributed something, small or big.

It was actually really inspiring to see all these Egyptians completely changing.

If you look at the scene, Egypt, for 30 years, had been in a downhill -- going into a downhill.

Everything was going bad.

Everything was going wrong.

We only ranked high when it comes to poverty, corruption, lack of freedom of speech, lack of political activism.

Those were the achievements of our great regime.

In fact, people were extremely frustrated.

But the reason why everyone was silent is what I call the psychological barrier of fear.

But in fact, the majority were scared.

Everyone did not want really to get in trouble. 

A dictator cannot live without the force.

They want to make people live in fear.

There are lots of people who are frustrated.

There are lots of people who actually share the same dream.

There are lots of people who care about their freedom.

But they are still feeling the pain of the Egyptian. 

A lot of us, we're not really happy when we see a video of an Egyptian man who's eating the trash while others are stealing billions of Egyptian pounds from the wealth of the country.

It was an educational campaign. 

Khaled Saeed was killed in June 2010.

I still remember the photo.

I still remember every single detail of that photo.

The photo was horrible.

He was tortured, brutally tortured to death.

But then what was the answer of the regime?

People did not believe this.

Because of the Internet, the truth prevailed and everyone knew the truth.

And everyone started to think that "this guy could be my brother."

He was a middle-class guy.

His photo was remembered by all of us. 

A page was created.

It was an amazing story -- how everyone started feeling the ownership.

Everyone was an owner in this page.

People started contributing ideas.

People were making fun of the idea.

They were actually attacking them.

They were actually abusing them, despite the fact of how peaceful these guys were -- they were not even protesting.

And things had developed until the Tunisian revolution. 

This whole page was, again, managed by the people.

In fact, the anonymous admin job was to collect ideas, help people to vote on them and actually tell them what they are doing.

Everything was done by the people to the people, and that's the power of the Internet.

There was no leader.

The leader was everyone on that page.

Thank God I announced the locations and everything.

I was detained for 12 days, blindfolded, handcuffed.

I was not allowed to speak with anyone.

The fear is no longer fear.

It's actually strength -- it's power.

People were so empowered.

It was amazing how everyone was so empowered and now asking for their rights.

Completely opposite.

Extremism became tolerance. 

All the stereotypes that the regime was trying to put on us through their so-called propaganda, or mainstream media, are proven wrong.

This whole revolution showed us how ugly such a regime was and how great and amazing the Egyptian man, the Egyptian woman, how simple and amazing these people are whenever they have a dream. 

When I saw that, I went back and I wrote on Facebook.

And that's not because of anything, but because we believed in our dream.

The winning here is not the whole details of what's going to happen in the political scene.

The winning is the winning of the dignity of every single Egyptian. 

Thanks a lot. 

