The world is fucked up.

(Laughter) Except maybe French people.

What about art?

Could art change the world? 

I started when I was 15 years old.

And at that time, I was not thinking about changing the world.

I was doing graffiti -- writing my name everywhere, using the city as a canvas.

I was going in the tunnels of Paris, on the rooftops with my friends.

Each trip was an excursion, was an adventure.

It was like leaving our mark on society, to say, "I was here," on the top of a building. 

That's how, at 17 years old, I started pasting them.

And I framed it with color so you would not confuse it with advertising.

I mean, the city's the best gallery I could imagine.

So that's Paris.

I would change -- depending on the places I would go -- the title of the exhibition.

That's on the Champs-Elysees.

I was quite proud of that one.

Because I was just 18 and I was just up there on the top of the Champs-Elysees.

Then when the photo left, the frame was still there. 

(Laughter) 

November 2005: the streets are burning.

A large wave of riots had broken into the first projects of Paris.

Everyone was glued to the TV, watching disturbing, frightening images taken from the edge of the neighborhood.

I mean, these kids, without control, throwing Molotov cocktails, attacking the cops and the firemen, looting everything they could in the shops.

These were criminals, thugs, dangerous, destroying their own environment. 

I mean, these were the faces of my friends.

I know those guys.

All of them are not angels, but they're not monsters either.

So it was kind of weird to see those images and those eyes stare back at me through a television. 

So I went back there with a 28 mm lens.

It was the only one I had at that time.

But with that lens, you have to be as close as 10 inches from the person.

So you can do it only with their trust.

So I took full portraits of people from Le Bosquet.

They were making scary faces to play the caricature of themselves.

A year later, the exhibition was displayed in front of the city hall of Paris.

And we go from thug images, who've been stolen and distorted by the media, who's now proudly taking over his own image.

That's where I realized the power of paper and glue.

So could art change the world? 

I mean, at that time, trust me, they were only referring to the Israeli and Palestinian conflict.

So with my friend Marco, we decided to go there and see who are the real Palestinians and who are the real Israelis.

Are they so different?

They all accepted to be pasted next to the other.

We launched the biggest illegal art exhibition ever.

We called the project Face 2 Face. 

Okay, for example, that's Palestine.

We're in Ramallah right now.

We even pasted on Israeli military towers, and nothing happened.

When you paste an image, it's just paper and glue.

They are not meant to stay.

But exactly four years after, the photos, most of them are still there.

We didn't push the limit; we just showed that they were further than anyone thought. 

In the Middle East, I experienced my work in places without [many] museums.

So the reactions in the street were kind of interesting.

So I decided to go further in this direction and go in places where there were zero museums.

When you go in these developing societies, women are the pillars of their community, but the men are still the ones holding the streets.

So we were inspired to create a project where men will pay tribute to women by posting their photos.

I called that project Women Are Heroes.

When I listened to all the stories everywhere I went on the continents, I couldn't always understand the complicated circumstances of their conflict.

I just took their pictures and pasted them. 

Women Are Heroes took me around the world.

Most of the places I went to, I decided to go there because I've heard about it through the media.

And the army took them, and instead of bringing them to the police station, they brought them to an enemy favela where they get chopped into pieces.

I was shocked.

All Brazil was shocked.

So I decided to go there. 

I just took a few photos of the kids, and the next day I came with the posters and we pasted them.

I wanted them to feel that this art belongs to them. 

Then the next day, I held a meeting on the main square and some women came.

They were all linked to the three kids that got killed.

After that day, everyone in the favela gave me the green light.

I took more photos, and we started the project.

And on that stairs, that's where the traffickers always stand and there's a lot of exchange of fire.

What was interesting is that the media couldn't get in.

I mean, you should see that.

And they would put a number: "Please call this number if you know what's going on in Providencia."

We just did a project and then left so the media wouldn't know.

So how can we know about the project?

So they had to go and find the women and get an explanation from them.

So you create a bridge between the media and the anonymous women. 

We kept traveling.

Women are always the first ones targeted during conflict. 

You might have seen images about the post-election violence that happened there in 2008.

Then art becomes useful.

So the people kept it.

You know what I love is, for example, when you see the biggest eye there, there are so [many] houses inside.

But there are places where you just can't paste on a wall.

In India it was just impossible to paste.

I heard culturally and because of the law, they would just arrest us at the first pasting.

So imagine white guys pasting white papers.

So the more dust you have, the more it will reveal the photo.

So we could just walk in the street during the next days and the photos would get revealed by themselves.

(Applause) Thank you.

So we didn't get caught this time. 

Each project -- that's a film from Women Are Heroes.

And the photos kept traveling even without us.

But to get it, they would have to [get] it signed by one of the women.

We did that in most of the places.

We go back regularly.

And so in Providencia, for example, in the favela, we have a cultural center running there.

A really important point for me is that I don't use any brand or corporate sponsors.

So I have no responsibility to anyone but myself and the subjects.

(Applause) And that is for me one of the more important things in the work.

I think, today, as important as the result is the way you do things.

And that has always been a central part of the work.

And what's interesting is that fine line that I have with images and advertising.

We just did some pasting in Los Angeles on another project in the last weeks.

And I was even invited to cover the MOCA museum.

The people I photograph were proud to participate in the project and to have their photo in the community.

But they asked me for a promise basically.

You understand the full scope of the project.

That's London.

New York.

And today, they are with you in Long Beach. 

All right, recently I started a public art project where I don't use my artwork anymore.

I use Man Ray, Helen Levitt, Giacomelli, other people's artwork.

It doesn't matter today if it's your photo or not.

The importance is what you do with the images, the statement it makes where it's pasted.

In some ways, art can change the world.

When I do my work, I have two kinds of reactions.

And this starts right now.

I wanted that wish to actually start now.

So a subject you're passionate about, a person who you want to tell their story or even your own photos -- tell me what you stand for.

The full data is on the website -- insideoutproject.net -- that is launching today. 

What we see changes who we are.

And this starts right now and depends on you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

