Ten years ago exactly, I was in Afghanistan.

I was covering the war in Afghanistan, and I witnessed, as a reporter for Al Jazeera, the amount of suffering and destruction that emerged out of a war like that.

Then, two years later, I covered another war -- the war in Iraq.

I was placed at the center of that war because I was covering the war from the northern part of Iraq.

And the war ended with a regime change, like the one in Afghanistan.

And that regime that we got rid of was actually a dictatorship, an authoritarian regime, that for decades created a great sense of paralysis within the nation, within the people themselves.

However, the change that came through foreign intervention created even worse circumstances for the people and deepened the sense of paralysis and inferiority in that part of the world. 

These regimes created something within us during this period.

I'm 43 years old right now.

And this is why they revolted.

This is why they did not accept.

For 10 years, unfortunately we have found ourselves reporting images of destruction, images of killing, of sectarian conflicts, images of violence, emerging from a magnificent piece of land, a region that one day was the source of civilizations and art and culture for thousands of years.

Now I am here to tell you that the future that we were dreaming for has eventually arrived.

A new generation, well-educated, connected, inspired by universal values and a global understanding, has created a new reality for us.

Just step out of your house, raise your voice and say, "We would like to see the end of the regime."

This is what happened in Tunisia.

Over a few days, the Tunisian regime that invested billions of dollars in the security agencies, billions of dollars in maintaining, trying to maintain, its prisons, collapsed, disappeared, because of the voices of the public.

People who were inspired to go down to the streets and to raise their voices, they tried to kill.

The intelligence agencies wanted to arrest people.

They found something called Facebook.

They found something called Twitter.

They were surprised by all of these kinds of issues.

Parents actually went to the streets and they supported them.

And this is how the revolution was born in Tunisia. 

We in Al Jazeera were banned from Tunisia for years, and the government did not allow any Al Jazeera reporter to be there.

We are going to be the voice for these voiceless people.

But Al Jazeera took the voice from these people and we amplified [it].

We put it in every sitting room in the Arab world -- and internationally, globally, through our English channel. 

And then people started to feel that there's something new happening.

And then Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali decided to leave.

And then Egypt started, and Hosni Mubarak decided to leave.

And you have many other countries trying to see and to rediscover that feeling of, "How do we imagine a future which is magnificent and peaceful and tolerant?"

I want to tell you something, that the Internet and connectivity has created [a] new mindset.

But this mindset has continued to be faithful to the soil and to the land that it emerged from.

And this is the moment that is happening right now in the Arab world.

This is the right moment, and this is the actual moment that we see all of these meanings meet together and then create the beginning of this magnificent era that will emerge from the region. 

How did the elite deal with that -- the so-called political elite?

In front of Facebook, they brought the camels in Tahrir Square.

In front of Al Jazeera, they started creating tribalism.

And then when they failed, they started speaking about conspiracies that emerged from Tel Aviv and Washington in order to divide the Arab world.

Be aware of these people who [are] coming to you in order to ruin your great civilization."

Fortunately, people right now cannot be deceived.

Because this corrupt elite in that region has lost even the power of deception.

They could not, and they cannot, imagine how they could really deal with this reality.

They have lost.

They have been detached from their people, from the masses, and now we are seeing them collapsing one after the other. 

Al Jazeera is not a tool of revolution.

We were banned from Egypt, and our correspondents, some of them were arrested.

But most of our camera people and our journalists, they went underground in Egypt -- voluntarily -- to report what happened in Tahrir Square.

For 18 days, our cameras were broadcasting, live, the voices of the people in Tahrir Square.

I remember one night when someone phoned me on my cellphone -- ordinary person who I don't know -- from Tahrir Square.

So we have a chance to create a new future in that part of the world.

We have a chance to go and to think of the future as something which is open to the world.

Let us not repeat the mistake of Iran, of [the] Mosaddeq revolution.

Let us free ourselves -- especially in the West -- from thinking about that part of the world based on oil interest, or based on interests of the illusion of stability and security.

The stability and security of authoritarian regimes cannot create but terrorism and violence and destruction.

Let us accept the choice of the people.

Let us not pick and choose who we would like to rule their future.

The future should be ruled by people themselves, even sometimes if they are voices that might now scare us.

But the values of democracy and the freedom of choice that is sweeping the Middle East at this moment in time is the best opportunity for the world, for the West and the East, to see stability and to see security and to see friendship and to see tolerance emerging from the Arab world, rather than the images of violence and terrorism.

Let us support these people.

Let us stand for them.

And let us give up our narrow selfishness in order to embrace change, and in order to celebrate with the people of that region a great future and hope and tolerance.

The future has arrived, and the future is now.

I thank you very much. 

I thank you very much. 

I thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: I just have a couple of questions for you.

Thank you for coming here.

How would you characterize the historical significance of what's happened?

Is this a story-of-the-year, a story-of-the-decade or something more? 

Wadah Khanfar: Actually, this may be the biggest story that we have ever covered.

We have covered many wars.

It is not something that you only cover because you have to cover a great incident.

You are witnessing change in history.

You are witnessing the birth of a new era.

And this is what the story's all about. 

CA: There are a lot of people in the West who are still skeptical, or think this may just be an intermediate stage before much more alarming chaos.

You really believe that if there are democratic elections in Egypt now, that a government could emerge that espouses some of the values you've spoken about so inspiringly? 

In my opinion, these people are much more wiser than, not only the political elite, even the intellectual elite, even opposition leaders including political parties.

At this moment in time, the youth in the Arab world are much more wiser and capable of creating the change than the old -- including the political and cultural and ideological old regimes. 

CA: We are not to get involved politically and interfere in that way.

What should people here at TED, here in the West, do if they want to connect or make a difference and they believe in what's happening here? 

Fifty percent of it is coming from America.

Because we discovered that people care, and people would like to know -- they are receiving the stream through our Internet.

Unfortunately in the United States, we are not covering but Washington D.C. at this moment in time for Al Jazeera English.

But I can tell you, this is the moment to celebrate through connecting ourselves with those people in the street and expressing our support to them and expressing this kind of feeling, universal feeling, of supporting the weak and the oppressed to create a much better future for all of us. 

They've had some speakers there.

I believe they've heard your talk.

