(Laughter) And that this, in fact, will be the way that we treat cancer in the future.

First, I'm going to try to give you a different perspective of genomics.

I want to put it in perspective of the bigger picture of all the other things that are going on -- and then talk about something you haven't heard so much about, which is proteomics.

Having explained those, that will set up for what I think will be a different idea about how to go about treating cancer. 

So let me start with genomics.

It is the hot topic.

It is the place where we're learning the most.

It's like the parts list of your body.

It doesn't say how things are connected, what causes what and so on.

If they have tons of salt, you might guess they're using too much salt, or something like that.

So if I look at a person and I look at a person's genome, it's the same thing.

The part of the genome that we can read is the list of ingredients.

And so indeed, there are times when we can find ingredients that [are] bad.

So the genome really tells you much more about predisposition.

So what you can tell is you can tell the difference between an Asian person and a European person by looking at their ingredients list.

So why all the big deal about genetics?

It is very useful in certain circumstances.

It's also the great theoretical triumph of biology.

It's the one theory that the biologists ever really got right.

It's fundamental to Darwin and Mendel and so on.

And so it's the one thing where they predicted a theoretical construct.

So this happens in physics all the time.

You predict a black hole, and you look out the telescope and there it is, just like you said.

But it rarely happens in biology.

So this great triumph -- it's so good, there's almost a religious experience in biology.

And Darwinian evolution is really the core theory. 

So the other reason it's been very popular is because we can measure it, it's digital.

And in fact, thanks to Kary Mullis, you can basically measure your genome in your kitchen with a few extra ingredients.

There's a huge amount of information about the genetics just by comparing the genetic similarity.

And so by reading the genome, we can find out much more about your family than you probably know.

And so we can discover things that probably you could have found by looking at enough of your relatives, but they may be surprising.

I did the 23andMe thing and was very surprised to discover that I am fat and bald.

(Laughter) But sometimes you can learn much more useful things about that. 

(Laughter) But sometimes you can learn much more useful things about that. 

But mostly what you need to know, to find out if you're sick, is not your predispositions, but it's actually what's going on in your body right now.

Just like genome mixes the study of all the genes, proteomics is the study of all the proteins.

It requires hundreds of steps, and it takes a long, long time.

And it matters how much of the protein it is.

And basically our problem is somebody's in the middle of this very long stage, they pause for just a moment, and they leave something in an enzyme for a second, and all of a sudden all the measurements from then on don't work.

And so then people get very inconsistent results when they do it this way.

I kept getting this call from this oncologist named David Agus.

And Applied Minds gets a lot of calls from people who want help with their problems, and I didn't think this was a very likely one to call back, so I kept on giving him to the delay list.

(Laughter) So I was like, "Okay.

(Laughter) So I was like, "Okay.

(Laughter) So we started talking, and he said, "I really need a better way to measure proteins."

(Laughter) So we started talking, and he said, "I really need a better way to measure proteins."

And I'll show you what that protein measurement looks like. 

And so we can look at literally hundreds of thousands of features at once out of that drop of blood.

And so this picture, which looks like a big smudge to you, is actually the thing that got me really thrilled about this and made me feel like we were on the right track.

So if I zoom into that picture, I can just show you what it means.

So we're zooming in here just to show you a little bit of it.

And so each of these lines represents some signal that we're getting out of a piece of a protein.

And you can see how the lines occur in these little groups of bump, bump, bump, bump, bump.

And that's because we're measuring the weight so precisely that -- carbon comes in different isotopes, so if it has an extra neutron on it, we actually measure it as a different chemical.

So we're actually measuring each isotope as a different one. 

And so that gives you an idea of how exquisitely sensitive this is.

So this is the signature out of which we're trying to get patterns.

And so we can make these measurements precisely enough that we can overlay two patients and look at the differences. 

And if we find a pattern of things of the responders to the drug, we see that in the blood, they have the condition that allows them to respond to this drug.

We might not even know what this protein is, but we can see it's a marker for the response to the disease.

So this already, I think, is tremendously useful in all kinds of medicine.

But I think this is actually just the beginning of how we're going to treat cancer.

So let me move to cancer. 

We're treating cancer almost like it's an infectious disease.

We're treating it as something that got inside of you that we have to kill.

So this is the great paradigm.

This is another case where a theoretical paradigm in biology really worked -- was the germ theory of disease.

So if we put you in the category of you've got syphilis, we can give you penicillin.

We know that that works.

If you've got malaria, we give you quinine or some derivative of it.

And many people in this audience probably wouldn't be alive if doctors didn't do this. 

But now let's apply that to systems diseases like cancer.

The problem is that, in cancer, there isn't something else that's inside of you.

It's you; you're broken.

That conversation inside of you got mixed up in some way.

So how do we diagnose that conversation?

Well, right now what we do is we divide it by part of the body -- you know, where did it appear?

I think this is the big mistake.

I think cancer should not be a noun.

We should talk about cancering as something we do, not something we have.

And so those tumors, those are symptoms of cancer.

"Kitchen water, well, first of all, we'll go in there and we'll mop out a lot of it.

And then we know that if we sprinkle Drano around the kitchen, that helps.

Whereas living room water, it's better to do tar on the roof."

And it sounds silly, but that's basically what we do.

What we really need to get at is the process that's going on, and that's happening at the level of the proteonomic actions, happening at the level of why is your body not healing itself in the way that it normally does?

Because normally, your body is dealing with this problem all the time.

It has lots of different information about what's the process going on in this proteomic conversation on many different scales.

Of course, we'll do surgery sometimes and so on.

But design a program of treatments specifically for you and help your body guide back to health -- guide your body back to health.

Because your body will do most of the work of fixing it if we just sort of prop it up in the ways that are wrong.

We put it in the equivalent of splints.

And so your body basically has lots and lots of mechanisms for fixing cancer, and we just have to prop those up in the right way and get them to do the job. 

And so I believe that this will be the way that cancer will be treated in the future.

But I think eventually, we will design for everybody a custom treatment for cancer. 

So thank you very much. 

