The year is 1963.

We're watching the rising of the stars and the shifting of the tides.

It's a stretch of beach we know so well.

The smooth stones on the sand are familiar to us.

If you saw these women on the street in their faded clothes, you might dismiss them as poor and simple.

That would be a mistake.

They teach me the names of the winds and the rains, of astronomy according to a genealogy of stars.

There's a new moon on the horizon.

Hawaiians say it's a good night for fishing.

They begin to chant. 

When they finish, they sit in a circle and ask me to come to join them.

They want to teach me about my destiny.

I thought every seven-year-old went through this.

Because the idea of doing it alone terrifies me. 

The year is 2007.

I'm on a remote island in Micronesia.

Satawal is one half-mile long by one mile wide.

It's the home of my mentor.

His name is Pius Mau Piailug.

Mau is a palu, a navigator priest.

He's also considered the greatest wave finder in the world.

There are fewer than a handful of palu left on this island.

Their tradition is so extraordinary that these mariners sailed three million square miles across the Pacific without the use of instruments.

They could synthesize patterns in nature using the rising and setting of stars, the sequence and direction of waves, the flight patterns of certain birds.

Even the slightest hint of color on the underbelly of a cloud would inform them and help them navigate with the keenest accuracy. 

In fact, the hull of the canoe is the womb of the vessel.

It is the most accurate place to feel the rhythm and sequence and direction of waves.

Mau was, in fact, gathering explicit data using his entire body.

It's what he had been trained to do since he was five years old.

The palu also had an uncanny ability to forecast weather conditions days in advance.

We are in such a critical moment of our collective history.

This is part of our collective narrative.

It's humanity's DNA.

We cannot afford to lose it. 

We live in a society bloated with data, yet starved for wisdom.

We're connected 24/7, yet anxiety, fear, depression and loneliness is at an all-time high.

We must course-correct.

The link between the past and the future is fragile.

I am haunted by the fact that I no longer remember the names of the winds and the rains. 

Mau passed away five months ago, but his legacy and lessons live on.

I am grateful for the fact that I had a mentor like Mau who taught me how to navigate.

And I realize through a lesson that he shared that we continue to find our way.

This whole notion of every man for himself is completely unsustainable.

It always was. 

True navigation begins in the human heart.

It's the most important map of all.

Together, may we journey well. 

