Let's not forget it's a functional entity.

We have strong skull bones that protect the most important organ in our body: the brain.

Attached to the facial bones that define our face's structure are the muscles that deliver our facial expression, our universal language of expression, our social-signaling system.

And then we have the sensual factor of the face.

It's the face where we're attracted to with that. 

But let's not forget the hair.

You're looking at the image on your left-hand side -- that's my son with his eyebrows present.

Look how odd he looks with the eyebrows missing.

There's a definite difference.

Dysmorphophobia is an extreme version of the fact that we don't see ourselves as others see us.

It's a shocking truth that we only see mirror images of ourselves, and we only see ourselves in freeze-frame photographic images that capture a mere fraction of the time that we live.

Max has kindly donated his photograph to me.

He doesn't have dysmorphophobia, but I'm using his photograph to illustrate the fact that he looks exactly like a dysmorphophobic.

In other words, he looks entirely normal. 

Age is another thing when our attitude toward our appearance changes.

As you can see, it's blocking her vision.

She's also in danger, when she damages this, of bleeding profusely.

Actually, sometimes the parents argue about whether these children should have the lesion removed.

But other adults say incredibly painful things.

And that obviously alerts the child to their unusual nature.

After surgery, everything normalizes.

The adults behave more naturally, and the children play more readily with other children. 

We're trying to struggle to find our identity.

We crave the approval of our peers.

So our facial appearance is vital to us as we're trying to project ourselves to the world.

Just remember that single acne spot that crippled you for several days.

How long did you spend looking in the mirror every day, practicing your sardonic look, practicing your serious look, trying to look like Sean Connery, as I did, trying to raise one eyebrow?

It's a crippling time. 

I've chosen to show this profile view of Sue because what it shows is her lower jaw jutting forward and her lower lip jutting forward.

That's exactly what people used to say to Sue.

So she chose to have facial surgery.

Is this change, though, a real change, or is it a figment of the imagination of the patient themselves?

Well we studied teenagers' attitudes to photographs of patients having this corrective facial surgery.

When people get older, they don't necessarily choose to follow this kind of surgery.

Their presence in the consultation suite is a result of the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune.

What happens to them is that they may have suffered cancer or trauma.

So this is a photograph of Henry, two weeks after he had a malignant cancer removed from the left side of his face -- his cheekbone, his upper jaw, his eye-socket.

He looks pretty good at this stage.

But over the course of the next 15 years he had 14 more operations, as the disease ravaged his face and destroyed my reconstruction regularly.

I learned a huge amount from Henry.

He ignored the disfigurement that was happening in his life and carried on oblivious to it.

And that's what these people can do. 

Henriapi illustrates this phenomenon as well.

This is a man in his 20s whose first visit out of Nigeria was with this malignant cancer that he came to the United Kingdom to have operated on.

So we've seen that we can change people's faces.

But when we change people's faces, are we changing their identity -- for better or for worse?

For instance, there are two different types of facial surgery.

We can categorize it like that.

We can say there are patients who choose to have facial surgery -- like Sue.

They don't feel different.

And actually that's probably the difference between cosmetic surgery and this kind of surgery.

They're trying to achieve difference in their lives.

Sue wasn't trying to achieve difference in her life.

She was just trying to achieve the face that matched her personality. 

But then we have other people who don't choose to have facial surgery.

They're people who have their face shot off.

I'll move it off, and we'll have a blank slide for those who are squeamish amongst you.

They have it forced upon them.

And again, as I told you, if they have a caring family and good work life, then they can lead normal and fulfilled lives.

Their identity doesn't change. 

Is this business about appearance and preoccupation with it a Western phenomenon?

Muzetta's family give the lie to this.

This is a little Bangladeshi girl from the east end of London who's got a huge malignant tumor on the right side of her face, which has already made her blind and which is rapidly growing and is going to kill her shortly.

So it's not simply a Western phenomenon. 

We make judgments on people's faces all the time.

It's been going on since we can think of Lombroso and the way he would define criminal faces.

He said you could see criminal faces, judging them just on the photographs that were showed.

Now we know that he's a convicted wife-batterer, and actually he's not the good guy.

And beauty doesn't equate to goodness, and certainly doesn't equate to contentment. 

We think we can judge people on their expressions.

And so they want to see live witnesses.

Would we be happy if our doctor's face, our lawyer's face, our financial adviser's face was covered?

We'd be pretty uncomfortable.

But are we good at making the judgments on facial appearance and movement?

If you spend five minutes with somebody, you start looking beyond their facial appearance, and the people who you're initially attracted to may seem boring and you lose interest in them, and the people who you didn't immediately seek out, because you didn't find them particularly attractive, become attractive people because of their personality. 

So we've talked a lot about facial appearance.

I now want to share a little bit of the surgery that we do -- where we're at and where we're going.

And you can see in the images afterward, we've managed to reconstruct her successfully.

And that's what she achieved, and that's what we have to get to. 

And he lost his lower jaw, his lip, his chin and his upper jaw and teeth.

We made a model of the jaw without bone in it.

We then bent a plate up to it.

We put it in place so we knew it was an accurate position.

We then put bone and tissue from the back.

So the patient's life is restored.

That's the good news.

However, his chin skin doesn't look the same as it did before.

The face transplant has a role probably in burns patients to replace the skin.

We can replace the underlying skeletal structure, but we're still not good at replacing the facial skin.

So it's very valuable to have that tool in our armamentarium.

But the patients are going to have to take drugs that suppress their immune system for the rest of their lives.

What does that mean?

They have an increased risk of infection, an increased risk of malignancy.

We also don't know what they feel about recognition and identity.

Bernard Devauchelle and Sylvie Testelin, who did the first operation, are studying that.

So there are going to be problems with face transplantation. 

I can put it in place where it's meant to be.

I can sprinkle a few cells, stem cells from the patient's own hip, a little bit of genetically engineered protein, and lo and behold, leave it for four months and the face is grown.

This is a bit like a Julia Child recipe. 

But we've still got problems.

We're still not reconstructing them well enough.

In the U.K. we have an epidemic of facial injuries among young people.

We still can't get rid of scars.

We need to do research.

And the best news of all is that surgeons know that we need to do research.

Thank you very much indeed. 

