At Number 10 Downing Street, David Cameron is trying to work out whether to cut more public sector jobs in order to stave off a double-dip recession.

In Madrid, Maria Gonzalez is standing at the door, listening to her baby crying and crying, trying to work out whether she should let it cry until it falls asleep or pick it up and hold it.

We talk things over with our friends, we scour the Internet, we search through books.

But still, even in this age of Google and TripAdvisor and Amazon Recommends, it's still experts that we rely upon most -- especially when the stakes are high and the decision really matters.

Because in a world of data deluge and extreme complexity, we believe that experts are more able to process information than we can -- that they are able to come to better conclusions than we could come to on our own.

It's not that experts have not massively contributed to the world -- of course they have.

This is no exaggeration.

The results were quite extraordinary.

As they listened to the experts' voices, the independent decision-making parts of their brains switched off.

It literally flat-lined.

And they listened to whatever the experts said and took their advice, however right or wrong. 

Did you know that studies show that doctors misdiagnose four times out of 10?

Did you know that if you file your tax returns yourself, you're statistically more likely to be filing them correctly than if you get a tax adviser to do it for you?

For the sake of our health, our wealth and our collective security, it's imperative that we keep the independent decision-making parts of our brains switched on.

So in order to help you understand where I'm coming from, let me bring you into my world, the world of experts. 

Alan Greenspan's proclamations that the years of economic growth would go on and on, not challenged by his peers, until after the crisis, of course.

The study showed that food companies exaggerated typically seven times more than an independent study. 

And we've also got to be aware that experts, of course, also make mistakes.

I've shared with you so far some insights into the world of experts.

Well for the sake of time, I want to focus on just three strategies.

First, we've got to be ready and willing to take experts on and dispense with this notion of them as modern-day apostles.

This doesn't mean having to get a Ph.D. in every single subject, you'll be relieved to hear.

What is the evidence upon which this is based?

What has your investigation focused on?

And what has it ignored? 

It seems that they've somehow overlooked the fact that over half the world's population are women.

Being a rebel is about recognizing that experts' assumptions and their methodologies can easily be flawed. 

Second, we need to create the space for what I call "managed dissent."

All the research now shows us that this actually makes us smarter.

Encouraging dissent is a rebellious notion because it goes against our very instincts, which are to surround ourselves with opinions and advice that we already believe or want to be true.

And that's why I talk about the need to actively manage dissent. 

Google CEO Eric Schmidt is a practical practitioner of this philosophy.

By leveraging and by embracing the expertise within the company, Best Buy was able to discover, for example, that the store that it was going to open in China -- its big, grand store -- was not going to open on time.

Because when it asked its staff, all its staff, to place their bets on whether they thought the store would open on time or not, a group from the finance department placed all their chips on that not happening.

It turned out that they were aware, as no one else within the company was, of a technological blip that neither the forecasting experts, nor the experts on the ground in China, were even aware of. 

For if we keep our independent decision-making part of our brains switched on, if we challenge experts, if we're skeptical, if we devolve authority, if we are rebellious, but also if we become much more comfortable with nuance, uncertainty and doubt, and if we allow our experts to express themselves using those terms too, we will set ourselves up much better for the challenges of the 21st century.

For now, more than ever, is not the time to be blindly following, blindly accepting, blindly trusting.

Thank you. 

