Pat Mitchell: What is the story of this pin? 

Madeleine Albright: This is "Breaking the Glass Ceiling."

PM: Oh.

That was well chosen, I would say, for TEDWomen. 

MA: Most of the time I spend when I get up in the morning is trying to figure out what is going to happen.

And none of this pin stuff would have happened if it hadn't been for Saddam Hussein.

And so I happened to have a snake pin.

So I wore it when we talked about Iraq.

So that's how it all started. 

PM: So how large is the collection? 

MA: Pretty big.

It's now traveling.

At the moment it's in Indianapolis, but it was at the Smithsonian.

And it goes with a book that says, "Read My Pins."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

PM: So is this a good idea.

But people did pay attention to what clothes I had.

PM: It is, for all of us, men and women, finding our ways of defining our roles, and doing them in ways that make a difference in the world and shape the future.

(Laughter) But basically I love being a woman.

And all of a sudden I thought, "Well, wait a minute.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

PM: What a change that is.

As you travel now all over the world, which you do frequently, how do you assess this global narrative around the story of women and girls?

Where are we? 

So I think that it behooves us -- those of us that live in various countries where we do have economic and political voice -- that we need to help other women.

And I really dedicated myself to that, both at the U.N. and then as Secretary of State. 

PM: And did you get pushback from making that a central tenant of foreign policy? 

MA: From some people.

I think that they thought that it was a soft issue.

For instance, when I started, there were wars in the Balkans.

The women in Bosnia were being raped.

We then managed to set up a war crimes tribunal to deal specifically with those kinds of issues.

But it was one of the first times that I didn't have to cook lunch myself.

I get there, and there are six other women, out of 183.

So the countries that had women representatives were Canada, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Trinidad Tobago, Jamaica, Lichtenstein and me.

So being an American, I decided to set up a caucus.

(Laughter) And so we set it up, and we called ourselves the G7. 

(Laughter) And so we set it up, and we called ourselves the G7. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And we lobbied on behalf of women's issues.

So we managed to get two women judges on this war crimes tribunal.

And then what happened was that they were able to declare that rape was a weapon of war, that it was against humanity. 

MA: Well I do think, when there are more women, that the tone of the conversation changes, and also the goals of the conversation change.

But it doesn't mean that the whole world would be a lot better if it were totally run by women.

If you think that, you've forgotten high school.

So for instance, what I did when I went to Burundi, we'd got Tutsi and Hutu women together to talk about some of the problems that had taken place in Rwanda.

And so I think the capability of women to put themselves -- I think we're better about putting ourselves into the other guy's shoes and having more empathy.

I think it helps in terms of the support if there are other women in the room. 

When I was Secretary of State, there were only 13 other women foreign ministers.

And so it was nice when one of them would show up.

And it was really terrific.

Because one of the things I think you'll understand.

And my male colleagues kind of got it all of a sudden.

But I think it really does help to have a critical mass of women in a series of foreign policy positions.

So if you have women in a variety of foreign policy posts, they can support each other when there are budget decisions being made in their own countries. 

PM: So how do we get this balance we're looking for, then, in the world?

I think that we need to help in other countries to train women to be in political office, to figure out how they can in fact develop political voices.

I think we also need to be supportive when businesses are being created and just make sure that women help each other.

And I think we have a tendency to make each other feel guilty.

In fact, I think "guilt" is every woman's middle name.

And so I think what needs to happen is we need to help each other.

And my motto is that there's a special place in hell for women who don't help each other. 

PM: Well Secretary Albright, I guess you'll be going to heaven.

Thank you for joining us today. 

