I'm speaking to you about what I call the "mesh."

It's essentially a fundamental shift in our relationship with stuff, with the things in our lives.

And it's starting to look at -- not always and not for everything -- but in certain moments of time, access to certain kinds of goods and service will trump ownership of them.

And so it's the pursuit of better things, easily shared.

And we come from a long tradition of sharing.

We've shared transportation.

We've shared wine and food and other sorts of fabulous experiences in coffee bars in Amsterdam.

We've also shared other sorts of entertainment -- sports arenas, public parks, concert halls, libraries, universities.

And as I think about the mesh and I think about, well, what's driving it, how come it's happening now, I think there's a number of vectors that I want to give you as background.

Secondly, population growth and density into cities.

Research is showing here, in the States, and in Canada and Western Europe, that most of us are much more open to local companies, or brands that maybe we haven't heard of.

Whereas before, we went with the big brands that we were sure we trusted.

The other thing that's worth considering is that we've made a huge investment over decades and decades, and tens of billions of dollars have gone into this investment that now is our inheritance.

It's a physical infrastructure that allows us to get from point A to point B and move things that way.

It allows us to engage in really new and interesting ways. 

And so that sets up for making access to get goods and services more convenient and less costly in many cases than owning them. 

For example, I want to use Zipcar.

Basically Zipcar is the largest car-sharing company in the world.

They did not invent car-sharing.

Car-sharing was actually invented in Europe.

Zipcar got some really important things right.

First, they really understood that a brand is a voice and a product is a souvenir.

They made it aspirational.

If you were a member of the club, when you're a member of a club, you're a Zipster.

The cars they picked didn't look like ex-cop cars that were hollowed out or something.

They picked these sexy cars.

They targeted to universities.

They made sure that the demographic for who they were targeting and the car was all matching.

It was a very nice experience, and the cars were clean and reliable, and it all worked. 

And so from a branding perspective, they got a lot right.

But they understood fundamentally that they are not a car company.

They understand that they are an information company.

Because when we buy a car we go to the dealer once, we have an interaction, and we're chow -- usually as quickly as possible.

When you pick your aunt up at the airport, you get a sedan.

And you're going to the mountains to ski, you get different accessories put on the car for doing that sort of thing.

Meanwhile, these guys are sitting back, collecting all sorts of data about our behavior and how we interact with the service.

And so it's not only an option for them, but I believe it's an imperative for Zipcar and other mesh companies to actually just wow us, to be like a concierge service.

And so what percent of the day do you think the average person uses a car?

What percentage of the time?

Any guesses?

Those are really very good.

I was imagining it was like 20 percent when I first started.

The number across the U.S. and Western Europe is eight percent.

And so basically even if you think it's 10 percent, 90 percent of the time, something that costs us a lot of money -- personally, and also we organize our cities around it and all sorts of things -- 90 percent of the time it's sitting around.

Well the car that's one or two blocks from your home or your office is probably your neighbor's car, and it's probably also available.

So people have created this business.

Zipcar started a decade earlier, in 2000.

It took them six years to get 1,000 cars in service.

WhipCar, which started April of last year, it took them six months to get 1,000 cars in the service.

So, really interesting.

People are making anywhere between 200 and 700 dollars a month letting their neighbors use their car when they're not using it.

So it's like vacation rentals for cars.

Because it just creates more flexibility.

It allows us as owners to have other options.

And I think we're going there anyway. 

The opportunity and the challenge with mesh businesses -- and those are businesses like Zipcar or Netflix that are full mesh businesses, or other ones where you have a lot of the car companies, car manufacturers, who are beginning to offer their own car-share services as well as a second flanker brand, or as really a test, I think -- is to make sharing irresistible.

We have experiences in our lives, certainly, when sharing has been irresistible.

It's just, how do we make that recurrent and scale it?

We know also, because we're connected in social networks, that it's easy to create delight in one little place.

It's contagious because we're all connected to each other.

In general, and maybe, again, it's because I'm a tech entrepreneur, I look at things as platforms.

Platforms are invitations.

These platforms invite all sorts of developers and all sorts of people to come with their ideas and their opportunity to create and target an application for a particular audience.

And honestly, it's full of surprises.

The invitation of bringing makers and artists and entrepreneurs -- it really helps stimulate this fiery creativity and helps a city to thrive.

Now we're saying that there's other options as well.

So, for example, city departments can open up transit data.

Google has made available transit data API.

And so there's about seven or eight cities already in the U.S. that have provided the transit data, and different developers are building applications.

There's this fabulous opportunity we have across the U.S. now: about 21 percent of vacant commercial and industrial space.

That space is not vital.

And this is a very mesh-y thing.

Essentially, there are all sorts of restaurants in Oakland, near where I live.

There's a pop-up general store every three weeks, and they do a fantastic job of making a very social event happening for foodies.

Super fun, and it happens in a very transitional neighborhood.

Subsequent to that, after it's been going for about a year now, they actually started to lease and create and extend.

An area that was edgy-artsy is now starting to become much cooler and engage a lot more people.

So this is an example.

The Crafty Fox is this woman who's into crafts, and she does these pop-up crafts fairs around London.

But these sorts of things are happening in many different environments.

From my perspective, one of the things pop-up stores do is create perishability and urgency.

So a lot of what we see in the mesh, and a lot of what we have in the platform that we built allows us to define, refine and scale.

It allows us to test things as an entrepreneur, to go to market, to be in conversation with people, listen, refine something and go back.

The infrastructure enables that. 

And one quick example is Velib, in 2007, came forward in Paris with a very bold proposition, a very big bike-sharing service.

So the opportunity when we're connected is also to share failures and successes. 

And it grows on a very regular daily basis.

But it's very much at the beginning. 

So I just want to welcome all of you onto the ride.

And thank you very much. 

