Some people think that there's a TED Talk formula: 

No.

That's not how to think of a TED Talk.

In fact, if you overuse those devices, you're just going to come across as clichéd or emotionally manipulative. 

Let me show you what I mean.

Here's Haley.

She is about to give a TED Talk and frankly, she's terrified. 

(Video) Presenter: Haley Van Dyck! 

Over the course of 18 minutes, 1,200 people, many of whom have never seen each other before, are finding that their brains are starting to sync with Haley's brain and with each other.

They're literally beginning to exhibit the same brain-wave patterns.

Let's take a look inside Haley's brain for a moment.

There are billions of interconnected neurons in an impossible tangle.

But look here, right here -- a few million of them are linked to each other in a way which represents a single idea.

But wait -- what is an idea anyway?

Well, you can think of it as a pattern of information that helps you understand and navigate the world.

(Video) Sir Ken Robinson: My contention is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy, and we should treat it with the same status. 

Chris Anderson: Elora Hardy -- building from bamboo is beautiful. 

(Video) Elora Hardy: It is growing all around us, it's strong, it's elegant, it's earthquake-resistant. 

They're carefully linked together.

And it is built up out of millions of individual ideas. 

So, for example, if one little component of your worldview is the idea that kittens are adorable, then when you see this, you'll react like this.

But if another component of your worldview is the idea that leopards are dangerous, then when you see this, you'll react a little bit differently.

So, it's pretty obvious why the ideas that make up your worldview are crucial.

Now, different people's worldviews can be dramatically different.

For example, how does your worldview react when you see this image: 

CA: Whatever your answer, there are millions of people out there who would react very differently.

So that's why ideas really matter.

If communicated properly, they're capable of changing, forever, how someone thinks about the world, and shaping their actions both now and well into the future.

Ideas are the most powerful force shaping human culture. 

So if you accept that your number one task as a speaker is to build an idea inside the minds of your audience, here are four guidelines for how you should go about that task: 

One, limit your talk to just one major idea.

You have to give context, share examples, make it vivid.

Two, give your listeners a reason to care.

Before you can start building things inside the minds of your audience, you have to get their permission to welcome you in.

And the main tool to achieve that?

Curiosity.

Stir your audience's curiosity.

Use intriguing, provocative questions to identify why something doesn't make sense and needs explaining.

If you can reveal a disconnection in someone's worldview, they'll feel the need to bridge that knowledge gap.

And once you've sparked that desire, it will be so much easier to start building your idea. 

Three, build your idea, piece by piece, out of concepts that your audience already understands.

You start where they are.

The speakers often forget that many of the terms and concepts they live with are completely unfamiliar to their audiences.

It's important, therefore, to test your talk on trusted friends, and find out which parts they get confused by. 

If the idea only serves you or your organization, then, I'm sorry to say, it's probably not worth sharing.

