They want to be part of it.

They talk about wanting lives of purpose and greater meaning.

But on the other hand, I hear people talking about fear, a sense of risk-aversion.

I work in global poverty.

Our leaders and ourselves want everything, but we don't talk about the costs.

We don't talk about the sacrifice. 

One of my favorite quotes from literature was written by Tillie Olsen, the great American writer from the South.

What is the cost of not trying? 

I've been so privileged in my life to know extraordinary leaders who have chosen to live lives of immersion.

One woman I knew who was a fellow at a program that I ran at the Rockefeller Foundation was named Ingrid Washinawatok.

She was a leader of the Menominee tribe, a Native American peoples.

And when we would gather as fellows, she would push us to think about how the elders in Native American culture make decisions.

Ingrid understood that we are connected to each other, not only as human beings, but to every living thing on the planet. 

And tragically, in 1999, when she was in Colombia working with the U'wa people, focused on preserving their culture and language, she and two colleagues were abducted and tortured and killed by the FARC.

And whenever we would gather the fellows after that, we would leave a chair empty for her spirit.

And more than a decade later, when I talk to NGO fellows, whether in Trenton, New Jersey or the office of the White House, and we talk about Ingrid, they all say that they're trying to integrate her wisdom and her spirit and really build on the unfulfilled work of her life's mission.

And when we think about legacy, I can think of no more powerful one, despite how short her life was. 

And I met them in the early '90s.

And at the end of the war, there were only 30 of these classical dancers still living.

And these big tears fell down her face, but she never lifted her hands to move them.

And the women decided that they would train not the next generation of girls, because they had grown too old already, but the next generation.

And I thought, after all this atrocity, this is how human beings really pray.

Because they're focused on honoring what is most beautiful about our past and building it into the promise of our future.

And what these women understood is sometimes the most important things that we do and that we spend our time on are those things that we cannot measure. 

I also have been touched by the dark side of power and leadership.

And I have learned that power, particularly in its absolute form, is an equal opportunity provider.

In 1986, I moved to Rwanda, and I worked with a very small group of Rwandan women to start that country's first microfinance bank.

We built this institution based on social justice, gender equity, this idea of empowering women. 

But Agnes cared more about the trappings of power than she did principle at the end.

She was convicted of category one crimes of genocide.

And there is no group more vulnerable to those kinds of manipulations than young men.

I've heard it said that the most dangerous animal on the planet is the adolescent male.

And so in a gathering where we're focused on women, while it is so critical that we invest in our girls and we even the playing field and we find ways to honor them, we have to remember that the girls and the women are most isolated and violated and victimized and made invisible in those very societies where our men and our boys feel disempowered, unable to provide.

And that, when they sit on those street corners and all they can think of in the future is no job, no education, no possibility, well then it's easy to understand how the greatest source of status can come from a uniform and a gun. 

Sometimes very small investments can release enormous, infinite potential that exists in all of us.

And he's been working with this young group of men who come from the largest slum in the world, Kibera.

And they're incredible guys.

And then they created a business plan competition.

Then they decided that they would do TEDx's. 

And I have learned so much from Chris and Kevin and Alex and Herbert and all of these young men.

Alex, in some ways, said it best.

He said, "We used to feel like nobodies, but now we feel like somebodies."

And I think we have it all wrong when we think that income is the link.

What we really yearn for as human beings is to be visible to each other.

And the reason these young guys told me that they're doing these TEDx's is because they were sick and tired of the only workshops coming to the slums being those workshops focused on HIV, or at best, microfinance.

And they're doing it.

And my hat's off to you in Kibera. 

My own work focuses on making philanthropy more effective and capitalism more inclusive.

We leave our money for 10 to 15 years, and when we get it back, we invest in other innovations that focus on change.

I know it works.

But we find those entrepreneurs who put people and the planet before profit.

And ultimately, we want to be part of a movement that is about measuring impact, measuring what is most important to us.

And my dream is we'll have a world one day where we don't just honor those who take money and make more money from it, but we find those individuals who take our resources and convert it into changing the world in the most positive ways.

And it's only when we honor them and celebrate them and give them status that the world will really change. 

I happened to be in Lahore, Pakistan on the day that two mosques were attacked by suicide bombers.

And the reason these mosques were attacked is because the people praying inside were from a particular sect of Islam who fundamentalists don't believe are fully Muslim.

Born and raised in Baltimore, he studied real estate, worked in commercial real estate, and after 9/11 decided he was going to Pakistan to make a difference.

He stood on moral ground and refused to pay bribes.

It took almost two years just to register the land.

But I saw how the level of moral standard can rise from one person's action. 

Today, 2,000 people live in 300 houses in this beautiful community.

And there's schools and clinics and shops.

But there's only one mosque.

We need that kind of moral leadership and courage in our worlds.

And every day we have a choice.

Or we can take the much more difficult path of transformation, transcendence, compassion and love, but also accountability and justice. 

I had the great honor of working with the child psychologist Dr. Robert Coles, who stood up for change during the Civil Rights movement in the United States.

And he said that every day this six-year-old, dressed in her beautiful dress, would walk with real grace through a phalanx of white people screaming angrily, calling her a monster, threatening to poison her -- distorted faces.

But she became part of history and opened up this idea that all of us should have access to education. 

And we placed him in a company in Western Kenya, just 200 miles away.

We need leaders.

We ourselves need to lead from a place that has the audacity to believe we can, ourselves, extend the fundamental assumption that all men are created equal to every man, woman and child on this planet.

And we need to have the humility to recognize that we cannot do it alone.

So may each of you live lives of immersion.

Thank you. 

