I want you to take a look at this baby.

What you're drawn to are her eyes and the skin you love to touch.

And she's talking to her baby.

What this mother -- and the 800 people who speak Koro in the world -- understands [is] that, to preserve this language, they need to speak it to the babies.

And therein lies a critical puzzle.

Why is it that you can't preserve a language by speaking to you and I, to the adults?

The way to read this slide is to look at your age on the horizontal axis.

(Laughter) And you'll see on the vertical your skill at acquiring a second language.

Babies and children are geniuses until they turn seven, and then there's a systematic decline.

After puberty, we fall off the map.

We think, by studying how the sounds are learned, we'll have a model for the rest of language, and perhaps for critical periods that may exist in childhood for social, emotional and cognitive development.

So we've been studying the babies using a technique that we're using all over the world and the sounds of all languages.

A six-monther adores the task. 

What have we learned?

Well, babies all over the world are what I like to describe as "citizens of the world."

We're culture-bound listeners.

So the question arises: when do those citizens of the world turn into the language-bound listeners that we are?

And the answer: before their first birthdays.

So at six to eight months the babies are totally equivalent.

Two months later something incredible occurs.

So the question is: what's happening during this critical two-month period?

So there are two things going on.

Patricia Kuhl: During the production of speech, when babies listen, what they're doing is taking statistics on the language that they hear.

And those distributions grow.

And what we've learned is that babies are sensitive to the statistics, and the statistics of Japanese and English are very, very different.

English has a lot of Rs and Ls.

The distribution shows.

But we as adults are no longer absorbing those statistics.

We're governed by the representations in memory that were formed early in development. 

So what we're seeing here is changing our models of what the critical period is about.

We're arguing from a mathematical standpoint that the learning of language material may slow down when our distributions stabilize.

It's raising lots of questions about bilingual people.

Bilinguals must keep two sets of statistics in mind at once and flip between them, one after the other, depending on who they're speaking to. 

And we tested this by exposing American babies who'd never heard a second language to Mandarin for the first time during the critical period.

We knew that, when monolinguals were tested in Taipei and Seattle on the Mandarin sounds, they showed the same pattern.

Six to eight months, they're totally equivalent.

Two months later, something incredible happens.

But the Taiwanese babies are getting better, not the American babies.

What we did was expose American babies during this period to Mandarin.

It was like having Mandarin relatives come and visit for a month and move into your house and talk to the babies for 12 sessions.

Here's what it looked like in the laboratory. 

PK: So what have we done to their little brains?

(Laughter) We had to run a control group to make sure that just coming into the laboratory didn't improve your Mandarin skills.

So a group of babies came in and listened to English.

And we can see from the graph that exposure to English didn't improve their Mandarin.

But look at what happened to the babies exposed to Mandarin for 12 sessions.

They were as good as the babies in Taiwan who'd been listening for 10-and-a-half months.

What it demonstrated is that babies take statistics on a new language.

Whatever you put in front of them, they'll take statistics on. 

But we wondered what role the human being played in this learning exercise.

So we ran another group of babies in which the kids got the same dosage, the same 12 sessions, but over a television set and another group of babies who had just audio exposure and looked at a teddy bear on the screen.

What did we do to their brains?

It takes a human being for babies to take their statistics.

The social brain is controlling when the babies are taking their statistics. 

We want to get inside the brain and see this thing happening as babies are in front of televisions, as opposed to in front of human beings.

But it's completely safe, completely non-invasive and silent.

We're the first in the world to record babies in an MEG machine while they are learning. 

So this is little Emma.

She's a six-monther.

And she's listening to various languages in the earphones that are in her ears.

You can see, she can move around.

It's a technical tour de force.

What are we seeing?

We're seeing the baby brain.

We are embarking on a grand and golden age of knowledge about child's brain development.

We're going to be able to see a child's brain as they experience an emotion, as they learn to speak and read, as they solve a math problem, as they have an idea.

And we're going to be able to invent brain-based interventions for children who have difficulty learning.

Just as the poets and writers described, we're going to be able to see, I think, that wondrous openness, utter and complete openness, of the mind of a child.

In investigating the child's brain, we're going to uncover deep truths about what it means to be human, and in the process, we may be able to help keep our own minds open to learning for our entire lives. 

Thank you. 

