(Whistling) 

(Applause) 

Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you very much.

That was whistling.

I'm trying to do this in English.

What is a chubby, curly-haired guy from Holland -- why is he whistling?

Well actually, I've [been] whistling since the age of four, about four.

My dad was always whistling around the house, and I just thought that's part of communication in my family.

So I whistled along with him.

And I also whistled at a Christmas Eve party with my family-in-law.

And they had some, in my opinion, terrible Christmas music.

And when I hear music that I don't like, I try to make it better.

So "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" -- you know it?

(Whistling) But it can also sound like this.

(Whistling) But during a Christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it's very annoying.

So my sister-in-law asked me a few times, "Please stop whistling."

And I just couldn't.

And at one point -- and I had some wine, I have to admit that -- at one point I said, "If there was a contest, I would join."

So I immediately called her up, of course.

She Googled, and she found this World Whistling Championship in America, of course.

She didn't expect me to go there.

And I would have lost my face.

I don't know if that's correct English.

But the Dutch people here will understand what I mean.

(Laughter) I lost my face.

(Applause) And she thought, "He will never go there."

But actually I did.

And I also entered the world championship, and I won there in 2004. 

(Applause) 

That was great fun, of course.

Then I couldn't participate for a few years.

And in 2008 I entered again in Japan, Tokyo, and I won again.

So what happened now is I'm standing here in Rotterdam, in the beautiful city, on a big stage, and I'm talking about whistling.

And actually I earn my money whistling at the moment.

So I quit my day job as a nurse.

(Applause) And I try to live my dream -- well, actually, it was never my dream, but it sounds so good. 

(Laughter) 

Actually it's very simple.

The track that I will whistle is called "Fête de la Belle."

And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling.

So I whistle the tone.

(Whistling) (Laughter) Sorry.

You whistle the same tone as me.

(Laughter) I heard a wide variety of tones. 

(Whistling) 

I'll ask the technicians to start the music.

And if it's started, I just point where you whistle along, and we will see what happens.

(Laughter) I'm so used to that.

(Laughter) 

(Whistling) 

Okay. 

Okay. 

Okay. 

(Whistling) 

(Whistling) 

(Whistling) 

(Applause) 

Max Westerman: Geert Chatrou, the World Champion [of] Whistling. 

Thank you. 

