Hawa Abdi: Many people -- 20 years for Somalia -- [were] fighting.

So there was no job, no food.

Children, most of them, became very malnourished, like this.

Deqo Mohamed: So as you know, always in a civil war, the ones affected most [are] the women and children.

So our patients are women and children.

HA: We are doing C-sections and different operations because people need some help.

There is no government to protect them.

DM: Every morning we have about 400 patients, maybe more or less.

But sometimes we are only five doctors and 16 nurses, and we are physically getting exhausted to see all of them.

But we take the severe ones, and we reschedule the other ones the next day.

It is very tough.

(Applause) PM: And the doctors have some very big rules about who can get treated at the clinic.

Would you explain the rules for admission?

But there are only two rules.

[Whomever] makes those things we throw out.

If he beat, we will put [him] in jail, and we will call the eldest people.

Until they identify this case, we'll never release him.

That's our two rules.

(Applause) The other thing that I have realized, that the woman is the most strong person all over the world.

Because the last 20 years, the Somali woman has stood up.

They were the leaders, and we are the leaders of our community and the hope of our future generations.

We are not just the helpless and the victims of the civil war.

We can reconcile.

We can do everything.

(Applause) DM: As my mother said, we are the future hope, and the men are only killing in Somalia.

So we came up with these two rules.

In a camp with 90,000 people, you have to come up with some rules or there is going to be some fights.

So there is no clan division, and no man can beat his wife.

And we have a little storage room where we converted a jail.

So if you beat your wife, you're going to be there.

PM: You're running a medical clinic.

It brought much, much needed medical care to people who wouldn't get it.

You're also running a civil society.

HA: My age -- because I was born in 1947 -- we were having, at that time, government, law and order.

But one day, I went to the hospital -- my mother was sick -- and I saw the hospital, how they [were] treating the doctors, how they [are] committed to help the sick people.

I admired them, and I decided to become a doctor.

My mother died, unfortunately, when I was 12 years [old].

Then my father allowed me to proceed [with] my hope.

That's why I became a doctor.

So Dr. Deqo has to explain.

DM: For me, my mother was preparing [me] when I was a child to become a doctor, but I really didn't want to.

Maybe I should become an historian, or maybe a reporter.

I loved it, but it didn't work.

So some of our character, maybe we will come with a strong Soviet background of training.

So that's how I decided [to do] the same.

She graduated in Russia also.

Most people fled abroad.

But I remained with those people, and I was trying to do something -- [any] little thing I [could] do.

I succeeded in my place.

Now my place is 90,000 people who are respecting each other, who are not fighting.

But we try to stand on our feet, to do something, little things, we can for our people.

And I'm thankful for my daughters.

When they come to me, they help me to treat the people, to help.

They do everything for them.

They have done what I desire to do for them.

And really when you think [you] cannot do it, she will push you, and I can do it.

It is not like beautiful offices here, 20 patients, you're tired.

You see 300 patients, 20 surgeries and 90,000 people to manage.

PM: But you do it for good reasons.

HA: Thank you.

DM: Thank you.

(Applause) HA: Thank you very much.

(Applause) HA: Thank you very much.

(Applause) HA: Thank you very much.

