(Laughter) 

Now that was the advice that St. Benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century.

It was the advice that I decided to follow myself when I turned 40.

And I decided that I would try and turn my life around.

In particular, I decided I would try to address the thorny issue of work-life balance.

So I stepped back from the workforce, and I spent a year at home with my wife and four young children.

But all I learned about work-life balance from that year was that I found it quite easy to balance work and life when I didn't have any work.

(Laughter) Not a very useful skill, especially when the money runs out. 

So I went back to work, and I've spent these seven years since struggling with, studying and writing about work-life balance.

And I have four observations I'd like to share with you today.

The first is: if society's to make any progress on this issue, we need an honest debate.

But the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work-life balance.

Now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you're in.

(Laughter) (Applause) It's my contention that going to work on Friday in jeans and [a] T-shirt isn't really getting to the nub of the issue. 

(Laughter) 

We should stop looking outside.

If you don't design your life, someone else will design it for you, and you may just not like their idea of balance.

(Laughter) I'm talking about all companies.

Because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you [as] they can get away with.

On the one hand, putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened.

We have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life. 

The third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance.

Before I went back to work after my year at home, I sat down and I wrote out a detailed, step-by-step description of the ideal balanced day that I aspired to.

(Laughter) We need to be realistic.

You can't do it all in one day.

(Laughter) A day is too short; "after I retire" is too long.

There's got to be a middle way. 

Now that can be daunting.

And I understand.

I truly understand how that can be daunting.

But an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective.

So I left work an hour early that afternoon and picked Harry up at the school gates.

We walked down to the local park, messed around on the swings, played some silly games.

I then read him a chapter of Roald Dahl's "James and the Giant Peach."

Now my point is the small things matter.

Being more balanced doesn't mean dramatic upheaval in your life.

With the smallest investment in the right places, you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life.

Moreover, I think, it can transform society.

Because if enough people do it, we can change society's definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins, to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like.

And that, I think, is an idea worth spreading. 

