An Ethiopian woman named Derartu Tulu turns up at the starting line.

Derartu Tulu was ready to hang it up and retire from the sport, but she decided she'd go for broke and try for one last big payday in the marquee event, the New York City Marathon.

Except -- bad news for Derartu Tulu -- some other people had the same idea, including the Olympic gold medalist and Paula Radcliffe, who is a monster, the fastest woman marathoner in history by far.

That's her competition. 

The gun goes off, and she's not even an underdog.

She's under the underdogs.

Now this is when something really bizarre happens.

You give her a quick crack in the teeth with your elbow and blaze for the finish line.

Derartu Tulu ruins the script.

She catches up with the lead pack and is pushing toward the finish line.

But then she falls back again.

And the second time Derartu Tulu grabs her and tries to pull her.

When you have two outliers in one organism, it's not a coincidence.

When you have someone who is more competitive and more compassionate than anybody else in the race, again, it's not a coincidence.

You show me a creature with webbed feet and gills; somehow water's involved. 

Someone with that kind of heart, there's some kind of connection there.

And the answer to it, I think, can be found down in the Copper Canyons of Mexico, where there's a tribe, a reclusive tribe, called the Tarahumara Indians.

Now the Tarahumara are remarkable for three things.

Number one is, they have been living essentially unchanged for the past 400 years.

The Mayans and Aztecs engaged, which is why there are very few Mayans and Aztecs.

The Tarahumara had a different strategy.

They're not doing 26 miles; they're doing 100, 150 miles at a time, and apparently without injury, without problems. 

They are free from all of these modern ailments.

So what's the connection?

Again, we're talking about outliers -- 

there's got to be some kind of cause and effect there.

Well, there are teams of scientists at Harvard and the University of Utah that are bending their brains to try to figure out what the Tarahumara have known forever.

They're trying to solve those same kinds of mysteries.

And if you know it, then you are smarter than anybody else on planet Earth.

Australopithecus had a tiny little pea brain.

Suddenly humans show up -- Homo erectus -- big, old melon-head.

To have a brain of that size, you need to have a source of condensed caloric energy.

The only problem is, the first edged weapons only appeared about 200,000 years ago. 

So, somehow, for nearly two million years, we are killing animals without any weapons.

We're not fast.

So no weapons, no speed, no strength, no fangs, no claws -- how were we killing these animals?

There's not a fast woman on the planet and there never has been.

The fastest woman to ever run a mile did it in 4:15.

I could throw a rock and hit a high school boy who can run faster than 4:15.

For some reason you guys are just really slow.

In that very short learning curve, you guys have gone from broken organs up to the fact that you're only 10 minutes off the male world record. 

I'll give you an example.

A couple years ago, Emily Baer signed up for a race called the Hardrock 100, which tells you all you need to know about the race.

They give you 48 hours to finish this race.

And what they found is that, if you start running the marathon at age 19, you will get progressively faster, year by year, until you reach your peak at age 27.

And then after that, you succumb to the rigors of time.

And you'll get slower and slower, until eventually you're back to running the same speed you were at age 19.

So about seven years, eight years to reach your peak, and then gradually you fall off your peak, until you go back to the starting point.

64-year-old men and women are running as fast as they were at age 19.

Now I defy you to come up with any other physical activity -- and please don't say golf -- something that actually is hard -- where geriatrics are performing as well as they did as teenagers. 

So you have these three mysteries.

Is there one piece in the puzzle which might wrap all these things up?

Maybe we evolved as a hunting pack animal.

Because the one advantage we have in the wilderness -- again, it's not our fangs and our claws and our speed -- the only thing we do really, really well is sweat.

We're really good at being sweaty and smelly.

Better than any other mammal on Earth, we can sweat really well.

But the advantage of that little bit of social discomfort is the fact that, when it comes to running under hot heat for long distances, we're superb, we're the best on the planet.

You take a horse on a hot day, and after about five or six miles, that horse has a choice.

So what if we evolved as hunting pack animals?

What if the only natural advantage we had in the world was the fact that we could get together as a group, go out there on that African Savannah, pick out an antelope and go out as a pack and run that thing to death?

That's all we could do.

We could run really far on a hot day. 

Well if that's true, a couple other things had to be true as well.

The key to being part of a hunting pack is the word "pack."

If you go out by yourself, and you try to chase an antelope, I guarantee you there's going to be two cadavers out there in the Savannah.

You need a pack to pull together.

You need to have those 64-, 65-year-olds who have been doing this for a long time to understand which antelope you're actually trying to catch.

The herd explodes and it gathers back again.

Those expert trackers have got to be part of the pack.

They can't be 10 miles behind.

It makes no sense to have the antelope over there dead and the people who want to eat it 50 miles away.

They need to be part of the pack.

You need to have those 27-year-old studs at the peak of their powers ready to drop the kill, and you need to have those teenagers there who are learning the whole thing all involved.

The pack stays together. 

Another thing that has to be true about this pack: this pack cannot be really materialistic.

What you end up with, in other words, is a culture remarkably similar to the Tarahumara -- a tribe that has remained unchanged since the Stone Age.

It's a really compelling argument that maybe the Tarahumara are doing exactly what all of us had done for two million years, 

that it's us in modern times who have sort of gone off the path.

But maybe it's something different.

We try to cash in on it.

We try to can it and package it and make it "better" and sell it to people.

And what happened was we started creating these fancy cushioned things, which can make running "better," called running shoes. 

The reason I get personally pissed-off about running shoes is because I bought a million of them and I kept getting hurt.

And I think that, if anybody in here runs -- and I just had a conversation with Carol; we talked for two minutes backstage, and she's talking about plantar fasciitis.

You talk to a runner, I guarantee, within 30 seconds, the conversation turns to injury.

So if humans evolved as runners, if that's our one natural advantage, why are we so bad at it?

Curious thing about running and running injuries is that the running injury is new to our time.

If you read folklore and mythology, any kind of myths, any kind of tall tales, running is always associated with freedom and vitality and youthfulness and eternal vigor.

It's only in our lifetime that running has become associated with fear and pain.

So how do we get back to that again?

Well, I would submit to you the first thing is get rid of all packaging, all the sales, all the marketing.

Get rid of all the stinking running shoes.

So you burn off the Haagen-Dazs from the night before? 

But maybe there's another benefit there as well.

Maybe there's something between what we are today and what the Tarahumara have always been.

And if we find that thing, maybe there is a big fat Nobel Prize out there.

Because if somebody could find a way to restore that natural ability that we all enjoyed for most of our existence, up until the 1970s or so, the benefits, social and physical and political and mental, could be astounding. 

So what I've been seeing today is there is a growing subculture of barefoot runners, people who got rid of their shoes.

And what they have found uniformly is you get rid of the shoes, you get rid of the stress, you get rid of the injuries and the ailments.

And what you find is something the Tarahumara have known for a very long time, that this can be a whole lot of fun.

I've experienced it personally myself.

I was injured all my life, and then in my early 40s I got rid of my shoes and my running ailments have gone away too. 

So hopefully it's something we can all benefit from.

