Maybe you don't believe it, but here is the fact. 

Now, that is a remarkable achievement. 

But it is even more remarkable if you consider where we had been just a few years ago.

2009, Copenhagen.

Who remembers Copenhagen?

Well, after years of working toward a climate agreement, the same governments convened in Copenhagen and failed miserably. 

Why did it fail miserably?

The global mood on climate change was in the trash can.

No one believed that a global agreement could ever be possible.

In fact, neither did I.

If you promise not to tell anyone outside of this wonderful TED audience, I'm going to divulge a secret that has been gratefully buried by history.

So I don't know -- No, just this?

Thanks.

I don't know -- what you would do if you were told your job is to save the planet.

Well, I would really love to know what you would do on the first Monday morning, but here's what I did: I panicked. 

Because there is no way you can deliver victory without optimism. 

And here, I use optimism as a very simple word, but let's understand it in its broader sense.

Well, you can imagine that I thought that without that, there was no way we were going to get out of the paralysis of Copenhagen.

And believe you me, there has been a lot of contrary evidence.

But relentless optimism into the system. 

And this TED community will not be surprised if I tell you the first area in which we saw remarkable change was ... technology.

In sum, a better world than what we have now. 

This can actually improve their bottom line. 

And it wasn't just the usual suspects.

And the measurement, reporting and verification of all of those efforts is legally binding.

And the checkpoints that we're going to have every five years to assess collective progress towards our goal are legally binding, and the path itself toward a decarbonized and more resilient economy is legally binding. 

A very small handful of countries who had undertaken very reduced, short-term emission reduction commitments that were completely insufficient and furthermore, largely perceived as a burden.

Now what do we have?

Well, once you have all of this in place and you have shifted this understanding, then you see that governments were able to go to Paris and adopt the Paris agreement. 

So, as I look back over the past six years, first I remember the day the Paris agreement was adopted.

I cannot tell you the euphoria in the room.

And it wasn't just those who had participated directly.

A few weeks ago, I was with a colleague who was trying to decide on a Tahitian pearl that he wanted to give to his wonderful wife Natasha.

I'm the first one to recognize that we have a lot of work still to do.

But I do believe that we have come over the past six years from the impossible to the now unstoppable.

But we can take a page out of what we have done on climate change and we can understand that we have got to reinterpret the zero-sum mentality.

We're either all losers or we all can be winners.

But we are going to have to decide between zero and sum.

Thanks. 

