I really believe that.

All of us are makers.

We're born makers.

We have this ability to make things, to grasp things with our hands.

We create things.

Well I'm going to show you a group of makers from Maker Faire and various places.

It doesn't come out particularly well, but that's a particularly tall bicycle.

It's a scraper bike; it's called -- from Oakland.

And this is a particularly small scooter for a gentleman of this size.

But he's trying to power it, or motorize it, with a drill.

(Laughter) And the question he had is, "Can I do it?

Apparently it can.

They don't always even know why they're doing it. 

We have begun organizing makers at our Maker Faire.

There was one held in Detroit here last summer, and it will be held again next summer, at the Henry Ford.

And it's a fabulous event to just meet and talk to these people who make things and are there to just show them to you and talk about them and have a great conversation. 

Dale Dougherty: These are electric muffins. 

Guy: Where did you guys get those? 

DD: I know Ford has new electric vehicles coming out.

We got there first. 

Lady: Will you glide with us? 

DD: This is something I call "swinging in the rain."

And of course, we have fashion.

People are remaking things into fashion.

I don't know if this is called a basket-bra, but it ought to be something like that.

We have art students getting together, taking old radiator parts and doing an iron-pour to make something new out of it.

They did that in the summer, and it was very warm. 

Billy-Bob, or Billy Bass, or something like that.

Now the background is -- the guy who did this is a physicist.

And here he'll explain a little bit about what it does. 

(Video) Richard Carter: I'm Richard Carter, and this is the Sashimi Tabernacle Choir. 

DD: This is all computer-controlled in an old Volvo. 

DD: So Richard came up from Houston last year to visit us in Detroit here and show the wonderful Sashimi Tabernacle Choir.

You're really a driver or a passenger -- to use a Volkswagen phrase.

They want to use it to their own purpose. 

Makers today, to some degree, are out on the edge.

They're not mainstream.

They're a little bit radical.

They're a bit subversive in what they do.

But at one time, it was fairly commonplace to think of yourself as a maker.

It was not something you'd even remark upon.

And I found this old video.

And I'll tell you more about it, but just ... 

(Video) Narrator: Of all things Americans are, we are makers.

With our strengths and our minds and spirit, we gather, we form, and we fashion.

Makers and shapers and put-it-togetherers. 

But it was a sense of pride that we made things, that the world around us was made by us.

It didn't just exist.

We made it, and we were connected to it that way.

And I think that's tremendously important.

Now I'm going to tell you one funny thing about this.

(Laughter) So I like to think there was something going on there of the new generation of makers coming out of this, plus "Psycho."

This is Andrew Archer.

I met Andrew at one of our community meetings putting together Maker Faire.

Andrew had moved to Detroit from Duluth, Minnesota.

And I talked to his mom, and I ended up doing a story on him for a magazine called Kidrobot.

He's just a kid that grew up playing with tools instead of toys.

He liked to take things apart.

His mother gave him a part of the garage, and he collected things from yard sales, and he made stuff.

And he began building robots.

And when I sat down next to him, he was telling me about a company he formed, and he was building some robots for automobile factories to move things around on the factory floor.

And that's why he moved to Michigan.

But he also moved here to meet other people doing what he's doing.

And this kind of gets to this important idea today. 

This is Jeff and Bilal and several others here in a hackerspace.

And there's about three hackerspaces or more in Detroit.

And there's probably even some new ones since I've been here last.

And so it's a very interesting phenomenon that's going across the world.

They don't necessarily know what they're doing or why they're doing it.

They're playing to discover what the technology can do, and probably to discover what they can do themselves, what their own capabilities are. 

Now the other thing that I think is taking off, another reason making is taking off today, is there's some great new tools out there.

It's a micro-controller.

If you don't know what those are, they're just the "brains."

So you figure out how to program this, and you put this in your mailbox.

And when someone opens your mailbox, you get a notification, an alert message goes to your iPhone.

Now that could be a dog door, it could be someone going somewhere where they shouldn't, like a little brother into a little sister's room.

There's all kinds of different things that you can imagine for that. 

That's another tool that's really taken off -- really, really interesting.

This is Makerbot.

And there are industrial versions of this -- about 20,000 dollars.

Now they don't know what they want to do with it, but they're going to figure it out.

They will only figure it out by getting their hands on it and playing with it.

One of the coolest things is, Makerbot sent out an upgrade, some new brackets for the box.

Well you printed out the brackets and then replaced the old brackets with the new ones.

Isn't that cool? 

So makers harvest technology from all the places around us.

This is a radar speed detector that was developed from a Hot Wheels toy.

And they do interesting things.

Fascinating work they're doing. 

This is probably the best time in the history of mankind to love space.

You could build your own satellite and get it into space for like 8,000 dollars.

Think how much money and how many years it took NASA to get satellites into space.

But it's important to understand that a lot of the origins of our industries -- even like Henry Ford -- come from this idea of playing and figuring things out in groups. 

It's more makers. 

Thank you very much. 

