My story actually began when I was four years old and my family moved to a new neighborhood in our hometown of Savannah, Georgia.

And this was the 1960s when actually all the streets in this neighborhood were named after Confederate war generals.

We lived on Robert E. Lee Boulevard.

And when I was five, my parents gave me an orange Schwinn Sting-Ray bicycle.

My mangled body flew in one direction, my mangled bike flew in the other.

(Laughter) "I'm Bruce," I said, and promptly passed out. 

(Laughter) "I'm Bruce," I said, and promptly passed out. 

And for the next 38 years, that accident was the only medically interesting thing that ever happened to me.

In fact, I made a living by walking.

I traveled around the world, entered different cultures, wrote a series of books about my travels, including "Walking the Bible."

I hosted a television show by that name on PBS.

I was, for all the world, the "walking guy."

Until, in May 2008, a routine visit to my doctor and a routine blood test produced evidence in the form of an alkaline phosphatase number that something might be wrong with my bones.

And my doctor, on a whim, sent me to get a full-body bone scan, which showed that there was some growth in my left leg.

That sent me to an X-ray, then to an MRI.

And one afternoon, I got a call from my doctor.

I have cancer.

And to think that the tumor was in the same bone, in the same place in my body as the accident 38 years earlier -- it seemed like too much of a coincidence. 

So that afternoon, I went back to my house, and my three year-old identical twin daughters, Eden and Tybee Feiler, came running to meet me.

They'd just turned three, and they were into all things pink and purple.

Anyway -- so they had just turned three, and they came and they were doing this dance they had just made up where they were twirling faster and faster until they tumbled to the ground, laughing with all the glee in the world.

I crumbled.

I kept imagining all the walks I might not take with them, the art projects I might not mess up, the boyfriends I might not scowl at, the aisles I might not walk down.

Would they wonder who I was, I thought.

Would they yearn for my approval, my love, my voice? 

A few days later, I woke with an idea of how I might give them that voice.

I would reach out to six men from all parts of my life and ask them to be present in the passages of my daughters' lives.

"I believe my girls will have plenty of opportunities in their lives," I wrote these men.

You don't need the 30-day waiting period.

Because you don't need the get-to-know-you session at that point. 

So I wasn't going to tell her about this idea, but the next day I couldn't control myself, I told her.

And she loved the idea, but she quickly started rejecting my nominees.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So we decided that we needed a set of rules, and we came up with a number.

And the first one was no family, only friends.

We thought our family would already be there.

Second, men only.

We were trying to fill the dad-space in the girls' lives.

And then third, sort of a dad for every side.

We kind of went through my personality and tried to get a dad who represented each different thing.

Linda, my wife, joked that it was like having six different marriage proposals.

I sort of friend-married each of these guys. 

And the first of these guys was Jeff Schumlin.

Now Jeff led this trip I took to Europe when I graduated from high school in the early 1980s.

So a few weeks after my diagnosis, we went up to Vermont, and I decided to put Jeff as the first person in the Council of Dads.

And we went to this apple orchard, and I read him this letter.

And frankly, although I keep getting asked this, it never occurred to me that anybody would turn me down under the circumstances.

Two weeks after my diagnosis, a biopsy confirmed I had a seven-inch osteosarcoma in my left femur.

And then I had a 15-hour surgery in which my surgeon, Dr. John Healey at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York, took out my left femur and replaced it with titanium.

And if you did see the Sanjay special, you saw these enormous screws that they screwed into my pelvis.

Then he took my fibula from my calf, cut it out and then relocated it to my thigh, where it now lives.

And what he actually did was he de-vascularized it from my calf and re-vascularized it in my thigh and then connected it to the good parts of my knee and my hip.

And then he took out a third of my quadriceps muscle.

This is a surgery so rare only two human beings have survived it before me.

And my reward for surviving it was to go back for four more months of chemo.

It was, as we said in my house, a lost year. 

And I remember a particular one night that, when you told that story of -- I don't know where you are Dr. Nuland -- of William Sloane Coffin -- it made me think of it.

And I hung up the phone, and I put my face in my hands, and I screamed this silent scream.

And what you said, Dr. Nuland -- I don't know where you are -- made me think of this today.

Because the thought that came to my mind was that the feeling that I had was like a primal scream. 

And what was so striking -- and one of the messages I want to leave you here with today -- is the experience.

As I became less and less human -- and at this moment in my life, I was probably 30 pounds less than I am right now.

At that moment I was less and less human, I was also, at the same time, maybe the most human I've ever been.

And what was so striking about that time was, instead of repulsing people, I was actually proving to be a magnet for people.

People were incredibly drawn.

When my wife and I had kids, we thought it would be all-hands-on-deck.

Instead, it was everybody running the other way.

And when people came to me, rather than being incredibly turned off by what they saw -- I was like a living ghost -- they were incredibly moved to talk about what was going on in their own lives. 

Cancer, I found, is a passport to intimacy.

And as I lifted my leg out of bed, she reached for my crutches and handed them to me.

In fact, if I cling to one memory of this year, it would be walking down a darkened hallway with five spongy fingers grasping the handle underneath my hand.

And one of the profound things that happened was this act of actually connecting to all these people.

And it made me think -- and I'll just note for the record -- one word that I've only heard once actually was when we were all doing Tony Robbins yoga yesterday -- the one word that has not been mentioned in this seminar actually is the word "friend."

And yet from everything we've been talking about -- compliance, or addiction, or weight loss -- we now know that community is important, and yet it's one thing we don't actually bring in.

And there was something incredibly profound about sitting down with my closest friends and telling them what they meant to me.

And one of the things that I learned is that over time, particularly men, who used to be non-communicative, are becoming more and more communicative.

And that particularly happened -- there was one in my life -- is this Council of Dads that Linda said, what we were talking about, it's like what the moms talk about at school drop-off. 

And no one captures this modern manhood to me more than David Black.

But like a lot of modern men, he hugs, he bakes, he leaves work early to coach Little League.

Someone asked me if he cried when I asked him to be in the council of dads.

And this is what we wanted him to capture -- what it means to have setbacks and then aspirations.

But whatever you do, don't succumb to it.

Don't give in to the wall. 

And because walking was one of the first things I lost, I spent most of that year thinking about this most elemental of human acts.

Walking upright, we are told, is the threshold of what made us human.

And yet, for the four million years humans have been walking upright, the act is essentially unchanged.

At the risk of admission, I was never nicer than the year I was on crutches.

200 years ago, a new type of pedestrian appeared in Paris.

He was called a "flaneur," one who wanders the arcades.

And it was the custom of those flaneurs to show they were men of leisure by taking turtles for walks and letting the reptile set the pace.

That 50th year is called the jubilee year, and it's the origin of that term.

And though I'm shy of 50, it captures my own experience.

My lost year was my jubilee year.

By laying fallow, I planted the seeds for a healthier future and was reunited with the ones I love. 

So I stand here today as you see now, walking without crutches or a cane.

And last week I had my 18-month scans.

And as you all know, anybody with cancer has to get follow-up scans.

In my case it's quarterly.

And all the collective minds in this room, I dare say, can never find a solution for scan-xiety.

As I was going there, I was wondering, what would I say depending on what happened here.

I got good news that day, and I stand here today cancer-free, walking without aid and hobbling forward. 

And she told me last night, in the three months since we've done it, we've gotten 300 people who've contributed to this program.

And the epidemiologists here will tell you, that's half the number of people who get the disease in one year in the United States.

So if you go to 23andMe, or if you go to councilofdads.com, you can click on a link.

And we encourage anybody to join this effort. 

May you find a mud puddle to jump in someplace, or find a way to get over, around, or through any wall that stands between you and one of your dreams.

And every now and then, find a friend, find a turtle, and take a long, slow walk. 

Thank you very much. 

