Because we are all patients, we are all people.

Even doctors are patients at some point.

They know what they're supposed to be doing, but they're not doing it. 

Now behavior change is something that is a long-standing problem in medicine.

It goes all the way back to Aristotle.

And doctors hate it, right?

I mean, they complain about it all the time.

But for as much as clinical medicine agonizes over behavior change, there's not a lot of work done in terms of trying to fix that problem.

One part of medicine, though, has faced the problem of behavior change pretty well, and that's dentistry.

Not a lot of cool, sexy stuff happening in dentistry.

But they have really taken this problem of behavior change and solved it.

It's the one great preventive health success we have in our health care system.

People brush and floss their teeth.

They don't do it as much as they should, but they do it. 

They wanted to tell them how bad it would be if they didn't brush and floss their teeth.

So that was the low-fear group.

The high-fear group, they laid it on really thick.

So go brush and floss your teeth.

Now they measured one other variable.

They wanted to capture one other variable, which was the patients' sense of efficacy.

This was the notion of whether the patients felt that they actually would go ahead and brush and floss their teeth.

So the upshot was this.

The upshot of this experiment was that fear was not really a primary driver of the behavior at all.

The people who brushed and flossed their teeth were not necessarily the people who were really scared about what would happen -- it's the people who simply felt that they had the capacity to change their behavior.

It's an amazing notion.

We don't really know how to manipulate it, though, that well.

Except, maybe we do. 

And this is a great example of how we haven't learned that lesson at all.

This is a campaign from the American Diabetes Association.

This is still the way we're communicating messages about health.

Again, Bandura recognized this years ago, decades ago.

Finally, we need to be presented with a clear point of action.

Now this is a very well-observed and well-established notion for behavior change.

You've seen them all around, especially these days as radars are cheaper.

And here's how they work in the feedback loop.

We should probably slow down, and that point of action is probably now.

They reduce speeds by about five to 10 percent.

Your blood pressure might drop a little bit.

Maybe there's fewer accidents, so there's public health benefits. 

But by and large, this is a feedback loop that's so nifty and too rare.

Because in health care, most health care, the data is very removed from the action.

It's very difficult to line things up so neatly.

But we have an opportunity.

But it looks completely right.

And who among us would actually say that people who do try to read this actually get anything out of it?

There is no good faith in this. 

So this is a different approach.

This is an approach that has been developed by a couple researchers at Dartmouth Medical School, Lisa Schwartz and Steven Woloshin.

And they created this thing called the "drug facts box."

They took inspiration from, of all things, Cap'n Crunch.

They went to the nutritional information box and saw that what works for cereal, works for our food, actually helps people understand what's in their food.

God forbid we should use that same standard that we make Cap'n Crunch live by and bring it to drug companies.

So let me just walk through this quickly.

You can understand exactly what the benefits are.

It isn't this kind of vague promise that it's going to work no matter what, but you get the statistics for how effective it is.

And finally, you understand what those choices are.

Every time you take a drug, you're walking into a possible side effect.

And so I was thinking about, what's an opportunity that I could have to help people understand information?

Blood test results are this great source of information.

They go right to doctors.

And God forbid -- I think many doctors, if you really asked them, they don't really understand all this stuff either.

This is the worst presented information.

You ask Tufte, and he would say, "Yes, this is the absolute worst presentation of information possible."

What we did at Wired was we went, and I got our graphic design department to re-imagine these lab reports.

So that's what I want to walk you through.

It goes on and on and on, all these values, all these numbers you don't know.

This is our one-page summary.

We use the notion of color.

It's an amazing notion that color could be used.

So on the top-level you have your overall results, the things that might jump out at you from the fine print.

But again, always using color and personalized proximity to that information.

We give them some insight into what choices they can make, what actions they can take.

So that's our general blood work test. 

Then we went to CRP test.

In this case, it's a sin of omission.

Now the CRP test is often done following a cholesterol test, or in conjunction with a cholesterol test.

So we thought the patient might actually want to know the context as well.

What you're actually measuring is spelled out in clean language.

Then we use the information that's already in the lab report.

We use the person's age and their gender to start to fill in the personalized risks.

So we start to use the data we have to run a very simple calculation that's on all sorts of online calculators to get a sense of what the actual risk is. 

The last one I'll show you is a PSA test.

Here's the before, and here's the after.

It's used to test for prostate cancer, but there are all sorts of reasons why your prostate might be enlarged.

And so we spent a good deal of our time indicating that.

We again personalized the risks.

So this patient is in their 50s, so we can actually give them a very precise estimate of what their risk for prostate cancer is.

In this case it's about 25 percent, based on that.

And then again, the follow-up actions. 

That's what Wired magazine spent on this.

Why is Wired magazine doing this?

(Laughter) Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp, the two largest lab testing companies -- last year, they made profits of over 700 million dollars and over 500 million dollars respectively.

Now this is not a problem of resources; this is a problem of incentives.

It's the person who actually, in the end, is going to be having to change their lives and then start adopting new behaviors. 

This is information that is incredibly powerful.

It's being lost.

But you can create your own feedback loop.

And then, what's next?

How do I integrate this information into the longer course of my life? 

This is not beyond the grasp of ordinary people.

You do not need to have the education level of people in this room.

It works totally different from the way we talk about behavior in medicine today.

And this information is out there. 

Thank you very much. 

