If you look at the chart at the top here, you'll see that in 2025, these Goldman Sachs projections suggest that the Chinese economy will be almost the same size as the American economy.

And we should bear in mind here that these projections were drawn up before the Western financial crisis. 

A couple of weeks ago, I was looking at the latest projection by BNP Paribas for when China will have a larger economy than the United States.

That's just a decade away.

China is going to change the world in two fundamental respects.

And within a decade, it will have the largest economy in the world.

Now, I know it's a widespread assumption in the West that as countries modernize, they also westernize.

This is an illusion.

China is not like the West, and it will not become like the West.

It will remain in very fundamental respects very different.

How do we try to understand what China is?

We can't.

The first is this: that China is not really a nation-state.

And you can see it against the boundaries of modern China.

I'm thinking here, for example, of customs like ancestral worship, of a very distinctive notion of the state, likewise, a very distinctive notion of the family, social relationships like guanxi, Confucian values and so on.

These are all things that come from the period of the civilization-state.

What we often aren't really aware of is the fact that China is extremely diverse and very pluralistic, and in many ways very decentralized.

It's never been the case. 

And what does it mean?

Well, I think it has all sorts of profound implications.

I'll give you two quick ones.

You know, 2,000 years ago, Europe: breakdown -- the fragmentation of the Holy Roman Empire.

It divided, and it's remained divided ever since.

The second is maybe more prosaic, which is Hong Kong.

Do you remember the handover of Hong Kong by Britain to China in 1997?

You may remember what the Chinese constitutional proposition was.

One country, two systems.

And I'll lay a wager that barely anyone in the West believed them.

We were wrong because we thought, naturally enough, in nation-state ways.

Think of German unification, 1990.

What happened?

Well, basically the East was swallowed by the West.

One nation, one system.

That is the nation-state mentality.

But you can't run a country like China, a civilization-state, on the basis of one civilization, one system.

It doesn't work.

Now, this is completely different from the world's [other] most populous countries.

China is only multiracial really at the margins.

So the question is, why?

Well the reason, I think, essentially is, again, back to the civilization-state.

Now the great advantage of this historical experience has been that, without the Han, China could never have held together.

The Han identity has been the cement which has held this country together.

The great disadvantage of it is that the Han have a very weak conception of cultural difference.

Hence their attitude, for example, to the Uyghurs and to the Tibetans. 

Now we in the West overwhelmingly seem to think -- in these days at least -- that the authority and legitimacy of the state is a function of democracy.

The problem with this proposition is that the Chinese state enjoys more legitimacy and more authority amongst the Chinese than is true with any Western state.

And the reason for this is because -- well, there are two reasons, I think.

This is as close as China gets to a kind of spiritual role. 

And the second reason is because, whereas in Europe and North America, the state's power is continuously challenged -- I mean in the European tradition, historically against the church, against other sectors of the aristocracy, against merchants and so on -- for 1,000 years, the power of the Chinese state has not been challenged.

It's had no serious rivals.

So you can see that the way in which power has been constructed in China is very different from our experience in Western history.

The result, by the way, is that the Chinese have a very different view of the state.

This is the Chinese view of the state -- very, very different to ours.

It's embedded in society in a different kind of way to what is the case in the West. 

Know that China believes in the market and the state.

I mean, Adam Smith, already writing in the late 18th century, said, "The Chinese market is larger and more developed and more sophisticated than anything in Europe."

And, apart from the Mao period, that has remained more or less the case ever since.

But this is combined with an extremely strong and ubiquitous state.

The state is everywhere in China.

I mean, it's leading firms -- many of them are still publicly owned.

Private firms, however large they are, like Lenovo, depend in many ways on state patronage.

Targets for the economy and so on are set by the state.

Moreover, this is a very old state tradition, a very old tradition of statecraft.

I mean, if you want an illustration of this, the Great Wall is one.

It went for 1,114 miles, linking Beijing with Hangzhou and Shanghai.

Unfortunately, I think, I have to say that I think attitude towards China is that of a kind of little Westerner mentality.

It's kind of arrogant.

It's arrogant in the sense that we think that we are best, and therefore we have the universal measure.

And secondly, it's ignorant.

And Paul Cohen argues that the West thinks of itself as probably the most cosmopolitan of all cultures.

But it's not.

Because, at the end of the day, it could, if necessary by force, get its own way.

And therefore, they are, as a result, more cosmopolitan in many ways than the West. 

And I'll tell you now, that East Asianers, people from East Asia, are far more knowledgeable about the West than the West is about East Asia.

There was a dramatic illustration of this actually a year ago -- Copenhagen, climate change conference.

Europe was not at the final negotiating table.

When did that last happen?

I would wager it was probably about 200 years ago.

And that is what is going to happen in the future. 

And at last, I'm afraid -- take Europe; America is slightly different -- but Europeans by and large, I have to say, are ignorant, are unaware about the way the world is changing.

I mean, Europe once, of course, once commanded the future in its confidence.

Take the 19th century, for example.

But this, alas, is no longer true. 

It doesn't even look like a railway station.

This is the new [Wuhan] railway station for the high-speed trains.

It travels on rails down a suburban road, and the cars travel underneath it.

And it does speeds of up to about 100 miles an hour.

So this is a solution to a situation where China's going to have many, many, many cities over 20 million people. 

I think there will be good things about it and there will be bad things about it.

The arrival of countries like China and India -- between them 38 percent of the world's population -- and others like Indonesia and Brazil and so on, represent the most important single act of democratization in the last 200 years.

Civilizations and cultures, which had been ignored, which had no voice, which were not listened to, which were not known about, will have a different sort of representation in this world.

The little boat in front of it was the one in which, 80 years later, Christopher Columbus crossed the Atlantic.

(Laughter) Or, look carefully at this silk scroll made by ZhuZhou in 1368.

I think they're playing golf.

Christ, the Chinese even invented golf. 

