It's really a huge challenge for us.

It's a fantastic device.

It uses X-rays, X-ray beams, that are rotating very fast around the human body.

And the challenge is really found in this picture here.

We're facing this problem.

And let me step back in time. 

Let's go back a few years in time and see what happened back then.

And I've taken the liberty, just for clarity, to translate that to data slices.

If you translate that to phone books, it's about one meter of phone books in the pile.

So we're getting the dynamics out of the body as well.

That's one patient, one data set.

And this is what we have to deal with. 

So this is really the enormous challenge that we have.

And already today -- this is 25,000 images.

Imagine the days when we had radiologists doing this.

So we have to do something that's a little bit more intelligent than doing this.

So what we do is that we put all these slices together.

So this is really what we're doing.

So this gigabyte or terabyte of data, we're putting it into this block.

So transforming the data set into something that looks like this.

And this is a challenge.

This is a huge challenge for us to do that. 

Using computers, even though they're getting faster and better all the time, it's a challenge to deal with gigabytes of data, terabytes of data and extracting the relevant information.

I want to look at the heart.

Maybe even find a tumor, in some cases.

So this is where this little dear comes into play.

This is my daughter.

This is as of 9 a.m. this morning.

She's playing a computer game.

So she's really the driving force behind the development of graphics-processing units.

As long as kids are playing computer games, graphics is getting better and better and better.

So what's inside of this machine is what enables me to do the things that I'm doing with the medical data.

So really what I'm doing is using these fantastic little devices.

It was cabinets of processors and storage and everything.

I paid about one million dollars for that machine.

That machine is, today, about as fast as my iPhone.

So I'm going to show you a few examples of what we can do.

This is a data set that was captured using a CT scanner.

You can see the individual structures of the woman.

You can see that there is [a] scattering of X-rays on the teeth, the metal in the teeth.

That's where those artifacts are coming from.

And just by changing the functions, then I can decide what's going to be transparent and what's going to be visible.

I can look at the skull structure, and I can see that, okay, this is where they opened up the skull on this woman, and that's where they went in.

So these are fantastic images.

Now we have really made use of this, and we have tried to squeeze a lot of data into the system.

And one of the applications that we've been working on -- and this has gotten a little bit of traction worldwide -- is the application of virtual autopsies.

We're just pushing the body through the whole CT scanner, and just in a few seconds we can get a full-body data set.

So this is from a virtual autopsy.

And you can see how I'm gradually peeling off.

First you saw the body bag that the body came in, then I'm peeling off the skin -- you can see the muscles -- and eventually you can see the bone structure of this woman. 

So this will be the typical workflow situation.

And then they decide what to do in the real physical autopsy after that. 

You can really see the details of the data set.

Without saying too much about this case, this is a traffic accident, a drunk driver hit a woman.

And it's very, very easy to see the damages on the bone structure.

And the cause of death is the broken neck.

And this is also again showing us what we can do.

Here's another case.

Here you can see that knife went through the heart.

Here's another case that I think is interesting.

During a physical autopsy, if you actually have to dig through the body to find these fragments, that's actually quite hard to do. 

It really just works like a huge iPhone.

So it's a very nice little device.

So if you have the opportunity, please try it out.

It's really a hands-on experience.

This is not really what the medical doctors are using right now, but I hope they will in the future.

So what you're seeing on the left is a touch device.

And so I can generate a force feedback.

So when I virtually touch data, it will generate forces in the pen, so I get a feedback.

So I can feel the skin.

So this is really nice.

And to take that even further, this is a heart.

So just looking at this heart, I can play back a video here.

He's taken the pen, and he's moving it towards the heart, and he's putting it on the heart, and then he feels the heartbeats from the real living patient.

Then he can examine how the heart is moving.

He can go inside, push inside of the heart, and really feel how the valves are moving.

And this, I think, is really the future for heart surgeons.

So this is really neat. 

Now we're going even further into science fiction.

That means that it's possible to map out the activity of the brain.

So this is something that we've been working on.

So he could actually see things in the goggles.

So I could present things to him while he's in the scanner.

And then he can see that at the same time.

These visualizations are brand new.

And this is something that we've been researching for a little while. 

This is another sequence of Motts' brain.

And here we asked Motts to calculate backwards from 100.

So he's going "100, 97, 94."

And then he's going backwards.

So we've got motor cortex activation up there.

So she came to the center, and they sedated her and then put her straight into the scanner.

And then, of course, I get the whole data set from the lion.

And I can do very nice images like this.

I can peel off the layer of the lion.

I can look inside of it.

And we've been experimenting with this.

What's known out there for veterinarians is kind of basic information.

The only problem is to fit it into the machine.

So be aware of the bear. 

So, some very talented people.

So thank you very much. 

