I have spent the past 38 years trying to be invisible.

I'm a copy editor.

Just to clarify: copy editors don't choose what goes into the magazine.

Our business is in the details.

Every publication has a house style.

The New Yorker's is particularly distinctive.

But you see that hyphen in "teen-age" and that diaeresis over "coöperate," and you know you're reading The New Yorker. 

Note that we give our proofs not directly to the author, but to the editor.

This often creates a good cop/bad cop dynamic in which the copy editor -- I'll use that as an umbrella term -- is invariably the bad cop.

Here is the most recent mistake that was laid at my door. 

But I like it: "no-nothingism."

It might be American vernacular for "nihilism."

Here, another reader quotes a passage from the magazine: 

[Ruby was seventy-six, but she retained her authoritative bearing; only her unsteady gait belied her age.]

Ah, well.

In this case, those commas are well-placed, except that there should not be one between "maniac" and "on."

Then there's this: "Love you, love your magazine, but can you please stop writing massive numbers as text?"

No. 

I used to like getting mail. 

There is a pact between writers and editors.

The editor never sells out the writer, never goes public about bad jokes that had to be cut or stories that went on too long.

A great editor saves a writer from her excesses.

Copy editors, too, have a code; we don't advertise our oversights.

I've known Ian Frazier, or "Sandy," since the early 80s.

And he's one of my favorites, even though he sometimes writes a sentence that gives a copy editor pause.

Here is one from a story about Staten Island after Hurricane Sandy: 

This would never have got past the grammarian in the days of yore.

But what could I do?

Technically, the "like" should be an "as," but it sounds ridiculous, as if the author were about to embark on an extended Homeric simile -- "as when you open a box of linguine."

I decided that the hurricane conferred poetic justice on Sandy and let the sentence stand. 

So, he has learned to hold out. 

Sandy's story was about the return to the Bronx of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor.

There were three things in it that I had to challenge. 

Now, unlike with the hurricane, with this "like," the author didn't have the excuse of describing hurricane damage.

"Like" in this sense is a preposition, and a preposition takes an object, which is a noun.

Second, a spelling issue.

The author was quoting someone who was assisting the justice: 

I'd never seen it used as a verb with this spelling, and I was distraught to think that "mic'ed" would get into the magazine on my watch. 

New Yorker style for "microphone" in its abbreviated form is "mike."

Finally, there was a sticky grammar and usage issue in which the pronoun has to have the same grammatical number as its antecedent. 

"Their" is plural and "everyone," its antecedent, is singular.

But people say things like, "Everyone held their breath" all the time.

To give it legitimacy, copy editors call it "the singular 'their,'" as if calling it singular makes it no longer plural. 

Nope. 

I tried again: "All those present held their breath?"

I thought this sounded vaguely judicial.

But the editor pointed out that we could not have "present" and "presence" in the same sentence.

When the final proof came back, the author had accepted "as" for "like," and "miked" for "mic'ed."

In the same issue, in that piece on doggie bags in France, there was the gratuitous use of the f-word by a Frenchman.

I wonder, when the mail comes in, which will have offended the readers more. 

Thank you. 

