You may not know this, but you are celebrating an anniversary with me.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Six years before that, I was starting my career as an opera singer in Europe, when I was diagnosed with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension -- also known as PH.

It happens when there's a thickening in the pulmonary veins, making the right side of the heart work overtime, and causing what I call the reverse-Grinch effect.

My heart was three-and-a-half sizes too big.

I went to see this specialist, and she was top-of-the-field and told me I had to stop singing.

She said, "Those high notes are going to kill you."

I was very limited by my condition, physically.

And just because of someone's hunch, I wasn't going to give it up. 

This meant making trade-offs.

I come from Colorado.

It's a mile high, and I grew up there with my 10 brothers and sisters and two adoring parents.

Well, the altitude exacerbated my symptoms.

So I moved to Baltimore to be near my doctors and enrolled in a conservatory nearby.

And I gave up salt, I went vegan, and I started taking huge doses of sildenafil, also known as Viagra. 

I could barely stand up without feeling like I was going to faint.

Doctors insert a catheter into your chest, which is attached to a pump that weighs about four-and-a-half pounds.

If you go through a metal detector, you'll probably die.

If you run out of medicine, you definitely die. 

No one wants to go on Flolan.

But when I needed it, it was a godsend.

Within a few days, I could walk again.

The pump was a little bit problematic when performing, so I'd attach it to my inner thigh with the help of the girdle and an ACE bandage.

Literally hundreds of elevator rides were spent with me alone stuffing the pump into my Spanx, hoping the doors wouldn't open unexpectedly.

And the tubing coming out of my chest was a nightmare for costume designers.

I graduated from graduate school in 2006, and I got a fellowship to go back to Europe.

A few days after arriving, I met this wonderful, old conductor who started casting me in all of these roles.

And before long, I was commuting between Budapest, Milan and Florence.

Then in February of 2008, my grandfather passed away.

He was a big figure in all of our lives, and we loved him very much.

It certainly didn't prepare me for what came next.

Seven weeks later, I got a call from my family.

My father had been in a catastrophic car accident, and he died.

At 24, my death would have been entirely expected.

But his -- well, the only way I can articulate how it felt was that it precipitated my medical decline.

Against my doctors' and family's wishes, I needed to go back for the funeral.

I had to say goodbye in some way, shape or form.

I canceled most of my engagements that summer, but I had one left in Tel Aviv, so I went.

After one performance, I could barely drag myself from the stage to the taxicab.

My fingers started turning blue, and I was like, "What is going on here?"

I heard my heart's valves snapping open and closed.

If it didn't, I'd probably see my father sooner than I anticipated.

Thankfully, in a few minutes, I saw the signature hive-like rash appear on my legs, which is a side effect of the medication, and I knew I'd be okay. 

We're not big on fear in my family, but I was scared.

I performed here and there, but as my condition deteriorated, so did my voice.

My doctor wanted me to get on the list for a lung transplant.

I didn't.

I had two friends who had recently died months after having very challenging surgeries.

I knew another young man, though, who had PH who died while waiting for one.

I wanted to live.

I officially took a break from singing, and I went to the Cleveland Clinic to be reevaluated for the third time in five years, for transplant.

I was sitting there kind of unenthusiastically talking with the head transplant surgeon, and I asked him if I needed a transplant, what I could do to prepare.

I still didn't want a transplant, but in a month, I was back in the hospital with some severely edemic kankles -- very attractive.

And it was right-heart failure. 

I finally decided it was time to take my doctor's advice.

It was time for me to go to Cleveland and to start the agonizing wait for a match.

But the next morning, while I was still in the hospital, I got a telephone call.

It was my doctor in Cleveland, Marie Budev.

And they had lungs.

It was a match.

They were from Texas.

Because, despite their problems, I had spent my whole life training my lungs, and I was not particularly enthusiastic about giving them up.

The last thing I remember was lying on a white blanket, telling my surgeon that I needed to see my mother again, and to please try and save my voice.

I fell into this apocalyptic dream world. 

During the thirteen-and-a-half-hour surgery, I flatlined twice, 40 quarts of blood were infused into my body.

And in my surgeon's 20-year career, he said it was among the most difficult transplants that he's ever performed.

They left my chest open for two weeks.

You could see my over-sized heart beating inside of it.

I was on a dozen machines that were keeping me alive.

An infection ravaged my skin.

I had hoped my voice would be saved, but my doctors knew that the breathing tubes going down my throat might have already destroyed it.

If they stayed in, there was no way I would ever sing again.

So my doctor got the ENT, the top guy at the clinic, to come down and give me surgery to move the tubes around my voice box.

He said it would kill me.

So my own surgeon performed the procedure in a last-ditch attempt to save my voice. 

Though my mom couldn't say goodbye to me before the surgery, she didn't leave my side in the months of recovery that followed.

And if you want an example of perseverance, grit and strength in a beautiful, little package, it is her.

One year ago to this very day, I woke up.

I was 95 lbs.

There were a dozen tubes coming in and out of my body.

It's about living.

Medical conditions don't negate the human condition.

And when people are allowed to pursue their passions, doctors will find they have better, happier and healthier patients.

And I'm so grateful they did. 

This past summer, when I was running and singing and dancing and playing with my nieces and my nephews and my brothers and my sisters and my mother and my grandmother in the Colorado Rockies, I couldn't help but think of that doctor who told me that I couldn't sing.

When we do, we will find that patients don't just survive; we thrive.

And some of us might even sing. 

Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

And I'd like to thank my pianist, Monica Lee.

(Applause) Thank you so much.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

