So I'm here to tell you that we have a problem with boys, and it's a serious problem with boys.

This is a different kind of boy and a different kind of girl.

But, in fact, most boys tend to be a certain way, and most girls tend to be a certain way.

And the point is that, for boys, the way that they exist and the culture that they embrace isn't working well in schools now. 

How do we know that?

For every 100 girls who are expelled from school, there are 335 boys who are expelled from school.

For every 100 girls in special education, there are 217 boys.

For every 100 girls with a learning disability, there are 276 boys.

For every 100 girls with an emotional disturbance diagnosed, we have 324 boys.

And if you are a boy, you're four times as likely to be diagnosed with ADHD -- Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. 

Now there is another side to this.

That's all true.

Nothing about that prevents us from paying attention to the literacy needs of our boys between ages three and 13.

And so we should.

Even in their older years, what we find is that there's still a problem.

And in fact, university administrators are a little uncomfortable about the idea that we may be getting close to 70 percent female population in universities.

And so we're starting to see the establishment of men centers and men studies to think about how do we engage men in their experiences in the university.

Video games are not the cause.

Video games are a symptom.

They were turned off a long time before they got here. 

So let's talk about why they got turned off when they were between the ages of three and 13.

There are three reasons that I believe that boys are out of sync with the culture of schools today.

The first is zero tolerance.

You can't have plastic knives and swords and axes and all that kind of thing in a kindergarten classroom.

What is it that we're afraid that this young man is going to do with this gun?

I mean, really.

But here he stands as testament to the fact that you can't roughhouse on the playground today.

Another way that zero tolerance lives itself out is in the writing of boys.

In a lot of classrooms today you're not allowed to write about anything that's violent.

I want to write about this really interesting world.

He's just a little boy.

It's not okay to write these kinds of things in classrooms today. 

We went from 14 percent to seven percent.

That means that 93 percent of the teachers that our young men get in elementary classrooms are women.

So that may be a very direct way that we see it happen.

Are there men around that table?

Are there moms who've raised boys around that table?

You'll see, the conversation changes depending upon who's sitting around the table. 

We have a serious compression of the curriculum happening out there.

When you're three, you better be able to write your name legibly, or else we'll consider it a developmental delay.

By the time you're in first grade, you should be able to read paragraphs of text with maybe a picture, maybe not, in a book of maybe 25 to 30 pages.

The reason that this is a problem is because the message that boys are getting is "you need to do what the teacher asks you to do all the time."

The teacher's salary depends on "No Child Left Behind" and "Race to the Top" and accountability and testing and all of this.

This compressed curriculum is bad for all active kids.

And what happens is, she says, "Please, sit down, be quiet, do what you're told, follow the rules, manage your time, focus, be a girl."

That's what she tells them.

It's coming from us.

(Laughter) We want our babies to read when they are six months old.

Have you seen the ads?

So what do we do?

We need to meet them where they are.

We need to put ourselves into boy culture.

We need to change the mindset of acceptance in boys in elementary schools.

More specifically, we can do some very specific things.

We can design better games.

Most of the educational games that are out there today are really flashcards.

They're glorified drill and practice.

They don't have the depth, the rich narrative that really engaging video games have, that the boys are really interested in.

So we need to design better games.

We need to talk to teachers and parents and school board members and politicians.

We need to make sure that people see that we need more men in the classroom.

We need to look carefully at our zero tolerance policies.

Do they make sense?

We need to think about how to uncompress this curriculum if we can, trying to bring boys back into a space that is comfortable for them.

All of those conversations need to be happening. 

A game designer from the New School put together a wonderful video gaming school.

We have to change the culture and the feelings that politicians and school board members and parents have about the way we accept and what we accept in our schools today.

We need to find more money for game design.

Most of the educational games do not.

Where we started: my colleagues -- Mike Petner, Shawn Vashaw, myself -- we started by trying to look at the teachers' attitudes and find out how do they really feel about gaming, what do they say about it.

But if it were your culture, think of how that might feel.

It's very uncomfortable to be on the receiving end of that kind of language.

They are sure that parents and administrators will never accept anything. 

If we change these things, if we pay attention to these things, and we re-engage boys in their learning, they will leave the elementary schools saying, "I'm smart."

Thank you. 

