I call them "the mystic" and "the warrior."

I was born into a family of politically active, intellectual atheists.

I was the freak of the family.

I was this weird little kid who wanted to have deep talks about the worlds that might exist beyond the ones that we perceive with our senses.

I wanted to know if what we human beings see and hear and think is a full and accurate picture of reality.

So, looking for answers, I went to Catholic mass.

I tagged along with my neighbors.

I read Sartre and Socrates.

Take a breath right now of this clear air in this room.

Now, see this strange, underwater, coral reef-looking thing?

My years as a mystic have made me question almost all my assumptions.

They've made me a proud I-don't-know-it-all. 

Now when the mystic part of me jabbers on and on like this, the warrior rolls her eyes.

She's concerned about what's happening in this world right now.

This," he wrote, "is the interrelated structure of reality."

Then Mother Teresa, another mystic warrior, who said, "The problem with the world is that we draw the circle of our family too small."

And Nelson Mandela, who lives by the African concept of "ubuntu," which means "I need you in order to be me, and you need me in order to be you."

But we all actually have the same capacity that they do, and we need to do their work now. 

I'm deeply disturbed by the ways in which all of our cultures are demonizing "the Other" by the voice we're giving to the most divisive among us.

The worst eras in human history, whether in Cambodia or Germany or Rwanda, they start like this, with negative other-izing.

And then they morph into violent extremism. 

This is why I'm launching a new initiative.

And it's to help all of us, myself included, to counteract the tendency to "otherize."

Maybe that person who worships at the mosque, or the church or the synagogue, down the street.

Anyone whose lifestyle may frighten you, or whose point of view makes smoke come out of your ears. 

She's an activist from the Right, and I'm an activist from the Left.

And then, before you get together, agree on some ground rules.

From there, we dove in.

What issues deeply concern you?

And since we had established some trust, we believed in each other's sincerity. 

By the end of our lunch, we acknowledged each other's openness.

Neither of us had tried to change the other.

But we also hadn't pretended that our differences were just going to melt away after a lunch.

Who should you invite to lunch?

Next time you catch yourself in the act of otherizing, that will be your clue.

And what might happen at your lunch?

Will the heavens open and "We Are the World" play over the restaurant sound system?

Probably not.

Because ubuntu work is slow, and it's difficult.

It's two people dropping the pretense of being know-it-alls.

It's two people, two warriors, dropping their weapons and reaching toward each other.

