If we look around us, much of what surrounds us started life as various rocks and sludge buried in the ground in various places in the world.

But, of course, they don't look like rocks and sludge now.

They look like TV cameras, monitors, annoying radio mics.

And so this magical transformation is what I was trying to get at with my project, which became known as the Toaster Project.

And the situation it describes is the hero of the book -- he's a 20th-century man -- finds himself alone on a strange planet populated only by a technologically primitive people.

But he didn't have Wikipedia. 

I didn't have the rest of my life to do this project.

So, starting with steel: how do you make steel?

But after some nagging, I got him to do that. 

Thomas Thwaites: As you can see, they had the Christmas decorations up.

But anyway, I got my suitcase of iron ore and dragged it back to London on the train, and then was faced with the problem: Okay, how do you make this rock into components for a toaster? 

So I went back to Professor Cilliers, and he said, "Go to the library."

Because, of course, they don't actually tell you how to do it if you want to do it yourself and you don't have a smelting plant.

So I ended up going to the History of Science Library and looking at this book.

This is the first textbook on metallurgy written in the West, at least.

And there you can see that woodcut is basically what I ended up doing.

But instead of a bellows, I had a leaf blower.

(Laughter) And that was something that reoccurred throughout the project, was, the smaller the scale you want to work on, the further back in time you have to go.

And so this is after a day and about half a night smelting this iron.

I dragged out this stuff, and it wasn't iron.

So, my next -- (Applause) The next thing I was trying to get was copper.

Again, this mine was once the largest copper mine in the world.

So many such that it's now just a home for bacteria who really like acidic, toxic conditions.

But anyway, the water I dragged back from the Isle of Anglesey where the mine was -- there was enough copper in it such that I could cast the pins of my metal electric plug. 

So my next thing: I was off to Scotland to get mica.

And mica is a mineral which is a very good insulator and very good at insulating electricity.

That's me getting mica.

Plastic is the defining feature of cheap electrical goods.

BP obviously has a bit more on their mind now.

But even then they weren't convinced and said, "Okay, we'll phone you back" -- never did.

So I looked at other ways of making plastic.

And you can actually make plastic from obviously oils which come from plants, but also from starches.

So this is attempting to make potato starch plastic.

And for a while that was looking really good.

I poured it into the mold, which you can see there, which I've made from a tree trunk.

And it was looking good for a while, but I left it outside, because you had to leave it outside to dry, and unfortunately I came back and there were snails eating the unhydrolyzed bits of potato. 

So kind of out of desperation, I decided that I could think laterally.

And that's because geologists of the future would kind of see a sharp shift in the strata of rock that is being laid down now.

So suddenly, it will become kind of radioactive from Chernobyl and the 2,000 or so nuclear bombs that have been set off since 1945.

And there'd also be an extinction event -- like fossils would suddenly disappear.

And also, I thought that there would be synthetic polymers, plastics, embedded in the rock. 

And I went up to Manchester to visit a place called Axion Recycling.

And they're at the sharp end of what's called the WEEE, which is this European electrical and electronic waste directive.

And that was brought into force to try and deal with the mountain of stuff that is just being made and then living for a while in our homes and then going to landfill.

But this is it. 

So there's a picture of my toaster.

(Applause) That's it without the case on.

And there it is on the shelves.

Thanks. 

Bruno Giussani: I'm told you did plug it in once. 

TT: Yeah, I did plug it in.

I don't know if you could see, but I was never able to make insulation for the wires.

Kew Gardens were insistent that I couldn't come and hack into their rubber tree.

So the wires were uninsulated.

So there was 240 volts going through these homemade copper wires, homemade plug.

But I considered it a partial success, to be honest. 

