You're not RoboCop, and you're not Terminator, but you're cyborgs every time you look at a computer screen or use one of your cell phone devices.

So what's a good definition for cyborg?

Well, traditional definition is "an organism to which exogenous components have been added for the purpose of adapting to new environments."

So let's look at the concept of traditional anthropology.

Well, what's happening is that we've suddenly found a new species.

They're clicking on things and staring at screens."

Now there's a reason why I study this, versus traditional anthropology.

And the reason is that tool use, in the beginning -- for thousands and thousands of years, everything has been a physical modification of self.

What does the inside of your computer actually look like?

Well, if you print it out, it looks like a thousand pounds of material that you're carrying around all the time.

The other thing that happens is that you have a second self.

And suddenly we have to start to maintain our second self.

You have to present yourself in digital life in a similar way that you would in your analog life.

So, in the same way that you wake up, take a shower and get dressed, you have to learn to do that for your digital self.

And the problem is that a lot of people now, especially adolescents, have to go through two adolescences.

I was always sending messages to my future self using tape recorders. 

So I started studying anthropology.

And when I was writing my thesis on cell phones, I realized that everyone was carrying around wormholes in their pockets.

They weren't physically transporting themselves; they were mentally transporting themselves.

So over time, time and space have compressed because of this.

You can stand on one side of the world, whisper something and be heard on the other.

One of the other ideas that comes around is that you have a different type of time on every single device that you use.

Every single browser tab gives you a different type of time.

So now we're all these paleontologists that are digging for things that we've lost on our external brains that we're carrying around in our pockets.

And so what happens is, when we bring all that into the social space, we end up checking our phones all the time.

So we have this thing called ambient intimacy.

It's not that we're always connected to everybody, but at anytime we can connect to anyone we want.

And if you were able to print out everybody in your cell phone, the room would be very crowded.

And so there are some psychological effects that happen with this.

They're not just sitting there.

And really, when you have no external input, that is a time when there is a creation of self, when you can do long-term planning, when you can try and figure out who you really are.

And then, once you do that, you can figure out how to present your second self in a legitimate way, instead of just dealing with everything as it comes in -- and oh, I have to do this, and I have to do this, and I have to do this.

And so this is very important.

So if you think about it, the world hasn't stopped either.

It actually looks very organic.

This is the first time in the entire history of humanity that we've connected in this way.

The most successful technology gets out of the way and helps us live our lives.

We're just increasing our humanness and our ability to connect with each other, regardless of geography.

So that's why I study cyborg anthropology. 

Thank you. 

