I'm actually here to make a challenge to people.

I know there have been many challenges made to people.

When I see the symbols of the rainbow and the dove, I think of personal serenity.

I think of meditation.

It is a sustainable peace in which the majority of people on this planet have access to enough resources to live dignified lives, where these people have enough access to education and health care, so that they can live in freedom from want and freedom from fear.

This is called human security.

And I am not a complete pacifist like some of my really, really heavy-duty, non-violent friends, like Mairead McGuire.

And I'm trying harder and harder.

Mom, I'm really trying. 

We need a little bit of police; we need a little bit of military, but for defense.

We need to redefine what makes us secure in this world.

It is not arming our country to the teeth.

It is not getting other countries to arm themselves to the teeth with the weapons that we produce and we sell them.

It is using that money more rationally to make the countries of the world secure, to make the people of the world secure.

I was thinking about the recent ongoings in Congress, where the president is offering 8.4 billion dollars to try to get the START vote.

I certainly support the START vote.

But he's offering 84 billion dollars for the modernizing of nuclear weapons.

It is all of those things.

It is using our money for all of those things.

It is about action. 

I do not believe that meditation and prayer will change this world.

I spoke with Aung Sun Suu Kyi a couple of days ago.

As most of you know, she's a hero for democracy in her country, Burma.

You probably also know that she has spent 15 of the last 20 years imprisoned for her efforts to bring about democracy.

She is already out in the streets, working with the party to try to rebuild it.

But I talked to her for a range of issues.

Here's another woman hero of mine.

She's my friend, Dr. Shirin Ebadi, the first Muslim woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize.

She has been in exile for the last year and a half.

She is traveling because she was out of the country at the time of the elections.

A year and a half -- she's out speaking on behalf of the other women in her country. 

Wangari Maathai -- 2004 Peace laureate.

They call her the "Tree Lady," but she's more than the Tree Lady.

Working for peace is very creative.

It's hard work every day.

People could not gather without getting busted and taken to jail.

The Women's League of Burma, 11 individual organizations of Burmese women came together because there's strength in numbers.

Working together is what changes our world.

The Million Signatures Campaign of women inside Burma working together to change human rights, to bring democracy to that country.

Mairead McGuire in the middle, Betty Williams on the right-hand side -- bringing peace to Northern Ireland.

I'll tell you the quick story.

An IRA driver was shot, and his car plowed into people on the side of the street.

There was a mother and three children.

The children were killed on the spot.

It was Mairead's sister.

And they have been part of what brought peace to Northern Ireland, and they're still working on it, because there's still a lot more to do. 

This is Rigoberta Menchu Tum.

She also received the Peace Prize.

She is now running for president.

One of the things that made this campaign work is because we grew from two NGOs to thousands in 90 countries around the world, working together in common cause to ban landmines.

Some of the people who worked in our campaign could only work maybe an hour a month.

They could maybe volunteer that much.

There were others, like myself, who were full-time.

But it was the actions, together, of all of us that brought about that change. 

In my view, what we need today is people getting up and taking action to reclaim the meaning of peace.

Thank you. 

