They saw their first dentist, they ate their first hamburger, and they had their first kids.

My sister and I grew up here, and we had quiet, happy childhoods.

We grew up, and we grew older.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

but life was pretty good.

Life was pretty good.

2006 was a great year.

Under clear blue skies in July in the wine region of Ontario, I got married, surrounded by 150 family and friends.

2007 was a great year.

I graduated from school, and I went on a road trip with two of my closest friends.

Here's a picture of me and my friend, Chris, on the coast of the Pacific Ocean.

(Laughter) So you can't actually see them, but it was breathtaking, believe me. 

(Laughter) So you can't actually see them, but it was breathtaking, believe me. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

2008 and 2009 were a little tougher.

I know that they were tougher for a lot of people, not just me.

First of all, the news was so heavy.

2008, 2009 were heavy years for me for another reason, too.

I was going through a lot of personal problems at the time.

My marriage wasn't going well, and we just were growing further and further apart.

One day my wife came home from work and summoned the courage, through a lot of tears, to have a very honest conversation.

My friend Chris, who I just showed you a picture of, had been battling mental illness for some time.

And for those of you whose lives have been touched by mental illness, you know how challenging it can be.

I spoke to him on the phone at 10:30 p.m. on a Sunday night.

We talked about the TV show we watched that evening.

And Monday morning, I found out that he disappeared.

Very sadly, he took his own life.

And it was a really heavy time. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And slowly over time, I started putting myself in a better mood.

And nobody read it except for my mom.

Although I should say that my traffic did skyrocket and go up by 100 percent when she forwarded it to my dad.

It started getting bigger and bigger and bigger.

(Laughter) (Applause) Which African country do you want me to wire all my money to?

But look, I said I wanted to do three things with you today.

So let's talk about those three As.

Over the last few years, I haven't had that much time to really think.

And I've summarized those things, for me personally, as three As.

They are Attitude, Awareness and Authenticity.

I'd love to just talk about each one briefly. 

It's not a happy thought, but your kids could get mixed up in gangs or bad scenes.

Your mom could get cancer, your dad could get mean.

Having a great attitude is about choosing option number two, and choosing, no matter how difficult it is, no matter what pain hits you, choosing to move forward and move on and take baby steps into the future. 

The second "A" is Awareness.

I love hanging out with three year-olds.

I love the way that they see the world, because they're seeing the world for the first time.

I love the way that they can stare at a bug crossing the sidewalk.

I love the way that they'll stare slack-jawed at their first baseball game with wide eyes and a mitt on their hand, soaking in the crack of the bat and the crunch of the peanuts and the smell of the hotdogs.

Having a sense of awareness is just about embracing your inner three year-old.

Because you all used to be three years old.

That three-year-old boy is still part of you.

That three-year-old girl is still part of you.

They're in there.

And being aware is just about remembering that you saw everything you've seen for the first time once, too.

So there was a time when it was your first time ever hitting a string of green lights on the way home from work.

There was the first time you walked by the open door of a bakery and smelt the bakery air, or the first time you pulled a 20-dollar bill out of your old jacket pocket and said, "Found money."

The last "A" is Authenticity.

And for this one, I want to tell you a quick story.

Roosevelt Grier, or Rosey Grier, as people used to call him, grew up and grew into a 300-pound, six-foot-five linebacker in the NFL.

He's number 76 in the picture.

Here he is pictured with the "fearsome foursome."

These were four guys on the L.A. Rams in the 1960s you did not want to go up against.

They were tough football players doing what they love, which was crushing skulls and separating shoulders on the football field.

But Rosey Grier also had another passion.

He said that it calmed him down, it relaxed him, it took away his fear of flying and helped him meet chicks.

That's what he said.

I mean, he loved it so much that, after he retired from the NFL, he started joining clubs.

And he even put out a book called "Rosey Grier's Needlepoint for Men."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It's just about being you and being cool with that.

And I think when you're authentic, you end up following your heart, and you put yourself in places and situations and in conversations that you love and that you enjoy.

You meet people that you like talking to.

You go places you've dreamt about.

And you end you end up following your heart and feeling very fulfilled.

So those are the three A's. 

For the closing thought, I want to take you all the way back to my parents coming to Canada.

I don't know what it would feel like coming to a new country when you're in your mid-20s.

I would imagine that you'd have to be pretty aware of your surroundings and appreciating the small wonders that you're starting to see in your new world.

And I think you'd have to be really authentic, you'd have to be really true to yourself in order to get through what you're being exposed to. 

So I wanted to ask them to, if they don't mind, stand up.

And I just wanted to say thank you to you guys. 

(Laughter) And this non-profit group had a big welcoming lunch for all the new immigrants to Canada.

And my dad says he got off the plane and he went to this lunch and there was this huge spread.

There was tuna salad sandwiches and egg salad sandwiches and salmon salad sandwiches.

(Laughter) I just couldn't believe how many things you can get here."

(Laughter) I just couldn't believe how many things you can get here."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

He would say, "Look, can you believe they have a mango here from Mexico?

When I stop to think about it, he's absolutely right.

There are so many things to be happy about.

We are the only species on the only life-giving rock in the entire universe that we've ever seen, capable of experiencing so many of these things.

I mean, we're the only ones with architecture and agriculture.

We're the only ones with jewelry and democracy.

We've got airplanes, highway lanes, interior design and horoscope signs.

We've got fashion magazines, house party scenes.

You can watch a horror movie with monsters.

You can go to a concert and hear guitars jamming.

We've got books, buffets and radio waves, wedding brides and rollercoaster rides.

You can sleep in clean sheets.

You can go to the movies and get good seats.

You can smell bakery air, walk around with rain hair, pop bubble wrap or take an illegal nap. 

We've got all that, but we've only got 100 years to enjoy it.

And that's the sad part.

The cashiers at your grocery store, the foreman at your plant, the guy tailgating you home on the highway, the telemarketer calling you during dinner, every teacher you've ever had, everyone that's ever woken up beside you, every politician in every country, every actor in every movie, every single person in your family, everyone you love, everyone in this room and you will be dead in a hundred years.

Life is so great that we only get such a short time to experience and enjoy all those tiny little moments that make it so sweet.

And that moment is right now, and those moments are counting down, and those moments are always, always, always fleeting. 

You will never be as young as you are right now.

Thank you. 

