Do you know which group you're in?

If you don't, you're not alone.

Because the breast has become a very political organ.

The truth has become lost in all the rhetoric coming from the press, politicians, radiologists and medical imaging companies.

I will do my best this morning to tell you what I think is the truth.

But first, my disclosures.

What I am is a doctor of internal medicine who became passionately interested in this topic about 10 years ago when a patient asked me a question.

She came to see me after discovering a breast lump.

Her sister had been diagnosed with breast cancer in her 40s.

She and I were both very pregnant at that time, and my heart just ached for her, imagining how afraid she must be.

Fortunately, her lump proved to be benign.

It took the Senate just 17 days to ban the use of the guidelines in determining insurance coverage.

Radiologists were outraged by the guidelines.

The pre-eminent mammographer in the United States issued the following quote to the Washington Post.

The radiologists were, in turn, criticized for protecting their own financial self-interest.

But in my view, the radiologists are heroes.

But that very fact is telling. 

Where there is this much legal smoke, there is likely to be some fire.

The factor most responsible for that fire is breast density.

Breast density refers to the relative amount of fat -- pictured here in yellow -- versus connective and epithelial tissues -- pictured in pink.

And that proportion is primarily genetically determined.

And although breast density generally declines with age, up to a third of women retain dense breast tissue for years after menopause. 

So how do you know if your breasts are dense?

Well, you need to read the details of your mammography report.

Radiologists classify breast density into four categories based on the appearance of the tissue on a mammogram.

If the breast is less than 25 percent dense, that's called fatty-replaced.

The next category is scattered fibroglandular densities, followed by heterogeneously dense and extremely dense.

And breasts that fall into these two categories are considered dense.

The problem with breast density is that it's truly the wolf in sheep's clothing.

Both tumors and dense breast tissue appear white on a mammogram, and the X-ray often can't distinguish between the two.

That's why mammograms find over 80 percent of tumors in fatty breasts, but as few as 40 percent in extremely dense breasts. 

Now it's bad enough that breast density makes it hard to find a cancer, but it turns out that it's also a powerful predictor of your risk for breast cancer.

It's a stronger risk factor than having a mother or a sister with breast cancer.

But what else could I offer her? 

Mammograms have been around since the 1960's, and it's changed very little.

There have been surprisingly few innovations, until digital mammography was approved in 2000.

Digital mammography is still an X-ray of the breast, but the images can be stored and manipulated digitally, just like we can with a digital camera.

So digital mammography has been a giant leap forward for manufacturers of digital mammography equipment, but it's been a very small step forward for womankind. 

What about ultrasound?

And MRI is exquisitely sensitive for finding tumors, but it's also very expensive.

If we think about disruptive technology, we see an almost ubiquitous pattern of the technology getting smaller and less expensive.

Think about iPods compared to stereos.

But it's the exact opposite in health care.

The machines get ever bigger and ever more expensive.

Screening the average young woman with an MRI is kind of like driving to the grocery store in a Hummer.

It's just way too much equipment.

One MRI scan costs 10 times what a digital mammogram costs.

And sooner or later, we're going to have to accept the fact that health care innovation can't always come at a much higher price. 

It's like the essence of TED.

Now, take a look at this cartoon that accompanied Gladwell's article, and tell me if you see something disturbing about this depiction of innovative thinkers. 

So if you will allow me a little creative license, I will tell you the story of the serendipitous collision of my patient's problem with a physicist's solution.

Shortly after her visit, I was introduced to a nuclear physicist at Mayo named Michael O'Conner, who was a specialist in cardiac imaging, something I had nothing to do with.

Now gamma imaging has been around for a long time to image the heart, and it had even been tried to image the breast.

If you can find a tumor when it's less than a centimeter, survival exceeds 90 percent, but drops off rapidly as tumor size increases.

It's made not of a bulky tube, but of a thin layer of a semiconductor material that serves as the gamma detector.

And I started talking to him about this problem with breast density, and we realized that we might be able to get this detector close enough around the breast to actually find small tumors. 

This is an image from our first patient.

And you can see, using the old gamma technology, that it just looked like noise.

But using our new detector, we could begin to see the outline of a tumor. 

So here we were, a nuclear physicist, an internist, soon joined by Carrie Hruska, a biomedical engineer, and two radiologists, and we were trying to take on the entrenched world of mammography with a machine that was held together by duct tape.

This is our current detector.

And you can see that it looks a lot different.

So how does this work?

After the injection, the patient's breast is placed between the detectors.

But with MBI, we use just light, pain-free compression.

(Applause) And the detector then transmits the image to the computer. 

So here's an example.

You can see, on the right, a mammogram showing a faint tumor, the edges of which are blurred by the dense tissue.

But the MBI image shows that tumor much more clearly, as well as a second tumor, which profoundly influence that patient's surgical options.

Our big break came in 2004.

After we had demonstrated that we could find small tumors, we used these images to submit a grant to the Susan G. Komen Foundation.

And we were elated when they took a chance on a team of completely unknown investigators and funded us to study 1,000 women with dense breasts, comparing a screening mammogram to an MBI.

Of the tumors that we found, mammography found only 25 percent of those tumors.

MBI found 83 percent.

Here's an example from that screening study.

In this case, a one-centimeter tumor.

But fortunately it was removed before it had spread to her lymph nodes. 

So now that we knew that this technology could find three times more tumors in a dense breast, we had to solve one very important problem.

And I'm very happy to report that we're now using a dose of radiation that is equivalent to the effective dose from one digital mammogram.

And at this low dose, we're continuing this screening study, and this image from three weeks ago in a 67-year-old woman shows a normal digital mammogram, but an MBI image showing an uptake that proved to be a large cancer.

So this is not just young women that it's benefiting.

It's also older women with dense tissue.

And we're now routinely using one-fifth the radiation dose that's used in any other type of gamma technology. 

MBI generates four images per breast.

But I suspect even the non-radiologists in the room can find the tumor on the MBI image.

But you can understand why there may be forces in the breast-imaging world who prefer the status quo. 

After achieving what we felt were remarkable results, our manuscript was rejected by four journals.

But I recognize -- (Applause) I recognize that the adoption of this technology will depend as much on economic and political forces as it will on the soundness of the science. 

The MBI unit has now been FDA approved, but it's not yet widely available.

So until something is available for women with dense breasts, there are things that you should know to protect yourself.

First, know your density.

Ninety percent of women don't, and 95 percent of women don't know that it increases your breast cancer risk.

Of course we should.

But this mortality banner is the very sword which mammography's most ardent advocates use to deter innovation.

It is time for us to accept both the extraordinary successes of mammography and the limitations.

We need to individualize screening based on density.

For women without dense breasts, mammography is the best choice.

But for women with dense breasts; we shouldn't abandon screening altogether, we need to offer them something better. 

She's given me her blessing to share this story with you.

After undergoing biopsies that further increased her risk for cancer and losing her sister to cancer, she made the difficult decision to have a prophylactic mastectomy.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

