I will say though that, after having done surgery a lot, it's somewhat similar to playing a musical instrument.

And for me, this sort of deep and enduring fascination with sound is what led me to both be a surgeon and also to study the science of sound, particularly music.

And so I'm going to try to talk to you over the next few minutes about my career in terms of how I'm able to actually try to study music and really try to grapple with all these questions of how the brain is able to be creative.

I've done most of this work at Johns Hopkins University, but also at the National Institute of Health where I was previously.

I'm going to go over some science experiments and try to cover three musical experiments. 

I'm going to start off by playing a video for you.

And this video is a video of Keith Jarrett, who's a well-known jazz improviser and probably the most well-known, iconic example of someone who takes improvisation to a really higher level.

And so why don't we go and click the video. 

It's really a remarkable, awesome thing that happens there.

I think -- how can this possibly be?

How can the brain generate that much information, that much music, spontaneously?

There's not too many brain-dead people creating art.

And so with this notion that artistic creativity is in fact a neurologic product, I took this thesis that we could study it just like we study any other complex neurologic process.

And I think there's some sub-questions there that I put there.

Is it truly possible to study creativity scientifically?

And I think that's a good question.

In fact, they seem to be very unmusical entirely and to miss the whole point of the music. 

And so it brings the second question: Why should scientists study creativity?

Maybe we're not the right people to do it.

And so I think that we're going to see over the next 10, 20, 30 years a real science of creativity that's burgeoning and is going to flourish.

Because we now have new methods that can enable us to take this process of something like this, complex jazz improvisation, and study it rigorously.

And so it gets down to the brain.

And so all of us have this remarkable brain, which is poorly understood to say the least.

And fundamentally that's what I do in my lab.

If you've been in an MRI scanner, it's very much the same, but this one is outfitted in a special way to not just take pictures of your brain, but to also take pictures of active areas of the brain.

Now the way that's done is by the following.

There's something called BOLD imaging, which is Blood Oxygen Level Dependent imaging.

Now when you're in an fMRI scanner, you're in a big magnet that's aligning your molecules in certain areas.

That blood flow causes an increase in local blood to that area with a deoxyhemoglobin change in concentration.

Deoxyhemoglobin can be detected by MRI, whereas oxyhemoglobin can't.

And it's been used since the '90s to study really complex processes. 

Now I'm going to review a study that I did, which was jazz in an fMRI scanner.

And this was done with a colleague of mine, Alan Braun, at the NIH.

This is a short video of how we did this project. 

(Video) Charles Limb: This is a plastic MIDI piano keyboard that we use for the jazz experiments.

It sends out what's called a MIDI signal -- or a Musical Instrument Digital Interface -- through these wires into the box and then the computer, which then trigger high-quality piano samples like this. 

And so through this piano keyboard, we now have the means to take a musical process and study it.

So what do you do now that you have this cool piano keyboard?

You can't just sort of -- "It's great we've got this keyboard."

We actually have to come up with a scientific experiment.

And so, I have here what we call the "paradigms."

There's a scale paradigm, which is just playing a scale up and down, memorized.

And then there's improvising on a scale -- quarter notes, metronome, right hand -- scientifically very safe, but musically really boring.

And then there's the bottom one, which is called the jazz paradigm.

And if you can hit that lower-right sound icon, that's an example of what was recorded in the scanner. 

So in the end, it's not the most natural environment, but they're able to play real music.

And I've listened to that solo 200 times, and I still like it.

And the musicians, they were comfortable in the end.

And so we first measured the number of notes.

Were they in fact just playing a lot more notes when they were improvising?

That was not what was going on.

And then we looked at the brain activity.

I'm going to try to condense this for you.

These are contrast maps that are showing subtractions between what changes when you're improvising versus when you're doing something memorized.

And so we had this focal area called the medial prefrontal cortex that went way up in activity.

We had this broad patch of area called the lateral prefrontal cortex that went way down in activity, and I'll summarize that for you here. 

Now these are multifunctional areas of the brain.

As I like to say, these are not the "jazz areas" of the brain.

They do a whole host of things that have to do with self-reflection, introspection, working memory and so forth.

Really, consciousness is seated in the frontal lobe.

But we have this combination of an area that's thought to be involved in self-monitoring, turning off, and this area that's thought to be autobiographical, or self-expressive, turning on.

One area turns on, and a big area shuts off, so that you're not inhibited, so that you're willing to make mistakes, so that you're not constantly shutting down all of these new generative impulses.

Now a lot of people know that music is not always a solo activity -- sometimes it's done communicatively. 

And so the next question was: What happens when musicians are trading back and forth, something called "trading fours," which is something they do normally in a jazz experiment?

So this is a twelve-bar blues.

And I've broken it down into four-bar groups here, so you would know how you would trade.

Now what we did was we brought a musician into the scanner -- same way -- had them memorize this melody and then had another musician out in the control room trading back and forth interactively. 

So this is a musician, Mike Pope, one of the world's best bassists and a fantastic piano player.

So he's now playing the piece that we just saw just a little better than I wrote it. 

CL: You have to have the right attitude to agree to it.

(Laughter) It's kind of fun actually.

And then I'm in the control room here, playing back and forth. 

(Video) Mike Pope: This is a pretty good representation of what it's like.

And it's good that it's not too quick.

The fact that we do it over and over again lets you acclimate to your surroundings.

So the hardest thing for me was the kinesthetic thing, of looking at my hands through two mirrors, laying on my back and not able to move at all except for my hand.

That was challenging.

But again, there were moments, for sure, there were moments of real, honest-to-God musical interplay, for sure. 

CL: At this point, I'll take a few moments.

And so what you're seeing here -- and I'm doing a cardinal sin in science, which is to show you preliminary data.

This is one subject's data.

This is, in fact, Mike Pope's data.

So what am I showing you here?

When he was trading fours with me, improvising versus memorized, his language areas lit up, his Broca's area, which is inferior frontal gyrus on the left.

He actually had it also homologous on the right.

This is an area thought to be involved in expressive communication.

Now when I think about improvisation and the language, well what's next?

Rap, of course, rap -- free-style.

And so I've always been fascinated by free-style.

And let's go ahead and play this video here. 

CL: And so there's a lot of analogy between what takes place in free-style rap and jazz.

There are, in fact, a lot of correlations between the two forms of music I think in different time periods.

In a lot a ways, rap serves the same social function that jazz used to serve.

So how do you study rap scientifically?

And my colleagues kind of think I'm crazy, but I think it's very viable.

So what we had them do was memorize this lower-left sound icon, please.

I guarantee you that will never happen again. 

They don't know what's coming, but they'll hear something off the cuff.

Go ahead and hit that right sound icon.

CL: So again, it's an incredible thing that's taking place.

It's doing something that, neurologically, is remarkable.

Whether or not you like the music is irrelevant.

Creatively speaking, it's just a phenomenal thing.

(Video) CL: We're here with Emmanuel. 

CL: That was recorded in the scanner, by the way. 

(Video) CL: That's Emmanuel in the scanner.

He's just memorized a rhyme for us. 

Well, this is actually four rappers' brains.

You've got major cerebellar activity, which is involved in motor coordination.

You have heightened brain activity when you're doing a comparable task, when that one task is creative and the other task is memorized.

It's very preliminary, but I think it's kind of cool. 

And I think hopefully in the next 10, 20 years you'll actually see real, meaningful studies that say science has to catch up to art, and maybe we're starting now to get there. 

