In essence, what we've done is we've studied the science, we've looked at the behavior, we've seen over 2,000 kills by these amazing animals.

And here's a prime example.

We found this leopard in a 2,000-year-old baobab tree in Africa, the same tree that we found her mother in and her grandmother.

And she took us on a journey and revealed something very special to us -- her own daughter, eight days old.

Now I'm destined to spend a lot of time with some unique, very, very special, individualistic and often seductive female characters.

When her mother would go off hunting, we would stay and film.

And early on, a lightning bolt hit a tree 20 paces away from us.

And actually from that day on, she's been comfortable with us.

So we felt that that day was the day that she really earned her name.

But only by getting up close to these animals and spending time with them can we actually even reach out and dig out these personal characters that they have. 

BJ: But through our investigation, we have to seek the wildest places in Africa.

But we're really there seeking and searching and filming the iconic cats. 

BJ: And then of course, the challenge is knowing when to turn around.

DJ: And of course, one of the rules that we have in the vehicle is that he who drowns the vehicle gets to swim with the crocodiles.

(Laughter) But all the places we get stuck in really have great views.

BJ: But we truly do spend day and night trying to capture unique footage.

And surprisingly, it became a cult film.

And we can only work that out as people were seeing parallels between the thuggish side of nature and gang warfare. 

DJ: It was amazing, because you can see that this lion is doing exactly what his name, Eetwidomayloh, represents.

He's focused on this hyena, and he is going to get it.

(Animal sounds) But that's, I think, what this is all about, is that these individuals have these personalities and characters.

But that's not always easy for us. 

BJ: So, as Dereck says, we have to work through extremes -- extreme temperatures, push ourselves at night.

Sleep deprivation is extreme.

We're on the edge through a large part of the time.

And I have to tell you that it was a disturbing night for me.

I had tears rolling down my cheeks.

And I do believe you should stay with us. 

DJ: The amazing thing about these moments -- and this is probably a highlight of our career -- is that you never know how it's going to end.

And you can see the start of it here.

This elephant, against overwhelming odds, simply gives up hope.

But by the same token, you can get your hope back again.

Everything has that will to survive, to fight, to push through that mental barrier and to keep going.

And for us, in many ways, this elephant has become a symbol of inspiration for us, a symbol of that hope as we go forward in our work. 

Now back to the leopard.

We were perhaps taking her for granted, and maybe she didn't like that that much.

These are precious to us, these divides. 

So we knew we had to react quickly.

And the only way we thought we could without scaring her is to try and simulate a growl like her mother would make -- a hiss and a sound.

(Laughter) But really and truly, this was how this little leopard was displaying her individual personality.

But nothing prepared us for what happened next in our relationship with her, when she started hunting. 

BJ: And on this first hunt, we truly were excited.

It was like watching a graduation ceremony.

We felt like we were surrogate parents.

And of course, we knew now that she was going to survive.

But only when we saw the tiny baby baboon clinging to the mother's fur did we realize that something very unique was taking place here with Legadema.

And of course, the baby baboon was so innocent, it didn't turn and run.

So what we watched over the next couple of hours was very unique.

It was absolutely amazing when she picked it up to safety, protecting it from the hyena.

And over the next five hours, she took care of it.

We realized that we actually don't know everything, and that nature is so unpredictable, we have to be open at all times. 

DJ: Okay, so she was a little bit rough.

But I have to tell you -- everybody always asks, "What happened to the baby baboon?"

DJ: So at this stage, I guess, we had very, very firm ideas on what conservation meant.

So when Beverly and I were born, there were 450,000 lions, and today there are 20,000.

Now in the extraordinary time that we have worked with Legadema -- which is really over a five-year period -- 10,000 leopards were legally shot by safari hunters.

And that's not the only leopards that were being killed through that period.

It's simply not sustainable.

DJ: There's a burgeoning bone trade.

South Africa just released some lion bones onto the market.

Lion bones and tiger bones look exactly the same, and so in a stroke, the lion bone industry is going to wipe out all the tigers.

Because there's a sport, there's an activity going on that we're all aware of, that we condone.

And that's probably because we haven't seen it like we are today. 

BJ: And you have to know that, when a male lion is killed, it completely disrupts the whole pride.

A new male comes into the area and takes over the pride, and, of course, first of all kills all the cubs and possibly some of the females that are defending their cubs.

So we've estimated that between 20 [and] 30 lions are killed when one lion is hanging on a wall somewhere in a far-off place. 

DJ: So what our investigations have shown is that these lions are essential.

They're essential to the habitat.

If they disappear, whole ecosystems in Africa disappear.

There's an 80-billion-dollar-a-year ecotourism revenue stream into Africa.

So this is not just a concern about lions; it's a concern about communities in Africa as well.

If they disappear, all of that goes away.

But what I'm more concerned about in many ways is that, as we de-link ourselves from nature, as we de-link ourselves spiritually from these animals, we lose hope, we lose that spiritual connection, our dignity, that thing within us that keeps us connected to the planet. 

BJ: So you have to know, looking into the eyes of lions and leopards right now, it is all about critical awareness.

That is the situation we're in -- the last lions.

And simply, if we can't protect them, we're going to have a job protecting ourselves as well. 

DJ: And in fact, that original thing that we spoke about and designed our lives by -- that conservation was all about respect and celebration -- is probably true.

And Legadema?

Well we can report, in fact, that we're grandparents. 

BJ/DJ: Thank you very much. 

