So today I'm going to talk to you about the rise of collaborative consumption.

I'm going to explain what it is and try and convince you -- in just 15 minutes -- that this isn't a flimsy idea, or a short-term trend, but a powerful cultural and economic force reinventing not just what we consume, but how we consume. 

Now I'm going to start with a deceptively simple example.

Hands up -- how many of you have books, CDs, DVDs, or videos lying around your house that you probably won't use again, but you can't quite bring yourself to throw away?

Can't see all the hands, but it looks like all of you, right?

I think it was bought for us around three years ago for a Christmas present.

Now my husband, Chris, and I love this show.

Now before we go on, I have a confession to make.

Now I'd love to watch the first movie again as sort of a warm-up to the sequel coming out next week.

So how easily could I swap our unwanted copy of "24" for a wanted copy of "Sex and the City?"

Now you may have noticed there's a new sector emerging called swap-trading.

Now the easiest analogy for swap-trading is like an online dating service for all your unwanted media.

What it does is use the Internet to create an infinite marketplace to match person A's "haves" with person C's "wants," whatever they may be. 

Lo and behold, there in Reseda, CA was Rondoron who wanted swap his or her "like new" copy of "Sex and the City" for my copy of "24."

My passion, and what I've spent the last few years dedicated to researching, is the collaborative behaviors and trust-mechanics inherent in these systems.

When you think about it, it would have seemed like a crazy idea, even a few years ago, that I would swap my stuff with a total stranger whose real name I didn't know and without any money changing hands.

So what's happening here?

An extremely powerful dynamic that has huge commercial and cultural implications is at play.

Namely, that technology is enabling trust between strangers.

We now live in a global village where we can mimic the ties that used to happen face to face, but on a scale and in ways that have never been possible before.

So what's actually happening is that social networks and real-time technologies are taking us back.

From the mighty eBay, the grandfather of exchange marketplaces, to car-sharing companies such as GoGet, where you pay a monthly fee to rent cars by the hour, to social lending platforms such as Zopa, that will take anyone in this audience with 100 dollars to lend, and match them with a borrower anywhere in the world, we're sharing and collaborating again in ways that I believe are more hip than hippie.

I call this "groundswell collaborative consumption."

Now before I dig into the different systems of collaborative consumption, I'd like to try and answer the question that every author rightfully gets asked, which is, where did this idea come from?

Now I'd like to say I woke up one morning and said, "I'm going to write about collaborative consumption," but actually it was a complicated web of seemingly disconnected ideas.

Over the next minute, you're going to see a bit like a conceptual fireworks display of all the dots that went on in my head.

The first thing I began to notice: how many big concepts were emerging -- from the wisdom of crowds to smart mobs -- around how ridiculously easy it is to form groups for a purpose.

And linked to this crowd mania were examples all around the world -- from the election of a president to the infamous Wikipedia, and everything in between -- on what the power of numbers could achieve. 

Now, you know when you learn a new word, and then you start to see that word everywhere?

That's what happened to me when I noticed that we are moving from passive consumers to creators, to highly enabled collaborators.

I mean, it's amazing to think that, in every single minute of this speech, 25 hours of YouTube video will be loaded.

Now what I find fascinating about these examples is how they're actually tapping into our primate instincts.

I mean, we're monkeys, and we're born and bred to share and cooperate.

They're growing up sharing -- files, video games, knowledge.

The reason why it's happening so fast is because of mobile collaboration.

All of this was going through my head towards the end of 2008, when, of course, the great financial crash happened.

Thomas Friedman is one of my favorite New York Times columnists, and he poignantly commented that 2008 is when we hit a wall, when Mother Nature and the market both said, "No more."

A torrent of peer-to-peer social networks and real-time technologies, fundamentally changing the way we behave.

Three, pressing unresolved environmental concerns.

And four, a global recession that has fundamentally shocked consumer behaviors.

These four drivers are fusing together and creating the big shift -- away from the 20th century, defined by hyper-consumption, towards the 21st century, defined by collaborative consumption.

I generally believe we're at an inflection point where the sharing behaviors -- through sites such as Flickr and Twitter that are becoming second nature online -- are being applied to offline areas of our everyday lives.

From morning commutes to the way fashion is designed to the way we grow food, we are consuming and collaborating once again. 

So my co-author, Roo Rogers, and I have actually gathered thousands of examples from all around the world of collaborative consumption.

The first is redistribution markets.

Redistribution markets, just like Swaptree, are when you take a used, or pre-owned, item and move it from where it's not needed to somewhere, or someone, where it is.

The second is collaborative lifestyles.

This is the sharing of resources of things like money, skills and time.

I bet, in a couple of years, that phrases like "coworking" and "couchsurfing" and "time banks" are going to become a part of everyday vernacular.

One of my favorite examples of collaborative lifestyles is called Landshare.

Together they grow their own food.

It's one of those ideas that's so simple, yet brilliant, you wonder why it's never been done before. 

Now, the third system is product-service systems.

This idea is particularly powerful for things that have high-idling capacity.

That power drill will be used around 12 to 13 minutes in its entire lifetime.

Because what you need is the hole, not the drill.

These three systems are coming together, allowing people to share resources without sacrificing their lifestyles, or their cherished personal freedoms.

I'm not asking people to share nicely in the sandpit. 

So I want to just give you an example of how powerful collaborative consumption can be to change behaviors.

The average car costs 8,000 dollars a year to run.

Yet, that car sits idle for 23 hours a day.

So when you consider these two facts, it starts to make a little less sense that we have to own one outright.

They could only use their Zipcar membership when absolutely necessary.

The results of this challenge after just one month was staggering.

It's amazing that 413 lbs were lost just from the extra exercise.

But my favorite statistic is that 100 out of the 250 participants did not want their keys back.

In other words, the car addicts had lost their urge to own. 

Now products-service systems have been around for years.

Just think of libraries and laundrettes.

I don't want the DVD; I want the movie it carries.

I don't want a clunky answering machine; I want the message it saves.

I don't want a CD; I want the music it plays.

In other words, I don't want stuff; I want the needs or experiences it fulfills.

This is fueling a massive shift from where usage trumps possessions -- or as Kevin Kelly, the editor of Wired magazine, puts it, "where access is better than ownership."

Now as our possessions dematerialize into the cloud, a blurry line is appearing between what's mine, what's yours, and what's ours.

I want to give you one example that shows how fast this evolution is happening.

This represents an eight-year time span.

We've gone from traditional car-ownership to car-sharing companies, such as Zipcar and GoGet, to ride-sharing platforms that match rides to the newest entry, which is peer-to-peer car rental, where you can actually make money out of renting that car that sits idle for 23 hours a day to your neighbor.

Now all of these systems require a degree of trust, and the cornerstone to this working is reputation. 

But now with the Web, we leave a trail.

With every spammer we flag, with every idea we post, comment we share, we're actually signaling how well we collaborate, and whether we can or can't be trusted.

Let's go back to my first example, Swaptree.

I can see that Rondoron has completed 553 trades with a 100 percent success rate.

In other words, I can trust him or her.

And this reputation capital will determine our access to collaborative consumption.

It's a new social currency, so to speak, that could become as powerful as our credit rating. 

I'm on a mission to make sharing hip.

Because I really believe it can disrupt outdated modes of business, help us leapfrog over wasteful forms of hyper-consumption and teach us when enough really is enough. 

Thank you very much. 

