Alisa Volkman: So this is where our story begins -- the dramatic moments of the birth of our first son, Declan.

Obviously a really profound moment, and it changed our lives in many ways.

Rufus Griscom: Now I think of our story as starting a few years earlier.

RG: You may remember, we fell head over heels in love. 

AV: We did. 

RG: We were at the time running a very different kind of website.

It was a website called Nerve.com, the tagline of which was "literate smut."

It was in theory, and hopefully in practice, a smart online magazine about sex and culture. 

That's a subject that we want to dive into.

And we've been surprised to find, as young parents, that there are almost more taboos around parenting than there are around sex. 

And we feel like some of that difficulty was because of this false advertisement around parenting.

And we went into parenting expecting our lives to look like this.

The sun was always streaming in, and our children would never be crying.

RG: When we lowered the glossy parenting magazine that we were looking at, with these beautiful images, and looked at the scene in our actual living room, it looked a little bit more like this.

These are our three sons.

AV: Yes, you can see where the disconnect was happening for us.

We really wanted to let them understand what the realities of parenting were in an honest way. 

RG: So today, what we would love to do is share with you four parenting taboos.

We were in the process of giving birth to our first child. 

AV: We, or I? 

RG: I'm sorry.

Misuse of the pronoun.

And I was there with my arms open.

The baby was coming, and I was ready for this Mack truck of love to just knock me off my feet.

And instead, when the baby was placed in my hands, it was an extraordinary moment.

This picture is from literally a few seconds after the baby was placed in my hands and I brought him over.

And you can see, our eyes were glistening.

I was overwhelmed with love and affection for my wife, with deep, deep gratitude that we had what appeared to be a healthy child.

And it was also, of course, surreal.

I mean, I had to check the tags and make sure.

I was incredulous, "Are you sure this is our child?"

And this was all quite remarkable.

And so we've done something here that is heretical.

We have charted our love for our child over time.

(Laughter) This, as you know, is an act of heresy.

You're not allowed to chart love.

The reason you're not allowed to chart love is because we think of love as a binary thing.

And I think I'm speaking obviously here to the father's experience.

But I think a lot of men do go through this sense in the early months, maybe their first year, that their emotional response is inadequate in some fashion. 

RG: I'm a very affectionate uncle, very affectionate uncle. 

So I actually threw a pop quiz here onto Rufus. 

RG: Cruel. 

AV: Nothing more to be said. 

I'll move on to taboo number two.

I felt incredibly connected to the community around me.

I was shower with gifts and flowers and visitors.

RG: And of course, we think it's precisely what you really should be saying to mothers who have kids for the first time.

And that this, of course, one of the themes for us is that we think that candor and brutal honesty is critical to us collectively being great parents.

And it's hard not to think that part of what leads to this sense of isolation is our modern world.

So Alisa's experience is not isolated.

So your 58 percent of mothers surveyed report feelings of loneliness.

Of those, 67 percent are most lonely when their kids are zero to five -- probably really zero to two.

And this is one of many ways that we think other cultures offset this kind of lonely period. 

AV: So taboo number three: you can't talk about your miscarriage -- but today I'll talk about mine.

So after we had Declan, we kind of recalibrated our expectations.

This is actually the last little image we have of him.

As I was working through that mourning process, I was amazed that I didn't want to see anybody.

So it was a very difficult time.

As I started working through it more, I started climbing out of that hole and talking with other people.

I was really amazed by all the stories that started flooding in.

People I interacted with daily, worked with, was friends with, family members that I had known a long time, had never shared with me their own stories.

And I think, miscarriage is an invisible loss.

There's not really a lot of community support around it.

And astoundingly, 22 percent said they would hide a miscarriage from their spouse. 

So taboo number four: you can't say that your average happiness has declined since having a child.

The party line is that every single aspect of my life has just gotten dramatically better ever since I participated in the miracle that is childbirth and family.

This chart is comprised of four completely independent studies.

We were despondent. 

We said, something is wrong here.

There's something missing from these studies.

It can't possibly be that bad.

So this is our guess as to what this baseline of average happiness arguably looks like throughout life.

And it's just extraordinary to watch, and we remember it ourselves.

And then, of course, as you get older, it's almost like age is a form of lithium. 

As you get older, you become more stable.

And part of what happens, I think, in your '20s and '30s, is you start to learn to hedge your happiness.

RG: And so in effect, we trade average happiness.

We trade the sort of security and safety of a certain level of contentment for these transcendent moments.

So where does that leave the two of us as a family with our three little boys in the thick of all this?

There's another factor in our case.

RG: And we had reservations about this on the front end.

Everybody knows, you should absolutely not work with your spouse.

And if you're really passionate about what you do every day -- which we are -- and you're also passionate about your relationship, this is the only way we know how to do it.

It's great that we have these transcendent moments of joy, but they're sometimes pretty quick.

And so how about that average baseline of happiness?

Can we move that up a little bit? 

AV: And we kind of feel that the happiness gap, which we talked about, is really the result of walking into parenting -- and really any long-term partnership for that matter -- with the wrong expectations.

And if you have the right expectations and expectation management, we feel like it's going to be a pretty gratifying experience. 

RG + AV: Thank you. 

