When I was a kid, we had a set of encyclopedias at my house.

The information was inside my house and it was awesome.

But the information was closer to me.

I could get access to it. 

In the time that passes between when I was a kid in high school and when I started teaching, we really see the advent of the Internet.

My first year -- super gung-ho -- going to teach American government, loved the political system.

Kids in the 12th grade: not exactly all that enthusiastic about the American government system.

Year two: learned a few things -- had to change my tactic.

And I put in front of them an authentic experience that allowed them to learn for themselves.

I didn't tell them what to do or how to do it.

And that night, all 90 kids -- dressed appropriately, doing their job, owning it.

It meant something to them.

And they will step up. 

Luckily, I didn't have to teach them American government.

Could teach them the more exciting topic of geography.

Again, "thrilled" to learn.

And one opportunity was we got to go and meet Paul Rusesabagina, which is the gentleman that the movie "Hotel Rwanda" is based after.

And so we chose to look at Paul Rusesabagina as an example of a gentleman who singularly used his life to do something positive.

I then challenged the kids to identify someone in their own life, or in their own story, or in their own world, that they could identify that had done a similar thing.

I asked them to produce a little movie about it.

It's the first time we'd done this.

It was the most awesome moment of revelation that when you ask kids to use their own voice and ask them to speak for themselves, what they're willing to share.

The last question of the assignment is: how do you plan to use your life to positively impact other people?

The things that kids will say when you ask them and take the time to listen is extraordinary. 

We are a nine through 12 public school, but we do school quite differently.

I moved there primarily to be part of a learning environment that validated the way that I knew that kids learned, and that really wanted to investigate what was possible when you are willing to let go of some of the paradigms of the past, of information scarcity when my grandmother was in school and when my father was in school and even when I was in school, and to a moment when we have information surplus.

So what do you do when the information is all around you?

Why do you have kids come to school if they no longer have to come there to get the information? 

And here's the thing that you need to get comfortable with when you've given the tool to acquire information to students, is that you have to be comfortable with this idea of allowing kids to fail as part of the learning process.

That is the absolute wrong thing to ask, to tell kids to never be wrong.

To ask them to always have the right answer doesn't allow them to learn.

So we did this project, and this is one of the artifacts of the project.

I almost never show them off because of the issue of the idea of failure. 

My students produced these info-graphics as a result of a unit that we decided to do at the end of the year responding to the oil spill.

I asked them to take the examples that we were seeing of the info-graphics that existed in a lot of mass media, and take a look at what were the interesting components of it, and produce one for themselves of a different man-made disaster from American history.

And they had certain criteria to do it.

This was done in like two or three days.

And this is the work of the student that consistently did it. 

Ask them really interesting questions.

They will not disappoint.

Ask them to go to places, to see things for themselves, to actually experience the learning, to play, to inquire.

