In my mother's day, she didn't go to college.

Not a lot of women did.

And now, for every two men who get a college degree, three women will do the same.

Women, for the first time this year, became the majority of the American workforce.

And they're starting to dominate lots of professions -- doctors, lawyers, bankers, accountants.

The phrase "first-born son" is so deeply ingrained in our consciousness that this statistic alone shocked me.

In American fertility clinics, 75 percent of couples are requesting girls and not boys.

And in places where you wouldn't think, such as South Korea, India and China, the very strict patriarchal societies are starting to break down a little, and families are no longer strongly preferring first-born sons. 

If you think about this, if you just open your eyes to this possibility and start to connect the dots, you can see the evidence everywhere.

Certainly this is not the first time that we've had great progress with women.

The '20s and the '60s also come to mind.

This is really just about the facts of this economic moment that we live in.

But if we do take account of it, then I think it will go much more smoothly.

I first started thinking about this about a year and a half ago.

And I realized that two things were different this time around.

And now look at this second set of slides.

These are headlines about what's been going on with women in the next few years.

These are things we never could have imagined a few years ago.

That particular headline comes to me from a market research firm.

They were basically asked by one of their clients who was going to buy houses in that neighborhood in the future.

And they expected that it would be young families, or young men, just like it had always been.

But in fact, they found something very surprising.

It was young, single women who were the major purchasers of houses in the neighborhood.

And so they decided, because they were intrigued by this finding, to do a nationwide survey.

So here you have a generation of young women who grow up thinking of themselves as being more powerful earners than the young men around them. 

Now, I've just laid out the picture for you, but I still haven't explained to you why this is happening.

And basically what you'll see is what economists talk about as the polarization of the economy.

Now what does that mean?

It means that the economy is dividing into high-skill, high-wage jobs and low-skill, low-wage jobs -- and that the middle, the middle-skill jobs, and the middle-earning jobs, are starting to drop out of the economy.

This has been going on for 40 years now.

But this process is affecting men very differently than it's affecting women.

You'll see the women in red, and you'll see the men in blue.

So what's that about?

It looks like women got some power boost on a video game, or like they snuck in some secret serum into their birth-control pills that lets them shoot up high.

But of course, it's not about that. 

What it's about is that the economy has changed a lot.

It used to be that you were a guy who went to high school who didn't have a college degree, but you had a specific set of skills, and with the help of a union, you could make yourself a pretty good middle-class life.

But that really isn't true anymore.

This new economy is pretty indifferent to size and strength, which is what's helped men along all these years.

What the economy requires now is a whole different set of skills.

If you look at management theory these days, it used to be that our ideal leader sounded something like General Patton, right?

But that's not what an ideal leader is like now.

And those are all things that women do very well. 

And then on top of that, that's created a kind of cascading effect.

Women enter the workplace at the top, and then at the working class, all the new jobs that are created are the kinds of jobs that wives used to do for free at home.

So that's childcare, elder care and food preparation.

And here the story is fairly simple.

Well it turns out that they're just very uncomfortable doing that.

So for some reason men just don't end up going back to college.

And what's even more disturbing is what's happening with younger boys.

There's been about a decade of research about what people are calling the "boy crisis."

Is it because we have an excessively verbal curriculum, and little girls are better at that than little boys?

Or that we require kids to sit still too much, and so boys initially feel like failures?

And some people say it's because, in 9th grade, boys start dropping out of school.

But in the mean time, I'm going to call on the worldwide education expert, who's my 10-year-old daughter, Noa, to talk to you about why the boys in her class do worse. 

(Video) Noa: The girls are obviously smarter.

I mean they have much larger vocabulary.

They learn much faster.

They are more controlled.

On the board today for losing recess tomorrow, only boys. 

Hanna Rosin: And why is that? 

HR: So there you go.

This whole thesis really came home to me when I went to visit a college in Kansas City -- working-class college.

But these college girls had a completely different view of their future.

And this was kind of a shocker to me.

And then here's my favorite quote from one of the girls: "Men are the new ball and chain."

And the instructor was up there in the class explaining to them all the ways in which they had lost their identity in this new age.

He was telling them they no longer had any moral authority, that nobody needed them for emotional support anymore, and they were not really the providers.

So who were they?

And this was very disheartening for them.

"That's your salary.

And the other reason it's kind of urgent is because it's not just happening in the U.S.

It's happening all over the world.

In China, a lot of the opening up of private entrepreneurship is happening because women are starting businesses, small businesses, faster than men.

And here's my favorite example, which is in South Korea.

Over several decades, South Korea built one of the most patriarchal societies we know about.

They basically enshrined the second-class status of women in the civil code.

And if women failed to birth male children, they were basically treated like domestic servants.

And sometimes family would pray to the spirits to kill off a girl child so they could have a male child.

So you can see that these economic changes really do have a strong effect on our culture.

Now because we haven't fully processed this information, it's kind of coming back to us in our pop culture in these kind of weird and exaggerated ways, where you can see that the stereotypes are changing.

And they come up in lots of different forms.

So we have the perpetual adolescent.

We have the charmless misanthrope.

Then we have our Bud Light guy who's the happy couch potato.

And then here's a shocker: even America's most sexiest man alive, the sexiest man alive gets romantically played these days in a movie.

And then on the female side, you have the opposite, in which you have these crazy superhero women.

You've got Lady Gaga.

You've got our new James Bond, who's Angelina Jolie.

And it's not just for the young, right?

Even Helen Mirren can hold a gun these days.

And so it feels like we have to move from this place where we've got these uber-exaggerated images into something that feels a little more normal. 

So for a long time in the economic sphere, we've lived with the term "glass ceiling."

Now I've never really liked this term.

And also, "shattering the glass ceiling" is a terrible phrase.

What crazy person would pop their head through a glass ceiling? 

So the image that I like to think of, instead of glass ceiling, is the high bridge.

And the great thing is there's no trick like with the glass ceiling.

There's no man or woman standing in the middle about to cut the cables.

There's no hole in the middle that you're going to fall through.

And the great thing is that you can take anyone along with you.

You can bring your husband along.

And husbands can drag their wives across, if their wives don't feel ready.

Thanks very much. 

