Now I'm going to give you a story.

It's an Indian story about an Indian woman and her journey.

Let me begin with my parents.

I'm a product of this visionary mother and father.

Many years ago, when I was born in the '50s -- '50s and '60s didn't belong to girls in India.

They belonged to boys.

My family, in my city, and almost in the country, was unique.

We were four girls and no boys.

And my parents were part of a landed property family.

He sent us to one of the best schools in the city and gave us the best education.

So this is the foundation time which I got.

I grew up like this, and so did my other three sisters.

I'm the only one who's left in India.

One is a British, another is an American and the third is a Canadian.

So we are four of us in four corners of the world. 

And since I said they're my role models, I followed two things which my father and mother gave me.

And the second thing, which has stayed with me, which became my philosophy of life, which made all the difference, is: 100 things happen in your life, good or bad.

Ten are nature-sent over which you can't do a thing.

It's like a death of a relative, or a cyclone, or a hurricane, or an earthquake.

You can't do a thing about it.

You've got to just respond to the situation.

But that response comes out of those 90 points.

Since I'm a product of this philosophy, of 90/10, and secondly, "life on an incline," that's the way I grew up to be valuing what I got.

Because all of my best school friends were getting dolled up to get married with a lot of dowry, and here I was with a tennis racket and going to school and doing all kinds of extracurricular activities.

I thought I must tell you this.

Why I said this, is the background. 

But I joined the Indian Police Service, and then it was a new pattern of policing.

For me the policing stood for power to correct, power to prevent and power to detect.

This is something like a new definition ever given in policing in India -- the power to prevent.

Because normally it was always said, power to detect, and that's it, or power to punish.

How do I prevent the 10 and never make it more than 10?

So this was how it came into my service, and it was different from the men.

And I redefined policing concepts in India.

I'm going to take you on two journeys, my policing journey and my prison journey.

What you see, if you see the title called "PM's car held."

This was the first time a prime minister of India was given a parking ticket.

(Laughter) That's the first time in India, and I can tell you, that's the last time you're hearing about it.

And the rule was, because I was sensitive, I was compassionate, I was very sensitive to injustice, and I was very pro-justice.

That's the reason, as a woman, I joined the Indian Police Service.

I had other options, but I didn't choose them. 

So I'm going to move on.

This is about tough policing, equal policing.

Now I was known as "here's a woman that's not going to listen."

I now went to a prison assignment as a police officer.

Normally police officers don't want to do prison.

Obviously, it was.

Terrorists, rapists, burglars, gangsters -- some of them I'd sent to jail as a police officer outside.

And then how did I deal with them?

They saw me as a young, short woman wearing a pathan suit.

I said, "Do you pray?"

I prayed for them, and things started to change.

This is a visual of education inside the prison. 

Friends, this has never happened, where everybody in the prison studies.

I started this with community support.

Government had no budget.

You see one sample of a prisoner teaching a class.

These are hundreds of classes.

I think that's the bigger change.

Books came from donated schoolbooks.

Stationery was donated.

Now if I'd not done that, it would have been a hellhole. 

That's the second landmark.

One, the numbers you'll never get to see.

Secondly, this concept.

This was a meditation program inside the prison of over 1,000 prisoners.

One thousand prisoners who sat in meditation.

And this is what transformed.

You want to know more about this, go and see this film, "Doing Time, Doing Vipassana."

You will hear about it, and you will love it.

Let me show you the next slide.

This worked. 

This is a feedback box called a petition box.

This is a concept which I introduced to listen to complaints, listen to grievances.

This is how a prisoner drew how they felt about the prison.

If you see somebody in the blue -- yeah, this guy -- he was a prisoner, and he was a teacher.

Let me wrap it up.

Secondly is about the anti-corruption movement in India.

Friends, you will hear a lot about it.

That's the movement at the moment I'm driving, and that's the movement and ambition of my life. 

Thank you very much.

(Applause) Thank you.

Thank you very much.

