I grew up in New York City, between Harlem and the Bronx.

I've later come to know that to be the collective socialization of men, better known as the "man box."

See this man box has in it all the ingredients of how we define what it means to be a man.

Now I also want to say, without a doubt, there are some wonderful, wonderful, absolutely wonderful things about being a man.

This is my two at home, Kendall and Jay.

They're 11 and 12.

Kendall's 15 months older than Jay.

(Laughter) And when they were about five and six, four and five, Jay could come to me, come to me crying.

There was a time in my life where we had a very troubled experience in our family.

My brother, Henry, he died tragically when we were teenagers.

We lived in New York City, as I said.

And as we were preparing to come back from the burial, the cars stopped at the bathroom to let folks take care of themselves before the long ride back to the city.

And the limousine empties out.

I come to also look at this as this fear that we have as men, this fear that just has us paralyzed, holding us hostage to this man box.

It took me back to a time when I was about 12 years old.

I grew up in tenement buildings in the inner city.

He was about 16 years old, and we were all about 12 years old -- younger guys.

And he was hanging out with all us younger guys.

And this guy, he was up to a lot of no good.

He was the kind of kid who parents would have to wonder, "What is this 16-year-old boy doing with these 12-year-old boys?"

And he did spend a lot of time up to no good.

He was a troubled kid.

He was home alone a lot.

That's what the sisters said, "He was fine."

He was having sex.

We all looked up to him. 

Now my box, my card, my man box card, was immediately in jeopardy.

Two things: One, I never had sex.

We don't talk about that as men.

You only tell your dearest, closest friend, sworn to secrecy for life, the first time you had sex.

For everybody else, we go around like we've been having sex since we were two.

There ain't no first time.

Women are objects, especially sexual objects. 

Anyway, so I couldn't tell him any of that.

She's 16 years old.

She's nude.

We had a whole choice of inappropriate names for her.

Anyway, Johnny had just gotten through having sex with her.

Well actually, he raped her, but he would say he had sex with her.

Because, while Sheila never said no, she also never said yes. 

So he was offering me the opportunity to do the same.

So when I go in the room, I close the door.

Folks, I'm petrified.

I stand with my back to the door so Johnny can't bust in the room and see that I'm not doing anything, and I stand there long enough that I could have actually done something.

It was like the waiting room in the doctor's office.

And they asked me how was it, and I say to them, "It was good," and I zip my pants up in front of them, and I head for the door. 

But I knew I felt bad about what was happening.

This fear, getting outside the man box, totally enveloped me.

It was way more important to me, about me and my man box card than about Sheila and what was happening to her. 

See collectively, we as men are taught to have less value in women, to view them as property and the objects of men.

We see that as an equation that equals violence against women.

We as men, good men, the large majority of men, we operate on the foundation of this whole collective socialization.

We kind of see ourselves separate, but we're very much a part of it.

You see, we have to come to understand that less value, property and objectification is the foundation and the violence can't happen without it.

So we're very much a part of the solution as well as the problem.

The center for disease control says that men's violence against women is at epidemic proportions, is the number one health concern for women in this country and abroad. 

