But in the last couple of years we've become infamous for a couple of things.

First, of course, the economic meltdown.

It actually got so bad that somebody put our country up for sale on eBay.

Then there was the volcano that interrupted the travel plans of almost all of you and many of your friends, including President Obama.

By the way, the pronunciation is "Eyjafjallajokull."

None of your media got it right. 

But I'm not here to share these stories about these two things exactly.

Why would two women who were enjoying successful careers in investment banking in the corporate sector leave to found a financial services firm?

Well let it suffice to say that we felt a bit overwhelmed with testosterone.

And I'm not here to say that men are to blame for the crisis and what happened in my country.

Raised quite a few eyebrows in Iceland.

We weren't known as the typical "women" women in Iceland up until then.

So it was almost like coming out of the closet to actually talk about the fact that we were women and that we believed that we had a set of values and a way of doing business that would be more sustainable than what we had experienced until then.

And we got a great group of people to join us -- principled people with great skills, and investors with a vision and values to match ours.

And together we got through the eye of the financial storm in Iceland without taking any direct losses to our equity or to the funds of our clients.

So let me share with you our values.

We believe in risk awareness.

What does that mean?

Not a complicated thing.

And, although we do work in the financial sector, where Excel is king, we believe in emotional capital.

And we believe that doing emotional due diligence is just as important as doing financial due diligence.

Last, but not least, we believe in profit with principles.

We care how we make our profit.

It was also about a business opportunity.

It's the female trend, and it's the sustainability trend, that are going to create some of the most interesting investment opportunities in the years to come.

Now that we've had all that happen, and we have all this data out there telling us that it's much better to have diversity around the decision-making tables, will we see business and finance change?

Will government change? 

Have you seen the incredible urge out there to rebuild the very things that failed us?

(Applause) Einstein said that this was the definition of insanity -- to do the same things over and over again, hoping for a different outcome.

Like TED, I believe in people.

And I know that consumers are becoming more conscious, and they are going to start voting with their wallets, and they are going to change the face of business and finance from the outside, if they don't do it from the inside. 

We have a long history of strong, courageous, independent women, ever since the Viking age.

Women in Iceland took the day off.

(Laughter) They marched into the center of Reykjavik, and they put women's issues onto the agenda.

And some say this was the start of a global movement.

Five years later, Iceland elected Vigdis Finnbogadottir as their president -- first female to become head of state, single mom, a breast cancer survivor who had had one of her breasts removed.

And at one of the campaign sessions, she had one of her male contenders allude to the fact that she couldn't become president -- she was a woman, and even half a woman.

So I've had incredibly many women role models that have influenced who I am and where I am today.

But in spite of that, I went through the first 10 or 15 years of my career mostly in denial of being a woman.

Started in corporate America, and I was absolutely convinced that it was just about the individual, that women and men would have just the same opportunities.

But I've come to conclude lately that it isn't like that.

So we should embrace our difference and aim for challenge. 

The final thought I want to leave with you is that I'm fed up with this tyranny of either/or choices in life -- either it's men or it's women.

We need to start embracing the beauty of balance.

Thank you. 

