Restaurants and the food industry in general are pretty much the most wasteful industry in the world.

For every calorie of food that we consume here in Britain today, 10 calories are taken to produce it.

That's a lot.

I want to take something rather humble to discuss.

It grows and is nurtured.

It's then harvested.

It's then sold and bought, and it's then delivered to me.

There are different types of waste.

And every business I've been working on over the past five years, I'm trying to lower each one of these elements. 

Basically a restaurant just like any other.

This is the restaurant, Acorn House.

Front and back.

So let me run you through a few ideas.

Now reusing is vital.

And we filter our own water.

Here's a great little example.

It's got my compost in it, which is growing an orange tree, which is great. 

I basically created a menu that allowed people to choose the amount and volume of food that they wanted to consume.

It serves 220 people a day.

We generate quite a lot of waste.

This is the waste room.

You can't get rid of waste.

But this story's not about eliminating it, it's about minimizing it.

In here, I have produce and boxes that are unavoidable.

I compost it in this garden.

Three compost bins -- go through about 70 kilos of raw vegetable waste a week -- really good, makes fantastic compost.

A couple of wormeries in there too.

(Laughter) What you're seeing here is a water filtration system.

And I ultimately want to recycle that, put it back into the loos, maybe wash hands with it, I don't know. 

So, water is a very important aspect.

I started meditating on that and created a restaurant called Waterhouse.

If I could get Waterhouse to be a no-carbon restaurant that is consuming no gas to start with, that would be great.

I managed to do it.

They're all English and a little bit more sustainable.

But this is an electrical restaurant.

The whole thing is electric, the restaurant and the kitchen.

Now it's important to understand that this room is cooled by water, heated by water, filters its own water, and it's powered by water.

It literally is Waterhouse.

This is basically air-handling.

Very advanced, no air-conditioning -- I love it.

In the canal, which is just outside the restaurant, there is hundreds of meters of coil piping.

There's no accident in names of these restaurants.

I've got metal and earth to come.

If we don't stand up and make a difference and think about sustainable food, think about the sustainable nature of it, then we may fail.

But, I wanted to get up and show you that we can do it if we're more responsible.

The idea is embryonic.

I think it's important.

And I hope you all take part. 

