As a child, I had two passions.

One was a passion for rodents.

(Laughter) I also had a passion for Africa.

Growing up in a multicultural environment, we had African students in the house, and I learned about their stories, so different backgrounds, dependency on imported know-how, goods, services, exuberant cultural diversity.

Africa was truly fascinating for me. 

I started working in the industry, but I wasn't really happy to contribute to a material consumer society in a linear, extracting and manufacturing mode.

We're talking '95 now.

As long as these devices are there, or there is suspicion of landmines, you can't really enter into the land.

Actually, there was an appeal worldwide for new detectors sustainable in the environments where they're needed to produce, which is mainly in the developing world.

We chose rats. 

Why would you choose rats?

Because, aren't they vermin?

And actually, our product -- what you see here.

And the animal comes back for a food reward.

Very, very simple.

Very sustainable in this environment.

Here, the animal gets its food reward.

Now why would you use rats?

Rats have been used since the '50s last century, in all kinds of experiments.

Rats have more genetic material allocated to olfaction than any other mammal species.

They're extremely sensitive to smell.

Moreover, they have the mechanisms to map all these smells and to communicate about it.

Now how do we communicate with rats?

A clicker, which makes a particular sound with which you can reinforce particular behaviors.

Once the animal knows this, we make the task a bit more difficult.

It learns how to find the target smell in a cage with several holes, up to 10 holes. 

Then the animal learns to walk on a leash in the open and find targets.

In the next step, animals learn to find real mines in real minefields.

They are tested and accredited according to International Mine Action Standards, just like dogs have to pass a test.

This consists of 400 square meters.

If the animal does that, it gets a license as an accredited animal to be operational in the field -- just like dogs, by the way.

Maybe one slight difference: we can train rats at a fifth of the price of training the mining dog. 

And you should see the pride in the eyes of these people.

They have a skill, which makes them much less dependent on foreign aid.

Question of scale.

If you can bring in more rats, we can actually make the output even bigger.

We have a demonstration site in Mozambique.

Eleven African governments have seen that they can become less dependent by using this technology.

But let me bring you to a very different problem.

Especially in Africa where T.B.

Microscopy, the standard WHO procedure, reaches from 40 to 60 percent reliability.

You can actually cure T.B., even in HIV-positives. 

Already the old Chinese and the Greek, Hippocrates, have actually published, documented, that T.B.

So how does it work?

You have a cassette with 10 samples.

You put these 10 samples at once in the cage.

Here it's already at the third sample.

This is a positive sample.

It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward.

Just as an indication, whereas a microscopist can process 40 samples in a day, a rat can process the same amount of samples in seven minutes only.

But let's stick first to tuberculosis.

Microscopy for 1,800 patients.

So this is really considerable.

Knowing that a missed patient by microscopy infects up to 15 people, healthy people, per year, you can be sure that we have saved lots of lives.

At least our hero rats have saved lots of lives. 

The way forward for us is now to standardize this technology.

To conclude, there are also other applications at the horizon.

This is in a prototype stage.

We don't have a working system here yet. 

It is about empowering vulnerable communities to tackle difficult, expensive and dangerous humanitarian detection tasks, and doing that with a local resource, plenty available.

And to respectfully harmonize with them in order to foster a sustainable world. 

Thank you very much. 

