That's quite a lot.

(Laughter) But still, you're not representing the overall population of the Earth.

(Laughter) Because there's 80 percent out there that really eats insects.

But this is quite good. 

Insects are animals that walk around on six legs.

And here you see just a selection.

In fact, if we count all the individual organisms, we would come at much larger numbers.

In fact, of all animals on Earth, of all animal species, 80 percent walks on six legs.

But if we would count all the individuals, and we take an average weight of them, it would amount to something like 200 to 2,000 kilograms for each of you and me on Earth.

There was an estimation, a conservative estimation, a couple of years ago that the U.S. economy benefited by 57 billion dollars per year.

And so I looked up what the economy was paying for the war in Iraq in the same year.

It was 80 billion U.S. dollars.

Well we know that that was not a cheap war.

And not only in the States, but in any country, in any economy. 

What do they do?

They remove dung, they pollinate our crops.

A third of all the fruits that we eat are all a result of insects taking care of the reproduction of plants.

They're at the start of food chains.

Small animals eat insects.

Even larger animals eat insects.

But the small animals that eat insects are being eaten by larger animals, still larger animals.

And at the end of the food chain, we are eating them as well.

There's quite a lot of people that are eating insects.

And here you see me in a small, provincial town in China, Lijiang -- about two million inhabitants.

If you go out for dinner, like in a fish restaurant, where you can select which fish you want to eat, you can select which insects you would like to eat.

And you can eat something new everyday.

There's more than 1,000 species of insects that are being eaten all around the globe.

That's quite a bit more than just a few mammals that we're eating, like a cow or a pig or a sheep.

More than 1,000 species -- an enormous variety.

And now you may think, okay, in this provincial town in China they're doing that, but not us. 

You're eating at least 500 grams per year.

What are you eating?

Some fruits get some insect damage.

Those are the fruits, if they're tomato, that go to the tomato soup.

If they don't have any damage, they go to the grocery.

And that's your view of a tomato.

(Laughter) In fact, all our processed foods contain more proteins than we would be aware of.

So anything is a good protein source already. 

Cochineal is a product of an insect that lives off these cacti.

It's being produced in large amounts, 150 to 180 metric tons per year in the Canary Islands in Peru, and it's big business.

One gram of cochineal costs about 30 euros.

One gram of gold is 30 euros.

So it's a very precious thing that we're using to dye our foods. 

Now the situation in the world is going to change for you and me, for everyone on this Earth.

The human population is growing very rapidly and is growing exponentially.

Where, at the moment, we have something between six and seven billion people, it will grow to about nine billion in 2050.

There was an FAO conference last October that was completely devoted to this.

How are we going to feed this world?

And meat, in fact, is something that costs a lot of our agricultural production. 

And we eat quite a lot of it.

But it's increasing enormously.

And of course, we are not there to say that's only for us, it's not for them.

They have the same share that we have. 

Now to start with, I should say that we are eating way too much meat in the Western world.

You'll get proteins in any kind of food anyway.

The first problem that we're facing is human health.

Pigs are quite like us.

That means that pigs also share diseases with us.

This has happened in the Netherlands in the 1990s during the classical swine fever outbreak.

So that's one point for insects. 

And there's the conversion factor.

You take 10 kilograms of feed, you can get one kilogram of beef, but you can get nine kilograms of locust meat.

So if you would be an entrepreneur, what would you do?

With 10 kilograms of input, you can get either one or nine kg.

So far we're taking the one, or up to five kilograms of output.

We're not taking the bonus yet.

We're not taking the nine kilograms of output yet.

So that's two points for insects. 

And there's the environment.

If you produce insects, you have less manure per kilogram of meat that you produce.

So less waste.

Furthermore, per kilogram of manure, you have much, much less ammonia and fewer greenhouse gases when you have insect manure than when you have cow manure.

So you have less waste, and the waste that you have is not as environmental malign as it is with cow dung.

So that's three points for insects. 

In fact, it's comparable to anything we eat as meat at the moment.

And even in terms of calories, it is very good.

One kilogram of grasshoppers has the same amount of calories as 10 hot dogs, or six Big Macs.

So that's four points for insects. 

So the question is, why not eat insects?

I gave you at least four arguments in favor.

We'll have to.

That's not only the land where the livestock is walking and feeding, but it's also other areas where the feed is being produced and being transported.

And if you remember that we need to increase agricultural production by 70 percent, we're not going to make it that way.

We could much better change from meat, from beef, to insects.

On the left-hand side, you see a market in Laos where they have abundantly present all kinds of insects that you choose for dinner for the night.

On the right-hand side you see a grasshopper.

It's just very good food.

You can vary enormously.

It has many benefits. 

Who wouldn't like to eat a shrimp?

They are delicacies.

So why are we not eating insects yet?

Well that's just a matter of mindset.

That's why we're changing the perception of insects.

And I'm working very hard with my colleague, Arnold van Huis, in telling people what insects are, what magnificent things they are, what magnificent jobs they do in nature.

If we die out, the insects will continue very happily. 

So we have to get used to the idea of eating insects.

And some might think, well they're not yet available.

Well they are.

I predict that later this year, you'll get them in the supermarkets -- not visible, but as animal protein in the food.

And maybe by 2020, you'll buy them just knowing that this is an insect that you're going to eat.

And they're being made in the most wonderful ways.

A Dutch chocolate maker.

(Music) (Applause) So there's even a lot of design to it. 

It's not something that is a hobby of mine.

It's really taken off the ground.

So why not eat insects?

You should try it yourself.

So you can try it yourself today, and I would say, enjoy.

Marcel Dicke: It's all protein. 

BG: That's exactly the same [one] you saw in the video actually.

And it looks delicious.

They just make it [with] nuts or something. 

MD: Thank you. 

