I woke up in the middle of the night with the sound of heavy explosion.

It was deep at night.

I do not remember what time it was.

I just remember the sound was so heavy and so very shocking.

I looked out the windows and I saw a full half-circle of explosion.

I thought it was just like the movies, but the movies had not conveyed them in the powerful image that I was seeing full of bright red and orange and gray, and a full circle of explosion.

And I kept on staring at it until it disappeared.

This is my story.

I was that girl.

I am another image and vision of another survivor of war.

I am that refugee, and I am that girl.

We only talk about one side of it.

But there's another side that I have witnessed as someone who lived in it and someone who ended up working in it. 

I have since left Iraq and founded a group called Women for Women International that ends up working with women survivors of wars.

In my travels and in my work, from Congo to Afghanistan, from Sudan to Rwanda, I have learned not only that the colors and the sounds of war are the same, but the fears of war are the same.

It is very scary to go through that feeling of "I am about to die" or "I could die in this explosion."

It's like dying from inside-out.

We have been only seeing one side of war.

We have only been discussing and consumed with high-level preoccupations over troop levels, drawdown timelines, surges and sting operations, when we should be examining the details of where the social fabric has been most torn, where the community has improvised and survived and shown acts of resilience and amazing courage just to keep life going.

We have been so consumed with seemingly objective discussions of politics, tactics, weapons, dollars and casualties.

This is the language of sterility. 

How casually we treat casualties in the context of this topic.

This is where we conceive of rape and casualties as inevitabilities.

Seventy-five percent of them are women and children.

How interesting.

Oh, half a million women in Rwanda get raped in 100 days.

Or, as we speak now, hundreds of thousands of Congolese women are getting raped and mutilated.

How interesting.

These just become numbers that we refer to.

It is a chess game.

That was her fight.

And the ones who are keeping that life are women. 

There are two sides of war.

There is a side that fights, and there is a side that keeps the schools and the factories and the hospitals open.

There is a side that is focused on winning battles, and there is a side that is focused on winning life.

There is a side that is led by men, and there is a side that is led by women.

And in order for us to understand how do we build lasting peace, we must understand war and peace from both sides.

We must have a full picture of what that means. 

So that woman walked for 20 years, so she would not be kidnapped again.

And only when there was some sort of peace, her toenails grew back again.

We need to understand peace from a toenail's perspective. 

We need to understand that we cannot actually have negotiations of ending of wars or peace without fully including women at the negotiating table.

I find it amazing that the only group of people who are not fighting and not killing and not pillaging and not burning and not raping, and the group of people who are mostly -- though not exclusively -- who are keeping life going in the midst of war, are not included in the negotiating table.

The doctors who are not fighting, the artists, the students, the men who refuse to pick up the guns, they are, too, excluded from the negotiating tables.

Not one, but 50 percent. 

There is no way we can talk about the building of stability if we don't start investing in women and girls.

Did you know that one year of the world's military spending equals 700 years of the U.N. budget and equals 2,928 years of the U.N. budget allocated for women?

If we just reverse that distribution of funds, perhaps we could have a better lasting peace in this world.

She got into Women for Women International's program.

She got a support network.

That mother has a better chance to heal her children than any peace agreement can do. 

That girl that I told you about ended up starting Women for Women International Group that impacted one million people, sent 80 million dollars, and I started this from zero, nothing, nada, [unclear]. 

They are women who are standing on their feet in spite of their circumstances, not because of it.

Think of how the world can be a much better place if, for a change, we have a better equality, we have equality, we have a representation and we understand war, both from the front-line and the back-line discussion. 

Let us make this field a much bigger place.

Let us all meet in that field. 

Thank you. 

