I grew up in a very small village in Canada, and I'm an undiagnosed dyslexic.

I had a really hard time in school.

In fact, my mother told me eventually that I was the little kid in the village who cried all the way to school.

I ran away.

Then she took me to see a film that I really didn't want to see.

Cynthia and I were there.

We decided to give back locally. 

The desks are not square.

And we practice holism.

Our children spend 181 days going to school in a box.

The people that built my school also built the prison and the insane asylum out of the same materials.

So if this gentleman had had a holistic education, would he be sitting there?

Would he have had more possibilities in his life? 

The breeze passes through them.

These bubbles are made from natural cotton and rubber from the rubber tree.

So we basically turned the box into a bubble.

And these kids know that painless climate control may not be part of their future.

We pay the bill at the end of the month, but the people that are really going to pay the bill are our grandchildren.

We have to teach the kids that the world is not indestructible.

The first one was called sanding and the second one was called re-waxing.

But since that happened, they own those desks.

They know they can control their world. 

But an amazing alternative energy company in Paris is taking us off the grid with solar.

And this thing is the second vortex to be built in the world, in a two-and-a-half meter drop on a river.

And you know what these are.

There's nowhere to flush.

And as long as we're taking our waste and mixing it with a huge amount of water -- you're all really smart, just do the math.

How many people times how much water.

There isn't enough water.

It's something you should think about doing.

Not many things didn't work.

The beautiful canvas and rubber skylights got eaten by the sun in six months.

We had to replace them with recyclable plastic.

The teachers dragged giant PVC whiteboards into the classrooms.

Green School sits in south-central Bali, and it's on 20 acres of rolling garden.

I met a father the other day; he looked a little crazed.

I asked him, "Why?"

This was a great thing.

It's becoming a community.

It's becoming a green model.

We had to look at everything.

No petrochemicals in the pavement.

No pavement.

These are volcanic stones laid by hand.

There are no sidewalks.

This is the school buffalo.

He's planning to eat that fence for dinner.

All the fences at Green School are green.

And when the kindergarten kids recently moved their gate, they found out the fence was made out of tapioca.

They took the tapioca roots up to the kitchen, sliced them thinly and made delicious chips.

Landscaping.

We manage to keep the garden that was there running right up to the edge of each of the classrooms.

We dropped them gently in.

We made space for these guys who are Bali's last black pigs.

And the school cow is trying to figure out how to replace the lawnmower on the playing field. 

They know how to plant organic rice, they know how to look after it, they know how to harvest and they know how to cook it.

This young man is picking organic vegetables.

Local Balinese women cook the food on sawdust burners using secrets that only their grandmothers know.

The food is incredible. 

Green School is a place of pioneers, local and global.

And it's a kind of microcosm of the globalized world.

The kids are from 25 countries.

When I see them together, I know that they're working out how to live in the future.

Green School is going into its third year with 160 children.

It's a school where you do learn reading -- one of my favorites -- writing -- I was bad at it -- arithmetic.

But you also learn other things.

This is called mud wrestling in the rice fields.

The kids love it.

The mothers aren't quite convinced. 

And we were right.

A man came from Java with a new kind of organic agriculture.

A woman came from Africa with music.

We need someone to come and study it.

And all the kids are thriving. 

And how did we do all this?

It comes out of the ground like a train.

It's a double helix.

It has administrators in it and many, many other things. 

And the problem of building it -- when the Balinese workers saw long reams of plans, they looked at them and said, "What's this?"

So we built big models.

We had them engineered by the engineers.

And Balinese carpenters like this measured them with their bamboo rulers, selected the bamboo and built the buildings using age-old techniques, mostly by hand.

It was chaos.

The heart of school has seven kilometers of bamboo in it.

From the time the foundations were finished, in three months it had roofs and floors.

It may not be the biggest bamboo building in the world, but many people believe that it's the most beautiful. 

Is this doable in your community?

We believe it is.

So, Mr. Gore, thank you.

You ruined my life, but you gave me an incredible future.

And if you're interested in being involved in finishing Green School and building the next 50 around the world, please come and see us. 

Thank you. 

