Mountain biking in Israel is something that I do with great passion and commitment.

And also, for me, biking is a matter of empowerment.

When I reach the summit of a steep mountain in the middle of nowhere, I feel young, invincible, eternal.

It's as if I'm connecting with some legacy or with some energy far greater than myself.

You can see my fellow riders at the end of the picture, looking at me with some concern.

And here is another picture of them.

This story began four years ago.

So on one of these rides, I talked my way into the compound and went to see the warden.

And so two months later, we found ourselves "at large" -- myself, 10 juvenile inmates and a wonderful fellow named Russ, who became a very good friend of mine and my partner in this project. 

In spite of all this splendor, the beginning was extremely frustrating.

Every small obstacle, every slight uphill, would cause these fellows to stop in their tracks and give up.

So we had a lot of this going on.

But that's one reason why they ended up where they were.

And then he runs to the nearest tree and starts to break branches and throw rocks and curse like I've never heard.

And I'm just standing there, watching this scene with a complete disbelief, not knowing what to do.

I'm used to algorithms and data structures and super motivated students, and nothing in my background prepared me to deal with a raging, violent adolescent in the middle of nowhere.

And you have to realize that these incidents did not happen in convenient locations.

They happened in places like this, in the Judean Desert, 20 kilometers away from the nearest road.

It took me several such incidents to figure out what I was supposed to do.

At the beginning, it was a disaster.

I tried harsh words and threats and they took me nowhere.

That's what they had all their lives.

But that's what he had all his life, people walking away from him.

So, for such a kid, when an adult that he learns to respect stays close to him and doesn't walk away from him in any situation, irrespective of how he behaves, it's a tremendous healing experience.

It's an act of unconditional acceptance, something that he never had. 

I want to say a few words about vision.

When I started this program four years ago, I had this original plan of creating a team of winning underdogs.

I had an image of Lance Armstrong in my mind.

Together with the kids, I also went through a remarkable transformation.

Now, I come from a cutthroat world of science and high technology.

I used to think that reason and logic and relentless drive were the only ways to make things happen.

And one of these principles is focus.

Before each ride we sit together with the kids, and we give them one word to think about during the ride.

You know, perspective is one of these critically important life-coping strategies that mountain biking can really teach you.

I tell kids when they struggle through some uphill and feel like they cannot take it anymore, it really helps to ignore the immediate obstacles and raise your head and look around and see how the vista around you grows.

It literally propels you upwards.

That's what perspective is all about.

And that's how they develop self-esteem. 

And you look up at the sky through a hole in the clouds you see the monastery at the top of the Muhraka -- that's where you're supposed to climb now -- and you say, "There's no way that I could possibly get there."

And that's the point when you start loving yourself. 

And so we talked about these special words that we teach them.

That's where Joshua descended and crossed the Jordan and led the people of Israel into the land of Canaan 3,000 years ago in this final leg of the journey from Africa. 

And so, perspective and context and history play key roles in the way I plan my rides with the kids.

And we go through numerous remnants of Jewish settlements, Nabatic settlements, Canaanite settlements -- three-, four, five-thousand years old.

Thank you. 

