Not just a few astronauts -- thousands of people are going to colonize Mars.

And I am telling you that they're going to do this soon.

Some of you will end up working on projects on Mars, and I guarantee that some of your children will end up living there. 

That probably sounds preposterous, so I'm going to share with you how and when that will happen.

12 years ago, I gave a TED talk on 10 ways the world could end suddenly.

We are incredibly vulnerable to the whims of our own galaxy.

A single, large asteroid could take us out forever.

To survive we have to reach beyond the home planet.

This stuff is inside us.

And they prospered doing that.

Some of the greatest advances in civilization and technology came because we explored. 

Yes, we could do a lot of good with the money it will take to establish a thriving colony on Mars.

And yes we should all be taking far better care of our own home planet.

And yes, I worry we could screw up Mars the way we've screwed up Earth. 

He excited an entire generation to dream.

So let me tell you about the extraordinary adventure we're about to undertake.

But first, a few fascinating facts about where we're going.

This picture actually represents the true size of Mars compared to Earth.

Mars is not our sister planet.

It's really cold there.

The average temperature is minus 81 degrees, although there is quite a range of temperature. 

A day on Mars is about as long as a day on Earth, plus about 39 minutes.

Seasons and years on Mars are twice as long as they are on Earth. 

Here's the problem.

The Moon is 250,000 miles away and it took Apollo astronauts three days to get there.

240 days is a long time to spend trapped with your colleagues in a tin can. 

And meanwhile, our track record of getting to Mars is lousy.

Only about a third of the missions to Mars have been successful. 

And we don't at the moment have a rocket big enough to get there anyway.

But the last Saturn V was used in 1973 to launch the Skylab space station, and we decided to do something called the shuttle instead of continuing on to Mars after we landed on the Moon.

The biggest rocket we have now is only half big enough to get us anything to Mars. 

These days, NASA seems to be saying that it can get humans to Mars by 2040.

Maybe they can.

I believe that they can get human beings into Mars orbit by 2035.

We're going to land on Mars in 2027.

And the reason is this man is determined to make that happen.

His name is Elon Musk, he's the CEO of Tesla Motors and SpaceX.

Still ... you've got to ask yourself, can this guy really do this by 2025 or 2027? 

Still ... you've got to ask yourself, can this guy really do this by 2025 or 2027? 

Still ... you've got to ask yourself, can this guy really do this by 2025 or 2027? 

Well, let's put a decade with Elon Musk into a little perspective.

Where was this 10 years ago?

That's the Tesla electric automobile.

In 2005, a lot of people in the automobile industry were saying, we would not have a decent electric car for 50 years. 

And where was that?

10 years ago, SpaceX had not launched anything, or fired a rocket to anywhere.

And that raises a really big question.

Can we actually live there?

Let's look at the problem this way.

Here's what you need to live on Earth: food, water, shelter and clothing.

So let's look at the most important thing on this list first.

The soil alone on Mars contains up to 60 percent water.

It's not a bad place to start a colony. 

In fact, if only the water ice at the poles on Mars melted, most of the planet would be under 30 feet of water.

This is a device cooked up at the University of Washington back in 1998.

It's basically a low-tech dehumidifier.

And it turns out the Mars atmosphere is often 100 percent humid.

So this device can extract all the water that humans will need simply from the atmosphere on Mars. 

Next we have to worry about what we will breathe.

Frankly, I was really shocked to find out that NASA has this problem worked out.

This is a scientist at MIT named Michael Hecht.

And he's developed this machine, Moxie.

I love this thing.

It's a reverse fuel cell, essentially, that sucks in the Martian atmosphere and pumps out oxygen.

But the secret to this -- and that's just for testing -- the secret to this is that this thing was designed from the get-go to be scalable by a factor of 100. 

Next, what will we eat?

And then we need some shelter.

But this really only works during the daytime.

There is too much solar radiation and too much radiation from cosmic rays.

So we really have to go underground. 

Now, it turns out that the soil on Mars, by and large, is perfect for making bricks.

And NASA has figured this one out, too.

They're going to throw some polymer plastic into the bricks, shove them in a microwave oven, and then you will be able to build buildings with really thick walls.

And finally there's clothing.

On Mars there's hardly any atmospheric pressure.

So Dava Newman, a scientist at MIT, has created this sleek space suit.

It will keep us together, block radiation and keep us warm. 

So let's think about this for a minute.

Food, shelter, clothing, water, oxygen ... we can do this.

First we've got to warm it up.

Mars is incredibly cold because it has a very thin atmosphere.

If we heat it up, it sublimes directly into the atmosphere and thickens the atmosphere the same way it does on Earth. 

And as we know, CO2 is an incredibly potent greenhouse gas.

What we're shooting for is a runaway greenhouse effect: enough temperature rise to see a lot of that ice on Mars -- especially the ice in the ground -- melt.

Then we get some real magic. 

As the atmosphere gets thicker, everything gets better.

Then more water vapor goes into the air, forming yet another potent greenhouse gas.

It will rain and it will snow on Mars.

And a thicker atmosphere will create enough pressure so that we can throw away those space suits.

We only need about five pounds of pressure to survive.

Eventually, Mars will be made to feel a lot like British Columbia. 

But humans are amazingly smart and incredibly adaptable. 

There is no telling what our future technology will be able to accomplish and no telling what we can do with our own bodies.

We could end up with a species of human being on Earth that is slightly different from the species of human beings on Mars. 

It's going to be the same as it is on Earth.

Some idiot will start a reality TV show. 

There will be software companies, there will be hotels, there will be bars. 

This much is certain: it will be the most disruptive event in our lifetimes, and I think it will be the most inspiring. 

Ask any 10-year-old girl if she wants to go to Mars.

Children who are now in elementary school are going to choose to live there. 

Remember when we landed humans on the Moon?

We will never be the last of our kind. 

Thank you. 

