We've got a real problem with math education right now.

Basically, no one's very happy.

Those learning it think it's disconnected, uninteresting and hard.

Those trying to employ them think they don't know enough.

Governments realize that it's a big deal for our economies, but don't know how to fix it.

And teachers are also frustrated.

Yet math is more important to the world than at any point in human history.

So at one end we've got falling interest in education in math, and at the other end we've got a more mathematical world, a more quantitative world than we ever have had. 

So what's the problem, why has this chasm opened up, and what can we do to fix it?

I believe that correctly using computers is the silver bullet for making math education work.

So to explain that, let me first talk a bit about what math looks like in the real world and what it looks like in education.

See, in the real world math isn't necessarily done by mathematicians.

It's done by geologists, engineers, biologists, all sorts of different people -- modeling and simulation.

It's actually very popular.

And another thing about math: math sometimes looks like math -- like in this example here -- and sometimes it doesn't -- like "Am I drunk?"

And then you get an answer that's quantitative in the modern world.

You wouldn't have expected that a few years back.

But now you can find out all about -- unfortunately, my weight is a little higher than that, but -- all about what happens. 

So let's zoom out a bit and ask, why are we teaching people math?

What's the point of teaching people math?

And in particular, why are we teaching them math in general?

So let's ask another question.

What is math?

What do we mean when we say we're doing math, or educating people to do math?

And this is the thing most screwed up in the outside world, beyond virtually any other part of doing math.

That's stage two.

Once you've done that, then there's the computation step.

Turn it from that into some answer in a mathematical form.

And of course, math is very powerful at doing that.

And then finally, turn it back to the real world.

Did it answer the question?

And also verify it -- crucial step.

Now here's the crazy thing right now.

In math education, we're spending about perhaps 80 percent of the time teaching people to do step three by hand.

Yet, that's the one step computers can do better than any human after years of practice.

Instead, we ought to be using computers to do step three and using the students to spend much more effort on learning how to do steps one, two and four -- conceptualizing problems, applying them, getting the teacher to run them through how to do that. 

See, crucial point here: math is not equal to calculating.

Math is a much broader subject than calculating.

Now it's understandable that this has all got intertwined over hundreds of years.

There was only one way to do calculating and that was by hand.

But in the last few decades that has totally changed.

We've had the biggest transformation of any ancient subject that I could ever imagine with computers.

Calculating was typically the limiting step, and now often it isn't.

So I think in terms of the fact that math has been liberated from calculating.

But that math liberation didn't get into education yet.

See, I think of calculating, in a sense, as the machinery of math.

It's the chore.

It's the thing you'd like to avoid if you can, like to get a machine to do.

I estimated that, just today, across the world, we spent about 106 average world lifetimes teaching people how to calculate by hand.

That's an amazing amount of human endeavor.

I think we should be assuming computers for doing the calculating and only doing hand calculations where it really makes sense to teach people that.

And I think there are some cases.

So I think practicality is one case where it's worth teaching people by hand.

And then there are certain conceptual things that can also benefit from hand calculating, but I think they're relatively small in number.

One thing I often ask about is ancient Greek and how this relates.

See, the thing we're doing right now is we're forcing people to learn mathematics.

I don't think it's warranted.

So I have this distinction between what we're making people do and the subject that's sort of mainstream and the subject that, in a sense, people might follow with their own interest and perhaps even be spiked into doing that. 

So what are the issues people bring up with this?

Well one of them is, they say, you need to get the basics first.

You shouldn't use the machine until you get the basics of the subject.

So my usual question is, what do you mean by "basics?"

Basics of what?

Are the basics of driving a car learning how to service it, or design it for that matter?

Are the basics of writing learning how to sharpen a quill?

I don't think so.

A hundred years ago, it's certainly true that to drive a car you kind of needed to know a lot about the mechanics of the car and how the ignition timing worked and all sorts of things.

But automation in cars allowed that to separate, so driving is now a quite separate subject, so to speak, from engineering of the car or learning how to service it.

So automation allows this separation and also allows -- in the case of driving, and I believe also in the future case of maths -- a democratized way of doing that.

It can be spread across a much larger number of people who can really work with that. 

So there's another thing that comes up with basics.

People confuse, in my view, the order of the invention of the tools with the order in which they should use them for teaching.

So just because paper was invented before computers, it doesn't necessarily mean you get more to the basics of the subject by using paper instead of a computer to teach mathematics.

My daughter gave me a rather nice anecdote on this.

She enjoys making what she calls "paper laptops."

(Laughter) If you were born after computers and paper, it doesn't really matter which order you're taught with them in, you just want to have the best tool. 

So another one that comes up is "Computers dumb math down."

That somehow, if you use a computer, it's all mindless button-pushing, but if you do it by hand, it's all intellectual.

This one kind of annoys me, I must say.

And what's worse, what they're learning there isn't even practically useful anymore.

Might have been 50 years ago, but it isn't anymore.

When they're out of education, they do it on a computer.

Now, of course, like any great tool, they can be used completely mindlessly, like turning everything into a multimedia show, like the example I was shown of solving an equation by hand, where the computer was the teacher -- show the student how to manipulate and solve it by hand.

This is just nuts.

Why are we using computers to show a student how to solve a problem by hand that the computer should be doing anyway?

All backwards. 

Let me show you that you can also make problems harder to calculate.

See, normally in school, you do things like solve quadratic equations.

Same principles applied -- calculations, harder.

And problems in the real world look nutty and horrible like this.

They've got hair all over them.

They're not just simple, dumbed-down things that we see in school math.

And think of the outside world.

So the problem we've really got in math education is not that computers might dumb it down, but that we have dumbed-down problems right now.

Well, another issue people bring up is somehow that hand calculating procedures teach understanding.

So if you go through lots of examples, you can get the answer, you can understand how the basics of the system work better.

I think there is one thing that I think very valid here, which is that I think understanding procedures and processes is important.

But there's a fantastic way to do that in the modern world.

It's called programming. 

Programming is how most procedures and processes get written down these days, and it's also a great way to engage students much more and to check they really understand.

If you really want to check you understand math then write a program to do it.

So programming is the way I think we should be doing that.

So to be clear, what I really am suggesting here is we have a unique opportunity to make maths both more practical and more conceptual, simultaneously.

I can't think of any other subject where that's recently been possible.

It's usually some kind of choice between the vocational and the intellectual.

But I think we can do both at the same time here.

And we open up so many more possibilities.

You can do so many more problems.

We want people who can feel the math instinctively.

That's what computers allow us to do. 

Another thing it allows us to do is reorder the curriculum.

Why is this?

Well, it's damn hard doing the calculations, that's the problem.

But actually many of the concepts are amenable to a much younger age group.

This was an example I built for my daughter.

And very, very simple.

We were talking about what happens when you increase the number of sides of a polygon to a very large number.

And of course, it turns into a circle.

And by the way, she was also very insistent on being able to change the color, an important feature for this demonstration.

You can see that this is a very early step into limits and differential calculus and what happens when you take things to an extreme -- and very small sides and a very large number of sides.

Very simple example.

That's a view of the world that we don't usually give people for many, many years after this.

And yet, that's a really important practical view of the world.

And one of the reasons it's so important -- so it's very important to get computers in exams.

And you see, this isn't some dumbed-down model here.

This is an actual model where we can be asked to optimize what happens.

How many years of protection do I need?

This isn't some optional extra.

And the country that does this first will, in my view, leapfrog others in achieving a new economy even, an improved economy, an improved outlook.

And you know if you walk across a chasm, you end up making it worse than if you didn't start at all -- bigger disaster.

No, what I'm suggesting is that we should leap off, we should increase our velocity so it's high, and we should leap off one side and go the other -- of course, having calculated our differential equation very carefully. 

(Laughter) 

Thanks. 

