This cell phone started its trajectory in an artisanal mine in the Eastern Congo.

It's mined by armed gangs using slaves, child slaves, what the U.N. Security Council calls "blood minerals," then traveled into some components and ended up in a factory in Shinjin in China.

That factory -- over a dozen people have committed suicide already this year.

One man died after working a 36-hour shift.

We all love chocolate.

We buy it for our kids.

Eighty percent of the cocoa comes from Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana and it's harvested by children.

Cote d'Ivoire, we have a huge problem of child slaves.

Children have been trafficked from other conflict zones to come and work on the coffee plantations.

Your diamond -- you've all heard, probably seen the movie "Blood Diamond."

Every year when it comes to the cotton harvest, the government shuts down the schools, puts the kids in buses, buses them to the cotton fields to spend three weeks harvesting the cotton.

It's forced child labor on an institutional scale.

And all of those products probably end their lives in a dump like this one in Manila. 

These places, these origins, represent governance gaps.

That's the politest description I have for them.

Some of these governance gaps are run by rogue states.

Some of them are not states anymore at all.

They're failed states.

Some of them are just countries who believe that deregulation or no regulation is the best way to attract investment, promote trade.

Either way, they present us with a huge moral and ethical dilemma.

I know that none of us want to be accessories after the fact of a human rights abuse in a global supply chain.

But right now, most of the companies involved in these supply chains don't have any way of assuring us that nobody had to mortgage their future, nobody had to sacrifice their rights to bring us our favorite brand name product. 

Now, I didn't come here to depress you about the state of the global supply chain.

We need a reality check.

We need to recognize just how serious a deficit of rights we have.

This is an independent republic, probably a failed state.

It's definitely not a democratic state.

And right now, that independent republic of the supply chain is not being governed in a way that would satisfy us, that we can engage in ethical trade or ethical consumption.

Now, that's not a new story.

You've seen the documentaries of sweatshops making garments all over the world, even in developed countries.

But take the example of heparin.

It's a pharmaceutical product.

You expect that the supply chain that gets it to the hospital, probably squeaky clean.

The problem is that the active ingredient in there -- as I mentioned earlier -- comes from pigs.

And their factory in China -- which probably is pretty clean -- is getting all of the ingredients from backyard abattoirs, where families slaughter pigs and extract the ingredient.

So a couple of years ago, we had a scandal which killed about 80 people around the world, because of contaminants that crept into the heparin supply chain.

Worse, some of the suppliers realized that they could substitute a product which mimicked heparin in tests.

This substitute cost nine dollars a pound, whereas real heparin, the real ingredient, cost 900 dollars a pound.

A no-brainer.

The problem was that it killed more people. 

And the USFDA has a jurisdictional problem.

This is offshore.

There are 500 of these facilities producing active ingredients in China alone.

We don't have a regulatory system able to ensure that that production is safe.

We don't have a system to ensure that human rights, basic dignity, are ensured. 

And the real problem with the global supply chain is that it's supranational.

So governments who are failing, who are dropping the ball at a national level, have even less ability to get their arms around the problem at an international level.

And you can just look at the headlines.

Take Copenhagen last year -- complete failure of governments to do the right thing in the face of an international challenge.

Take the G20 meeting a couple of weeks ago -- stepped back from its commitments of just a few months ago.

Their voters are local.

They have parochial interests.

They can't subordinate those interests to the greater global public good. 

So, if we're going to ensure the delivery of the key public goods at an international level -- in this case, in the global supply chain -- we have to come up with a different mechanism.

We need a different machine.

Fortunately, we have some examples.

Companies didn't feel it was their responsibility.

They don't own those facilities.

They don't employ those workers.

They're not legally liable.

And let's face it, the contract from a major multinational brand to a supplier in India or China has much more persuasive value than the local labor law, the local environmental regulations, the local human rights standards.

Those factories will probably never see an inspector.

If the inspector did come along, it would be amazing if they were able to resist the bribe.

Even if they did their jobs, and they cited those facilities for their violations, the fine would be derisory.

That makes a difference.

So what we've been able to do is we've been able to harness the power and the influence of the only truly transnational institution in the global supply chain, that of the multinational company, and get them to do the right thing, get them to use that power for good, to deliver the key public goods. 

But they are extremely efficient organizations.

They have resources, and if we can add the will, the commitment, they know how to deliver that product.

Now, getting there is not easy.

Those supply chains I put up on the screen earlier, they're not there.

You need a safe space.

The problem is the lack of trust, the lack of confidence, the lack of partnership between NGOs, campaign groups, civil society organizations and multinational companies.

If we can put those two together in a safe space, get them to work together, we can deliver public goods right now, or in extremely short supply. 

It's crazy.

Multinationals are protecting human rights.

I know there's going to be disbelief.

Transparency is absolutely critical to this.

You can call yourself responsible, but responsibility without accountability often doesn't work.

Can I buy that product without compromising my ethics?

That's the way the system works. 

So we started out thinking this was a stopgap measure.

Just look at pandemics -- swine flu, bird flu, H1N1.

Look at the health systems in so many countries.

Do they have the resources to face up to a serious pandemic?

No.

Could the private sector and NGOs get together and marshal a response?

Absolutely.

What they lack is that safe space to come together, agree and move to action.

That's what we're trying to provide. 

I know as well that this often seems like an overwhelming level of responsibility for people to assume.

The sporting goods industry, in particular, stepped up to the plate and have done it.

The example, the role model, is there.

It seems overwhelming.

The numbers just make you want to zone out.

But we break it down to some basic realities. 

Poor people, people whose human rights have been violated -- the crux of that is the loss of dignity, the lack of dignity.

It starts with just giving people back their dignity.

They didn't say money.

That's my simple proposition to you, my simple plea to every decision-maker in this room, everybody out there.

We can all make a decision to come together and pick up the balls and run with the balls that governments have dropped.

Thank you very much. 

