So this is a story of a place that I now call home.

It's a story of public education and of rural communities and of what design might do to improve both.

It's mostly farmland.

The entire county is home to just 20,000 people, and they're very sparsely distributed.

So there's only 27 people per square mile, which comes down to about 10 people per square kilometer. 

Bertie County is kind of a prime example in the demise of rural America.

We've seen this story all over the country and even in places beyond the American borders.

We know the symptoms.

The brain drain -- where all of the most educated and qualified leave and never come back.

It's the dependence on farm subsidies and under-performing schools and higher poverty rates in rural areas than in urban.

And Bertie County is no exception to this.

Perhaps the biggest thing it struggles with, like many communities similar to it, is that there's no shared, collective investment in the future of rural communities.

Only 6.8 percent of all our philanthropic giving in the U.S. right now benefits rural communities, and yet 20 percent of our population lives there. 

So Bertie County is not only very rural; it's incredibly poor.

It is the poorest county in the state.

The economy is mostly agricultural.

The biggest crops are cotton and tobacco, and we're very proud of our Bertie County peanut.

The biggest employer is the Purdue chicken processing plant.

The county seat is Windsor.

This is like Times Square of Windsor that you're looking at right now.

It's home to only 2,000 people, and like a lot of other small towns it has been hollowed out over the years.

There are more buildings that are empty or in disrepair than occupied and in use.

There isn't even a Walmart. 

So the public school students are about 86 percent African-American.

And this is a spread from the local newspaper of the recent graduating class, and you can see the difference is pretty stark.

So to say that the public education system in Bertie County is struggling would be a huge understatement.

So there isn't a big legacy in the pride of education.

In fact, two years ago, only 27 percent of all the third- through eighth-graders were passing the state standard in both English and math. 

So it sounds like I'm painting a really bleak picture of this place, but I promise there is good news.

He was brought in in October 2007 as the new superintendent to basically fix this broken school system.

And he previously was a superintendent in Charleston, South Carolina and then in Denver, Colorado.

So fast-forward to today, and we now live there.

We now call this place home.

Over the course of this year that we spent flying back and forth, we realized we had fallen in love with the place.

We had fallen in love with the place and the people and the work that we're able to do in a rural place like Bertie County, that, as designers and builders, you can't do everywhere.

There's space to experiment and to weld and to test things.

We have an amazing advocate in Dr. Zullinger.

There's a nobility of real, hands-on, dirt-under-your-fingernails work. 

But beyond our personal reasons for wanting to be there, there is a huge need.

There is a total vacuum of creative capital in Bertie County.

There isn't a single licensed architect in the whole county.

So the goal became, yes, to apply design within education, but then to figure out how to make education a great vehicle for community development. 

So in order to do this, we've taken three different approaches to the intersection of design and education.

And I should say that these are three things that we've done in Bertie County, but I feel pretty confident that they could work in a lot of other rural communities around the U.S. and maybe even beyond.

So the first of the three is design for education.

This is the most kind of direct, obvious intersection of the two things.

It's the physical construction of improved spaces and materials and experiences for teachers and students.

This is in response to the awful mobile trailers and the outdated textbooks and the terrible materials that we're building schools out of these days.

And so this played out for us in a couple different ways.

The first was a series of renovations of computer labs.

So traditionally, the computer labs, particularly in an under-performing school like Bertie County, where they have to benchmark test every other week, the computer lab is a kill-and-drill testing facility.

You come in, you face the wall, you take your test and you leave.

Every time he has visitors, it's the first place that he takes them. 

And this also meant the co-creation with some teachers of this educational playground system called the learning landscape.

It allows elementary-level students to learn core subjects through game play and activity and running around and screaming and being a kid.

So this game that the kids are playing here -- in this case they were learning basic multiplication through a game called Match Me.

And then she'll call out a math problem -- so let's say four times four -- and then one student from each team has to compete to figure out that four times four is 16 and find the tire with the 16 on it and sit on it.

So the goal is to have all of your teammates sitting on the tires and then your team wins.

And the impact of the learning landscape has been pretty surprising and amazing.

He came out for one of our teacher-training days and won like five rounds of Match Me in a row and was very proud of himself. 

So the second approach is redesigning education itself.

This is the most complex.

It's a systems-level look at how education is administered and what is being offered and to whom.

So for us, this was a graphic public campaign called Connect Bertie.

There are thousands of these blue dots all over the county.

And this was for a fund that the school district had to put a desktop computer and a broadband Internet connection in every home with a child in the public school system.

Right now I should say, there are only 10 percent of the houses that actually have an in-home Internet connection.

And the only places to get WiFi are in the school buildings, or at the Bojangles Fried Chicken joint, which I find myself squatting outside of a lot.

Aside from, you know, getting people excited and wondering what the heck these blue dots were all over the place, it asked the school system to envision how it might become a catalyst for a more connected community.

It asked them to reach outside of the school walls and to think about how they could play a role in the community's development.

So the first batch of computers are being installed later this summer, and we're helping Dr. Zullinger develop some strategies around how we might connect the classroom and the home to extend learning beyond the school day. 

And then the third approach, which is what I'm most excited about, which is where we are now, is: design as education.

It also means that designers are no longer consultants, but we're teachers, and we are charged with growing creative capital within the next generation.

And what design offers as an educational framework is an antidote to all of the boring, rigid, verbal instruction that so many of these school districts are plagued by.

It's a vocational training path.

It's working-class; it's blue-collar.

So we took this kind of nebulous idea and have worked really closely with Dr. Zullinger for the past year on writing this as a one-year curriculum offered at the high school level to the junior class.

And this is what it looks like. 

So over the course of two semesters, the Fall and the Spring, the students spend three hours a day every single day in our 4,500 square foot studio/shop space.

And then over the summer, they're offered a summer job.

They're paid as employees of Project H to be the construction crew with us to build these projects in the community.

So the first project, which will be built next summer, is an open-air farmers' market downtown, followed by bus shelters for the school bus system in the second year and home improvements for the elderly in the third year.

So these are real visible projects that hopefully the students can point to and say, "I built that, and I'm proud of it."

So I want you to meet three of our students.

This is Ryan.

She is 15 years old.

She loves agriculture and wants to be a high school teacher.

She wants to go to college, but she wants to come back to Bertie County, because that's where her family is from, where she calls home, and she feels very strongly about giving back to this place that she's been fairly fortunate in.

So what Studio H might offer her is a way to develop skills so that she might give back in the most meaningful way. 

And then this is Anthony.

He's interested in forestry, but he isn't sure, so if he ends up not going to college, he will have developed some industry-relevant skills. 

What design and building really offers to public education is a different kind of classroom.

So this building downtown, which may very well become the site of our future farmers' market, is now the classroom.

And going out into the community and interviewing your neighbors about what kind of food they buy and from where and why -- that's a homework assignment.

And the ribbon-cutting ceremony at the end of the summer when they have built the farmers' market and it's open to the public -- that's the final exam.

And for the community, what design and building offers is real, visible, built progress.

But we feel like this could work in other places.

And I really, strongly believe in the power of the small story, because it is so difficult to do humanitarian work at a global scale.

Because, when you zoom out that far, you lose the ability to view people as humans. 

So while this is a very small story, we hope that it represents a step in the right direction for the future of rural communities and for the future of public education and hopefully also for the future of design. 

Thank you. 

