And Sylvia Earle and I were on an expedition in this submarine 20 years ago in Japan.

And on my dive, I went down 18,000 feet, to an area that I thought would be pristine wilderness area on the sea floor.

But when I got there, I found lots of plastic garbage and other debris.

I needed to put it into a context.

I needed to head towards conservation goals.

So I began to work with National Geographic Society and others and led expeditions to Antarctica.

And we developed techniques to dive inside and under the iceberg, such as heating pads on our kidneys with a battery that we dragged around, so that, as the blood flowed through our kidneys, it would get a little boost of warmth before going back into our bodies.

But after three trips to Antarctica, I decided that it might be nicer to work in warmer water.

And I'm going to tell you that story here in a moment.

But before I do, I just want you to ponder this graph for a moment.

You may have seen this in other forms, but the top line is the amount of protected area on land, globally, and it's about 12 percent.

But the ocean-protected area is basically flat line until right about now -- it appears to be ticking up.

And I do believe that we are at the hockey stick point of the protected area in the ocean.

I think we would have gotten there a lot earlier if we could see what happens in the ocean like we can see what happens on land.

But unfortunately, the ocean is opaque, and we can't see what's going on.

And therefore we're way behind on protection.

But scuba diving, submersibles and all the work that we're setting about to do here will help rectify that. 

So where are the Phoenix Islands?

If you want to get to the Phoenix Islands, it's five days from Fiji, it's five days from Hawaii, it's five days from Samoa.

It's out in the middle of the Pacific, right around the Equator.

So that's when I first learned of the Islands and had no idea what I was getting into.

But I was in for the adventure.

Let me give you a little peek here of the Phoenix Islands-protected area.

There's lots of seamounts in the Phoenix Islands, which are specifically part of the protected area.

Seamounts are important for biodiversity.

There's actually more mountains in the ocean than there are on land.

It's an interesting fact.

They're very low to the water, and they're all uninhabited, except one island has about 35 caretakers on it.

Phoenix Islands is a major tuna location.

And that's the area again.

You can see the Islands -- there are eight islands -- that pop out of the water.

The peaks that don't come out of the water are the seamounts.

Remember, a seamount turns into an island when it hits the surface. 

And what's the context of the Phoenix Islands?

Where do these exist?

Well they exist in the Republic of Kiribati, and Kiribati is located in the Central Pacific in three island groups.

In the west we have the Gilbert Islands.

In the center we have the Phoenix Islands, which is the subject that I'm talking about.

And then over to the east we have the Line Islands.

It's the largest atoll nation in the world.

And they have about 110,000 people spread out over 33 islands.

They control 3.4 million cubic miles of ocean, and that's between one and two percent of all the ocean water on the planet.

And he says, "cause that's where all the money is."

They basically are one nation that controls most of the equatorial waters of the Central Pacific Ocean. 

They're also a country that is in dire danger.

The Islands rise only one to two meters above the surface.

We as a world are faced with a problem.

What do we do with displaced fellow Earthlings who no longer have a home on the planet?

The president of the Maldives conducted a mock cabinet meeting underwater recently to highlight the dire straits of these countries.

So it's something we need to focus on.

But back to the Phoenix Islands, which is the subject of this Talk. 

After I got back, I said, okay, this is amazing, what we found.

I'd like to go back and share it with the government of Kiribati, who are over in Tarawa, the westernmost group.

So I started contacting them -- because they had actually given me a permit to do this -- and I said, "I want to come up and tell you what we found."

And I was free for dinner, and I went out to dinner with the Minister of Fisheries in Kiribati.

And the deal that they strike is the extracting country gives Kiribati five percent of the landed value.

So if the United States removes a million dollars' worth of lobsters from a reef, Kiribati gets 50,000 dollars.

And, you know, it didn't seem like a very good deal to me.

There were no oceanic deals where countries were compensated for not fishing.

And Conservation International had struck some of those deals.

The Oak Foundation and National Geographic have been big funders of this as well.

And we basically founded the park on the idea of an endowment that would pay the equivalent lost fishing license fees to this very poor country to keep the area intact. 

Halfway through this process, I met the president of Kiribati, President Anote Tong.

Many, many steps were taken to pull this off.

And it was primarily because Kiribati realized that this was in their own self-interest to do this.

They realized that this was a common cause that they had found with the conservation community. 

Then in 2002, when this was all going full-swing, a coral-bleaching event happened in the Phoenix Islands.

Of course the deep-sea areas and the open ocean areas were fine, but the coral, which everybody likes to look at, was in trouble.

Well, the good news is it's recovered and recovering fast, faster than any reef we've seen.

It's almost like if a person has multiple diseases, it's hard to get well, you might die, but if you only have one disease to deal with, you can get better.

And that's the story with climate-change heating.

It's the only threat, the only influence that the reef had to deal with.

There was no fishing, there was no pollution, there was no coastal development, and the reef is on a full-bore recovery. 

And we are now in the process of raising the full endowment.

Kiribati has frozen extracting activities at its current state while we raise the endowment.

We just had our first PIPA Trust Board meeting three weeks ago.

And the PIPA Trust Board holds that license and pays the country for this.

So the conditions for success here are listed.

You can read them yourselves.

But I would say the most important one in my mind was working within the market forces of the situation.

And that insured that we could move this forward and it would have both the self-interest of Kiribati as well as the self-interest of the world. 

And I'll leave you with one final slide, that is: how do we scale this up?

How do we realize Sylvia's dream?

Where eventually do we take this?

And as you can see, we have a patchwork across this ocean.

And what we need to do now is look at the whole Pacific Ocean in its entirety and make a network of MPAs across the Pacific so that we have our world's largest ocean protected and self-sustaining over time. 

