So there are a few things that bring us humans together in the way that an election does.

Our democracies rely on elections.

We cherish the opportunity to have our say, to help decide the future of the country.

The fundamental idea is that politicians are given mandate to speak for us, to make decisions on our behalf that affect us all.

Without that mandate, they would be corrupt. 

You see, even if the idea of the election is perfect, running a countrywide election is a big project, and big projects are messy.

To make sure as few things as possible go wrong, we have all these procedures around the election.

When you come back out, you get to drop your vote into the ballot box where it mixes with all the other votes, so that no one knows how you voted. 

They trust that election workers and election observers do their jobs and do their jobs correctly.

The ballot boxes go to counting places.

They're unsealed and the votes are poured out and laboriously counted.

So we have to trust a lot of people.

We have to trust a lot of procedures.

And sometimes we even have to trust computers.

Well in the face of all these bad headlines, researchers have taken a step back and thought about how we can do elections differently.

They've zoomed out and looked at the big picture.

And that's the tough part.

How do we make an election system completely verifiable while keeping the votes absolutely secret? 

And the secret is the ballot form.

And if you look closely at these ballot forms, you'll notice that the candidate list is in a different order on each one.

And that means, if you mark your choices on one of them and then remove the candidate list, I won't be able to tell from the bit remaining what your vote is for.

And on each ballot form there is this encrypted value in the form of this 2D barcode on the right.

So we can let computers do all the complicated cryptography for us, and then we'll use the paper for verification. 

So this is how you vote.

And you shred the candidate list.

So you let a poll station worker scan your encrypted vote.

If the government wants to find out how you voted, they won't be able to.

But the election magic doesn't stop there.

Instead, we want to make the whole process so transparent that news media and international observers and anyone who wants to can download all the election data and do the count themselves.

They can check that all the votes were counted correctly.

They can check that the announced result of the election is the correct one.

And these are elections by the people, for the people.

So the next step for our democracies are transparent and verifiable elections. 

Thank you. 

