I want to introduce you to an amazing woman.

Her name is Davinia.

She's not a high-powered political staffer, nor a lobbyist.

Davinia's impact started a few years ago when she reached out to all of her friends on Facebook, and asked them to donate their pennies so she could fund girls' education.

When we spoke last week, she told me she's become a little infamous at the local bank every time she rocks up with a shopping cart full of pennies. 

Now -- Davinia is not alone.

Far from it.

She's part of a growing movement.

Our work is focused on finding, supporting and activating global citizens.

They exist in every country and among every demographic. 

I want to make the case to you today that the world's future depends on global citizens.

I'm convinced that if we had more global citizens active in our world, then every single one of the major challenges we face -- from poverty, climate change, gender inequality -- these issues become solvable.

They are ultimately global issues, and they can ultimately only be solved by global citizens demanding global solutions from their leaders. 

Now, some people's immediate reaction to this idea is that it's either a bit utopian or even threatening.

So I'd like to share with you a little of my story today, how I ended up here, how it connects with Davinia and, hopefully, with you. 

You might have been one yourself.

The worst haircut, I think.

Still terrible. 

As a "why" kid, I thought I could change the world, and it was impossible to convince me otherwise.

And when I was 12 and in my first year of high school, I started raising money for communities in the developing world.

We were a really enthusiastic group of kids, and we raised more money than any other school in Australia.

And so I was awarded the chance to go to the Philippines to learn more.

It was 1998.

We were taken into a slum in the outskirts of Manila.

"Smoky Mountain" was what they called it.

Sure, they didn't create Smoky Mountain, but they may as well have.

We need to confront these challenges on a global scale and in a systemic way.

And the best thing I could do is try to mobilize a large group of citizens back home to insist that our leaders engage in that systemic change. 

That's why, a few years later, I joined with a group of college friends in bringing the Make Poverty History campaign to Australia.

It felt like this incredible validation.

What did we learn?

We learned that one-off spikes are not enough.

And so this is what we embarked upon.

We could only think of one way.

We needed to somehow turn that short-term excitement of people involved with the Make Poverty History campaign into long-term passion.

It had to be part of their identity.

So in 2012, we cofounded an organization that had exactly that as its goal.

But this is not about any one organization.

This is about citizens taking action.

And research data tells us that of the total population who even care about global issues, only 18 percent have done anything about it.

It's not that people don't want to act.

It's often that they don't know how to take action, or that they believe that their actions will have no effect.

So we had to somehow recruit and activate millions of citizens in dozens of countries to put pressure on their leaders to behave altruistically. 

See, extreme poverty isn't the only issue that's fundamentally global.

So, too, is climate change, human rights, gender equality, even conflict.

We found ourselves shoulder to shoulder with people who are passionate about targeting all these interrelated issues. 

But how did we actually go about recruiting and engaging those global citizens?

You had to earn it.

You had to take action on behalf of a global cause, and only once you'd done that could you earn enough points to qualify.

Activism is the currency.

I had no interest in citizenship purely as some sort of feel-good thing.

Last year, more than 155,000 citizens in the New York area alone earned enough points to qualify.

Globally, we've now signed up citizens in over 150 countries around the world.

And last year, we signed up more than 100,000 new members each and every week of the whole year. 

See, we don't need to create global citizens from nothing.

We're already everywhere.

We just need to be organized and motivated to start acting.

Here's what she did.

It wasn't rocket science.

She started writing letters, emailing politicians' offices.

She volunteered her time in her local community.

Now, maybe that doesn't sound like a lot to you.

Her actions, alongside 142,000 other global citizens', led the US government to double their investment into Global Partnership for Education.

See, when thousands of global citizens find inspiration from each other, it's amazing to see their collective power.

Global citizens like Davinia helped persuade the World Bank to boost their investment into water and sanitation.

Global citizens together with Rotarians called on the Canadian, UK, and Australian governments to boost their investment into polio eradication.

They got together and committed 665 million dollars. 

But despite all of this momentum, we face some huge challenges.

Indeed, the powerful American politician Tip O'Neill once said, "All politics is local."

I experienced this for the first time when I was 21 years old.

I took a meeting with a then-Australian Foreign Minister who shall remain nameless -- 

And behind closed doors, I shared with him my passion to end extreme poverty.

He went on.

He said we need to look after our own backyard first. 

This is, I believe, outdated, even dangerous thinking.

Or as my late grandfather would say, complete BS.

It pretends we can isolate ourselves and our nations from one another.

Now, global citizens -- they understand this.

The most we could do in those days was fire off a letter and wait for the next election.

There was no social media.

Both the problems and the tools to solve them are right before us.

So where are we?

So we run this amazing festival, we've scored some big policy wins, and citizens are signing up all over the world.

But have we achieved our mission?

No.

We have such a long way to go. 

But this is the opportunity that I see.

The concept of global citizenship, self-evident in its logic but until now impractical in many ways, has coincided with this particular moment in which we are privileged to live.

We, as global citizens, now have a unique opportunity to accelerate large-scale positive change around the world.

So in the months and years ahead, global citizens will hold world leaders accountable to ensure that the new Global Goals for Sustainable Development are tracked and implemented.

Global citizens will partner with the world's leading NGOs to end diseases like polio and malaria.

Global citizens will sign up in every corner of this globe, increasing the frequency, quality and impact of their actions.

Over all these years, I've tried to reconnect with Sonny Boy.

Sadly, I've been unable to.

I'm a global citizen. 

Are you? 

Thank you. 

