When I bachelored, majoring in zoology in Tel Aviv University, I kind of fell in love with bugs.

And then, within zoology, I took the course or the discipline of entomology, the science of insects.

And then I thought, myself, how can I be practical or help in the science of entomology?

So it's a whole discipline in plant protection that's aiming at the reduction of chemicals. 

That's a magnifier times 10.

Yeah, times 10.

So this phenomenon of natural control exists literally everywhere.

What is a pest?

What damage [does] it actually inflict on the plant?

And what is the natural enemy, the biologically controlled agent, or the good bug, that we are talking about?

In general, I'm going to talk about insects and spiders, or mites, let us call them.

Insects, those six-legged organisms and spiders or mites, the eight-legged organisms.

Let's have a look at that.

And then you see what kind of damage it can inflict.

On your right-hand side you can see a cucumber leaf, and on the middle, cotton leaf, and on the left a tomato leaf with these little stipplings.

By the way, they are hungry always. 

By the way, it's springtime now in Israel.

Females giving rise to females giving rise to other females.

No males at all.

Parthenogenesis, [as it] was so called.

And they are very happy with that, apparently.

Here we can see the damage.

Here we are not talking about a predator.

Here we are talking a parasite -- not a two-legged parasite, but an eight-legged parasite, of course.

And here you can see this parasite in action, like in an acrobatic maneuver.

By the way, the aphid tries to escape.

Only the egg of the parasite will be inserted into the body fluids of the aphid.

Again, in your backyard, in your backyard. 

But this is the end result.

The birth is almost complete.

You can see, by the way, in different movies, etc., it takes just a few minutes.

That means she has 400 bad aphids to put her eggs into their body fluids.

And this is of course not the end of it. 

There is a whole wealth of other natural enemies and this is just the last example.

But this is a nice, slender, very bad pest.

Here you can see the adult, black, and two young ones.

And again, in action.

And if we spread those minute pirate bugs, the good ones, for example, in a sweet pepper plot, they go to the flowers.

Everything is just fine under these circumstances.

But again, the question is, here you saw them on a one-to-one basis -- the pest, the natural enemy. 

What we do is actually this.

And in 30,000 square meters of state-of-the-art greenhouses, there, we are mass-producing those predatory mites, those minute pirate bugs, those parasitic wasps, etc., etc.

Many different parts.

And by the way, mass-production -- it is not genetic manipulation.

We take them from nature, and the only thing that we do, we give them the optimal conditions, under the greenhouses or in the climate rooms, in order to proliferate, multiply and reproduce.

And that's what we get, in fact. 

You see under a microscope.

You see in the upper left corner, you see a single predatory mite.

I have one gram of those predatory mites.

And we can produce from this, believe you me, several dozens of kilograms on an annual basis.

So this is what I call amplification of the phenomenon.

And no, we do not disrupt the balance.

That's the whole idea. 

And what is the impact?

So the impact is very strong.

Fortunately, in either biological control or even natural control, resistance is extremely rare.

It hardly happens.

Because this is evolution, this is the natural ratio, unlike resistance, which happens in the case of chemicals. 

And thirdly, public demand.

Public demand -- the more the public demands the reduction of chemicals, the more growers become aware of the fact they should, wherever they can and wherever possible, replace the chemical control with biological control.

Even here, there is another grower, you see, very interested in the bugs, the bad ones and the good ones, wearing this magnifier already on her head, just walking safely in her crop. 

Because, you see, this is the reality.

Have a look at the gap.

If we take the overall turnover of the biocontrol industry worldwide, it's 250 million dollars.

So there is a huge gap to bridge.

So actually, how can we do it?

How can we bridge, or let's say, narrow, this gap in the course of the years?

Secondly, to create even more intensive and strict public demand to reduction of chemicals in the agricultural fresh produce.

And thirdly, also to increase awareness by the growers to the potential of this industry.

And this gap really narrows.

Step by step, it does narrow. 

So I think my last slide is: All we are saying, we can actually sing it: Give nature a chance.

So I'm saying it on behalf of all the biocontrol petitioners and implementers, in Israel and abroad, really give nature a chance. 

Thank you. 

