I'm going to talk to you about power in this 21st century.

And basically, what I'd like to tell you is that power is changing, and there are two types of changes I want to discuss.

One is power transition, which is change of power amongst states.

And there the simple version of the message is it's moving from West to East.

The other is power diffusion, the way power is moving from all states West or East to non-state actors.

Those two things are the huge shifts of power in our century.

And I want to tell you about them each separately and then how they interact and why, in the end, there may be some good news. 

When we talk about power transition, we often talk about the rise of Asia.

It really should be called the recovery or return of Asia.

If we looked at the world in 1800, you'd find that more than half of the world's people lived in Asia and they made more than half the world's product.

But let me tell you a little bit about the other shift that I'm talking about, which is power diffusion. 

Now when the price of any technology declines that dramatically, the barriers to entry go down.

Anybody can play in the game.

So in 1970, if you wanted to communicate from Oxford to Johannesburg to New Delhi to Brasilia and anywhere simultaneously, you could do it.

The technology was there.

is not that the age of the State is over.

The State still matters.

But think of what it does to how we think in traditional terms and concepts.

We think in terms of war and interstate war.

And you can think back to 1941 when the government of Japan attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor.

It's worth noticing that a non-state actor attacking the United States in 2001 killed more Americans than the government of Japan did in 1941.

You might think of that as the privatization of war.

So we're seeing a great change in terms of diffusion of power. 

Now the problem is that we're not thinking about it in very innovative ways.

Power is simple the ability to affect others to get the outcomes you want, and you can do it in three ways.

And that ability to get others to want what you want, to get the outcomes you want without coercion or payment, is what I call soft power.

Indeed, if you can learn to use more soft power, you can save a lot on carrots and sticks.

Traditionally, the way people thought about power was primarily in terms of military power.

For example, the great Oxford historian who taught here at this university, A.J.P.

But we need a new narrative if we're to understand power in the 21st century.

It's not just prevailing at war, though war still persists.

And we have to think much more in terms of narratives and whose narrative is going to be effective. 

Now let me go back to the question of power transition between states and what's happening there.

the narratives that we use now tend to be the rise and fall of the great powers.

And the current narrative is all about the rise of China and the decline of the United States.

Indeed, with the 2008 financial crisis, many people said this was the beginning of the end of American power.

The tectonic plates of world politics were shifting.

And president Medvedev of Russia, for example, pronounced in 2008 this was the beginning of the end of United States power.

But in fact, this metaphor of decline is often very misleading.

If you look at history, in recent history, you'll see the cycles of belief in American decline come and go every 10 or 15 years or so.

In 1958, after the Soviets put up Sputnik, it was "That's the end of America."

In 1973, with the oil embargo and the closing of the gold window, that was the end of America.

The moral of this story is all these narratives about rise and fall and decline tell us a lot more about psychology than they do about reality.

If we try to focus on the reality, then what we need to focus on is what's really happening in terms of China and the United States.

Goldman Sachs has projected that China, the Chinese economy, will surpass that of the U.S. by 2027.

So we've got, what, 17 more years to go or so before China's bigger.

Now someday, with a billion point three people getting richer, they are going to be bigger than the United States.

But be very careful about these projections such as the Goldman Sachs projection as though that gives you an accurate picture of power transition in this century.

Let me mention three reasons why it's too simple.

First of all, it's a linear projection.

History is not linear.

There are often bumps along the road, accidents along the way.

The second thing is that the Chinese economy passes the U.S. economy in, let's say, 2030, which it may it, that will be a measure of total economic size, but not of per capita income -- won't tell you about the composition of the economy.

And that the Chinese won't catch up or pass the Americans until somewhere in the latter part, after 2050, of this century. 

The other point that's worth noticing is how one-dimensional this projection is.

You know, it looks at economic power measured by GDP.

It's all very one-dimensional.

If you're sitting in Japan, or in New Delhi, or in Hanoi, your view of the rise of China is a little different than if you're sitting in Beijing.

Indeed, one of the advantages that the Americans will have in terms of power in Asia is all those countries want an American insurance policy against the rise of China.

It's as though Mexico and Canada were hostile neighbors to the United States, which they're not.

So these simple projections of the Goldman Sachs type are not telling us what we need to know about power transition. 

The answer is it matters quite a lot.

Because, if you believe in decline and you get the answers wrong on this, the facts, not the myths, you may have policies which are very dangerous.

Let me give you an example from history.

The Peloponnesian War was the great conflict in which the Greek city state system tore itself apart two and a half millennia ago.

What caused it?

Thucydides, the great historian of the the Peloponnesian War, said it was the rise in the power of Athens and the fear it created in Sparta.

Notice both halves of that explanation. 

Many people argue that the 21st century is going to repeat the 20th century, in which World War One, the great conflagration in which the European state system tore itself apart and destroyed its centrality in the world, that that was caused by the rise in the power of Germany and the fear it created in Britain.

It's bad history.

For one thing, Germany had surpassed Britain in industrial strength by 1900.

And as I said earlier, China has not passed the United States.

But also, if you have this belief and it creates a sense of fear, it leads to overreaction.

And the greatest danger we have of managing this power transition of the shift toward the East is fear.

To paraphrase Franklin Roosevelt from a different context, the greatest thing we have to fear is fear itself.

We don't have to fear the rise of China or the return of Asia.

And if we have policies in which we take it in that larger historical perspective, we're going to be able to manage this process. 

Let me say a word now about the distribution of power and how it relates to power diffusion and then pull these two types together.

If you ask how is power distributed in the world today, it's distributed much like a three-dimensional chess game.

Top board: military power among states.

The United States is the only superpower, and it's likely to remain that way for two or three decades.

China's not going to replace the U.S. on this military board.

Middle board of this three-dimensional chess game: economic power among states.

Power is multi-polar.

It makes no sense to call this unipolar or multi-polar.

Power is chaotically distributed.

And the only way you can solve these problems -- and this is where many greatest challenges are coming in this century -- is through cooperation, through working together, which means that soft power becomes more important, that ability to organize networks to deal with these kinds of problems and to be able to get cooperation. 

Power can also be positive sum, where your gain can be my gain.

If China develops greater energy security and greater capacity to deal with its problems of carbon emissions, that's good for us as well as good for China as well as good for everybody else.

It's one in which we can all gain.

So as we think about power in this century, we want to get away from this view that it's all I win, you lose.

Military power is important.

Keeping balances is important.

All this still persists.

Hard power is there, and it will remain.

But unless you learn how to mix hard power with soft power into strategies that I call smart power, you're not going to deal with the new kinds of problems that we're facing. 

So the key question that we need to think about as we look at this is how do we work together to produce global public goods, things from which all of us can benefit?

How do we define our national interests so that it's not just zero sum, but positive sum.

And in the 21st century, you have to do an analog to that.

How do we produce global public goods, which are good for us, but good for everyone at the same time?

And that's going to be the good news dimension of what we need to think about as we think of power in the 21st century. 

And if we're going to deal with these two great power shifts that I've described, the power shift represented by transition among states, the power shift represented by diffusion of power away from all states, we're going to have to develop a new narrative of power in which we combine hard and soft power into strategies of smart power.

Thank you very much. 

