The big residual is always value for money.

All the time we are trying to get value for money.

What we don't look for is value for many, while we are generating value for money.

Do we care about those four billion people whose income levels are less than two dollars a day, the so-called bottom of the pyramid?

What are the challenges in getting value for money as well as value for many?

We have described here in terms of the performance and the price.

If you have money, of course, you can get the value.

You can get a Mercedes for a very high price, very high performance.

But if you don't have money, what happens?

Well, you are to ride a bicycle, carrying your own weight and also some other weight, so that you can earn the bread for the day.

And if they do so, then, of course, the conditions improve, and they start riding on scooters.

The issue is, at that price, can you give them some extra value?

A super value, in terms of their ability to ride in a car, to get that dignity, to get that safety, looks practically impossible, isn't it. 

Now, this is something that we see on Indian streets all the time.

The great thing about our leaders is that, should they not only have passion in their belly, which practically all of them have, they're also very innovative.

An innovator is one who does not know it cannot be done.

They believe that things can be done.

But great leaders like Ratan have compassion.

And when I finished my SSC, the eleventh standard, I stood eleventh among 125,000 students.

But I was about to leave the school, because my poor mother couldn't afford schooling.

That's how I'm standing before you.

So that is the House of Tata.

And incredible car.

How did this great story unfold, the making of Nano?

And they did innovation in design and beyond.

Broke many norms of the standard conventions for the first time.

For example, that a two-cylinder gas engine was used in a car with a single balancer shaft.

Adhesives were replacing the rivets.

There was a co-creation, a huge co-creation, with vendors and suppliers.

All ideas on board were welcome.

100 vendors were co-located adjacent to the plant, and innovative business models for automobile dealerships were developed.

Imagine that a fellow who sells cloth, for example, will be selling Nano.

I mean, it was incredible innovation.

Seeking solutions for non-auto sectors.

The mechanism of helicopters seats and windows was used, by the way, as well as a dashboard that was inspired by two-wheelers.

The fuel lines and lamps were as in two-wheelers. 

And the crux of the matter was, however, getting more from less.

And therefore, each component had to have a dual functionality.

Half the number of parts are contained in Nano in comparison to a typical passenger car.

The length is smaller by eight percent by the way.

But the current entry-level cars in comparison to that is eight percent less, but 21 percent more inside space. 

When the Model T was launched -- and this is, by the way, all the figures that are adjusted to 2007 dollar prices -- Model T was 19,700 by Ford.

And Nano was, bang, 2,000 dollars.

And those dreams are getting fulfilled.

The driver's name is Naran.

He has bought his own Nano.

It is not just technological, it is social innovation that we talk about. 

And that is where, ladies and gentlemen, this famous theme of getting more from less for more becomes important.

I remember talking about this for the first time in Australia, about one and a half years ago, when their academy honored me with a fellowship.

And unbelievably, in 40 years, I was the first Indian to be honored.

And the title of my talk was therefore "Indian innovation from Gandhi to Gandhian engineering."

And I titled this more from less for more and more people as Gandhian engineering.

And Gandhian engineering, in my judgment, is the one which is going to take the world forward, is going to make a difference, not just for a few, but for everyone.

And of course, these feet are so designed that they can walk only on such perfect pavement or roads. 

Unfortunately, that's not the case in India.

You can see him walk barefoot on an awkward land, sometimes in a marshy land, and so on and so forth.

More importantly, they not only walk far to work, and not only do they cycle to work, but they cycle for work, as you can see here.

And they climb up for their work.

You have to design an artificial foot for such conditions.

A challenge, of course.

You just don't have it.

And therefore, you ought to look at alternatives. 

And that is how Jaipur Foot was created in India.

It had a revolutionary prosthetic fitment and delivery system, a quick molding and modular components, enabling custom-made, on-the-spot limb fitments.

Outer socket made by using heated high-density polyethylene pipes, rather than using heated sheets.

And unique high-ankle design and human-like looks, [unclear] and functions.

And I like to show how it looks and how it works.

(Music) See, he jumps.

One kilometer in four minutes and 30 seconds.

(Applause) So that's what it is all about.

And therefore Time took notice of this 28-dollar foot, basically.

(Applause) An incredible story. 

(Applause) An incredible story. 

Let's move on to something else.

I've been talking about getting more from less for more.

Let's move to health.

We've talked about mobility and the rest of it, let's talk about health.

What's happening in the area of health?

You know, you have new diseases that require new drugs.

And if you look at the drug development 10 years ago and now, what has happened?

Time taken for moving a molecule to marketplace, after all the human and animal testing, was 10 years, now it is 15 years.

Are you getting more drugs because you are spending more time and more money?

No, I'm sorry.

We used to have 40, now they have come down to 30.

So actually we are getting less from more for less and less people.

Let us just take an example.

Psoriasis is very dreadful disease of the skin.

The cost of treatment, 20,000 dollars.

1,000-dollar antibody injections under the skin, by the way, and 20 of them.

Time for development -- it took around 10 years and 700 million dollars.

Can we do it [for] 100 dollars?

These targets have been achieved in India.

And that is how this difference has come.

And you can see this blending of traditional medicine, modern medicine, modern science.

I launched a big program [unclear] CSIR about nine years ago.

He is giving us not just for Psoriasis, for cancer and a whole range of things, changing the whole paradigm.

And you can see this Indian Psoriasis breakthrough obtained by this reverse form of [unclear] by doing things differently.

You can see before treatment and after treatment.

And mind you, it is not getting just a little more for just a little less.

So you are not talking about low cost, you are talking about ultra-low cost.

You are not talking about affordability, you are talking about extreme affordability.

Because of the four billion people whose income is under two dollars a day.

And therefore, you're not talking about incremental innovation, you're talking about disruptive innovation.

The ideas have to be such that you think in completely different terms.

And I would also add, it is not only getting more from less for more by more and more people, the whole world working for it. 

I was very touched when I saw a breakthrough the other day.

They're not available in Indian villages.

And infants die.

And incubator costs 2,000 dollars.

And there's a 25-dollar incubator giving that performance that had been created.

And by whom?

That's the new world that we want to create.

And that is why the message is that of Gandhian engineering. 

What was that?

[In the] 20th century, we gave Gandhi to the world.

And that can come only from Gandhian engineering.

So ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to announce, this gift of the 21st century to the world from India, Gandhian engineering. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

And one of them was [unclear] who taught us physics.

And there was a bright spot up there.

And that message, very frankly, is valuable for society today. 

What does that focal length do?

It has parallel lines, which are sun rays.

And the property of parallel lines is that they never meet.

What does that convex lens do?

They divide them farther.

So I learned the lesson of convex lens leadership from that.

And currently I'm president of Global Research Alliance, 60,000 scientists in nine counties, right from India to the U.S.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

