This technology made a very important impact on us.

It changed the way our history developed.

But we see the results of this technology, still.

So let's make a little test.

So everyone of you turns to their neighbor please.

Turn and face your neighbors.

Smile, friendly.

(Laughter) Do you -- Do you see any Canine teeth?

(Laughter) Count Dracula teeth in the mouths of your neighbors?

Of course not.

Because our dental anatomy is actually made, not for tearing down raw meat from bones or chewing fibrous leaves for hours.

It is made for a diet which is soft, mushy, which is reduced in fibers, which is very easily chewable and digestible.

Sounds like fast food, doesn't it. 

It's for cooked food.

So I would suggest that we change how we classify ourselves.

So cooking is a very important technology.

It's technology.

I don't know how you feel, but I like to cook for entertainment.

And you need some design to be successful.

So, cooking is a very important technology, because it allowed us to acquire what brought you all here: the big brain, this wonderful cerebral cortex we have.

(Laughter) But it's also, metabolically speaking, expensive.

If we eat raw food, we cannot release really the energy.

So this ingenuity of our ancestors, to invent this most marvelous technology.

Invisible -- everyone of us does it every day, so to speak.

Cooking made it possible that mutations, natural selections, our environment, could develop us. 

So if we think about this unleashing human potential, which was possible by cooking and food, why do we talk so badly about food?

Why is it always do and don'ts and it's good for you, it's not good for you?

Now, cooking allowed also that we became a migrant species.

If you can cook, nothing can happen to you, because whatever you find, you will try to transform it.

It keeps also your brain working.

Now the very easy and simple technology which was developed actually runs after this formula.

Take something which looks like food, transform it, and it gives you a good, very easy, accessible energy. 

This technology affected two organs, the brain and the gut, which it actually affected.

So because of having cooked food, it's easier to digest.

Now the big brain did this also with cooking.

But how did it actually run this show?

How did it actually interfere?

What kind of criteria did it use?

And this is actually taste reward and energy.

You know we have up to five tastes, three of them sustain us.

You need proteins for muscles, recovery.

Salty, because you need salt, otherwise your electric body will not work.

And two tastes which protect you -- bitter and sour, which are against poisonous and rotten material.

But of course, they are hard-wired but we use them still in a sophisticated way.

So we can make mixtures of all this kind of thing because we know that, in cooking, we can transform it to the form.

Reward: this is a more complex and especially integrative form of our brain with various different elements -- the external states, our internal states, how do we feel, and so on are put together.

And something which maybe you don't like but you are so hungry that you really will be satisfied to eat.

So satisfaction was a very important part.

And as I say, energy was necessary. 

Now how did the gut actually participate in this development?

If you get a stomach ache, if you get a little bit bloated, was not the right food, was not the right cooking manipulation or maybe other things went wrong.

So my story is a tale of two brains, because it might surprise you, our gut has a full-fledged brain.

(Laughter) And actually you use it and it's actually useful.

Now if there's a gut brain, we should also learn to talk with this brain.

Now 150 years ago, anatomists described very, very carefully -- here is a model of a wall of a gut.

I took the three elements -- stomach, small intestine and colon.

And within this structure, you see these two pinkish layers, which are actually the muscle.

And between this muscle, they found nervous tissues, a lot of nervous tissues, which penetrate actually the muscle -- penetrate the submucosa, where you have all the elements for the immune system.

The gut is actually the largest immune system, defending your body.

It penetrates the mucosa.

This is the layer which actually touches the food you are swallowing and you digest, which is actually the lumen.

Now if you think about the gut, the gut is -- if you could stretch it -- 40 meters long, the length of a tennis court.

If we could unroll it, get out all the folds and so on, it would have 400 sq.

And now this brain takes care over this, to move it with the muscles and to do defend the surface and, of course, digest our food we cook.

It has 20 different neuron types.

It senses the food; it knows exactly what to do.

It senses it by chemical means and very importantly by mechanical means, because it has to move the food -- it has to mix all the various elements which we need for digestion.

This control of muscle is very, very important, because, you know, there can be reflexes.

And then finally, it controls also the secretion of this molecular machinery, which actually digests the food we cook. 

Now how do the two brains work with each other?

What it means is that we have a layered control system.

The lower layer, our gut brain, has its own goals -- digestion defense -- and we have the higher brain with the goal of integration and generating behaviors.

Now both look -- and this is the blue arrows -- both look to the same food, which is in the lumen and in the area of your intestine.

The big brain integrates signals, which come from the running programs of the lower brain, But subsumption means that the higher brain can interfere with the lower.

It can replace, or it can inhibit actually, signals.

So what happens if the big brain in the integration overrides the signal?

So if you override the hunger signal, you can have a disorder, which is called anorexia.

Despite generating a healthy hunger signal, the big brain ignores it and activates different programs in the gut.

The more usual case is overeating.

Now the interesting thing is that, along this lower layer -- this gut -- the signal becomes stronger and stronger if undigested, but digestible, material could penetrate.

This we found from bariatric surgery.

That then the signal would be very, very high. 

So now back to the cooking question and back to the design.

Then we would generate something all of us would like to have -- a balance between the hunger and the satiation.

Now I give you, from our research, a very short claim.

This is fat digestion.

You have on your left an olive oil droplet, and this olive oil droplet gets attacked by enzymes.

This is an in vitro experiment.

It's very difficult to work in the intestine.

And I hope you can see that there are some ring-like structures in the middle image, which is water.

Now if we could take this language -- and this is a language of structures -- and make it longer-lasting, that it can go through the passage of the intestine, it would generate stronger signals. 

So our research -- and I think the research also at the universities -- are now fixing on these points to say: how can we actually -- and this might sound trivial now to you -- how can we change cooking?

How can we cook that we have this language developed?

So what we have actually, it's not an omnivore's dilemma.

We have a coctivor's opportunity, because we have learned over the last two million years which taste and reward -- quite sophisticated to cook -- to please ourselves, to satisfy ourselves.

Thank you very much. 

