The stories we tell about each other matter very much.

The stories we tell ourselves about our own lives matter.

And most of all, I think the way that we participate in each other's stories is of deep importance.

I was six years old when I first heard stories about the poor.

Now I didn't hear those stories from the poor themselves, I heard them from my Sunday school teacher and Jesus, kind of via my Sunday school teacher.

This is what Jesus asked of us.

And then he said, "What you do for the least of these, you do for me."

Now I was pretty psyched.

And also, it was kind of interesting that God needed help.

That was news to me, and it felt like it was a very important thing to get to participate in. 

I imagined in my head, a kind of long line of individuals that were never going away, that would always be with us.

They were always going to ask me to help them and give them things, which I was excited to do, but I didn't know how it was going to work.

In the years following, the other stories I heard about the poor growing up were no more positive.

For example, I saw pictures and images frequently of sadness and suffering.

I heard about things that were going wrong in the lives of the poor.

And in general, I got this sort of idea that the poor in the world lived lives that were wrought with suffering and sadness, devastation, hopelessness. 

And after a while, I developed what I think many of us do, is this predictable response, where I started to feel bad every time I heard about them.

I started to feel guilty for my own relative wealth, because I wasn't doing more, apparently, to make things better.

I gave when I was cornered, when it was difficult to avoid and I gave, in general, when the negative emotions built up enough that I gave to relieve my own suffering, not someone else's.

It became a transaction for me, became sort of a trade.

And I think the way that we go through that sometimes can, first of all, disembody a group of people, individuals out there in the world.

I think that exchange can actually get in the way of the very thing that we want most.

It can get in the way of our desire to really be meaningful and useful in another person's life and, in short to love. 

When I heard him speak, it was three years before that.

But basically, microfinance -- if this is new to you as well -- think of that as financial services for the poor.

Dr. Yunus shared his story, explaining what that was, and what he had done with his Grameen Bank.

But more importantly, he told stories about the poor that were different than any stories I had heard before.

In fact, those individuals he talked about who were poor was sort of a side note.

He was talking about strong, smart, hardworking entrepreneurs who woke up every day and were doing things to make their lives and their family's lives better.

All they needed to do that more quickly and to do it better was a little bit of capital.

It was an amazing sort of insight for me. 

And I, in fact, was so deeply moved by this -- it's hard to express now how much that affected me -- but I was so moved that I actually quit my job a few weeks later, and I moved to East Africa to try to see for myself what this was about.

So I spent three months in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania interviewing entrepreneurs that had received 100 dollars to start or grow a business.

I was starting to be friends and get to know their personal stories.

And over and over again, as I interviewed them and spent my days with them, I did hear stories of life change and amazing little details of change. 

So I would hear from goat herders who had used that money that they had received to buy a few more goats.

And they would make really interesting little adjustments in their lives, like they would start to send their children to school.

Maybe it was just that they could put sugar in their tea and offer that to me when I came as their guest and that made them feel proud.

But there were these beautiful details, even if I talked to 20 goat herders in a row, and some days that's what happened -- these beautiful details of life change that were meaningful to them.

Anyway, another interesting thing happened while I was there.

In fact, no one wanted me to feel bad for them at all.

So what I did hear, once in a while, was that people wanted a loan -- I thought that sounded very reasonable and really exciting.

And by the way, I was a philosophy and poetry major in school, so I didn't know the difference between profit and revenue when I went to East Africa.

I just got this impression that the money would work.

And my introduction to business was in these $100 little infuses of capital.

And I learned about profit and revenue, about leverage, all sorts of things, from farmers, from seamstresses, from goat herders.

So this idea that these new stories of business and hope might be shared with my friends and family, and through that, maybe we could get some of the money that they needed to be able to continue their businesses as loans, that's this little idea that turned into Kiva. 

The money came in basically overnight.

In October of '05, after those first seven loans were paid, Matt and I took the word beta off of the site.

We said, "Our little experiment has been a success.

And then that first year, October '05 through '06, Kiva facilitated $500,000 in loans.

And today, less than five years in, Kiva's facilitated more than 150 million dollars, in little 25-dollar bits, from lenders and entrepreneurs -- more than a million of those, collectively in 200 countries. 

So that's where Kiva is today, just to bring you right up to the present.

And while those numbers and those statistics are really fun to talk about and they're interesting, to me, Kiva's really about stories.

Because as that happens, I think we can feel free to interact in a way that's more open, more just and more creative, to engage with each other and to help each other. 

Imagine if you could hear a story you didn't expect of somebody who wakes up every day and works very, very hard to make their life better.

These stories can really change the way that we think about each other.

And if we can catalyze a supportive community to come around these individuals and to participate in their story by lending a little bit of money, I think that can change the way we believe in each other and each other's potential. 

Now for me, Kiva is just the beginning.

And as I look forward to what is next, it's been helpful to reflect on the things I've learned so far.

The first one is, as I mentioned, entrepreneurship was a new idea to me.

Kiva borrowers, as I interviewed them and got to know them over the last few years, have taught me what entrepreneurship is.

And I think, at its core, it's deciding that you want your life to be better.

You see an opportunity and you decide what you're going to do to try to seize that.

In short, it's deciding that tomorrow can better than today and going after that.

Second thing that I've learned is that loans are a very interesting tool for connectivity.

So they're not a donation.

Yeah, maybe it doesn't sound that much different.

But in fact, when you give something to someone and they say, "Thanks," and let you know how things go, that's one thing.

When you lend them money, and they slowly pay you back over time, you have this excuse to have an ongoing dialogue.

This continued attention -- this ongoing attention -- is a really big deal to build different kinds of relationships among us.

And then third, from what I've heard from the entrepreneurs I've gotten to know, when all else is equal, given the option to have just money to do what you need to do, or money plus the support and encouragement of a global community, people choose the community plus the money.

That's a much more meaningful combination, a more powerful combination. 

So with that in mind, this particular incident has led to the things that I'm working on now.

I see entrepreneurs everywhere now, now that I'm tuned into this.

And one thing that I've seen is there are a lot of supportive communities that already exist in the world.

With social networks, it's an amazing way, growing the number of people that we all have around us in our own supportive communities, rapidly.

And so, as I have been thinking about this, I've been wondering: how can we engage these supportive communities to catalyze even more entrepreneurial ideas and to catalyze all of us to make tomorrow better than today?

As I've researched what's going on in the United States, a few interesting little insights have come up.

So one is that, of course, as we all might expect, many small businesses in the U.S. and all over the world still need money to grow and to do more of what they want to do or they might need money during a hard month.

But there's always a need for resources close by.

Some statistics say 85 percent or more of funding for small businesses comes from friends and family.

And it's investments, not donations, not loans, but investments that have a dynamic return.

So the mapping of participating in the story, it actually flows with the up and down.

So in short, it's a do-it-yourself tool for small businesses to raise these funds.

And what you can do is go onto the site, create a profile, create investment terms in a really easy way.

We make it really, really simple for me as well as anyone else who wants to use the site.

And we allow entrepreneurs to share a percentage of their revenues.

As investors choose to become involved based on those terms, they can either take their rewards back as cash, or they can decide in advance to give those returns away to a non-profit.

So they can be a cash, or a cause, investor.

So that's what I'm working on now.

What we need are for people to care, to actually go use it, just like they've cared enough to use Kiva to make those connections.

So what I think I can do today, that best thing I can give you -- I've given you my story, which is the best I can do.

And I think I can remind us that we do care.

I think we all already know that.

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

For me, the best way to be inspired to try is to stop and to listen to someone else's story.

And I'm grateful that I've gotten to do that here at TED.

And I believe more and more every time I listen in that that person's potential to do great things in the world and in my own potential to maybe help.

Believing in each other, really being sure when push comes to shove that each one of us can do amazing things in the world, that is what can make our stories into love stories and our collective story into one that continually perpetuates hope and good things for all of us.

So that, this belief in each other, knowing that without a doubt and practicing that every day in whatever you do, that's what I believe will change the world and make tomorrow better than today. 

