Every presentation needs this slide in it.

(Laughter) It's beautiful, isn't it?

Do you see?

Isn't it amazing?

Through that, I connect to people.

And the way that I've been doing it has been multifaceted.

For example, I get people to dress up their vacuum cleaners.

(Laughter) I put together projects like Earth Sandwich, where I ask people to try and simultaneously place two pieces of bread perfectly opposite each other on the Earth.

Connecting to people in projects like YoungmeNowme for example.

In YoungmeNowme, the audience was asked to find a childhood photograph of themselves and restage it as an adult.

This was a Mother's Day gift.

(Laughter) Particularly creepy.

But this project changed the way that I thought about connecting to people.

This is project called Ray.

And what happened was I was sent this piece of audio and had no idea who generated the audio.

And I figured I'd put it on the Internet for all employees under stress to help you better deal with what you're going through on your job.

Here's how the song goes. 

Now you might not be able to sing that out loud, but you can hum it to yourself, and you know what the words are.

And let it give you some strength to get the next few moments on your job.

Ze Frank: So -- yeah.

One stood out in particular.

It was done by a guy named Goose. 

That song -- (Applause) Thank you.

So that song, somebody told me that it was at a baseball game in Kansas City.

In the end, it was one of the top downloads on a whole bunch of music streaming services.

And so I said, "Let's put this together in an album."

And the audience came together, and they designed an album cover.

In two weeks, they found him.

And it's sort of a metaphor for me for the virtual world.

I look at this photo, and he seems really interested in what's going on with that button, but it doesn't seem like he is really that interested in crossing the street.

(Laughter) And it makes me think of this.

On street corners everywhere, people are looking at their cell phones, and it's easy to dismiss this as some sort of bad trend in human culture.

But the truth is life is being lived there.

We can build all sorts of environments to make it a little bit easier, but ultimately, what we're trying to do is really connect with one other person.

And that's not always going to happen in physical spaces.

It's also going to now happen in virtual spaces, and we have to get better at figuring that out.

I think, of the people that build all this technology in the network, a lot of them aren't very good at connecting with people.

This is kind of like something I used to do in third grade. 

So here's a series of projects over the last few years where I've been inspired by trying to figure out how to really facilitate close connection.

Sometimes they're very, very simple things.

A Childhood Walk, which is a project where I ask people to remember a walk that they used to take as a child over and over again that was sort of meaningless -- like on the route to the bus stop, to a neighbor's house, and take it inside of Google Streetview.

And I promise you, if you take that walk inside Google Streetview, you come to a moment where something comes back and hits you in the face.

And I collected those moments -- the photos inside Google Streetview and the memories, specifically.

I guess the shoes came off when he was hit.

He slept over at my house once, and he left his pillow.

It had 'Chad' written in magic marker on it.

He died long after he left the pillow at my house, but we never got around to returning it."

Sometimes they're a little bit more abstract.

This is Pain Pack.

Right after September 11th, last year, I was thinking about pain and the way that we disperse it, the way that we excise it from our bodies.

So what I did is I opened up a hotline -- a hotline where people could leave voicemails of their pain, not necessarily related to that event.

And people called in and left messages like this. 

Recording: Okay, here's something.

I'm not alone, and I am loved.

I'm really fortunate.

But sometimes I feel really lonely.

And when I feel that way even the smallest act of kindness can make me cry.

Like even people in convenience stores saying, "Have a nice day," when they're accidentally looking me in the eye. 

ZF: So what I did was I took those voicemails, and with their permission, converted them to MP3s and distributed them to sound editors who created short sounds using just those voicemails.

And those were then distributed to DJs who have made hundreds of songs using that source material.

(Music) We don't have time to play much of it.

You can look at it online. 

Some came from the winning party.

And I asked people to send me beautiful things made out of the Angrigami.

(Laughter) But this was the emotional moment.

One of my viewer's uncles died on a particular day and he chose to commemorate it with a piece of hate.

It's amazing. 

So one of them was fairly straightforward.

A guy said that his daughter got scared at night and could I write a song for her, his daughter.

And this was "Scared."

Thank you.

But the idea was that at one point I did a project called Facebook Me Equals You, where I wanted to experience what it was like to live as another person.

So I asked for people's usernames and passwords to be sent to me.

And I got a lot, like 30 in a half an hour.

And I shut that part down.

And I chose two people to be, and I asked them to send me descriptions of how to act as them on Facebook.

And the person who didn't, it turned out, had just moved to a new city and taken on a new job.

So, you know, people were writing me and saying, "How's your new job?"

But anyway, this same person, Laura, ended up emailing me a little bit after that project.

And I felt badly for not having done a good job.

And she said, "I'm really anxious, I just moved to a new town, I have this new job, and I've just had this incredible amount of anxiety."

And so what I decided to do.

And this is the kind of thing that I got back. 

ZF: So that's one of the better ones, really.

And then a few days later I sent her this. 

Thank you. 

