And what it is -- it's a twist on health.

Because, really, what I'm trying to do now is redefine what counts as health.

It's a clinic like a health clinic at any other university, except people come to the clinic with environmental health concerns, and they walk out with prescriptions for things they can do to improve environmental health, as opposed to coming to a clinic with medical concerns and walking out with prescriptions for pharmaceuticals. 

Because this idea that health is internal and atomized and individual and pharmaceutical is largely an error.

80 to 90 percent of their time was spent on five things.

Number one was asthma, number two was developmental delays, number three was 400-fold increases in rare childhood cancers in the last eight to 10, 15 years.

Number four and five were childhood obesity and diabetes-related issues.

So all of those -- what's common about all of those?

The environment is implicated, radically implicated, right.

In this case, of course, the roundabout with that micro-decisions being made in situ by people not being told what to do.

But, of course, affords greater throughput, fewer accidents, and an interesting model of social movement. 

So an impatient concerned for water quality would raise a tadpole bureaucrat in a sample of water in which they're interested.

And we give them a couple of things to do that, to help them do companion animal devices while they're blogging and doing their email.

You have to explain what you're doing and how the developmental events of a tadpole are, of course, very observable and they use the same T3-mediated hormones that we do.

And of course, these endocrine disruptors are things that are implicated in the breast cancer epidemic, the obesity epidemic, the two and a half year drop in the average age of onset of puberty in young girls and other related things.

The culmination of this is if you've successfully raised your tadpole, observing the behavioral and developmental events, you will then go and introduce your tadpole to its namesake and discuss the evidence that you've seen. 

Anyone here lucky enough to share, to cohabit with a mouse -- a domestic partnership with mice?

Very lucky.

Mice, of course, are the quintessential model organism.

So it starts by building a better mousetrap, of course.

This is one of them. 

Coping with environmental stressors is tricky.

Is anybody here on antidepressants?

(Laughter) There's a lot of people in Manhattan are.

And we were testing if the mice would also self-administer SSRIs.

This was vodka and solution, gin and solution.

This guy also liked plain water and the muscle relaxant.

Where's our expert?

They did, yes.

Then of course, it goes into the entrapment device.

There's an old cellphone in there -- a good use for old cellphones -- which dials the clinic, we go and pick up the mouse.

We take the blood sample and do the blood work and hair work on the mice. 

And I want to sort of point out the big advantage of framing health in this external way.

But we do have a few prescription products through this.

It's very different from the medical model.

Anything you do to improve your water quality or air quality, or to understand it or to change it, the benefits are enjoyed by anyone you share that water quality or air quality with.

This is a prescription to improve water quality.

Many impatients are very concerned for water quality and air quality.

That doesn't do a lot of good.

But if we did this in every single -- every fire hydrant we could redefine the emergency.

That 99 percent of the time when a firetruck is not parking there, it's infiltrating pollutants.

It's also increasing fixing CO2s, sequestering some of the airborne pollutants.

So these are small actions that can amount to a significant effect to improve local environmental health.

This is one of the more ambitious ones.

Somehow buying a local lettuce, changing a light bulb, driving the speed limit, changing your tires regularly, doesn't seem sufficient in the face of climate crisis.

What is the fallout shelter for the climate crisis?

This was civic mobilization.

Churches, school groups, hospitals, private residents -- everyone built one of these in a matter of months.

And they still remain as icons of civic response in the face of shared, uncertain, collective threat. 

Fallout shelter for the climate crisis, I would say, looks something like this, or this, which is an intensive urban agriculture facility that's due to go on my lab building at NYU.

You can't actually build much on a roof, they're not designed for that.

So it's on legs, so it focuses all the load on the masonry walls and the columns.

It's built as a barn raising, using open source hardware.

This is the quarter-scale prototype that was functioning in Spain.

This is what it will look like, fingers crossed, NYU willing. 

You understand a solar chimney.

Hot air rises.

You put a bit of black plastic on the side of a building, it'll heat up, and you'll get passive airflow.

What we do is actually put a standard HVAC filter on the top of that.

When we put it through our solar chimney, we remove actually about 95 percent of that.

And then I swap it out with the students and actually re-release that carbon black.

And we make pencils the length of which measures the grime that we've pulled out of the air.

Here's one of them that we have up now.

Here's who put them up and who are avid pencil users. 

We are not alone; the animals are moving in.

In fact, urban migration now describes the movement of animals formerly known as wild into urban centers.

You know, coyote in Central Park, a whale in the Gowanus Canal, elk in Westchester County.

And every green space we create is an invitation for non-humans to cohabit with us.

But we've kind of lacked imagination in how we could do that well or interestingly.

When a bird lands on it, they trigger a sound file.

They said things like this. 

Recorded Voice: Here's what you need to do.

Go down there and buy some of those health food bars, the ones you call bird food, and bring it here and scatter it around.

There's a good person. 

The birds were able to jump from one to the other.

These are just your average urban pigeon.

And an early test which argument elicited cooperative behavior from the people below -- about a hundred to one decided that this was the argument that worked best on us. 

Do you know what slows it down?

Healthy sub-populations of birds, increasing biodiversity generally.

It is in your interests that I'm healthy, happy, well-fed.

Hence, you could share some of your nutritional resources instead of monopolizing them.

That is, share your lunch. 

NJ: It worked, and it's true.

The final project I'd like to show you is a new interface for fish that has just been launched -- it's actually officially launched next week -- with a wonderful commission from the Architectural League.

You may not have known that you need to communicate with fish, but there is now a device for you to do so.

When a fish swims underneath, a light goes on.

This is what it looks like.

So there's another function on here.

And then you can also text the fish.

And they text back.

When the buoys get your text, they wink at you twice to say, we've got your message.

So updates from a beaver.

But they also have a chelating agent in them.

They're nutritionally appropriate, not like Doritos.

And there's about three of them on every New York City park.

And Yellowstone National Park, there's more "do not feed the animals" signs than there are animals you might wish to feed.

By actually taking the opportunity that new technologies, new interactive technologies, present to re-script our interactions, to script them, not just as isolated, individuated interactions, but as collective aggregating actions that can amount to something, we can really begin to address some of our important environmental challenges. 

Thank you. 

