I learned about the Haiti earthquake by Skype.

It was 25 minutes of absolute terror that thousands of people across the U.S. felt.

We've all seen the photos of the collapsed buildings in Haiti.

This is the national palace -- the equivalent of the White House.

The general hospital right next door emerged largely unscathed.

This is the Ministry of Economics and Finance. 

We haven't heard about why the buildings failed.

After all, it was the buildings, not the earthquake, that killed 220,000 people, that injured 330,000, that displaced 1.3 million people, that cut off food and water and supplies for an entire nation.

AIDG has worked in Haiti since 2007, providing engineering and business support to small businesses.

And after the quake, we started bringing in earthquake engineers to figure out why the buildings collapsed, to examine what was safe and what wasn't.

We inspected medical centers and food warehouses.

We inspected government buildings. 

This is the Ministry of Justice.

Behind that door is the National Judicial Archives.

Andre told me, after seeing these buildings fail again and again in the same way, that there is no new research here.

There is nothing here that we don't know.

Now there's a solution to all these problems.

And we know how to build properly.

Adjusted for population density, that is less than one percent of the impact of the Haitian quake.

What was the difference between Chile and Haiti?

If you look at this building in Chile, it's ripped in half, but it's not a pile of rubble.

Chileans have been building with confined masonry for decades. 

Right now, AIDG is working with KPFF Consulting Engineers, Architecture for Humanity, to bring more confined masonry training into Haiti.

On his last job he was working with his boss, and they started pouring the columns wrong.

Now there are many groups doing this.

And the fellow in the vest there, Craig Toten, he has pushed forward to get documentation out to all the groups that are doing this.

Through Haiti Rewired, through Build Change, Architecture for Humanity, AIDG, there is the possibility to reach out to 30,000 -- 40,000 masons across the country and create a movement of proper building.

If you reach out to the people on the ground in this collaborative way it's extremely affordable.

The way at the top is a poorly constructed building that will fail.

The way at the bottom is a confined masonry building, where the walls are tied together, the building is symmetric, and it will stand up to an earthquake.

