And when I meet the mothers in so many of these remote places, I'm really struck by the things that we have in common.

So in short, I'm startled by all the things that they don't have.

But I am surprised by one thing that they do have: Coca-Cola. 

Coke is everywhere.

In fact, when I travel to the developing world, Coke feels ubiquitous.

If they can do that, why can't governments and NGOs do the same thing?

And I'm not the first person to ask this question.

But I think, as a community, we still have a lot to learn.

It's staggering, if you think about Coca-Cola.

They sell 1.5 billion servings every single day.

That's like every man, woman and child on the planet having a serving of Coke every week.

So why does this matter?

I feel that, if we can understand what makes something like Coca-Cola ubiquitous, we can apply those lessons then for the public good. 

Coke's success is relevant, because if we can analyze it, learn from it, then we can save lives.

So that's why I took a bit of time to study Coke.

And I think there are really three things we can take away from Coca-Cola.

They take real-time data and immediately feed it back into the product.

They tap into local entrepreneurial talent, and they do incredible marketing.

So let's start with the data.

So they take the data, and they use it to measure progress.

They have this very continuous feedback loop.

They learn something, they put it back into the product, they put it back into the market.

They have a whole team called "Knowledge and Insight."

It's a lot like other consumer companies.

So if you're running Namibia for Coca-Cola, and you have a 107 constituencies, you know where every can versus bottle of Sprite, Fanta or Coke was sold, whether it was a corner store, a supermarket or a pushcart.

So if sales start to drop, then the person can identify the problem and address the issue. 

Let's contrast that for a minute to development.

In development, the evaluation comes at the very end of the project.

I've sat in a lot of those meetings, and by then, it is way too late to use the data.

I had somebody from an NGO once describe it to me as bowling in the dark.

So what's the second thing that Coke's good at?

They're good at tapping into that local entrepreneurial talent.

And in Africa, the remote places, it's hard to find a good road.

They set them up as what they called micro-distribution centers, and those local entrepreneurs then hire sales people, who go out with bicycles and pushcarts and wheelbarrows to sell the product.

There are now some 3,000 of these centers employing about 15,000 people in Africa.

In Tanzania and Uganda, they represent 90 percent of Coke's sales.

Let's look at the development side. 

What is it that governments and NGOs can learn from Coke?

I think a great example of this is Ethiopia's new health extension program.

The government noticed in Ethiopia that many of the people were so far away from a health clinic, they were over a day's travel away from a health clinic.

So if you're in an emergency situation -- or if you're a mom about to deliver a baby -- forget it, to get to the health care center.

They decided that wasn't good enough, so they went to India and studied the Indian state of Kerala that also had a system like this, and they adapted it for Ethiopia.

And in 2003, the government of Ethiopia started this new system in their own country.

They trained 35,000 health extension workers to deliver care directly to the people.

In just five years, their ratio went from one worker for every 30,000 people to one worker for every 2,500 people. 

Now, think about how this can change people's lives.

In Ethiopia, there are hundreds of thousands of children living because of this health extension worker program.

So what's the next step for Ethiopia?

Well, they're already starting talk about this.

They're starting to talk about, "How do you have the health community workers generate their own ideas?

How do you incent them based on the impact that they're getting out in those remote villages?"

That's how you tap into local entrepreneurial talent and you unlock people's potential. 

The third component of Coke's success is marketing.

Now the reason these micro-entrepreneurs can sell or make a profit is they have to sell every single bottle in their pushcart or their wheelbarrow.

Well, it's aspirational.

It is associated that product with a kind of life that people want to live.

So even though it's a global company, they take a very local approach.

Coke's global campaign slogan is "Open Happiness."

But they localize it.

And they don't just guess what makes people happy; they go to places like Latin America and they realize that happiness there is associated with family life.

And in South Africa, they associate happiness with seriti or community respect.

Now, that played itself out in the World Cup campaign.

Melinda French Gates: It feels pretty good, right?

So how does health and development market?

Well, it's based on avoidance, not aspirations.

I'm sure you've heard some of these messages.

And I think that's a mistake.

And there's some indications around the world that this is starting to change.

One example is sanitation.

But what we're finding around the world, over and over again, is, if you build a toilet and you leave it there, it doesn't get used.

People reuse it for a slab for their home.

(Laughter) But what does marketing really entail that would make a sanitation solution get a result in diarrhea?

But then you take the toilet and you position it as a modern, trendy convenience.

(Laughter) I'm not kidding.

But more importantly, it saves lives.

And can you guess what the young men are waiting for?

They're waiting to be circumcised.

Can you you believe that?

We know that circumcision reduces HIV infection by 60 percent in men.

So if we can start to understand what people really want in health and development, we can change communities and we can change whole nations. 

Well, why is all of this so important?

So let's talk about what happens when this all comes together, when you tie the three things together.

And polio, I think, is one of the most powerful examples.

We've seen a 99 percent reduction in polio in 20 years.

So if you look back to 1988, there are about 350,000 cases of polio on the planet that year.

In 2009, we're down to 1,600 cases.

Well how did that happen?

Let's look at a country like India.

They have over a billion people in this country, but they have 35,000 local doctors who report paralysis, and clinicians, a huge reporting system in chemists.

They have two and a half million vaccinators.

But let me make the story a little bit more concrete for you.

Let me tell you the story of Shriram, an 18 month boy in Bihar, a northern state in India.

Now it could have come from one of two places.

It could have come from Nepal, just to the north, across the border, or from Jharkhand, a state just to the south.

So what's the endgame?

They went out and where Shriram lives, they vaccinated two million people.

So in less than a month, we went from one case of paralysis to a targeted vaccination program.

And I'm happy to say only one other person in that area got polio.

It's not the marketing on the ground.

It's not telling the parents, "If you see paralysis, take your child to the doctor or get your child vaccinated."

We have a problem with marketing in the donor community.

So by next summer, we're sighted to run out of money on polio.

So we are 99 percent of the way there on this goal and we're about to run short of money.

And I think that if the marketing were more aspirational, if we could focus as a community on how far we've come and how amazing it would be to eradicate this disease, we could put polio fatigue and polio behind us.

And if we could do that, we could stop vaccinating everybody, worldwide, in all of our countries for polio.

And it would only be the second disease ever wiped off the face of the planet.

And we are so close.

And this victory is so possible. 

So if Coke's marketers came to me and asked me to define happiness, I'd say my vision of happiness is a mother holding healthy baby in her arms.

To me, that is deep happiness.

And so if we can learn lessons from the innovators in every sector, then in the future we make together, that happiness can be just as ubiquitous as Coca-Cola. 

Thank you. 

