Sometimes I go browsing [through] a very old magazine.

I found this observation test about the story of the ark.

Some of them are very easy.

There is a funnel, an aerial part, a lamp and clockwork key on the ark.

Some of them are about the animals, the number.

So now we have God that is going to submerge Earth permanently or at least for a very long period, and no one is taking care of plants.

Noah needed to take two of every kind of bird, of every kind of animal, of every kind of creature that moves, but no mention about plants.

Why?

In another part of the same story, all the living creatures are just the living creatures that came out from the ark, so birds, livestock and wild animals.

That is a point that is not coming out from the Bible, but it's something that really accompanied humanity. 

Let's have a look at this nice code that is coming from a Renaissance book.

We have the animals that are able to live and to sense, and on the top of the pyramid, there is the man.

This is not the common man.

The "Homo studiosus" -- the studying man.

But it's something completely wrong.

You know very well about professors.

They are much more sophisticated in sensing than animals.

Just to give you an example, every single root apex is able to detect and to monitor concurrently and continuously at least 15 different chemical and physical parameters.

And they also are able to show and to exhibit such a wonderful and complex behavior that can be described just with the term of intelligence.

Well, but this is something -- this underestimation of plants is something that is always with us. 

Let's have a look at this short movie now.

We have David Attenborough.

Now, when he speaks about plants, everything is correct.

When he speaks about animals, [he] tends to remove the fact that plants exist.

(Applause) And this is a living organism that has a mass of at least 2,000 tons.

Now, the story that plants are some low-level organisms has been formalized many times ago by Aristotle, that in "De Anima" -- that is a very influential book for the Western civilization -- wrote that the plants are on the edge between living and not living.

They have just a kind of very low-level soul.

It's called the vegetative soul, because they lack movement, and so they don't need to sense.

Let's see. 

Okay, some of the movements of the plants are very well-known.

This is a very fast movement.

This has been something that has been refused for centuries, despite the evidence.

It's just a question to use some techniques like the time lapse.

Some of them are much more sophisticated.

Look at this young bean that is moving to catch the light every time.

These are young sunflowers, and what they are doing cannot be described with any other terms than playing.

They are training themselves, as many young animals do, to the adult life where they will be called to track the sun all the day.

But they are also able to sleep.

This is one, Mimosa pudica.

So during the night, they curl the leaves and reduce the movement, and during the day, you have the opening of the leaves -- there is much more movement.

It's the same in plants, in insects and in animals.

It's a kind of vegetarian experimentation. 

They communicate with other plants.

They are able to distinguish kin and non-kin.

This is a serious business.

We have the plants that are giving to the animals a kind of sweet substance -- very energizing -- having in change this transportation of the pollen.

Now, there is a big problem behind all this behavior that we have seen.

How is it possible to do this without a brain?

We need to wait until 1880, when this big man, Charles Darwin, publishes a wonderful, astonishing book that starts a revolution.

The title is "The Power of Movement in Plants."

No one was allowed to speak about movement in plants before Charles Darwin.

In his book, assisted by his son, Francis -- who was the first professor of plant physiology in the world, in Cambridge -- they took into consideration every single movement for 500 pages.

He wrote some very interesting letters to one of his friends who was J.D.

Now, this is a root apex growing against a slope.

So you can recognize this kind of movement, the same movement that worms, snakes and every animal that are moving on the ground without legs is able to display.

The signals that you are seeing here are action potential, are the same signals that the neurons of my brain, of our brain, use to exchange information.

We have almost 14 million roots.

They work in the same way.

And why are they so similar?

So you can remove 90 percent of the root apparatus and the plants [continue] to work.

You can remove 90 percent of the Internet and it is [continuing] to work.

And another possibility is a technological possibility.

Until now, the man was inspired just by man or the animals in producing a robot.

We have the animaloid -- and the normal robots inspired by animals, insectoid, so on.

We have the androids that are inspired by man.

But why have we not any plantoid?

Well, if you want to fly, it's good that you look at birds -- to be inspired by birds.

But if you want to explore soils, or if you want to colonize new territory, to best thing that you can do is to be inspired by plants that are masters in doing this.

It's much more easy to build hybrids.

Hybrid means it's something that's half living and half machine.

It's much more easy to work with plants than with animals.

The connection with the machine is much more easy, much more even ethically possible.

Well, thank you for your attention.

And before I finish, I would like to reassure that no snails were harmed in making this presentation.

Thank you. 

