We are here today because [the] United Nations have defined goals for the progress of countries.

They're called Millennium Development Goals.

And the reason I really like these goals is that there are eight of them.

And what I'm so happy about with this is that we have already documented that there are many countries in Asia, in the Middle East, in Latin America and East Europe that [are] reducing with this rate.

And even mighty Brazil is going down with five percent per year, and Turkey with seven percent per year.

So there's good news.

But then I hear people saying, "There is no progress in Africa.

Come with me to the wonderful world of statistics.

And I will take Kenya as an example.

It looks nasty, like in college when you didn't like statistics.

What is the origin of the data?

What we rely on is not an incomplete system.

We have interviews, we have surveys.

And this is highly professional female interviewers who sit down for one hour with a woman and ask her about [her] birth history.

How many children did you have?

And then this is done in a representative sample of thousands of women in the country and put together in what used to be called a demographic health survey report.

But they have good quality.

So this is a limitation.

This was 1977, 1988, 1992, '97 and 2002.

And they estimated that in 2008, Kenya had per child mortality of 128.

It was so tragic.

But in June, I got a mail in my inbox from Demographic Health Surveys, and it showed good news from Kenya.

I was so happy.

This was the estimate of the new survey.

I was actually, on Friday, sitting in front of my computer, and I saw the death rate fall from 128 to 84 just that morning.

So we celebrated. 

But now, when you have this trend line, how do we measure progress?

They start [in] 1990 -- they measure to 2009.

They say, "0.9 percent, no progress."

That's unfair.

As a professor, I think I have the right to propose something differently.

It's two surveys, and you can see what's happening now.

They have 2.4 percent.

Had I been in the Ministry of Health in Kenya, I may have joined these two points.

So what I'm telling you is that we know the child mortality.

We have a decent trend.

It's coming into some tricky things then when we are measuring MDGs.

And the reason here for Africa is especially important, because '90s was a bad decade, not only in Kenya, but across Africa.

The HIV epidemic peaked.

There was resistance for the old malaria drugs, until we got the new drugs.

We got, later, the mosquito netting.

And there was socio-economic problems, which are now being solved at a much better scale.

And [the] U.N. says it's a reduction with 1.8 percent. 

Now this sounds a little theoretical, but it's not so theoretical.

So they calculate the percent annual growth rate of [the] economy.

So is this fair now to measure this over 19 years?

An economist would never do that.

I have just divided it into two periods.

And look here when I take you into my bubble graphs.

Still here, child death per 1,000 on that axis.

Here we have [the] year.

And I'm now giving you a wider picture than the MDG.

I start 50 years ago when Africa celebrated independence in most countries.

You can see, with independence, literacy improved and vaccinations started, smallpox was eradicated, hygiene was improved, and things got better.

Ghana got very ahead, fast.

That's where we are today.

You can see it doesn't make sense to make an average of this zero improvement and this very fast improvement.

Time has come to stop thinking about sub-Saharan Africa as one place.

And they are judged, each country, on how they are doing. 

So let me show the wider picture.

My country, Sweden: 1800, we were up there.

But we had that habit in Sweden, you know, that we counted all the child deaths, even if we didn't do anything about it.

And then, you see, these were famine years.

These were bad years, and people got fed up with Sweden.

My ancestors moved to the United States.

And eventually, soon they started to get better and better here.

And here we got better education, and we got health service, and child mortality came down.

Sweden achieved a low child mortality because we started early.

We had primary school actually started in 1842.

And then you get that wonderful effect when we got female literacy one generation later.

You have to realize that the investments we do in progress are long-term investments.

And isn't it a success story.

Millennium Development Goal rates for child mortality is fully possible.

And the good thing is that Ghana today is going with the same rate as Egypt did at its fastest.

Kenya is now speeding up.

Here we have a problem.

We have a severe problem in countries which are at a standstill. 

Now, let me now bring you to a wider picture, a wider picture of child mortality.

The relationship between child mortality and family size.

One, two, three, four children per woman: six, seven, eight children per woman.

The dark blue here is sub-Saharan Africa.

And the size of the bubble is the population.

And these are the so-called "developing" countries.

They had high, or very high, child mortality and family size, six to eight.

And the ones over there, they were so-called Western countries.

They had low child mortality and small families.

What has happened?

What I want you [to do] now is to see with your own eyes the relation between fall in child mortality and decrease in family size.

There we are today. 

There is no such thing as a "Western world" and "developing world."

They get Samsung, how can they be [a] developing country?

They have here Singapore.

They have the lowest child mortality in the world, Singapore.

They bypassed Sweden five years ago, and they are labeled a developing country.

They have here Qatar.

It's the richest country in the world with Al Jazeera.

How the heck could they be [a] developing country?

This is crap.

(Applause) The rest here is good -- the rest is good. 

We have to have a modern concept, which fits to the data.

And we have to realize that we are all going to into this, down to here.

You can clearly see the relation with falling child mortality and decreasing family size, even within Africa.

It's very clear that this is what happens.

And a very important piece of research came out on Friday from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation in Seattle showing that almost 50 percent of the fall in child mortality can be attributed to female education.

That is, when we get girls in school, we'll get an impact 15 to 20 years later, which is a secular trend which is very strong.

It's fully possible to get child mortality down in all of these countries and to get them down in the corner where we all would like to live together. 

And of course, lowering child mortality is a matter of utmost importance from humanitarian aspects.

It's a decent life for children, we are talking about.

We will not be able to manage the environment and avoid the terrible climate crisis if we don't stabilize the world population.

Let's be clear about that.

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

