And not just us, but the two billion people worldwide who are still chronically undernourished.

And hope actually is at the heart of this.

In fact, the Latin word for hope is at the heart of the word prosperity.

"Pro-speras," "speras," hope -- in accordance with our hopes and expectations.

The irony is, though, that we have cashed-out prosperity almost literally in terms of money and economic growth.

And recession, of course, isn't exactly a recipe for hope either, as we're busy finding out.

And our best avenue of escape from this actually is a kind of blind faith in our own cleverness and technology and efficiency and doing things more efficiently.

Now I haven't got anything against efficiency.

And I think we are a clever species sometimes.

But I think we should also just check the numbers, take a reality check here. 

So I want you to imagine a world, in 2050, of around nine billion people, all aspiring to Western incomes, Western lifestyles.

And I want to ask the question -- and we'll give them that two percent hike in income, in salary each year as well, because we believe in growth.

How clever would we have to be?

How much technology would we need in this world to deliver our carbon targets?

This is the carbon intensity of economic growth in the economy at the moment.

It's around about 770 grams of carbon.

Maybe we can even go further and get an economy that pulls carbon out of the atmosphere, which is what we're going to need to be doing by the end of the century.

But shouldn't we just check first that the economic system that we have is remotely capable of delivering this kind of improvement? 

So I want to just spend a couple of minutes on system dynamics.

It's a bit complex, and I apologize for that.

What I'll try and do, is I'll try and paraphrase it is sort of human terms.

So it looks a little bit like this.

That's called the circular flow of the economy.

It looks harmless enough.

I just want to highlight one key feature of this system, which is the role of investment.

Now investment constitutes only about a fifth of the national income in most modern economies, but it plays an absolutely vital role.

And what it does essentially is to stimulate further consumption growth.

It does this in a couple of ways -- chasing productivity, which drives down prices and encourages us to buy more stuff.

And this, this is where it gets interesting, because it turns out that human beings have something of an appetite for novelty.

We love new stuff -- new material stuff for sure -- but also new ideas, new adventures, new experiences.

Adam Smith, 200 years ago, spoke about our desire for a life without shame.

And to stop it crashing over the last two to three decades, we've expanded the money supply, expanded credit and debt, so that people can keep buying stuff.

And of course, that expansion was deeply implicated in the crisis. 

But this -- I just want to show you some data here.

It was above the GDP for three years in a row just before the crisis.

And in the mean time, personal savings absolutely plummeted.

The savings ratio, net savings, were below zero in the middle of 2008, just before the crash.

This is people expanding debt, drawing down their savings, just to stay in the game.

This is a strange, rather perverse, story, just to put it in very simple terms.

The first one is in the crisis itself.

They want to spend less and save more.

But saving is exactly the wrong thing to do from the system point of view.

And politicians call on us continually to draw down more debt, to draw down our own savings even further, just so that we can get the show back on the road, so we can keep this growth-based economy going.

These things save carbon, they save energy, they save us money.

It was a Sunday evening, Sunday afternoon, and it was just after -- actually, to be honest, too long after -- we had moved into a new house.

What is the objective?

So who are we?

Who are these people?

Are we these novelty-seeking, hedonistic, selfish individuals?

Or might we actually occasionally be something like the selfless altruist depicted in Rembrandt's lovely, lovely sketch here?

Well psychology actually says there is a tension -- a tension between self-regarding behaviors and other regarding behaviors.

But other regarding behaviors are essential to our evolution as social beings.

And perhaps even more interesting from our point of view, another tension between novelty-seeking behaviors and tradition or conservation.

Novelty is adaptive when things are changing and you need to adapt yourself.

And it reveals to us, suddenly, the crux of the matter.

What we've done is we've created economies.

We've created systems, which systematically privilege, encourage, one narrow quadrant of the human soul and left the others unregarded.

It is about allowing ourselves the freedom to become fully human, recognizing the depth and the breadth of the human psyche and building institutions to protect Rembrandt's fragile altruist within. 

What does all this mean for economics?

What would economies look like if we took that vision of human nature at their heart and stretched them along these orthogonal dimensions of the human psyche?

And I just want to, very quickly, show you this.

Ecosia is an Internet search engine.

Internet search engines work by drawing revenues from sponsored links that appear when you do a search.

And Ecosia works in pretty much the same way.

And we're going to do it.

We're just going to click on Naturejobs.uk.

In case anyone out there is looking for a job in a recession, that's the page to go to.

And what happened then was the sponsor gave revenues to Ecosia, and Ecosia is giving 80 percent of those revenues to a rainforest protection project.

It's taking profits from one place and allocating them into the protection of ecological resources. 

It's a different kind of enterprise for a new economy.

Whatever it is, whatever this new economy is, what we need the economy to do, in fact, is to put investment back into the heart of the model, to re-conceive investment.

Only now, investment isn't going to be about the relentless and mindless pursuit of consumption growth.

Investment has to be a different beast.

Investment has to be, in the new economy, protecting and nurturing the ecological assets on which our future depends.

It has to be about transition.

It has to be investing in low-carbon technologies and infrastructures.

We have to invest, in fact, in the idea of a meaningful prosperity, providing capabilities for people to flourish. 

And of course, this task has material dimensions.

It would be nonsense to talk about people flourishing if they didn't have food, clothing and shelter.

But it's also clear that prosperity goes beyond this.

And we need that relationship to reflect, to reclaim hope. 

So let me come back, with this sense of hope, to the two billion people still trying to live each day on less than the price of a skinny latte from the cafe next door.

What can we offer those people?

And it's also clear that we will never achieve that unless we're capable of redefining a meaningful sense of prosperity in the richer nations, a prosperity that is more meaningful and less materialistic than the growth-based model.

So this is not just a Western post-materialist fantasy.

In fact, an African philosopher wrote to me, when "Prosperity Without Growth" was published, pointing out the similarities between this view of prosperity and the traditional African concept of ubuntu.

Ubuntu says, "I am because we are."

Prosperity is a shared endeavor.

So this is not about standing in the way of development.

What we're doing here is we're taking a few simple steps towards an economics fit for purpose.

And at the heart of that economics, we're placing a more credible, more robust, and more realistic vision of what it means to be human. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: While they're taking the podium away, just a quick question.

First of all, economists aren't supposed to be inspiring, so you may need to work on the tone a little.

(Laughter) Can you picture the politicians ever buying into this?

Tim Jackson: Well that's clearly not what you're doing.

You're not making news out of things falling down.

You're making news out of the things that tell you that we're flourishing.

When we first started this kind of work, politicians would stand up, treasury spokesmen would stand up, and accuse us of wanting to go back and live in caves.

And actually in the period through which we've been working over the last 18 years -- partly because of the financial crisis and a little bit of humility in the profession of economics -- actually people are engaging in this issue in all sorts of countries around the world. 

CA: But is it mainly politicians who are going to have to get their act together, or is it going to be more just civil society and companies? 

But it has to have political leadership.

This is a kind of agenda, which actually politicians themselves are kind of caught in that dilemma, because they're hooked on the growth model themselves.

But actually opening up the space to think about different ways of governing, different kinds of politics, and creating the space for civil society and businesses to operate differently -- absolutely vital. 

CA: And if someone could convince you that we actually can make the -- what was it?

TJ: I would still want to know that you could do that and get below zero by the end of the century, in terms of taking carbon out of the atmosphere, and solve the problem of biodiversity and reduce the impact on land use and do something about the erosion of topsoils and the quality of water.

If you can convince me we can do all that, then, yes, I would take the two percent. 

