It began in 2009 with the launch of NASA's Kepler mission.

Kepler's main scientific objective was to find planets outside of our solar system.

It did this by staring at a single field in the sky, this one, with all the tiny boxes.

And in this one field, it monitored the brightness of over 150,000 stars continuously for four years, taking a data point every 30 minutes.

It was looking for what astronomers call a transit.

And so the team at NASA had developed very sophisticated computers to search for transits in all the Kepler data. 

And so we launched the citizen science project called Planet Hunters to have people look at the same data.

However, there was a lot of skepticism around this.

And if we found one planet, we would be thrilled.

When I joined the team four years ago, we had already found a couple.

So to understand this, let me show you what a normal transit in Kepler data looks like.

Jupiter will make a one percent drop in a star's brightness.

The observations in May of 2009 were the first they spotted, and they started talking about this in the discussion forums. 

They said and object like Jupiter would make a drop like this in the star's light, but they were also saying it was giant.

You see, transits normally only last for a few hours, and this one lasted for almost a week. 

This seemed to indicate that whatever was getting in the way and blocking the starlight was not circular like a planet.

There are few more dips that happened, but for a couple of years, it was pretty quiet. 

And then in March of 2011, we see this.

We described this feature as both smooth and clean.

Things start to get really crazy.

These dips have variable shapes.

Some last just for a day or two, and some for more than a week.

And at this time, this star drops in its brightness over 20 percent.

This means that whatever is blocking its light has an area of over 1,000 times the area of our planet Earth. 

This is truly remarkable.

And so the citizen scientists, when they saw this, they notified the science team that they found something weird enough that it might be worth following up.

And so when the science team looked at it, we're like, "Yeah, there's probably just something wrong with the data."

But we looked really, really, really hard, and the data were good.

And so what was happening had to be astrophysical, meaning that something in space was getting in the way and blocking starlight.

And so at this point, we set out to learn everything we could about the star to see if we could find any clues to what was going on.

And the citizen scientists who helped us in this discovery, they joined along for the ride watching science in action firsthand. 

Well, it ends up that this is actually consistent with our observations.

But I agree, it does feel a little contrived.

You see, it would take hundreds of comets to reproduce what we're observing.

And these are only the comets that happen to pass between us and the star.

And so in reality, we're talking thousands to tens of thousands of comets.

But of all the bad ideas we had, this one was the best.

And so we went ahead and published our findings. 

Now, let me tell you, this was one of the hardest papers I ever wrote.

I will let you work out the acronym. 

So this isn't the end of the story.

And he was saying that with Kepler's extreme precision, it could actually detect alien megastructures around stars, but it didn't.

So we had to find a way to rule out aliens.

So together, we convinced a colleague of ours who works on SETI, the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence, that this would be an extraordinary target to pursue.

We wrote a proposal to observe the star with the world's largest radio telescope at the Green Bank Observatory. 

A couple months later, news of this proposal got leaked to the press and now there are thousands of articles, over 10,000 articles, on this star alone.

And if you search Google Images, this is what you'll find. 

OK, well, imagine a civilization that's much more advanced than our own.

So they would go and build huge structures.

These giant megastructures, like ginormous solar panels, are called Dyson spheres. 

This image above are lots of artists' impressions of Dyson spheres.

It's really hard to provide perspective on the vastness of these things, but you can think of it this way.

The Earth-Moon distance is a quarter of a million miles.

The simplest element on one of these structures is 100 times that size.

They're enormous.

But it remains that even alien megastructures cannot defy the laws of physics.

Now, I admit that this would produce a lot of dust that we don't observe.

But if we're already invoking aliens in this explanation, then who is to say they didn't efficiently clean up all this mess for recycling purposes? 

You can see how this quickly captures your imagination. 

Either way, there is something new and really interesting to discover. 

So what happens next?

We need to continue to observe this star to learn more about what's happening.

And I'm happy to say that once again, citizen scientists have come in and saved the day.

And what's more exciting is that there's more data to come.

And what will it mean if we don't find another star like this? 

Thank you. 

