So, I'd like to spend a few minutes with you folks today imagining what our planet might look like in a thousand years.

I also want to tell you and share with you how my team and I have been using mushrooms over the last three years.

But first, I need to talk to you about what I consider one of the most egregious offenders in the disposable plastics category.

In a single cubic foot of this material -- about what would come around your computer or large television -- you have the same energy content of about a liter and a half of petrol.

Yet, after just a few weeks of use, you'll throw this material in the trash.

And this isn't just found in packaging.

And that's not the only place it's found.

The EPA estimates, in the United States, by volume, this material occupies 25 percent of our landfills.

If it's not picked up by a human, like me and you, it'll stay there for thousands and thousands of years.

You'll find it inside of you. 

The first is feedstocks.

We should be talking about half, a quarter, one-tenth the energy content.

Yet that packaging I got in the mail yesterday is going to last for thousands of years.

This is crazy. 

But nature provides us with a really good model here.

And this gets us back to the mushrooms.

Because in nature, mushrooms are the recycling system.

And what we've discovered is, by using a part of the mushroom you've probably never seen -- analogous to its root structure; it's called mycelium -- we can actually grow materials with many of the same properties of conventional synthetics. 

In our process, we basically use it as a glue.

But these materials are grown from agricultural byproducts, not petroleum.

And because they're made of natural materials, they are 100 percent compostable in you own backyard. 

So I'd like to share with you the four basic steps required to make these materials.

If you're in China, you might use a rice husk or a cottonseed hull.

If you're in Northern Europe or North America, you can use things like buckwheat husks or oat hulls.

We then process these husks with some basic equipment. 

So what you're seeing here is actually cotton hulls from Texas, in this case.

It's a waste product.

This gives us a continuous stream of material that we can put into almost any shape, though today we're making corner blocks.

And it's when this lid goes on the part, that the magic really starts.

Because the manufacturing process is our organism.

So I've said a number of times that we grow materials.

And it's kind of hard to picture how that happens.

This matrix self-assembles, growing through and around the particles, making millions and millions of tiny fibers.

And what parts of the seed husk we don't digest, actually become part of the final, physical composite.

But it's much faster than conventional farming. 

The last step, of course, is application.

In this case, we've grown a corner block.

A major Fortune 500 furniture maker uses these corner blocks to protect their tables in shipment.

Best of all, when it gets to the customer, it's not trash.

So, why mycelium?

The first reason is local open feedstocks.

You don't need a lot of equipment to set up a production facility.

Biological yield is really important.

And I think that can be some really good news. 

Thank you. 

