Welcome to Thailand.

Now, when I was a young man -- 40 years ago, the country was very, very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty.

But we began with a family-planning program, following a very successful maternal child health activity, sets of activities.

So basically, no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive.

So the first step: get to the children, get to the mothers, and then follow up with family planning.

Not just child mortality alone, you need also family planning.

Now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it. 

In my country, that was the case in 1974.

There was just no future.

We needed to reduce the population growth rate.

We went to the nurses and the midwives, who were also women, and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill.

So we went to the ordinary people that you saw.

Actually, below that yellow sign -- I wish they hadn't wiped that, because there was "Coca-Cola" there.

We were so much bigger than Coca-Cola in those days.

And this picture was sent throughout the country.

So some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves.

That was their perception. 

And then we went to teachers.

You need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place.

So we went to the teachers.

And then we had a snakes and ladders game, where you throw dice.

(Laughter) Again, education, class entertainment.

And the kids were doing it in school too.

We had relay races with condoms, we had children's condom-blowing championship.

And before long, the condom was know as the girl's best friend.

And after 35/36 years, it's still going on.

(Laughter) And this is on the Fourth of July.

And I thought a hotdog will be more symbolic.

(Laughter) And here is this, then, young man called Willy Bohm who worked for the USAID.

It made a lot of news in America, and it angered some people also.

(Laughter) 

And what happened?

In all this thing, from seven children to 1.5 children, population growth rate of 3.3 to 0.5.

I'm not sure whether Coca-Cola followed us, or we followed Coca-Cola, but we're good friends.

But unfortunately, the government was in denial, denial, denial.

So I went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations.

They have more than the government, and they've got more guns than the government.

So I asked them, could they help us in our fight against HIV.

And after I gave them statistics, they said, "Yes.

And that's when we went onto the airwaves.

And then we got a new prime minister soon after that.

And he said, "Mechai, could you come and join?"

He asked me in because he liked my wife a lot.

So I said, "Okay."

And here, every media person had to be trained for HIV.

And then AIDS education in all schools, starting from university.

And these are high school kids teaching high school kids.

And these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and HIV were known as Mother Theresa.

And then we went down one more step.

So you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work, and dead customers don't buy.

So they all trained.

In taxis, you get condoms.

And then, new change, we had hair bands, clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season. 

(Laughter) 

And these were the condoms that we introduced.

One says, "Weapon of mass protection."

And then it says here, with the American flag, "Don't leave home without it."

But I have some to give out afterward.

(Laughter) And so you can see that condoms can do so many things.

And then what happened?

After all this time, everybody joined in.

According to the U.N., new cases of HIV declined by 90 percent, and according to the World Bank, 7.7 million lives were saved.

Otherwise there wouldn't be many Thais walking around today.

So it just showed you, you could do something about it.

90 percent of the funding came from Thailand.

There was political commitment, some financial commitment, and everybody joined in the fight.

So just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses.

We all need to help. 

Because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit.

Those are the things to be provided by the business community.

We're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs, little business people.

The only way out of poverty is through business enterprise.

So, that was done.

The money goes from the company into the village via tree-planting.

It's not a free gift.

They plant the trees, and the money goes into their microcredit fund, which we call the Village Development Bank.

And before you can borrow the money, you need to be trained.

And we believe if you want to help the poor, those who are living in poverty, access to credit must be a human right.

Access to credit must be a human right.

Otherwise they'll never get out of poverty.

And then before getting a loan, you must be trained.

So anyone sitting in and watching TV, get in touch with me.

And then this is our answer to Starbucks in Thailand -- "Coffee and Condoms."

See, Starbucks you awake, we keep you awake and alive.

That's the difference.

Can you imagine, at every Starbucks that you can also get condoms?

You can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino. 

We call this our School-Based Integrated Rural Development.

And it's a center, a focal point for economic and social development.

Re-do the school, make it serve the community needs.

This is a geodesic dome made of bamboo.

So we have now found the weapon of mass protection.

And these are our Thai tulips. 

(Laughter) 

Thank you very much indeed. 

