So, I am a Jungian psychoanalyst, and I went to Afghanistan in January 2004, by chance, on an assignment for Medica Mondiale.

Jung in Afghanistan -- you get the picture.

Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, and 70 percent of the people are illiterate.

War and malnutrition kills people together with hope.

So this translates into ongoing violence, foreign interests, bribery, drugs, ethnic conflicts, bad health, shame, fear and cumulative traumatic experiences.

Local and foreign military are supposed to build peace together with the donors and the governmental and non-governmental organizations.

One figure for that: 54 percent of the children under the age of five years suffer from malnutrition. 

Yet, there is hope.

So, doctors prescribe medication.

And donors are supposed to bring peace by building schools and roads.

Military collect weapons, and depression stays intact.

Why?

Because people don't have tools to cope with it, to get over it.

So, soon after my arrival, I had confirmed something which I had already known; that my instruments come from the heart of modern Europe, yes.

However, what can wound us and our reaction to those wounds -- they are universal.

And the big challenge was how to understand the meaning of the symptom in this specific cultural context.

No one can survive alone.

The desperate try to restore order and normality, and if we are not able to cut this circle of violence, it will be transferred to the next generation without a doubt.

And partly this is already happening. 

But let me repeat the words of the woman.

Somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you.

Somebody has to feel how you felt.

And somebody has to see you and listen to you.

So something can be done, even in such extreme environments as Afghanistan.

And I started thinking about a counseling program.

But, of course, I needed help and funds.

This man gave me his contact details at the end of the evening and said, "If you want to do this, call me."

At that time, it was the head of Caritas Germany. 

Eleven thousand people came -- more than that.

And 70 percent regained their lives.

This was a very exciting time, developing this with my wonderful Afghan team.

And they are working with me up to today.

We developed a culturally-sensitive psycho-social counseling approach.

So, from 2008 up until today, a substantial change and step forward has been taking place. 

We revised the mental health component of the primary health care services by adding psycho-social care and psycho-social counselors to the system.

This means, certainly, to retrain all health staff.

But for that, we already have the training manuals, which are approved by the Ministry and moreover, this approach is now part of the mental health strategy in Afghanistan. 

We wanted to know if what is being done is effective.

And I would like to share one short vignette.

And this is a really emancipatory and political contribution to peace and reconciliation.

And also -- I think -- without psycho-social therapy, and without considering this in all humanitarian projects, we cannot build-up civil societies. 

I thank you for your attention. 

