I had zero minutes of exercise yesterday, so my maximum heart rate during exercise wasn't calculated.

I had about 600 milligrams of caffeine, zero of alcohol.

And my score on the Narcissism Personality Index, or the NPI-16, is a reassuring 0.31. 

I'm going to talk about how they're useful when we reflect, learn, remember and want to improve.

People were tracking their food via Twitter, their kids' diapers on their iPhone.

They were making detailed journals of their spending, their mood, their symptoms, their treatments. 

This little black dot there is a 3D accelerometer.

It tracks your movement through space.

It is, as you can see, very small and also very cheap.

They're now down to well under a dollar a piece, and they're going into all kinds of devices.

But what's interesting is the incredible detailed information that you can get from just one sensor like this.

This kind of sensor is in the hit biometric device -- among early adopters at the moment -- the Fitbit.

This tracks your activity and also your sleep.

It has just that sensor in it. 

You're probably familiar with the Nike+ system.

I just put it up because that little blue dot is the sensor.

It's really just a pressure sensor like the kind that's in a doorbell.

And Nike knows how to get your pace and distance from just that sensor.

This is the strap that people use to transmit heart-rate data to their Nike+ system. 

And this is the sleep tracking system of today. 

This just was presented at a health care conference in D.C.

So that when we think about using them to get some systematic improvement, we also think about how they can be useful for self-improvement, for self-discovery, self-awareness, self-knowledge. 

What is this for?

What should it be for?

Some people will say it's for biometric security.

Some people will say it's for public health research.

Some people will say it's for avant-garde marketing research.

And the self isn't the only thing; it's not even most things.

So, if we want to act more effectively in the world, we have to get to know ourselves better. 

Thank you. 

