I'm going to share with you the story as to how I have become an HIV/AIDS campaigner.

And this is the name of my campaign: SING Campaign.

And 46664 is the number that Mandela had when he was imprisoned in Robben Island.

And that's me with Youssou N'Dour, onstage, having the time of my life.

You can see the bars of the window there.

It was quite a momentous occasion for all of us.

I think that if I went out into the street now and I told people what was happening there, they would be shocked. 

I met him at a 46664 event.

He was wearing a t-shirt like the one I wear now.

They have education programs.

They bring out the issues of stigma.

It's quite extraordinary what they do.

And yes, my SING Campaign has supported Treatment Action Campaign in the way that I have tried to raise awareness and to try to also raise funds.

So this is my SING Campaign.

SING Campaign is basically just me and about three or four wonderful people who help to support me.

This is in the Scottish Parliament.

I've subsequently become an envoy for Scotland and HIV.

And I was showing them my experiences and trying to, again, raise awareness.

And once again, in Edinburgh with the wonderful African Children's Choir who I simply adore.

And it's children like this, many of whom have been orphaned because of their family being affected by the AIDS virus. 

And I'm very honored by the fact that Michel invited me, only a few months ago, to become a UNAIDS ambassador.

And in this way, I've been strengthening my platform and broadening my outreach.

The message that UNAIDS are currently sending out to the world is that we would like to see the virtual elimination of the transmission of the virus from mother to child by 2015.

It's a very ambitious goal but we believe it can be achieved with political will.

This can happen. 

Now that is prevention at the very beginning of life.

It's one way to start looking at intervention with the AIDS pandemic. 

Now, I just would like to finish off to tell you the little story about Avelile.

Avelile had the virus, she was born with the virus.

At this point in her life, she's suffering with full-blown AIDS and had pneumonia.

We met her in a hospital in the Eastern Cape and spent a whole afternoon with her -- an adorable child.

The doctors and nurses were phenomenal.

They put her on very special nutritious diet and took great care of her.

And we didn't know when we left the hospital -- because we filmed her story -- we didn't know if she was going to survive.

This is the transformation that took place.

Isn't it extraordinary? 

That round of applause is actually for the doctors and nurses of the hospital who took care of Avelile.

Thank you very much. 

