I want you to take a trip with me.

And you stop, and you get out of your car and you take a picture.

And then someone says, "These are the recent AIDS deaths in our community."

And I'm going to talk about HIV today, about the deaths, about the stigma.

It's a medical story, but more than that, it's a social story. 

This map depicts the global distribution of HIV.

And as you can see, Africa has a disproportionate share of the infection.

There are 1.4 million pregnant women in low- and middle-income countries living with HIV and of these, 90 percent are in sub-Saharan Africa.

We talk about things in relative terms.

And I'm going to talk about annual pregnancies and HIV-positive mothers.

The United States -- a large country -- each year, 7,000 mothers with HIV who give birth to a child.

But you go to Rwanda -- a very small country -- 8,000 mothers with HIV who are pregnant.

I think there's an assumption amongst most people in the public that if a mother is HIV-positive, she's going to infect her child.

The reality is really, very different.

It's the guidance she gets around infant feeding and safer sex.

So in the United States, since the advent of treatment in the middle of the 1990s, there's been an 80-percent decline in the number of HIV-infected children.

What does that mean?

And where do they come from?

Well, less than one comes from the United States.

And let's look at another map.

And here, again, we see Africa has a disproportionate share of the numbers of doctors.

That thin sliver you see here, that's Africa.

And it's the same with nurses.

The truth is sub-Saharan Africa has 24 percent of the global disease burden and yet only three percent of the world's health care workers.

That means doctors and nurses simply don't have the time to take care of patients.

And so when we look at these PMTCT programs, what does it mean? 

And so we need to find better ways of providing care. 

Meds don't equal medical care.

If I tell her to take her medicines every day and yet, no one in the household knows about her illness, so it's just not going to work.

Imagine yourself, if you can, you're a young woman in Africa, you're going to the hospital or clinic.

You go in for a test and you find out that you're pregnant, and you're delighted.

All you're hearing is, "I'm going to die, and my baby is going to die."

And then you're out on the street, and you don't know where to go.

And this -- this is the face and story of HIV in Africa today. 

And I want to change the story a little bit.

Take the same mother, and the nurse, after she gives her her test, takes her to a room.

We view mothers as a community's single greatest resource.

Mothers take care of the children, take care of the home.

Our organization, mothers2mothers, enlists women with HIV as care providers.

These mothers, we call them mentor mothers, are able to engage women who, just like themselves, pregnant with babies, have found out about being HIV-positive, who need support and education.

And they support them around the diagnosis and educate them about how to take their medicines, how to take care of themselves, how to take care of their babies.

This is the medical care that goes beyond just medicines. 

They go through two to three weeks of rigorous curriculum-based education, training.

Our mentor mothers get trained every single year and retrained.

And so doctors and nurses -- they look up to them as experts.

Imagine that: a woman, a former patient, being able to educate her doctor for the first time and educate the other patients that she's taking care of. 

Our organization has three goals.

So how do we do it?

We go beyond that; we try to bring in the husbands, the partners.

In Africa, it's very, very hard to engage men.

Men are not frequently part of pregnancy care.

And so the father and the mother, together, go through the counseling and the testing.

The father and the mother, together, they get the results.

And this is so important in breaking through the stigma. 

Disclosure is so central to prevention.

We also work in groups.

Now the groups, it's not like me lecturing, but what happens is women, they come together -- under the support and guidance of our mentor mothers -- they come together, and they share their personal experiences.

And it's through the sharing that people get tactics of how to take care of themselves, how to disclose how to take medicines.

And then there's the community outreach, engaging women in their communities.

If we can change the way households believe and think, we can change the way communities believe and think.

And if we can change enough communities, we can change national attitudes.

We can change national attitudes to women and national attitudes to HIV.

The hardest barrier really is around stigma reduction.

And it's important about disclosure. 

So, a couple years ago, one of the mentor mothers came back, and she told me a story.

She had been asked by one of the clients to go to the home of the client, because the client wanted to tell the mother and her brothers and sisters about her HIV status, and she was afraid to go by herself.

And so the mentor mother went along with.

(Video) Female Narrator: Women come to us, and they are crying and scared.

I am proof that there is hope. 

Even as we have more tests and more drugs, we can't reach people; we don't have enough providers.

So we talk in terms of what we call task-shifting.

Task-shifting is traditionally when you take health care services from one provider and have another provider do it.

Typically, it's a doctor giving a job to a nurse.

How do you build a better health care system?

Our organization works on three levels.

We need to change attitudes to women in Africa.

Our health care systems are broken.

They're not going to work the way they're currently designed.

I started the program in Capetown, South Africa back in 2001.

Those who are HIV-negative must know how to stay negative.

Those who are HIV-infected must know how to take care of themselves.

MB: Simple solutions to complex problems.

Thank you. 

