Just a few minutes ago, I took this picture about 10 blocks from here.

This is the Grand Cafe here in Oxford.

I took this picture because this turns out to be the first coffeehouse to open in England in 1650.

And the coffeehouse played such a big role in the birth of the Enlightenment, in part, because of what people were drinking there.

Because, before the spread of coffee and tea through British culture, what people drank -- both elite and mass folks drank -- day-in and day-out, from dawn until dusk was alcohol.

Alcohol was the daytime beverage of choice.

You would drink a little beer with breakfast and have a little wine at lunch, a little gin -- particularly around 1650 -- and top it off with a little beer and wine at the end of the day.

That was the healthy choice -- right -- because the water wasn't safe to drink.

And so, effectively until the rise of the coffeehouse, you had an entire population that was effectively drunk all day.

And you can imagine what that would be like, right, in your own life -- and I know this is true of some of you -- if you were drinking all day, and then you switched from a depressant to a stimulant in your life, you would have better ideas.

You would be sharper and more alert.

And so it's not an accident that a great flowering of innovation happened as England switched to tea and coffee. 

But the other thing that makes the coffeehouse important is the architecture of the space.

It was a space where people would get together from different backgrounds, different fields of expertise, and share.

It was a space, as Matt Ridley talked about, where ideas could have sex.

And an astonishing number of innovations from this period have a coffeehouse somewhere in their story. 

What are the environments that lead to unusual levels of innovation, unusual levels of creativity?

Are there recurring patterns that we can learn from, that we can take and kind of apply to our own lives, or our own organizations, or our own environments to make them more creative and innovative?

And I think I've found a few. 

But what you have to do to make sense of this and to really understand these principles is you have to do away with a lot of the way in which our conventional metaphors and language steers us towards certain concepts of idea-creation.

We have this very rich vocabulary to describe moments of inspiration.

We have the kind of the flash of insight, the stroke of insight, we have epiphanies, we have "eureka!"

All of these concepts, as kind of rhetorically florid as they are, share this basic assumption, which is that an idea is a single thing, it's something that happens often in a wonderful illuminating moment. 

But in fact, what I would argue and what you really need to kind of begin with is this idea that an idea is a network on the most elemental level.

I mean, this is what is happening inside your brain.

An idea -- a new idea -- is a new network of neurons firing in sync with each other inside your brain.

It's a new configuration that has never formed before.

And the question is: how do you get your brain into environments where these new networks are going to be more likely to form?

And it turns out that, in fact, the kind of network patterns of the outside world mimic a lot of the network patterns of the internal world of the human brain. 

So the metaphor I'd like the use I can take from a story of a great idea that's quite recent -- a lot more recent than the 1650s.

A wonderful guy named Timothy Prestero, who has a company called ... an organization called Design That Matters.

They decided to tackle this really pressing problem of, you know, the terrible problems we have with infant mortality rates in the developing world.

So, the technology is there.

These are standard in all the industrialized worlds.

The problem is, if you buy a $40,000 incubator, and you send it off to a mid-sized village in Africa, it will work great for a year or two years, and then something will go wrong and it will break, and it will remain broken forever, because you don't have a whole system of spare parts, and you don't have the on-the-ground expertise to fix this $40,000 piece of equipment.

And so you end up having this problem where you spend all this money getting aid and all these advanced electronics to these countries, and then it ends up being useless. 

So what Prestero and his team decided to do is to look around and see: what are the abundant resources in these developing world contexts?

And what they noticed was they don't have a lot of DVRs, they don't have a lot of microwaves, but they seem to do a pretty good job of keeping their cars on the road.

There's a Toyota Forerunner on the street in all these places.

They seem to have the expertise to keep cars working.

It's called a "neonurture device."

From the outside, it looks like a normal little thing you'd find in a modern, Western hospital.

In the inside, it's all car parts.

That's really where innovation happens.

And that means that we have to change some of our models of what innovation and deep thinking really looks like, right.

I mean, this is one vision of it.

Another is Newton and the apple, when Newton was at Cambridge.

In fact, the spaces that have historically led to innovation tend to look like this, right.

This is the kind of chaotic environment where ideas were likely to come together, where people were likely to have new, interesting, unpredictable collisions -- people from different backgrounds.

So, if we're trying to build organizations that are more innovative, we have to build spaces that -- strangely enough -- look a little bit more like this.

This is what your office should look like, is part of my message here. 

And one of the problems with this is that people are actually -- when you research this field -- people are notoriously unreliable, when they actually kind of self-report on where they have their own good ideas, or their history of their best ideas.

And a few years ago, a wonderful researcher named Kevin Dunbar decided to go around and basically do the Big Brother approach to figuring out where good ideas come from.

He went to a bunch of science labs around the world and videotaped everyone as they were doing every little bit of their job.

So when they were sitting in front of the microscope, when they were talking to their colleague at the water cooler, and all these things.

And he recorded all of these conversations and tried to figure out where the most important ideas, where they happened.

And "oh, eureka," they've got the idea. 

What happened actually when Dunbar kind of looked at the tape is that, in fact, almost all of the important breakthrough ideas did not happen alone in the lab, in front of the microscope.

They happened at the conference table at the weekly lab meeting, when everybody got together and shared their kind of latest data and findings, oftentimes when people shared the mistakes they were having, the error, the noise in the signal they were discovering.

And something about that environment -- and I've started calling it the "liquid network," where you have lots of different ideas that are together, different backgrounds, different interests, jostling with each other, bouncing off each other -- that environment is, in fact, the environment that leads to innovation. 

They want to say, "There I was, I was standing there and I had it all suddenly clear in my head."

We've heard a lot recently about hunch and instinct and blink-like sudden moments of clarity, but in fact, a lot of great ideas linger on, sometimes for decades, in the back of people's minds.

They have a feeling that there's an interesting problem, but they don't quite have the tools yet to discover them.

They spend all this time working on certain problems, but there's another thing lingering there that they're interested in, but they can't quite solve. 

Darwin is a great example of this.

Darwin himself, in his autobiography, tells the story of coming up with the idea for natural selection as a classic "eureka!"

He's in his study, it's October of 1838, and he's reading Malthus, actually, on population.

And all of a sudden, the basic algorithm of natural selection kind of pops into his head and he says, "Ah, at last, I had a theory with which to work."

That's in his autobiography.

About a decade or two ago, a wonderful scholar named Howard Gruber went back and looked at Darwin's notebooks from this period.

And Darwin kept these copious notebooks where he wrote down every little idea he had, every little hunch.

And what Gruber found was that Darwin had the full theory of natural selection for months and months and months before he had his alleged epiphany, reading Malthus in October of 1838.

There are passages where you can read it, and you think you're reading from a Darwin textbook, from the period before he has this epiphany.

And so what you realize is that Darwin, in a sense, had the idea, he had the concept, but was unable of fully thinking it yet.

Now the challenge for all of us is: how do you create environments that allow these ideas to have this kind of long half-life, right?

But that's a key thing.

You have half of an idea, somebody else has the other half, and if you're in the right environment, they turn into something larger than the sum of their parts.

But I think there's a case to be made that we should spend at least as much time, if not more, valuing the premise of connecting ideas and not just protecting them. 

And I'll leave you with this story, which I think captures a lot of these values, and it's just wonderful kind of tale of innovation and how it happens in unlikely ways.

And it's Monday morning, and the news has just broken about this satellite that's now orbiting the planet.

And of course, this is nerd heaven, right?

And it turns out Weiffenbach is kind of an expert in microwave reception, and he's got a little antennae set up with an amplifier in his office.

It was right at 20 MHz, so you could pick it up really easily, because they were afraid that people would think it was a hoax, basically.

So they made it really easy to find it. 

And they start writing the kind of date stamp, time stamps for each little bleep that they record.

And eventually, they get permission -- this is all a little side project that hadn't been officially part of their job description.

They get permission to use the new, you know, UNIVAC computer that takes up an entire room that they'd just gotten at the APL.

And that's how GPS was born.

And now, I guarantee you certainly half of this room, if not more, has a device sitting in their pocket right now that is talking to one of these satellites in outer space.

And that, I think, is a great case study, a great lesson in the power, the marvelous, kind of unplanned emergent, unpredictable power of open innovative systems.

When you build them right, they will be led to completely new directions that the creators never even dreamed of.

I mean, here you have these guys who basically thought they were just following this hunch, this little passion that had developed, then they thought they were fighting the Cold War, and then it turns out they're just helping somebody find a soy latte. 

(Laughter) 

That is how innovation happens.

Chance favors the connected mind. 

