In the last year? 

And well, of course, the Dutch can't eat all these pigs.

They eat about one-third, and the rest is exported to all kinds of countries in Europe and the rest of the world.

A lot goes to the U.K., Germany. 

And I spent about three years researching.

But I also met aluminum mold makers, ammunition producers and all kinds of people.

(Laughter) In total, they weigh 103.7 kilograms.

You probably start the day with a shower.

Then if you look around you in the bathroom, you see lots more products like shampoo, conditioner, anti-wrinkle cream, body lotion, but also toothpaste.

So what they do is they put gelatin back in, in order to retain the texture. 

In the train brakes -- at least in the German train brakes -- there's this part of the brake that's made of bone ash.

And in cheesecake and all kinds of desserts, like chocolate mousse, tiramisu, vanilla pudding, everything that's cooled in the supermarket, there's gelatin to make it look good.

Fine bone china -- this is a real classic.

In interior decorating, the pig's actually quite there.

It's used in paint for the texture, but also for the glossiness.

In sandpaper, bone glue is actually the glue between the sand and the paper.

And then in paintbrushes, hairs are used because, apparently, they're very suitable for making paintbrushes because of their hard-wearing nature. 

And this is actually sold in the frozen area of the supermarket.

And what it is -- it's actually steak.

And this also actually happens with tuna and scallops.

So, with the steak, you might drink a beer.

This actually also goes for wine as well as fruit juice. 

There's actually a company in Greece that produces these cigarettes that actually contain hemoglobin from pigs in the filter.

And according to them, this creates an artificial lung in the filter.

(Laughter) Injectable collagen -- or, since the '70s, collagen from pigs -- has been used for injecting into wrinkles.

And the reason for this is that pigs are actually quite close to human beings, so the collagen is as well.

Well, this must be the strangest thing I found.

This is a bullet coming from a very large ammunition company in the United States. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So, the most beautiful thing I found -- at least what I think is the most beautiful -- in the book, is this heart valve.

It's actually a very low-tech and very high-tech product at the same time.

The low-tech bit is that it's literally a pig's heart valve mounted in the high-tech bit, which is a memory metal casing.

It's really a sort of magical moment.

And the makers of this thing were really enthusiastic.

And they said, "Well the director of the company decided not to let you borrow this heart valve, because want his product to be associated with pigs."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Well it is, because everything that can't be used for anything else is made into a fuel that can be used as renewable energy source. 

And what they showed me is that, well, firstly, it's at least to say odd that we don't treat these pigs as absolute kings and queens.

And the second, is that we actually don't have a clue of what all these products that surround us are made of. 

And you might think I'm very fond of pigs, but actually -- well, I am a little bit -- but I'm more fond of raw materials in general.

And I think that, in order to take better care of what's behind our products -- so, the livestock, the crops, the plants, the non-renewable materials, but also the people that produce these products -- the first step would actually be to know that they are there. 

Thank you very much. 

