If nothing else, at least I've discovered what it is we put our speakers through: sweaty palms, sleepless nights, a wholly unnatural fear of clocks.

I mean, it's quite brutal. 

And I'm also a little nervous about this.

There are nine billion humans coming our way.

Now, the most optimistic dreams can get dented by the prospect of people plundering the planet.

It's a phenomenon that I think any organization or individual can tap into.

It certainly impacted the way we think about TED's future, and perhaps the world's future overall. 

So, let's explore.

This kid is known online as Lil Demon.

How did he learn them?

And what drove him to spend the hundreds of hours of practice this must have taken?

Here's a clue. 

This is what he said at TED in February.

It felt like a revolution.

And at TED here in February, their passion and brilliance just took our breath away. 

So, this story of the evolution of dance seems strangely familiar.

You know, a while after TEDTalks started taking off, we noticed that speakers were starting to spend a lot more time in preparation.

So, in both of these cases, you've got these cycles of improvement, apparently driven by people watching web video. 

What is going on here?

Well, I think it's the latest iteration of a phenomenon we can call "crowd-accelerated innovation."

And there are just three things you need for this thing to kick into gear.

You can think of them as three dials on a giant wheel.

You turn up the dials, the wheel starts to turn.

The bigger the crowd, the more potential innovators there are.

That's important, but actually most people in the crowd occupy these other roles.

They're creating the ecosystem from which innovation emerges.

The second thing you need is light.

And third, you need desire.

You know, innovation's hard work.

It's based on hundreds of hours of research, of practice.

Absent desire, not going to happen. 

Now, here's an example -- pre-Internet -- of this machine in action.

And the desire part comes, I guess, from social status, right?

Best dancer walks tall, gets the best date.

There's probably going to be some innovation happening here.

But on the web, all three dials are ratcheted right up.

The dance community is now global.

There's millions connected.

So, it's easy to find the good stuff, and when you've found it, you can watch it in close-up repeatedly and read what hundreds of people have written about it.

That's a lot of light. 

But the desire element is really dialed way up.

I mean, you might just be a kid with a webcam, but if you can do something that goes viral, you get to be seen by the equivalent of sports stadiums crammed with people.

You get hundreds of strangers writing excitedly about you.

And even if it's not that eloquent -- and it's not -- it can still really make your day.

So, this possibility of a new type of global recognition, I think, is driving huge amounts of effort.

And it's important to note that it's not just the stars who are benefiting: because you can see the best, everyone can learn. 

Also, the system is self-fueling.

It's the crowd that shines the light and fuels the desire, but the light and desire are a lethal one-two combination that attract new people to the crowd.

So, this is a model that pretty much any organization could use to try and nurture its own cycle of crowd-accelerated innovation.

Invite the crowd, let in the light, dial up the desire.

And, very happily, there's one class of people who really can't make use of this tool.

The dark side of the web is allergic to the light.

I don't think we're going to see terrorists, for example, publishing their plans online and saying to the world, "Please, could you help us to actually make them work this time?"

But you can publish your stuff online.

And if you can get that wheel to turn, look out. 

So, at TED, we've become a little obsessed with this idea of openness.

By giving away our TEDx brand, we suddenly have a thousand-plus live experiments in the art of spreading ideas.

And these organizers, they're seeing each other, they're learning from each other.

We are learning from them.

We're getting great talks back from them.

The wheel is turning. 

Okay, step back a minute.

I mean, it's really not news for me to tell you that innovation emerges out of groups.

We're a social species.

We spark off each other.

It's also not news to say that the Internet has accelerated innovation.

For the past 15 years, powerful communities have been connecting online, sparking off each other.

If you take programmers, you know, the whole open-source movement is a fantastic instance of crowd-accelerated innovation.

And that's why what I'm excited about, and what I think is under-reported, is the significance of the rise of online video. 

This is the technology that's going to allow the rest of the world's talents to be shared digitally, thereby launching a whole new cycle of crowd-accelerated innovation.

But in the last 10 years, bandwidth has exploded a hundredfold.

Suddenly, here we are.

Humanity watches 80 million hours of YouTube every day.

Cisco actually estimates that, within four years, more than 90 percent of the web's data will be video.

If it's all puppies, porn and piracy, we're doomed.

I don't think it will be.

Video is high-bandwidth for a reason.

It packs a huge amount of data, and our brains are uniquely wired to decode it. 

Here, let me introduce you to Sam Haber.

He's a unicyclist.

But looking at video clips posted by strangers, a world of possibility opens up for him.

Suddenly, he starts to emulate and then to innovate.

And I have to tell you, as a former publisher of hobbyist magazines, I find this strangely beautiful.

I mean, there's a lot of passion right here on this screen. 

But if Rube Goldberg machines and video poetry aren't quite your cup of tea, how about this.

Jove is a website that was founded to encourage scientists to publish their peer-reviewed research on video.

There's a problem with a traditional scientific paper.

It can take months for a scientist in another lab to figure out how to replicate the experiments that are described in print.

He told me that the world is wasting billions of dollars on this.

So it's not far-fetched to say that, at some point, online video is going to dramatically accelerate scientific advance. 

Why do people like watching TEDTalks?

All those ideas are already out there in print.

It's actually faster to read than to view.

Why would someone bother?

Well, so, there's some showing as well as telling.

But even leaving the screen out of it, there's still a lot more being transferred than just words.

And in that non-verbal portion, there's some serious magic.

Incredibly, all of this can be communicated on just a few square inches of a screen. 

Reading and writing are actually relatively recent inventions.

Face-to-face communication has been fine-tuned by millions of years of evolution.

That's what's made it into this mysterious, powerful thing it is.

Someone speaks, there's resonance in all these receiving brains, the whole group acts together.

I mean, this is the connective tissue of the human superorganism in action.

It's probably driven our culture for millennia.

500 years ago, it ran into a competitor with a lethal advantage.

It's right here.

Print scaled.

The world's ambitious innovators and influencers now could get their ideas to spread far and wide, and so the art of the spoken word pretty much withered on the vine.

But now, in the blink of an eye, the game has changed again.

It's not too much to say that what Gutenberg did for writing, online video can now do for face-to-face communication.

So, that primal medium, which your brain is exquisitely wired for ... that just went global. 

Now, this is big.

We may have to reinvent an ancient art form.

For the first time in human history, talented students don't have to have their potential and their dreams written out of history by lousy teachers.

They can sit two feet in front of the world's finest. 

Now, TED is just a small part of this.

I mean, the world's universities are opening up their curricula.

Thousands of individuals and organizations are sharing their knowledge and data online.

Thousands of people are figuring out new ways to learn and, crucially, to respond, completing the cycle.

And so, as we've thought about this, you know, it's become clear to us what the next stage of TED's evolution has to be.

TEDTalks can't be a one-way process, one-to-many.

Our future is many-to-many.

So, we're dreaming of ways to make it easier for you, the global TED community, to respond to speakers, to contribute your own ideas, maybe even your own TEDTalks, and to help shine a light on the very best of what's out there.

Because, if we can bubble up the very best from a vastly larger pool, this wheel turns. 

Now, is it possible to imagine a similar process to this, happening to global education overall?

I mean, does it have to be this painful, top-down process?

Why not a self-fueling cycle in which we all can participate?

It's the participation age, right?

Schools can't be silos.

We can't stop learning at age 21.

What if, in the coming crowd of nine billion ... what if that crowd could learn enough to be net contributors, instead of net plunderers?

That changes everything, right?

I mean, that would take more teachers than we've ever had.

But the good news is they are out there.

Who's the teacher?

You're the teacher.

Within five years, each of these kids is going to have access to a cellphone capable of full-on web video and capable of uploading video to the web.

I'm one of the organizers of TEDxKibera.

There are so many good things which are happening right here in Kibera.

The same spot, it was a crime spot where people were being robbed.

They used the same trash to form green manure.

The same trash site is feeding more than 30 families.

We have our own film school.

They are using Flip cameras to record, edit, and reporting to their own channel, Kibera TV.

Because of a scarcity of land, we are using the sacks to grow vegetables, and also [we're] able to save on the cost of living.

Change happens when we see things in a different way.

Today, I see Kibera in a different way.

My message to TEDGlobal and the entire world is: Kibera is a hotbed of innovation and ideas. 

CA: You know what?

I bet Chris has always been an inspiring guy.

What's new -- and it's huge -- is that, for the first time, we get to see him, and he can see us.

Guys, we've learned from you today.

Thank you. 

And thank you. 

