I have read the "Twilight" tetralogy.

For me, "Law and Order: SVU," Tine Fey and "30 Rock" and "Judge Judy" -- "The people are real, the cases are real, the rulings are final."

You know, frankly it's a sector that many of us who work in the field worry is being endangered and possibly dismantled by technology.

While we initially heralded the Internet as the fantastic new marketing device that was going to solve all our problems, we now realize that the Internet is, if anything, too effective in that regard.

Depending on who you read, an arts organization or an artist, who tries to attract the attention of a potential single ticket buyer, now competes with between three and 5,000 different marketing messages a typical citizen sees every single day.

We now know in fact that technology is our biggest competitor for leisure time.

Five years ago, Gen-X'ers spent 20.7 hours online and TV, the majority on TV.

Moreover, we're afraid that technology has altered our very assumptions of cultural consumption.

We can shop at three in the morning or eight at night, ordering jeans tailor-made for our unique body-types.

These are enormous questions for those of us who work in this terrain.

But as particular as they feel to us, we know we're not alone. 

And for those of you who love the arts, aren't you glad you invited me here to brighten your day? 

Both reformations were predicated on fractious discussion, internal self-doubt and massive realignment of antiquated business models.

Chris Anderson, someone I trust you all know, editor-in-chief of Wired magazine and author of "The Long Tail," really was the first -- for me -- to nail a lot of this.

And now who in this room doesn't know a 14 year-old hard at work on her second, third, or fourth movie?

(Laughter) Similarly, the means of artistic distribution have been democratized for the first time in human history.

Again, in the '30s, Warner Brothers, RKO did that for you.

But the number of arts participants, people who write poetry, who sing songs, who perform in church choirs, is exploding beyond our wildest imaginations.

This group, others have called the "pro ams," amateur artists doing work at a professional level.

You see them on YouTube, in dance competitions, film festivals and more.

They are radically expanding our notions of the potential of an aesthetic vocabulary, while they are challenging and undermining the cultural autonomy of our traditional institutions.

Ultimately, we now live in a world defined not by consumption, but by participation. 

They currently are the best opportunities for artists to have lives of economic dignity -- not opulence -- of dignity.

And they are the places where artists who deserve and want to work at a certain scale of resources will find a home.

But to view them as synonymous with the entirety of the arts community is, by far, too short-sighted.

And indeed, I think, rather than being annihilated, the performing arts are posed on the brink of a time when we will be more important than we have ever been. 

Especially now, as we all must confront the fallacy of a market-only orientation, uninformed by social conscience; we must seize and celebrate the power of the arts to shape our individual and national characters, and especially characters of the young people, who all too often, are subjected to bombardment of sensation, rather than digested experience.

The arts, whatever they do, whenever they call us together, invite us to look at our fellow human being with generosity and curiosity.

We work to promote healthy vibrant societies, to ameliorate human suffering, to promote a more thoughtful, substantive, empathic world order. 

I promise you the hand of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation is stretched out in friendship for now and years to come.

And I thank you for your kindness and your patience in listening to me this afternoon. 

