My story is a little bit about war.

And it's about rediscovering idealism in all of that wreckage.

And perhaps also, there's a lesson about how to deal with our screwed-up, fragmenting and dangerous world of the 21st century.

I don't believe in straightforward narratives.

I'm colorblind.

I was born unable to see most colors.

And I'd always wanted to be a fighter pilot when I was a boy.

I loved watching planes barrel over our holiday home in the countryside.

And it was my boyhood dream to be a fighter pilot.

I couldn't see all the blinking different lights, and I can't distinguish color.

As a child, I read the newspaper thoroughly.

I was fascinated by the Cold War, by the INF negotiations over intermediate-range nuclear missiles, the proxy war between the Soviet Union and the U.S. in Angola or Afghanistan.

(Laughter) And my ambition was sealed. 

(Laughter) And my ambition was sealed. 

In 1989, I entered the British Foreign Service.

That year, 5,000 people applied to become a diplomat, and 20 of us succeeded.

And as those numbers suggest, I was inducted into an elite and fascinating and exhilarating world.

I bought myself a nice suit and wore leather-soled shoes and reveled in this amazing access I had to world events.

I traveled to the Gaza Strip.

And that was exciting -- that was fun.

It was really interesting.

And it's a great cadre of people, incredibly close-knit community of people. 

And the pinnacle of my career, as it turned out, was when I was posted to New York.

I was the chief British negotiator on the subject, and I was steeped in the issue.

And anyway, my tour -- it was kind of a very exciting time.

I mean it was very dramatic diplomacy.

So it was kind of the best of time, worst of times kind of experience.

I lived the high-life.

(Laughter) I had a good time. 

(Laughter) I had a good time. 

I decided to take a sabbatical, in fact, at the New School, Bruce.

And I decided to take some time out from work.

It was nice.

And eventually, I decided to take a secondment to join the U.N. in Kosovo, which was then under U.N. administration. 

But they were random things.

What was I going to do?

And so I was in crisis.

And this wasn't a pretty thing.

I moaned about it, I hesitated, I went on and on and on to my long-suffering wife, and eventually I decided to resign from the British Foreign Service.

I felt just something's broken.

So took a running leap and jumped over the edge of a cliff. 

And it was a very, very uncomfortable, unpleasant feeling.

But, in a way, I've got used to the sensation of it.

A lot of my friends were still in it.

My pension was in it.

And I gave it up.

And what was I going to do? 

And that year, in Kosovo, this terrible, terrible thing happened, which I saw.

It was anarchy.

And with my Albanian friends, we tried to stop it, but we failed.

But one of the reasons that riot took place -- those riots, which went on for several days, took place -- was because the Kosovo people were disenfranchised from their own future.

There were diplomatic negotiations about the future of Kosovo going on then, and the Kosovo government, let alone the Kosovo people, were not actually participating in those talks.

There was this whole fancy diplomatic system, this negotiation process about the future of Kosovo, and the Kosovars weren't part of it.

And funnily enough, they were frustrated about that.

Those riots were part of the manifestation of that frustration.

And the Kosovars were not allowed a diplomatic service.

They were not allowed diplomats.

They were not allowed a foreign office to help them deal with this immensely complicated process, which became known as the Final Status Process of Kosovo.

And so that was the idea.

That was the origin of the thing that became Independent Diplomat, the world's first diplomatic advisory group and a non-profit to boot.

And he raised his glass of raki to me and said, "Yes, Carne.

And I came to Kosovo and advised the Kosovo government.

Independent Diplomat ended up advising three successive Kosovo prime ministers and the multi-party negotiation team of Kosovo.

And Kosovo became independent.

And he said, "Why don't you see my colleagues in New York?"

And it turned out he worked for an innovation company called ?What If!, which some of you have probably heard of.

And one thing led to another, and I ended up having a desk in ?What If!

And Independent Diplomat, today, tries to incorporate some of the things I learned at ?What If!.

We all sit in one office and shout at each other across the office.

We all work on little laptops and try to move desks to change the way we think.

The personal one is falling off a cliff is actually a good thing, and I recommend it.

The second thing is a bigger lesson about the world today.

States mean less than they used to, and the power of the state is declining.

That means the power of others things is rising.

Those other things are called non-state actors.

We are living in a more complicated and fragmented world.

If governments are less able to affect the problems that affect us in the world, then that means, who is left to deal with them, who has to take greater responsibility to deal with them?

Us.

If they can't do it, who's left to deal with it?

We have no choice but to embrace that reality. 

I can connect any one of you by six degrees of separation to the Al-Shabaab militia in Somalia.

Ask me how later, particularly if you eat fish, interestingly enough, but that connection is there.

We are all intimately connected.

And Independent Diplomat is a kind of example of this in a sort of loose way. 

There aren't neat examples, but one example is this: the way the world is changing is embodied in what's going on at the place I used to work -- the U.N. Security Council.

That is the state of the world today.

So I started off in a traditional mode.

Me and my colleagues at Independent Diplomat went around the U.N. Security Council.

The Security Council does its business in exactly the same way today that it did X number of years ago, when I was there 10 years ago. 

So we looked at that observation of basically failure and thought, what can we do about it.

And I thought, I'm buggered if I'm going to spend the rest of my life lobbying for these crummy governments to do what needs to be done.

So what we're going to do is we're actually going to set up these meetings ourselves.

So now, Independent Diplomat is in the process of setting up meetings between the U.N. Security Council and the parties to the disputes that are on the agenda of the Security Council.

So there's actually a conversation, which has never before happened.

Technology has not delivered political change in Iran.

