The moment I say "school," so many memories come back to me.

My brothers started giving me a few tips about drawing and painting. 

And one of those competitions, I just won a small, little transistor Philips radio.

So that's what made me enter [the] college of arts after three attempts and just continue to inquire what I really want to do with art work, or art and finally I'm here in front of you. 

It can be ruins, or it can be music, or it can be painting or drawing or writing, whatever it is.

But it is just a kind of trace of that time.

And that fascinated me, to explore that territory.

So I was working on the line, but instead of working about traces, I started capturing traces. 

So here are some of the works I would like to show you.

So this is called "Self In Progress."

It's just a trace of being in this body.

So here, what happened then, you know -- what I really enjoyed the most is that this sculpture is nothing but a trace of myself.

It's almost like a 3D photograph.

And then moved slowly to explore the other possibilities of capturing traces.

So I just thought, "I'm going to capture thumbprint, footprint, or whatever traces we leave as humans."

What I did here, I just put like 10 feet [of] paper then put a coconut rope, and just burnt it.

Even though we have traces when we try to understand them, the perception and context play a major role to understand it.

So do we really understand what it is, or are we trying to get what we think it is?

If you just ask an opinion of how, everyone can interpret it.

He would say, "For the greater good."

(Laughter) Or Buddha -- if he saw the same cow, he would say, "Asking this question denies your own nature [as a] cow."

(Laughter) 

So, what we see is just what we think often, and most of the time, we don't see what it is.

It just all depends on one's perception.

And context, what is really context?

You know, I could just show you this little piece of paper.

If you look at this piece of paper, this is the breadth and this is called length.

This is how we've been taught in school.

But if you tear it in the middle -- now, I didn't touch this breadth, but still, the meaning of this changes.

It's just that being a human, the way we train to perceive the reality creates this meaning. 

This is called "Limit Out."

This is an exact negative.

It's about six inches deep in the wall, but it just appears like it's coming out of the wall.

It's about eight inches deep. 

Is there any way to capture the thought into visual art?

I couldn't find it.

It's called Odonil.

This is the work I made out of that material.

You buy this for 3,000 rupees, it'll become 30,000 in two months.

This is the craft that was going on, but there are a few collectors who also collect art which can depreciate.

So this is after a few weeks, this is after a few months.

It's just all about questioning the preconceptions.

And if they say they don't get it, that's also not true, because it's in the air.

Can you make something from nothing as a sculptor?"

Because we can create a sculpture by gathering dust together, or we can break the sculpture and get the dust, but there is nowhere that we can bring dust into the universe."

So, I did this work for her.

It's called "Emerging Angel."

So, the same sculpture after a few days.

This is after 15/20 days.

So what you see now is called "Shadow Foreshadow."

When it's bounced on the moon, we see it.

The same thing in the darkroom.

The little dust particle will again, reflect the light, and we realize the existence of light.

So we don't see dark, we don't see light, we don't see gravity, we don't see electricity.

Because, as a visual artist, if I'm seeing this and I'm seeing that -- but how to sculpt this, you know?

If we sculpt this, this has two reference points.

The skin of this is also representing this.

And skin at the other end also represents the floor.

I did this as an experiment of casting the shadow.

So this is a corrugated box and its shadow.

Then the second one -- the moment you bring any invisible into the visible world it will have all the characteristics of the visible existence.

So that produced a shadow.

Then I thought, okay, let me sculpt that.

Then, again, that becomes an object.

Again, throwing light, then the third one.

It's a false wall, which contains like 110 cubic feet.

So that hole actually makes the air come out and go in.

Detail. 

