Well, that's kind of an obvious statement up there.

On top of that, those are the places from where trouble comes.

I connected high speed internet to it -- it's about three feet off the ground -- turned it on and left it there.

So at the end of it, we concluded that groups of children can learn to use computers and the internet on their own, irrespective of who or where they were. 

At that point, I became a little more ambitious and decided to see what else could children do with a computer.

And I said, "I don't know, actually."

(Laughter) And I left.

In other words, they were all speaking like James Tooley.

(Laughter) So they could do that on their own.

After that, I started to experiment with various other things that they might learn to do on their own. 

And he couldn't travel, so I went over there.

And when you've got interest, then you have education. 

Sugata Mitra: I took the experiment to South Africa.

This is a 15 year-old boy. 

(Video) Boy: ... just mention, I play games like animals, and I listen to music. 

SM: And I asked him, "Do you send emails?"

And he said, "Yes, and they hop across the ocean."

If you leave it on the pavement and if all the adults go away, then they will show off with each other about what they can do.

This is what these children are doing.

They are trying to multiply, I think.

And all over India, at the end of about two years, children were beginning to Google their homework.

They said, "They have become really deep thinkers and so on and so forth.

(Laughter) And indeed they had.

I mean, if there's stuff on Google, why would you need to stuff it into your head?

So at the end of the next four years, I decided that groups of children can navigate the internet to achieve educational objectives on their own. 

So in 2006, I bought myself a heavy overcoat and moved to Newcastle.

I wanted to test the limits of the system.

The first experiment I did out of Newcastle was actually done in India.

I called in 26 children.

It took me three years to publish that.

It's just been published in the British Journal of Educational Technology.

One of the referees who refereed the paper said, "It's too good to be true," which was not very nice.

Well, one of the girls had taught herself to become the teacher.

And then that's her over there.

Remember, they don't study English.

I edited out the last bit when I asked, "Where is the neuron?"

Whatever the expression, it was not very nice. 

So their scores had gone up from zero to 30 percent, which is an educational impossibility under the circumstances.

But 30 percent is not a pass.

So I found that they had a friend, a local accountant, a young girl, and they played football with her.

I said, "No, use the method of the grandmother."

So I came back to Newcastle with these results and decided that there was something happening here that definitely was getting very serious.

So, having experimented in all sorts of remote places, I came to the most remote place that I could think of.

(Laughter) Approximately 5,000 miles from Delhi is the little town of Gateshead.

In Gateshead, I took 32 children and I started to fine-tune the method.

I made them into groups of four.

The first group -- the best one -- solved everything in 20 minutes.

The average score when I'd done it with the computers and the groups was 76 percent.

When I did the experiment, when I did the test, after two months, the score was 76 percent.

A single child in front of a single computer will not do that.

I have further results, which are almost unbelievable, of scores which go up with time.

Because their teachers say that after the session is over, the children continue to Google further. 

Here in Britain, I put out a call for British grandmothers, after my Kuppam experiment.

Well, you know, they're very vigorous people, British grandmothers.

200 of them volunteered immediately.

(Laughter) The deal was that they would give me one hour of broadband time, sitting in their homes, one day in a week.

The granny cloud sits over there.

I can beam them to whichever school I want to. 

You know, stuff which I don't know anything about.

Two children watch a TEDTalk.

It's pretty simple stuff. 

If they want, they can call the granny cloud.

This is a SOLE in Newcastle.

The mediator is from Pune, India. 

I went to Turin in May.

I sent all the teachers away from my group of 10 year-old students.

Fifteen minutes later -- next question: where is Calcutta?

This one, they took only 10 minutes.

I tried a really hard one then.

Who was Pythagoras, and what did he do?

And then, in 20 minutes, the right-angled triangles began to appear on the screens.

This sent shivers up my spine.

These are 10 year-olds.

SM: So you know what's happened?

I think we've just stumbled across a self-organizing system.

A self-organizing system is one where a structure appears without explicit intervention from the outside.

Self-organizing systems also always show emergence, which is that the system starts to do things, which it was never designed for.

Which is why you react the way you do, because it looks impossible.

It'll take a few years to prove it, experimentally, but I'm going to try.

But in the meanwhile, there is a method available.

We could change everything. 

Thanks. 

