I want you to reimagine how life is organized on earth.

Think of the planet like a human body that we inhabit.

The skeleton is the transportation system of roads and railways, bridges and tunnels, air and seaports that enable our mobility across the continents.

And the nervous system of communications is the Internet cables, satellites, cellular networks and data centers that allow us to share information. 

This ever-expanding infrastructural matrix already consists of 64 million kilometers of roads, four million kilometers of railways, two million kilometers of pipelines and one million kilometers of Internet cables.

What about international borders?

We have less than 500,000 kilometers of borders. 

Let's build a better map of the world.

And we can start by overcoming some ancient mythology.

It's such a fatalistic adage.

It tells us that landlocked countries are condemned to be poor, that small countries cannot escape their larger neighbors, that vast distances are insurmountable.

The global connectivity revolution, in all of its forms -- transportation, energy and communications -- has enabled such a quantum leap in the mobility of people, of goods, of resources, of knowledge, such that we can no longer even think of geography as distinct from it.

Connectivity, not sovereignty, has become the organizing principle of the human species. 

All of the world's defense budgets and military spending taken together total just under two trillion dollars per year.

Meanwhile, our global infrastructure spending is projected to rise to nine trillion dollars per year within the coming decade.

And, well, it should.

We have been living off an infrastructure stock meant for a world population of three billion, as our population has crossed seven billion to eight billion and eventually nine billion and more.

As a rule of thumb, we should spend about one trillion dollars on the basic infrastructure needs of every billion people in the world. 

Not surprisingly, Asia is in the lead.

And as all of this topographical engineering unfolds, we will likely spend more on infrastructure in the next 40 years, we will build more infrastructure in the next 40 years, than we have in the past 4,000 years. 

Now let's stop and think about it for a minute.

Spending so much more on building the foundations of global society rather than on the tools to destroy it can have profound consequences.

Connectivity is how we optimize the distribution of people and resources around the world.

It is how mankind comes to be more than just the sum of its parts.

I believe that is what is happening. 

Cities are the infrastructures that most define us.

By 2030, more than two thirds of the world's population will live in cities.

Here we are in Vancouver, at the head of the Cascadia Corridor that stretches south across the US border to Seattle.

The technology powerhouse of Silicon Valley begins north of San Francisco down to San Jose and across the bay to Oakland.

The sprawl of Los Angeles now passes San Diego across the Mexican border to Tijuana.

San Diego and Tijuana now share an airport terminal where you can exit into either country.

Eventually, a high-speed rail network may connect the entire Pacific spine.

But Asia is where we really see the megacities coming together.

This continuous strip of light from Tokyo through Nagoya to Osaka contains more than 80 million people and most of Japan's economy.

It is the world's largest megacity.

For now. 

The Bohai Rim around Beijing, The Yangtze River Delta around Shanghai and the Pearl River Delta, stretching from Hong Kong north to Guangzhou.

And in the middle, the Chongqing-Chengdu megacity cluster, whose geographic footprint is almost the same size as the country of Austria. 

Most of Egypt's 80 million people live in the corridor between Cairo and Alexandria.

And in the gulf, a necklace of city-states is forming, from Bahrain and Qatar, through the United Arab Emirates to Muscat in Oman. 

But these countries are suburbs of Lagos.

In a megacity world, countries can be suburbs of cities.

By 2030, we will have as many as 50 such megacity clusters in the world.

So which map tells you more?

Any number of them, such as Sao Paulo or Istanbul or Moscow, has a GDP approaching or exceeding one third of one half of their entire national GDP. 

But equally importantly, you cannot calculate any of their individual value without understanding the role of the flows of people, of finance, of technology that enable them to thrive.

Take the Gauteng province of South Africa, which contains Johannesburg and the capital Pretoria.

Cities want to be part of global value chains.

They want to be part of this global division of labor.

That is how cities think.

Now, for many people, urbanization causes great dismay.

They think cities are wrecking the planet.

But right now, there are more than 200 intercity learning networks thriving.

That is as many as the number of intergovernmental organizations that we have.

Is it working?

Let's take climate change.

We know that summit after summit in New York and Paris is not going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

But what we can see is that transferring technology and knowledge and policies between cities is how we've actually begun to reduce the carbon intensity of our economies. 

Cities are learning from each other.

How to install zero-emissions buildings, how to deploy electric car-sharing systems.

In major Chinese cities, they're imposing quotas on the number of cars on the streets.

In many Western cities, young people don't even want to drive anymore.

Cities have been part of the problem, now they are part of the solution. 

Inequality is the other great challenge to achieving sustainable urbanization.

When I travel through megacities from end to end -- it takes hours and days -- I experience the tragedy of extreme disparity within the same geography.

And yet, our global stock of financial assets has never been larger, approaching 300 trillion dollars.

That's almost four times the actual GDP of the world. 

No, not yet.

And that's why our financial community needs to understand that connectivity is the most important asset class of the 21st century. 

If we look at regions of the world with dense relations across borders, we see more trade, more investment and more stability.

And you can see that Russia, by the way, is the least connected of major powers in the international system.

And that goes a long way towards explaining the tensions today.

Countries that have less stake in the system also have less to lose in disturbing it.

North America does not need more walls, it needs more connections. 

But the real promise of connectivity is in the postcolonial world.

All of those regions where borders have historically been the most arbitrary and where generations of leaders have had hostile relations with each other.

But now a new group of leaders has come into power and is burying the hatchet. 

Now this region of 600 million people coordinates its agricultural resources and its industrial output.

Now these countries coordinate their utilities and their investment policies.

They, too, are evolving into a Pax Africana. 

In fact, the nearly 400 million people of the Arab world are almost entirely urbanized.

And the only way to correct these mismatches is not through more wars and more borders, but through more connectivity of pipelines and water canals.

Sadly, this is not yet the map of the Middle East.

Now, it may not seem like connectivity is what we want right now towards the world's most turbulent region.

But we know from history that more connectivity is the only way to bring about stability in the long run.

Because we know that in region after region, connectivity is the new reality.

Cities and countries are learning to aggregate into more peaceful and prosperous wholes. 

But the real test is going to be Asia.

Can connectivity overcome the patterns of rivalry among the great powers of the Far East?

After all, this is where World War III is supposed to break out.

Since the end of the Cold War, a quarter century ago, at least six major wars have been predicted for this region.

But none have broken out. 

Take China and Taiwan.

In the 1990s, this was everyone's leading World War III scenario.

And even the election of a nationalist party in Taiwan that's pro-independence earlier this year does not undermine this fundamental dynamic. 

Japanese cars are selling in record numbers there.

And guess where the largest number of foreigners residing in Japan today comes from?

You guessed it: China. 

They're building a trade corridor stretching from Northeast India through Myanmar and Bangladesh to Southern China.

Their trade volume has grown from 20 billion dollars a decade ago to 80 billion dollars today. 

And let's talk about Iran.

Wasn't it just two years ago that war with Iran seemed inevitable?

Then why is every single major power rushing to do business there today? 

Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot guarantee that World War III will not break out.

But we can definitely see why it hasn't happened yet.

Even though Asia is home to the world's fastest growing militaries, these same countries are also investing billions of dollars in each other's infrastructure and supply chains.

They are more interested in each other's functional geography than in their political geography.

And that is why their leaders think twice, step back from the brink, and decide to focus on economic ties over territorial tensions. 

And by wrapping the world in such seamless physical and digital connectivity, we evolve towards a world in which people can rise above their geographic constraints.

We are the cells and vessels pulsing through these global connectivity networks. 

Thank you. 

