This strange-looking plant is called the Llareta.

For the past five years, I've been researching, working with biologists and traveling all over the world to find continuously living organisms that are 2,000 years old and older.

The project is part art and part science.

There's an environmental component.

And I'm also trying to create a means in which to step outside our quotidian experience of time and to start to consider a deeper timescale.

I selected 2,000 years as my minimum age because I wanted to start at what we consider to be year zero and work backward from there. 

The tree was in part a catalyst for the project.

I'd been traveling in Japan without an agenda other than to photograph, and then I heard about this tree that is 2,180 years old and knew that I had to go visit it.

It wasn't until later, when I was actually back home in New York that I got the idea for the project.

So it was the slow churn, if you will.

So I started researching, and to my surprise, this project had never been done before in the arts or the sciences.

Visiting Greenland was more like traveling back in time than just traveling very far north.

It was very primal and more remote than anything I'd ever experienced before.

And this is heightened by a couple of particular experiences.

And it's not like you could send them a text or shoot them an e-mail, so I was literally left to my own devices.

It was like visiting a more innocent time on the planet.

And then, of course, there's the lichens.

These lichens grow only one centimeter every hundred years.

I think that really puts human lifespans into a different perspective. 

And what you're looking at here is an aerial photo take over eastern Oregon.

So with the help of some biologists studying the fungus, I got some maps and some GPS coordinates and chartered a plane and started looking for the death rings, the circular patterns in which the fungus kills the trees.

So I'm not sure if there are any in this photo, but I do know the fungus is down there.

And then from underground to underwater. 

And I had to overcome my fear of deep water to find this one.

This is at about 60 feet or 18 meters, depth.

And you'll see, there's some damage to the surface of the coral.

Luckily still, it seems to be out of harm's way of the recent oil spill.

Now this is something that I think is one of the most quietly resilient things on the planet.

What looks like a forest is actually only one tree.

Imagine that it's one giant root system and each tree is a stem coming up from that system.

So what you have is one giant, interconnected, genetically identical individual that's been living for 80,000 years.

It also happens to be male and, in theory immortal. 

(Laughter) 

This is a clonal tree as well.

The location of this tree is actually kept secret for its own protection.

I spoke to the biologist who discovered this tree, and he told me that that spindly growth you see there in the center is most likely a product of climate change.

As it's gotten warmer on the top of the mountain, the vegetation zone is actually changing.

So we don't even necessarily have to have direct contact with these organisms to have a very real impact on them. 

However, it died in the lab as they were determining its age.

So that being said, it's highly unlikely that any jellyfish would survive that long in the wild.

And back to the yew here.

And there are actually a number or ancient yews in churchyards around the U.K., but if you do the math, you'll remember it's actually the yew trees that were there first, then the churches. 

And now down to another part of the world.

I had the opportunity to travel around the Limpopo Province in South Africa with an expert in Baobab trees.

And we saw a number of them, and this is most likely the oldest.

It's around 2,000, and it's called the Sagole Baobab.

And you know, I think of all of these organisms as palimpsests.

They contain thousands of years of their own histories within themselves, and they also contain records of natural and human events.

And the Baobabs in particular are a great example of this.

You can see that this one has names carved into its trunk, but it also records some natural events.

So the Baobabs, as they get older, tend to get pulpy in their centers and hollow out.

And this brings me to another favorite of mine -- I think, because it is just so unusual.

This plant is called the Welwitschia, and it lives only in parts of coastal Namibia and Angola, where it's uniquely adapted to collect moisture from mist coming off the sea.

And what's more, it's actually a tree.

It's a primitive conifer.

You'll notice that it's bearing cones down the center.

And it actually never sheds those leaves, so it also bears the distinction of having the longest leaves in the plant kingdom.

So his thought was that flooding in the north of Africa actually brought those coniferous trees down tens of thousands of years ago, and what resulted was this remarkable adaptation to this unique desert environment. 

This is what I think is the most poetic of the oldest living things.

This is something called an underground forest.

So, I spoke to a botanist at the Pretoria Botanical Garden, who explained that certain species of trees have adapted to this region.

These also tend to grow clonally, the oldest of which is 13,000 years old. 

Back in the U.S., there's a couple plants of similar age.

This is the clonal Creosote bush, which is around 12,000 years old.

If you've been in the American West, you know the Creosote bush is pretty ubiquitous, but that being said, you see that this has this unique, circular form.

And what's happening is it's expanding slowly outwards from that original shape.

And it's one -- again, that interconnected root system, making it one genetically identical individual.

It also has a friend nearby -- well, I think they're friends.

This is the clonal Mojave yucca, it's about a mile away, and it's a little bit older than 12,000 years.

And you see it has that similar circular form.

And there's some younger clones dotting the landscape behind it.

So, now I want to show what very well might be the oldest living thing on the planet.

This bacteria was discovered several years ago by a team of planetary biologists hoping to find clues to life on other planets by looking at one of the harshest conditions on ours.

And what they found, by doing research into the permafrost, was this bacteria.

But what's unique about it is that it's doing DNA repair below freezing.

It's also probably one the most vulnerable of the oldest living things, because if the permafrost melts, it won't survive. 

The blue flags represent things that I've already photographed, and the reds are places that I'm still trying to get to.

You'll see also, there's a flag on Antarctica.

It's my hope that, by going to find these organisms, that I can help draw attention to their remarkable resilience and help play a part in insuring their continued longevity into the foreseeable future. 

Thank you. 

