Tyler Dewar: The way I feel right now is that all of the other speakers have said exactly what I wanted to say.

(Laughter) And it seems that the only thing left for me to say is to thank you all for your kindness. 

TD: But maybe in the spirit of appreciating the kindness of you all, I could share with you a little story about myself. 

TD: But before that kind of formal lifestyle happened for me, I was living in eastern Tibet with my family.

And when I was seven years old, all of a sudden, a search party arrived at my home.

How did that feel when they came and whisked you away, and your lifestyle completely changed?

I thought that things would be pretty fun and there would be more things to play with. 

(Laughter) 

TD: But it didn't turn out to be so fun and entertaining, as I thought it would have been.

I was placed in a pretty strictly controlled environment.

And immediately, a lot of different responsibilities, in terms of my education and so forth, were heaped upon me.

I was separated, largely, from my family, including my mother and father.

So it turned out that my fantasy about an entertaining life of being the Karmapa wasn't going to come true.

It more felt to be the case to me that I was being treated like a statue, and I was to sit in one place like a statue would. 

But nevertheless, there's no real sense of separation from me in my heart, in terms of the love that I feel for these people.

TD: And I still do get to keep in touch with my mother and father, albeit infrequently.

I talk to my mother once in a blue moon on the telephone.

And my experience is that, when I'm talking to her, with every second that passes during our conversation, the feeling of love that binds us is bringing us closer and closer together. 

TD: So those were just a few remarks about my personal background.

So we spoke and we heard some about design this week.

I think that it's important for us to remember that we need to keep pushing forward on the endeavor of the design of the heart.

TD: So, even though I'm somewhat happy about the wonderful developments that are happening in the world, still, I feel a sense of impediment, when it comes to the ability that we have to connect with each other on a heart-to-heart, or a mind-to-mind, level.

I feel that there are some things that are getting in the way. 

So it's an interesting paradox at play there.

TD: So we ended up talking about the Bamiyan Buddhas, which, as you know, were destroyed some years ago in Afghanistan.

TD: So, with regard to the development that we've been talking about here at this conference, I really feel that the development that we make shouldn't create a further burden for us as human beings, but should be used to improve our fundamental lifestyle of how we live in the world. 

So, as we are climbing the tree, some of the things that we're doing in order to climb the tree are actually undermining the tree's very root.

And so, what I think it comes down to is a question of, not only having information of what's going on, but paying attention to that and letting that shift our motivation to become more sincere and genuinely positive.

We have hear, this week, about the horrible sufferings, for example, that so many women of the world are enduring day-to-day.

We don't really choose to allow that to cause there to be a shift in our hearts.

So I think the way forward for the world -- one that will bring the path of outer development in harmony with the real root of happiness -- is that we allow the information that we have to really make a change in our heart. 

His Holiness the Karmapa: Tomorrow is my Talk. 

And to you, everyone, thank you very much. 

HH: Thank you very much. 

