This is a scientific journey on the challenges facing humanity in the global phase of sustainability. 

On this journey, I'd like to bring, apart from yourselves, a good friend, a stakeholder, who's always absent when we deal with the negotiations on environmental issues, a stakeholder who refuses to compromise -- planet Earth.

So I thought I'd bring her with me today on stage, to have her as a witness of a remarkable journey, which humbly reminds us of the period of grace we've had over the past 10,000 years.

This is the living conditions on the planet over the last 100,000 years.

We've had the same, roughly, abilities that developed civilizations as we know it.

This is the environmental conditions on the planet. 

A thousand years into this period, we abandon our hunting and gathering patterns.

We go from a couple of million people to the seven billion people we are today.

The Mesopotamian culture: we invent agriculture, we domesticate animals and plants.

You have the Roman, the Greek and the story as you know it.

The only phase, as we know it that can support humanity. 

This, dear friends, poses a human pressure on the planet of momentous scale.

Well, the evidence is, unfortunately, ample.

Simultaneously, they branch off in the mid-50s, 10 years after the Second World War, showing very clearly that the great acceleration of the human enterprise starts in the mid-50s.

You see, for the first time, an imprint on the global level.

Biodiverse, low-nutrient, hard coral systems under multiple pressures of overfishing, unsustainable tourism, climate change.

A trigger and the system tips over, loses its resilience, soft corals take over, and we get undesired systems that cannot support economic and social development.

The system suddenly, very surprisingly, loses 30 to 40 percent of its summer ice cover.

And the drama is, of course, that when the system does this, the logic may change.

In my mind, the largest red flag warning for humanity that we are in a precarious situation.

Now, if we have evidence, which we now have, that wetlands, forests, [unclear] monsoon system, the rainforests, behave in this nonlinear way.

You know, you don't want to stand there.

In fact, you're not even allowed to stand where this gentleman is standing, at the foaming, slippery waters at the threshold.

In fact, there's a fence quite upstream of this threshold, beyond which you are in a danger zone.

Now we to ask ourselves: which are the large environmental processes that we have to be stewards of to keep ourselves safe in the Holocene?

And could we even, thanks to major advancements in Earth systems science, identify the thresholds, the points where we may expect nonlinear change?

And could we even define a planetary boundary, a fence, within which we then have a safe operating space for humanity?

These include, of course, climate.

It may surprise you that it's not only climate.

Now this is the Big Bang equivalent then of human development within the safe operating space of the planetary boundaries.

What you see here in black line is the safe operating space, the quantified boundaries, as suggested by this analysis.

The yellow dot in the middle here is our starting point, the pre-industrial point, where we're very safely in the safe operating space.

In the '50s, we start branching out.

But we still have some degrees of freedom on the others, but we are approaching fast on land, water, phosphorus and oceans.

But this gives a new paradigm to guide humanity, to put the light on our, so far overpowered industrial vehicle, which operates as if we're only on a dark, straight highway. 

But this gives a new paradigm to guide humanity, to put the light on our, so far overpowered industrial vehicle, which operates as if we're only on a dark, straight highway. 

Is then sustainable development utopia?

We have to invest in persistence, in the ability of social systems and ecological systems to withstand shocks and still remain in that desired cup.

We have to invest in transformations capability, moving from crisis into innovation and the ability to rise after a crisis, and of course to adapt to unavoidable change.

This is a new paradigm.

We're not doing that at any scale on governance. 

But is it happening anywhere?

Do we have any examples of success on this mind shift being applied at the local level?

The Australian Great Barrier Reef is another success story.

Under the realization from tourist operators, fishermen, the Australian Great Barrier Reef Authority and scientists that the Great Barrier Reef is doomed under the current governance regime.

Global change, beautification rack culture, overfishing and unsustainable tourism, all together placing this system in the realization of crisis.

But again, a crisis, new partnerships, actors locally, transforming these into a key component of sustainable urban planning.

So crisis leading into opportunities. 

Now, what about the future?

And we need a transformation.

Well, interestingly, and based on my work and others in Africa, for example, we've shown that even the most vulnerable small-scale rainfall farming systems, with innovations and supplementary irrigation to bridge dry spells and droughts, sustainable sanitation systems to close the loop on nutrients from toilets back to farmers' fields, and innovations in tillage systems, we can triple, quadruple, yield levels on current land. 

But even on the hard policy area we have innovations.

We know that we have to move from our fossil dependence very quickly into a low-carbon economy in record time.

And what shall we do?

You get people out of poverty.

But of course, the drama is, it clearly shows that incremental change is not an option. 

So, there is scientific evidence.

Thank you. 

