Martin Luther King did not say, "I have a nightmare," when he inspired the civil rights movements.

He said, "I have a dream."

And I have a dream.

I think this film is one of the hardest watches of modern times, "The Road."

It's a beautiful piece of filmmaking, but everything is desolate, everything is dead.

For too long, we have peddled a nightmarish vision of what's going to happen.

We've used fear, if you like, to grab people's attention.

And any psychologist will tell you that fear in the organism is linked to flight mechanism.

It's part of the fight and flight mechanism, that when an animal is frightened -- think of a deer.

A deer freezes very, very still, poised to run away.

And I think that's what we're doing when we're asking people to engage with our agenda around environmental degradation and climate change.

What would it be like to be improving the human lot?

Maybe some parts of the world don't, but we have enough.

And we've know for a long time that this is not a good measure of the welfare of nations.

In fact, the architect of our national accounting system, Simon Kuznets, in the 1930s, said that, "A nation's welfare can scarcely be inferred from their national income."

But we've created a national accounting system which is firmly based on production and producing stuff.

And indeed, this is probably historical, and it had its time.

In the second World War, we needed to produce a lot of stuff.

And indeed, we were so successful at producing certain types of stuff that we destroyed a lot of Europe, and we had to rebuild it afterwards.

And so our national accounting system became fixated on what we can produce. 

He'd be asking us to redesign our national accounting system to be based upon such important things as social justice, sustainability and people's well-being. 

And actually, social scientists have already gone out and asked these questions around the world.

This is from a global survey.

It's asking people, what do they want.

We all need to love and be loved in life.

It's not nearly as important as health.

We want to be healthy and live a full life.

These seem to be natural human aspirations.

Why are statisticians not measuring these?

Why are we not thinking of the progress of nations in these terms, instead of just how much stuff we have?

Why don't we create a measure of progress that shows that?

And what we do, is we say that the ultimate outcome of a nation is how successful is it at creating happy and healthy lives for its citizens.

That should be the goal of every nation on the planet.

It is the ultimate scarce resource, the one planet that we share.

And economics is very interested in scarcity.

It thinks in terms of how much bang do we get for our buck.

And this is a measure of how much well-being we get for our planetary resource use.

It is an efficiency measure.

And probably the easiest way to show you that, is to show you this graph. 

More is bad.

Running vertically upwards, is a measure called "happy life years."

It's about the well-being of nations.

And the yellow dot there you see, is the global average.

Now, there's a huge array of nations around that global average.

They are the U.S.A., other Western countries going across in those triangles and a few Gulf states in there actually.

Conversely, at the bottom left of the graph, are countries that are not producing much well-being -- typically, sub-Saharan Africa.

In Hobbesian terms, life is short and brutish there.

The average life expectancy in many of these countries is only 40 years.

Malaria, HIV/AIDS are killing a lot of people in these regions of the world. 

But now for the good news!

There are some countries up there, yellow triangles, that are doing better than global average, that are heading up towards the top left of the graph.

They're Latin American.

The country on its own up at the top is a place I haven't been to.

Maybe some of you have.

Costa Rica.

Costa Rica -- average life expectancy is 78-and-a-half years.

That is longer than in the USA.

They are the happiest place.

And they have that Latin vibe, don't they.

They have the social connectedness.

(Laughter) The challenge is, that possibly -- and the thing we might have to think about -- is that the future might not be North American, might not be Western European.

It might be Latin American.

And the challenge, really, is to pull the global average up here.

That's what we need to do.

And if we're going to do that, we need to pull countries from the bottom, and we need to pull countries from the right of the graph.

And then we're starting to create a happy planet.

That's one way of looking at it. 

Another way of looking at it is looking at time trends.

We don't have good data going back for every country in the world, but for some of the richest countries, the OECD group, we do.

And so in strict happy-planet methodology, we've become less efficient at turning our ultimate scarce resource into the outcome we want to.

It's actually not very long away.

It's half a human lifetime away.

A child entering school today will be my age in 2050.

This is not the very distant future.

This is what the U.K. government target on carbon and greenhouse emissions looks like.

And I put it to you, that is not business as usual.

That is changing our business.

That is changing the way we create our organizations, we do our government policy and we live our lives.

And the point is, we need to carry on increasing well-being.

No one can go to the polls and say that quality of life is going to reduce.

None of us, I think, want human progress to stop.

I think we want it to carry on.

I think we want the lot of humanity to keep on increasing.

They want to hold on to what they've got.

And if we're going to engage them, I think that's what we've got to do.

And that means we have to really increase efficiency even more. 

Now that's all very easy to draw graphs and things like that, but the point is we need to turn those curves.

And this is where I think we can take a leaf out of systems theory, systems engineers, where they create feedback loops, put the right information at the right point of time.

Human beings are very motivated by the "now."

You put a smart meter in your home, and you see how much electricity you're using right now, how much it's costing you, your kids go around and turn the lights off pretty quickly.

What would that look like for society?

And why do I hear that?

Why don't I hear how much energy Britain used yesterday, or American used yesterday?

Did we meet our three percent annual target on reducing carbon emissions?

That's how you create a collective goal.

You put it out there into the media and start thinking about it.

At a personal level, we need these nudges too.

Maybe we don't quite need the data, but we need reminders.

In the U.K., we have a strong public health message on five fruit and vegetables a day and how much exercise we should do -- never my best thing.

What are these for happiness?

What are the five things that you should do every day to be happier? 

But a piece of work we did was on: what five positive actions can you do to improve well-being in your life?

And the point of these is they are, not quite, the secrets of happiness, but they are things that I think happiness will flow out the side from. 

And the first of these is to connect, is that your social relationships are the most important cornerstones of your life.

Do you invest the time with your loved ones that you could do, and energy?

The fastest way out of a bad mood: step outside, go for a walk, turn the radio on and dance.

Being active is great for our positive mood.

The third one is take notice.

How aware are you of things going on around the world, the seasons changing, people around you?

Do you notice what's bubbling up for you and trying to emerge?

Based on a lot of evidence for mindfulness, cognitive behavioral therapy, [very] strong for our well being.

Older people who keep learning and are curious, they have much better health outcomes than those who start to close down.

But it doesn't have to be formal learning; it's not knowledge based.

It's more curiosity.

It can be learning to cook a new dish, picking up an instrument you forgot as a child.

Our generosity, our altruism, our compassion, are all hardwired to the reward mechanism in our brain.

We feel good if we give.

You can do an experiment where you give two groups of people a hundred dollars in the morning.

You tell one of them to spend it on themselves and one on other people.

You measure their happiness at the end of the day, those that have gone and spent on other people are much happier that those that spent it on themselves. 

And these five ways, which we put onto these handy postcards, I would say, don't have to cost the earth.

And not only that, we need to create a Great Transition to get there, and we need to pave that great transition with good things. 

Human beings want to be happy.

Pave them with the five ways.

And we need to have signposts gathering people together and pointing them -- something like the Happy Planet Index.

And then I believe that we can all create a world we all want, where happiness does not cost the earth. 

