But before I talk about the political chemistry, I actually need to talk about the chemistry of oil. 

We're four percent of the world's population; we use 25 percent of the world's oil production.

And we don't really understand what oil is, until you check out its molecules, And you don't really understand that until you see this stuff burn.

Let me tell you a little bit about this chemistry of oil.

Oil is a stew of hydrocarbon molecules.

Those are called the asphaltenes; they're an ingredient in asphalt.

They're very important in oil spills. 

Let me tell you a little bit about the chemistry of oil in water.

It is this chemistry that makes oil so disastrous.

Oil doesn't sink, it floats.

If it sank, it would be a whole different story as far as an oil spill.

And the other thing it does is it spreads out the moment it hits the water.

It spreads out to be really thin, so you have a hard time corralling it.

It triples the amount of oily, messy goo that you have in the water, and it makes it very hard to handle.

It also makes it very viscous.

It's incredibly hard to clean up.

And every single oil is different when it hits water. 

So I'm going to talk just a little bit about the origin of these politics, because it's really crucial to understanding why this summer is so important, why we need to stay focused.

(Laughter) That shows you how bad it is. 

And that's actually very perverse. 

I mean, we're angry at the one hand and we want to be somewhere else.

We don't want to be buying oil; we want to be doing something green.

And we get kind of in on our own con.

We talk about biofuels that haven't been invented yet.

And so, cognitive dissonance is part and parcel of the way that we deal with oil, and it's really important to dealing with this oil spill. 

Okay, so the politics of oil are very moral in the United States.

Early journalists looked at these spills, and they said, "This is a filthy industry."

But they also saw in it that people were getting rich for doing nothing.

They weren't farmers, they were just getting rich for stuff coming out of the ground.

It's the "Beverly Hillbillies," basically.

And then, of course, there was John D. Rockefeller.

And it also the kind of root of how we see oil as a conspiracy.

But what's really amazing is that Ida Tarbell, the journalist, went in and did a big exposé of Rockefeller and actually got the whole antitrust laws put in place.

But in many ways, that image of the conspiracy still sticks with us.

And we take it as, you know -- we look at it on a moral level, rather than looking at it on a legal and financial level.

So I'm saying this is kind of a distraction.

But it makes for good theater, and it's powerfully cathartic as you probably saw last week. 

So the thing about water oil spills is that they are very politically galvanizing.

I mean, these pictures -- this is from the Santa Barbara spill.

You have these pictures of birds.

They really influence people.

When the Santa Barbara spill happened in 1969, it formed the environmental movement in its modern form.

It started Earth Day.

I think it's important to kind of look at these pictures of the birds and understand what happens to us.

Here we are normally; we're standing at the gas pump, and we're feeling kind of helpless.

We look at these pictures and we understand, for the first time, our role in this supply chain.

We connect the dots in the supply chain.

And we have this kind of -- as voters, we have kind of a "eureka!"

This is why these moments of these oil spills are so important.

We actually need to go in and work on the roots of the problem. 

One of the things that happened with the two previous oil spills was that we really worked on some of the symptoms.

We were very reactive, as opposed to being proactive about what happened.

And so what we did was, actually, we made moratoriums on the east and west coasts on drilling.

We stopped drilling in ANWR, but we didn't actually reduce the amount of oil that we consumed.

In fact, it's continued to increase.

The only thing that really reduces the amount of oil that we consume is much higher prices.

As you can see, our own production has fallen off as our reservoirs have gotten old and expensive to drill out.

One of the things that's happened because of this is that, since 1969, the country of Nigeria, or the part of Nigeria that pumps oil, which is the delta -- which is two times the size of Maryland -- has had thousands of oil spills a year.

I mean, we've essentially been exporting oil spills when we import oil from places without tight environmental regulations.

And these guys, I mean, if they were in the U.S., they might be actually here in this room.

And it's sort of one of the other groups of people who pay a price for us. 

The other thing that we've done, as we've continued to increase demand, is that we kind of play a shell game with the costs.

So the people of the Gulf have essentially been subsidizing the rest of us through a less-clean environment. 

And finally, American families also pay a price for oil.

They're actually spending more on their car and fuel than they are on taxes or on health care.

One thing is -- we need to stay away from the theater.

We need to stay away from the moratoriums.

What you see in this top drawing is a schematic of how petroleum gets used in the U.S. economy.

Now you can see that the waste far outweighs the actually useful amount.

We need to remove the perverse incentives to use more fuel.

We need to have more mobility choices.

We need to make the gas price better reflect the real cost of oil.

It's called STRONG, which is "Secure Transportation Reducing Oil Needs Gradually," and the idea is instead of being helpless, we need to be more strong.

They're up at NewAmerica.net.

What's important about these is that we try to move from feeling helpless at the pump, to actually being active and to really sort of thinking about who we are, having kind of that special moment, where we connect the dots actually at the pump. 

Now supposedly, oil taxes are the third rail of American politics -- the no-fly zone.

Let me give you a little sense of how this would work. 

That's a lot.

And so this -- you can see that you're paying considerably less than the health care costs on the tax.

And also, the hope is that you start to be connected to the whole greater system.

We need to kind of get down and do the gritty work of reducing our dependence upon this fuel and these molecules. 

Thank you. 

