Cartoons are basically short stories.

I tried to find one that didn't have a whole lot of words.

Not all of them have happy endings.

So how did I get started cartooning?

So you have to make a living cartooning. 

And I was particularly fascinated with sharks.

This is some of my early work.

Before that day, this is how I saw the ocean.

It's just a big blue surface.

And this is how we've seen the ocean since the beginning of time.

It's a mystery.

And best of all, I saw the animals.

I saw a manta ray that looked as big as the plane I was flying in.

So from that day on, I was an ordinary kid walking around on dry land, but my head was down there, underwater.

Up until that day, these were the animals that were most common in my life.

Every time I'd come up with a crazy cartoon character on the drawing board, I'd find a critter in the ocean that was even crazier.

And the differences in scale between this tiny sea dragon and this enormous humpback whale was like something out of a science-fiction movie. 

So if you ever fantasize about going back in time and seeing what a dinosaur looked like, that's what a dinosaur looks like.

Could you image if we looked through the Hubble Telescope and we saw that?

It would start a whole new space race.

We say to ourselves, "Maybe we can make fish sticks with it or something."

So, what I'd like to do now is try a little drawing.

So, I'm going to try to draw this fangtooth here.

For instance, take these sea turtles.

They can sense the magnetic fields of the earth.

And they can use that sense to navigate hundreds of miles of open ocean.

Or take this sea cucumber.

He's like an underwater Spiderman.

He shoots out these sticky webs to entangle his enemy.

(Laughter) He can't spin a web anytime; he's got to pull his pants down first. 

(Laughter) He can't spin a web anytime; he's got to pull his pants down first. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Or the blowfish.

The blowfish is like the Incredible Hulk.

It can change its body into a big, intimidating fish in a matter of seconds.

I'm going to draw this blowfish uninflated.

And then I'm going to attempt onscreen animation here.

Let's see.

Try and inflate it.

Or take this swordfish.

Could you imagine being born with a tool for a nose?

Do you think he wakes up in the morning, looks in the mirror and says, "Somebody's getting stabbed today."

Or this lionfish for instance.

And I kind of broke the mold with Sherman.

I didn't want to go with this ruthless predator image.

He's kind of just out there making a living.

He's sort of a Homer Simpson with fins.

So with characters, you can make stories.

Sometimes making a story is as easy as putting two characters in a room and seeing what happens.

So, imagine a great white shark and a giant squid in the same bathroom.

I've taken them camping in the kelp forests of California. 

And that was a lot of fun because, as most of you know, it's a real project we've heard about.

But it was a chance for me to introduce readers to a lot of crazy undersea characters.

He goes down and he meets this famous anglerfish.

I did another story on marine debris.

I was speaking to a lot of my friends in the conservation business, and they -- I asked them, "So what's one issue you would like everyone to know more about?"

We sort of worked things out.

I couldn't fit them in.

So what I did was I made an adventure strip. 

Basically, this bottle travels a long way.

What I'm trying to tell readers is that plastic doesn't really go away; it just continues to wash downstream.

So that was basically a buddy story with a plastic bottle following along.

It was on shark finning, and I felt really strongly about this issue.

And I felt like, since my main character was a shark, the comic strip was a perfect vehicle for telling the public about this.

Now, finning is the act of taking a shark, cutting the valuable fins off and throwing the live animal back in the water.

It's cruel, it's wasteful.

There's nothing funny or entertaining about it, but I really wanted to take this issue on.

I had to kill my main character, who is a shark. 

He gets finned, and then he gets thrown overboard.

Ostensibly, he's dead now.

And so I killed a character that's been in the newspaper for 15 years.

So I got a lot of reader feedback on that one.

Meanwhile, the other characters are talking about shark fin soup.

Sherman's up in shark heaven.

This is what I love about comic strips, you know.

You can kind of do anything.

It becomes a near-death experience for Sherman.

Meanwhile, Ernest finds his fins on the internet.

And he clicks the "buy now" button.

Thanks.

I'd like to end with a little metaphor here.

I've been trying to think of a metaphor to represent Mission Blue, and this is what I came up with.

You've been given one tool, a hammer.

And you take the piece out into the daylight.

And you see you have a beautiful piece of white alabaster.

So you say to yourself, "Well, that's worth something."

And you find other things, and you break that up, and you haul those away.

And you're getting all kinds of cool stuff.

And you hear other people doing the same thing.

And then some yells, "Stop!"

And that's what we're doing with the ocean.

so that each of us -- explorer, scientist, cartoonist, singer, chef -- can turn up the lights in their own way.

And that's what I hope my comic strip does in a small way.

That's why I like what I do. 

Thanks for listening. 

