The ice of Antarctica glows with a light so dazzling, it blinds the unprotected eye.

Early explorers rubbed cocaine in their eyes to kill the pain of it.

It records the annual rise and fall of greenhouse gases and temperatures going back before the onset of the last ice ages.

Nowhere on Earth offers us such a perfect record.

And here, scientists are drilling into the past of our planet to find clues to the future of climate change. 

It is the best place on the planet, many say, to study the history of climate change.

There, about 45 scientists from the University of Wisconsin, the Desert Research Institute in Nevada and others have been working to answer a central question about global warming.

This past May was the warmest worldwide on record.

And we know that levels of greenhouse gases are rising too.

WAIS Divide itself though, is a circle of tents in the snow.

It snows so heavily there, the installation was almost immediately buried.

Indeed, the researchers picked this site because ice and snow accumulates here 10 times faster than anywhere else in Antarctica.

They have to dig themselves out every day.

It makes for an exotic and chilly commute. 

But under the surface is a hive of industrial activity centered around an eight-million-dollar drill assembly.

Periodically, this drill, like a biopsy needle, plunges thousands of feet deep into the ice to extract a marrow of gases and isotopes for analysis.

It's really a time machine.

They inspect it, they check it for cracks, for drill damage, for spalls, for chips. 

Each cylinder is a parfait of time. 

Every year, it begins with a snowflake, and by digging into fresh snow, we can see how this process is ongoing today.

This wall of undisturbed snow, back-lit by sunlight, shows the striations of winter and summer snow, layer upon layer.

From this, we can detect an extraordinary number of things.

We can see the calcium from the world's deserts, soot from distant wildfires, methane as an indicator of the strength of a Pacific monsoon, all wafted on winds from warmer latitudes to this remote and very cold place. 

Most importantly, these cylinders and this snow trap air.

And this is the object of their scrutiny.

But don't we already know what we need to know about greenhouse gases?

Why do we need to study this anymore?

Don't we already know how they affect temperatures?

Indeed, we run the risk of making things worse. 

This process requires extraordinary precautions.

The scientists must insure that the ice is not contaminated.

Moreover, in this 8,000-mile journey, they have to insure this ice doesn't melt.

Imagine juggling a snowball across the tropics.

So, in the coldest place on Earth, they work inside a refrigerator.

They work against the clock and against the thermometer. 

So far, they've packed up about 4,500 feet of ice cores for shipment back to the United States.

This past season, they manhandled them across the ice to waiting aircraft.

Early explorers sailed off the edge of the map, and they found a place where the normal rules of time and temperature seem suspended.

Here, the ice seems a living presence.

The wind that rubs against it gives it voice.

It is a voice of experience.

It is a voice we should heed. 

Thank you. 

