It feels like we're all suffering from information overload or data glut.

Failing that, visualized information can just look really cool. 

So, let's see.

And the colors here represent the motivation behind the money.

So purple is "fighting," and red is "giving money away," and green is "profiteering."

And what you can see straight away is you start to have a different relationship to the numbers.

You can literally see them.

But more importantly, you start to see patterns and connections between numbers that would otherwise be scattered across multiple news reports. 

And this little pixel in the corner -- three billion -- that's their climate change fund.

How much of this diagram do you think might be taken up by the debt that Africa owes to the West?

Let's take a look.

And when you're lost in information, an information map is kind of useful. 

So I want to show you another landscape now.

This is Mountains Out of Molehills, a timeline of global media panic.

(Laughter) So, I'll label this for you in a second.

But the height here, I want to point out, is the intensity of certain fears as reported in the media.

The millennium bug, terrible disaster.

These little green peaks are asteroid collisions.

(Laughter) And in summer, here, killer wasps. 

(Laughter) And in summer, here, killer wasps. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So these are what our fears look like over time in our media.

If we look closer, we see those peaks occur at the same month every year.

Why?

But April isn't a particularly massive month for video games.

Why April?

Why is there a gap there?

Because for me, it feels like a fertile, creative medium.

But if you look at it directly, it's just a lot of numbers and disconnected facts.

But if you start working with it and playing with it in a certain way, interesting things can appear and different patterns can be revealed. 

Let me show you this.

Can you guess what this data set is?

Shall we see? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Who would do that?

I wonder if I could make my life beautiful.

And here's my visual C.V.

I'm not quite sure I've succeeded.

Pretty blocky, the colors aren't that great.

But I wanted to convey something to you.

And I've never been to design school.

I've never studied art or anything.

I just kind of learned through doing.

And when I started designing, I discovered an odd thing about myself.

It's almost like being exposed to all this media over the years had instilled a kind of dormant design literacy in me.

And I don't feel like I'm unique. 

I feel that everyday, all of us now are being blasted by information design.

I was curious about this, so it led me to the work of a Danish physicist called Tor Norretranders, and he converted the bandwidth of the senses into computer terms. 

Your sense of sight is the fastest.

It has the same bandwidth as a computer network.

Then you have touch, which is about the speed of a USB key.

And then you have hearing and smell, which has the throughput of a hard disk.

The eye is exquisitely sensitive to patterns in variations in color, shape and pattern.

It loves them, and it calls them beautiful.

It's the language of the eye.

So, you have the eye, and then you drop in the concepts.

And that whole thing -- it's two languages both working at the same time. 

So massive, in fact, that it can contain all the other military budgets in the world inside itself.

But is it true that America has the biggest military budget?

Because America is an incredibly rich country.

So its military budget is bound to be enormous.

But of course, China has an enormous population.

It actually has a tiny army when you take other data into consideration.

So, absolute figures, like the military budget, in a connected world, don't give you the whole picture.

They're not as true as they could be. 

Take a look at this one.

I'm a bit of a health nut.

I love taking supplements and being fit, but I can never understand what's going on in terms of evidence.

This is a visualization of all the evidence for nutritional supplements.

This kind of diagram is called a balloon race.

So the higher up the image, the more evidence there is for each supplement.

And the bubbles correspond to popularity as regards to Google hits.

Now this image constitutes a huge amount of work.

We scraped like 1,000 studies from PubMed, the biomedical database, and we compiled them and graded them all.

But what it points to is that visualizing information like this is a form of knowledge compression.

It's a way of squeezing an enormous amount of information and understanding into a small space.

And once you've curated that data, and once you've cleaned that data, and once it's there, you can do cool stuff like this. 

So it spawns itself.

And then I can say, "Well, just show me the stuff that affects heart health."

So let's filter that out.

The data is all stored in a Google Doc, and it's literally generating itself from that data.

So it's cool.

It's kind of living. 

I like to apply information visualization to ideas and concepts.

And it feels just incredibly cool to do that. 

You're capable of holding conflicting viewpoints joyously when you can see them.

I mean, I find information just too interesting.

It has a magnetic quality that draws me in. 

So, visualizing information can give us a very quick solution to those kinds of problems.

Even when the information is terrible, the visual can be quite beautiful.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

