I'm here to talk to you today about a story that we have all been conditioned to believe is not possible.

Now, this start-up is fundamentally beginning to disrupt the way government does business from the inside out.

But before I get there, let's start with the problem. 

For me, the problem begins with a number: 137.

Now, we live in times of incredible change.

The private sector is constantly changing and improving itself all the time.

For that matter, it's removing every single inconvenience in my life that I could possibly think of.

I could be sitting on my couch in my apartment, and from my phone, I can order a warm, gluten-free meal that can arrive at my door in less than 10 minutes.

And the inability of her to do that same work from her couch means that she might be having to take days or hours off of work that she can't spare.

And this growing dichotomy between the beneficiaries of the tech revolution and those it's left behind is one of the greatest challenges of our time -- 

Because government's failure to deliver digital services that work is disproportionately impacting the very people who need it most.

It's impacting the students trying to go to college, the single mothers trying to get health care, the veterans coming home from battle.

They can't get what they need when they need it.

And for these Americans, government is more than just a presidential election every four years.

Government is a lifeline that provides services they need and depend on and deserve.

Which is, quite frankly, why government needs to get its shit together and catch up.

Just saying. 

Now, this wasn't always a problem I was passionate about.

We were a cutting-edge start-up that changed the game of politics forever.

So when the President asked a small group of us to bring that very same disruption directly into government, I knew it wasn't going to be easy work, but I was eager and showed up ready to get to work. 

Now, on my first day in DC, my first day in government, I walked into the office and they handed me a laptop.

And the laptop was running Windows 98. 

I mean, three entire presidential elections had come and gone since the government had updated the operating system on that computer.

Three elections!

The federal government is the largest institution in the world.

It spends over 86 billion dollars a year -- 86 billion -- on federal IT projects.

For context: that is more than the entire venture capital industry spends annually -- on everything.

94 percent!

For those of you keeping score, yes, the number 94 is very close to 100. 

They are completely scrapped or abandoned.

And when the status quo is the riskiest option, that means there is simply no other choice than radical disruption. 

So, what do we do about it?

How do we fix this?

So what would it look like if it was actually as easy to get student loans or veterans' benefits as it is to order cat food to my house?

What would it look like if there was an easy pathway for the very entrepreneurs and innovators who have disrupted our tech sector to come and disrupt their government? 

Well, my friends, here's where we get to talk about some of the exciting new formulas we've discovered for creating change in government.

Enter the United States Digital Service.

The United States Digital Service is a new network of start-ups, a team of teams, organizing themselves across government to create radical change.

The mission of the United States Digital Service is to help government deliver world-class digital services for students, immigrants, children, the elderly -- everybody -- at dramatically lower costs.

We are essentially trying to build a more awesome government, for the people, by the people, today.

We don't care -- (Applause) Thank you. 

We don't care about politics.

Now, this team -- our playbook for the United States Digital Service is pretty simple.

The first play is we recruit the very best talent our country has to offer, and recruit them for short tours of duty inside government.

These are the very people who have helped build the products and companies that have made our tech sector amongst the most innovative in the world.

Second, we pair these incredible people from the tech core with the dedicated civil servants already inside government on the ground creating change.

Third, we strategically deploy them in a targeted formation at the most mission-critical, life-changing, important services that government offers.

Now, this team is beginning to disrupt how government does business from the inside out.

If you study classic patterns of disruption, one very common pattern is rather simple.

It's to take something that has become routine and standard in one industry and apply it to another where it's a radical departure from the status quo.

Think about what Airbnb took that was normal from hospitality and revolutionized my apartment.

The United States Digital Service is doing exactly that.

Now, the good news is: it's starting to work.

Now, if I can take a moment and brag about the team for a second -- it is the highest concentration of badasses I could have ever dreamed of.

We have top talent from Google, Facebook, Amazon, Twitter and the likes, all on staff today, all choosing to join their government.

And what's incredible is, everybody is as eager and kind as they are intelligent.

And I might add, by the way, over half of us are women. 

The best way to understand this strategy is actually to walk through a couple of examples of how it's working out in the wild.

I'm going to give you two examples quickly. 

The first one is about immigration.

Sadly, that's what often happens.

That's the status quo today.

But they didn't.

The dedicated civil servants inside the agency decided to stand up and call for change.

And that team jumped in, side-by-side, to support the agency in transitioning this project into more modern business practices, more modern development practices.

So within less than three months of our team being on the ground, we were already able to push our first products to production.

The first one, this is the form I-90.

This is used to file for your replacement green card.

Now, for immigrant visa holders, a replacement green card is a big deal.

Your green card is your proof of identification, it's your work authorization, it's the proof that you can be here in this country.

So waiting six months while the government processes the replacement is not cool.

So as part of becoming a US citizen, you have to pass a civics test.

For anyone who has taken this test, it can be quite the stressful process.

Because all of this work, all of this work on immigration, is about taking complicated processes and making them more human. 

The other day, one of the dedicated civil servants on the ground said something incredibly profound.

She said that she's never been this hopeful or optimistic about a project in her entire time in government.

And she's been doing this for 30 years.

That is exactly the kind of hope and culture change we are trying to create. 

Vets.gov is a simple, easy-to-use website that brings all of the online services a veteran needs into one place.

One website, not thousands.

This might sound incredibly obvious, because it should be, but sadly, this isn't normal for government.

I'm proud to say that they are live on the site today, and as the team continues to streamline more services, they will be ported over here, and the old sites, shut down. 

To me, this is what change looks like in 2016. 

We have the tools to solve these problems.

It's particularly hard when we have to fight, when we have to refuse to succumb to the belief that things won't change.

Today, it is no longer a question of if change is possible.

Will you? 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

