The global challenge that I want to talk to you about today rarely makes the front pages.

But I do hope to take you to some places you've never been to before. 

So, let's start off in China.

This photo was taken two weeks ago.

Actually, one indication is that little boy on my husband's shoulders has just graduated from high school.

Let me take you to the real China.

This is in the Dabian Mountains in the remote part of Hubei province in central China.

Dai Manju is 13 years old at the time the story starts.

She lives with her parents, her two brothers and her great-aunt.

They have a hut that has no electricity, no running water, no wristwatch, no bicycle.

And they share this great splendor with a very large pig.

Turns out that Dai Manju was the best pupil in her grade.

We wrote about her in The New York Times.

We turned the money over to that man there, the principal of the school.

So Dai Manju basically finished out middle school.

She scouted for jobs down in Guangdong province in the south.

She found a job, she scouted for jobs for her classmates and her friends.

She sent money back to her family.

What we saw was a natural experiment.

It is rare to get an exogenous investment in girls' education.

And over the years, as we followed Dai Manju, we were able to see that she was able to move out of a vicious cycle and into a virtuous cycle.

She not only changed her own dynamic, she changed her household, she changed her family, her village.

The village became a real standout.

Of course, most of China was flourishing at the time, but they were able to get a road built to link them up to the rest of China. 

And that brings me to my first major of two tenets of "Half the Sky."

And that is that the central moral challenge of this century is gender inequity.

In the 19th century, it was slavery.

In the 20th century, it was totalitarianism.

The cause of our time is the brutality that so many people face around the world because of their gender.

Okay, most of you.

Well, you know this latter group, you're wrong.

In fact, demographers have shown that there are anywhere between 60 million and 100 million missing females in the current population. 

And, you know, it happens for several reasons.

For instance, in the last half-century, more girls were discriminated to death than all the people killed on all the battlefields in the 20th century.

Sometimes it's also because of the sonogram.

Girls get aborted before they're even born when there are scarce resources.

This girl here, for instance, is in a feeding center in Ethiopia.

The entire center was filled with girls like her.

What's remarkable is that her brothers, in the same family, were totally fine.

Poverty, for instance.

There are three reasons why this is the case.

For one, overpopulation is one of the persistent causes of poverty.

And you know, when you educate a boy, his family tends to have fewer kids, but only slightly.

When you educate a girl, she tends to have significantly fewer kids.

The second reason is it has to do with spending.

So research has shown, if you look at people who live under two dollars a day -- one metric of poverty -- two percent of that take-home pay goes to this basket here, in education.

20 percent goes to a basket that is a combination of alcohol, tobacco, sugary drinks -- and prostitution and festivals.

If you just take four percentage points and put it into this basket, you would have a transformative effect. 

The last reason has to do with women being part of the solution, not the problem.

You need to use scarce resources.

It's a waste of resources if you don't use someone like Dai Manju.

He was speaking to an audience much like yourselves.

However, two-thirds of the way there was a barrier.

On this side was men, and then the barrier, and this side was women.

(Laughter) 

So what would some of the specific challenges look like?

I would say, on the top of the agenda is sex trafficking.

And I'll just say two things about this.

The slavery at the peak of the slave trade in the 1780s: there were about 80,000 slaves transported from Africa to the New World.

Now, modern slavery: according to State Department rough statistics, there are about 800,000 -- 10 times the number -- that are trafficked across international borders.

And that does not even include those that are trafficked within country borders, which is a substantial portion.

But you know, there is progress being made in places like Cambodia and Thailand.

We don't have to expect a world where girls are bought and sold or killed. 

The second item on the agenda is maternal mortality.

You know, childbirth in this part of the world is a wonderful event.

In Niger, one in seven women can expect to die during childbirth.

Around the world, one woman dies every minute and a half from childbirth.

You know, for every woman who does die, there are 20 who survive but end up with an injury.

Let me tell you about Mahabuba.

She lives in Ethiopia.

She was married against her will at age 13.

The baby died, and she ended up with a fistula.

So finally, they put her at the edge of the village in a hut.

They ripped off the door so that the hyenas would get her at night.

And the next morning, she knew if she could get to a nearby village where there was a foreign missionary, she would be saved.

Because she had some damage to her nerves, she crawled all the way -- 30 miles -- to that doorstep, half dead.

The doctors and nurses there noticed that she was not only a survivor, she was really clever, and they made her a nurse.

So now, Mahabuba, she is saving the lives of hundreds, thousands, of women.

She has become part of the solution, not the problem.

She's moved out of a vicious cycle and into a virtuous cycle. 

With economic opportunity, it can be transformative. 

Let me tell you about Saima.

She lives in a small village outside Lahore, Pakistan.

And at the time, she was miserable.

She was beaten every single day by her husband, who was unemployed.

He was kind of a gambler type -- and unemployable, therefore -- and took his frustrations out on her.

At the time, there was a microlending group in the village that gave her a 65-dollar loan.

Saima took that money, and she started an embroidery business.

And when she couldn't produce enough, she hired other women in the village.

Pretty soon she had 30 women in the village working for her embroidery business.

He does the transportation and distribution, and she does the production and sourcing.

Which brings me to the final element, which is education.

She rocketed to the top of her class.

Two years ago, she graduated from Connecticut College.

(Laughter) And that goat was $120. 

So you see how transformative little bits of help can be.

But I want to give you a reality check.

A few yards away was a failed chicken coop.

You learn from your mistakes, and you continuously improve. 

And a movement of men and women is what's needed to bring about social change, change that will address this great moral challenge.

I will just leave you with two things.

One is that research shows that once you have all of your material needs taken care of -- which most of us, all of us, here in this room do -- research shows that there are very few things in life that can actually elevate your level of happiness.

One of those things is contributing to a cause larger than yourself. 

And the second thing, it's an anecdote that I'll leave you with.

And that is the story of an aid worker in Darfur.

Here was a woman who had worked in Darfur, seeing things that no human being should see.

Throughout her time there, she was strong, she was steadfast.

She never broke down.

And she realized that with that great fortune comes great responsibility.

And so, like her, you, me, we have all won the lottery of life.

And so the question becomes: how do we discharge that responsibility? 

Thank you very much. 

