I grew up on a small farm in Missouri.

We lived on less than a dollar a day for about 15 years.

I got a scholarship, went to university, studied international agriculture, studied anthropology, and decided I was going to give back.

I was going to work with small farmers.

I was going to help alleviate poverty.

You could be in New York.

I assessed how long they were going to stay and how much it would take to feed them.

And I got really good at predicting how many body bags you would need for the people who were going to die in these camps. 

So I was at a Grateful Dead benefit concert on the rainforests in 1988.

Within a year, Rainforest Crunch was on the shelves.

It was a great success.

We did our first million-dollars-worth of trade by buying on 30 days and selling on 21.

That gets your adrenaline going.

Then we had a four and a half million-dollar line of credit because we were credit-worthy at that point.

We had 15 to 20, maybe 22 percent of the global Brazil-nut market.

We paid two to three times more than anybody else.

A great success.

50 companies signed up, 200 products came out, generated 100 million in sales.

It failed.

Why did it fail?

Because the people who were gathering Brazil nuts weren't the same people who were cutting the forests.

And the people who made money from Brazil nuts were not the people who made money from cutting the forests.

We were attacking the wrong driver.

We live on a planet.

There's just one of them.

We know the limits of the resources we have.

We may be able to use them differently.

We may have some innovative, new ideas.

But in general, this is what we've got.

There's no more of it.

There's a basic equation that we can't get away from.

Our work shows that we're living at about 1.3 planets.

Since 1990, we crossed the line of being in a sustainable relationship to the planet.

Now we're at 1.3.

If we were farmers, we'd be eating our seed.

For bankers, we'd be living off the principal, not the interest.

This is where we stand today.

A lot of people like to point to some place else as the cause of the problem.

It's always population growth.

Population growth's important, but it's also about how much each person consumes.

So when the average American consumes 43 times as much as the average African, we've got to think that consumption is an issue.

You think that's not an issue going forward?

You think that's not a question as to how we should be using the Earth's resources? 

Let's go back and visit our equation.

In 2000, we had six billion people on the planet.

They were consuming what they were consuming -- let's say one unit of consumption each.

We have six billion units of consumption.

By 2050, we're going to have nine billion people -- all the scientists agree.

So we're going to have 18 billion units of consumption.

But that's what the math says.

We're not going to be able to do that.

But it basically raises a fundamental question: should consumers have a choice about sustainability, about sustainable products?

If they should all be sustainable on a finite planet, how do you make that happen?

The average consumer takes 1.8 seconds in the U.S.

How do you evaluate all the scientific data around a product, the data that's changing on a weekly, if not a daily, basis?

How do you get informed?

You don't.

Here's a little question.

From a greenhouse gas perspective, is lamb produced in the U.K. better than lamb produced in New Zealand, frozen and shipped to the U.K.?

Is a bad feeder lot operation for beef better or worse than a bad grazing operation for beef?

Do organic potatoes actually have fewer toxic chemicals used to produce them than conventional potatoes?

In every single case, the answer is "it depends."

It depends on who produced it and how, in every single instance.

And there are many others.

How is a consumer going to walk through this minefield?

They're not.

They may have a lot of opinions about it, but they're not going to be terribly informed. 

Sustainability has got to be a pre-competitive issue.

It's got to be something we all care about.

And we need collusion.

We need groups to work together that never have.

We need Cargill to work with Bunge.

We need Coke to work with Pepsi.

We need Oxford to work with Cambridge.

We need Greenpeace to work with WWF.

But we can't do everything.

Even if we get everybody working on it, we've got to be strategic.

We need to focus on the where, the what and the who.

So, the where: We've identified 35 places globally that we need to work.

These are the places that are the richest in biodiversity and the most important from an ecosystem function point-of-view.

We have to work in these places.

So we've got 35 places, we've got 15 priority commodities, who do we work with to change the way those commodities are produced?

Are we going to work with 6.9 billion consumers?

Let's see, that's about 7,000 languages, 350 major languages -- a lot of work there.

I don't see anybody actually being able to do that very effectively.

Are we going to work with 1.5 billion producers?

Again, a daunting task.

There must be a better way.

300 to 500 companies control 70 percent or more of the trade of each of the 15 commodities that we've identified as the most significant.

If we work with those, if we change those companies and the way they do business, then the rest will happen automatically.

So, we went through our 15 commodities.

This is nine of them.

We lined them up side-by-side, and we put the names of the companies that work on each of those.

So we did the analysis again a slightly different way.

We said: if we take the top hundred companies, what percentage of all 15 commodities do they touch, buy or sell?

And what we found is it's 25 percent.

So 100 companies control 25 percent of the trade of all 15 of the most significant commodities on the planet.

We can get our arms around a hundred companies.

A hundred companies, we can work with. 

Companies can push producers faster than consumers can.

By companies asking for this, we can leverage production so much faster than by waiting for consumers to do it.

After 40 years, the global organic movement has achieved 0.7 of one percent of global food.

We can't wait that long.

We don't have that kind of time.

We need change that's going to accelerate.

Even working with individual companies is not probably going to get us there.

We need to begin to work with industries.

We bring in civil society, we bring in NGOs, we bring in researchers and scientists to have an informed discussion -- sometimes a battle royale -- to figure out what are the key impacts of these products, what is a global benchmark, what's an acceptable impact, and design standards around that.

It's not all fun and games. 

In salmon aquaculture, we kicked off a roundtable almost six years ago.

It can happen. 

So what brings the different entities to the table?

It's risk and demand.

For the producers, if a buyer wants to buy something produced a certain way, that's what brings them to the table.

So it's the demand that brings them to the table.

The good news is we identified a hundred companies two years ago.

And in the next 18 months, we will have signed up to work with another 40, and we think we'll get those signed as well.

One company we're working with that's begun -- in baby steps, perhaps -- but has begun this journey on sustainability is Cargill.

They've funded research that shows that we can double global palm oil production without cutting a single tree in the next 20 years, and do it all in Borneo alone by planting on land that's already degraded.

The study shows that the highest net present value for palm oil is on land that's been degraded.

They're also undertaking a study to look at all of their supplies of palm oil to see if they could be certified and what they would need to change in order to become third-party certified under a credible certification program.

Why is Cargill important?

Because Cargill has 20 to 25 percent of global palm oil.

If Cargill makes a decision, the entire palm oil industry moves, or at least 40 or 50 percent of it.

That's not insignificant.

More importantly, Cargill and one other company ship 50 percent of the palm oil that goes to China.

We don't have to change the way a single Chinese company works if we get Cargill to only send sustainable palm oil to China.

Buy it. 

Mars is also on a similar journey.

It turns out Mars buys more seafood than Walmart because of pet food.

But they're doing some really interesting things around chocolate, and it all comes from the fact that Mars wants to be in business in the future.

And what they see is that they need to improve chocolate production.

What they've realized is that if they can identify the traits on productivity and drought tolerance, they can produce 320 percent as much cocoa on 40 percent of the land.

The rest of the land can be used for something else.

It's more with less and less again.

If you divide the amount of water into what the farmer was paid, the farmer didn't receive enough money to pay a decent price for water in any of those commodities.

That is an externality by definition.

This is the subsidy from nature.

There's carbon that's being bought with sugar, with coffee, with beef.

We need to take what we've learned in private, voluntary standards of what the best producers in the world are doing and use that to inform government regulation, so we can shift the entire performance curve.

We can't just focus on identifying the best; we've got to move the rest. 

The issue isn't what to think, it's how to think.

These companies have begun to think differently.

They're on a journey; there's no turning back.

We're all on that same journey with them.

We have to really begin to change the way we think about everything.

Whatever was sustainable on a planet of six billion is not going to be sustainable on a planet with nine. 

Thank you. 

