It's flipping freezing in that water.

And that swim took me 18 minutes and 50 seconds, and it felt like 18 days.

And the most immediate thought when I came out of that water was the following: I'm never, ever going to do another cold water swim in my life again. 

I heard about this lake, Lake Imja.

This lake has been formed in the last couple of years because of the melting of the glacier.

The glacier's gone all the way up the mountain and left in its place this big lake.

And I firmly believe that what we're seeing in the Himalayas is the next great, big battleground on this earth.

Nearly two billion people -- so one in three people on this earth -- rely on the water from the Himalayas.

North, you've got China; south, you've India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, all these countries. 

The other thing which was so challenging about this swim is not just the altitude.

I wanted to do the swim at 5,300 meters above sea level.

I feels like you've got a man standing behind you with a hammer just hitting your head all the time. 

That's not the worst part of it.

And to the right hand side of us was this great Khumbu Glacier.

And all the way along the glacier we saw these big pools of melting ice.

I could barely breathe.

I was gasping for air.

I then began to choke, and then it quickly led to me vomiting in the water.

And I don't where I got it from, but I was able to somehow pull myself up and as quickly as possible get to the side of the lake.

(Laughter) It is the most frightening and panicky feeling that you can have. 

And there, we sat down, and we did a debrief about what had gone wrong there on Mt.

And so we walked back up to the mountain two days later.

And I can't begin to tell you how good I felt when I came to the other side. 

The first one is that just because something has worked in the past so well, doesn't mean it's going to work in the future.

And similarly, now, before I do anything, I ask myself what type of mindset do I require to successfully complete a task.

The warning signs are all there.

When I was born, the world's population was 3.5 billion people.

We're now 6.8 billion people, and we're expected to be 9 billion people by 2050. 

And then the second lesson, the radical, tactical shift.

So thank you very, very much. 

