For a moment, what I need to do is project something on the screen of your imagination.

We're in 17th century Japan on the west coast, and a little, wizened monk is hurrying along, near midnight, to the crest of a small hill.

And he scans across the ocean, and he looks at the sky.

He said more with less than any human that I have ever read or talked to.

Basho, in 17 syllables, juxtaposed a turbulent ocean driven by a storm now past, and captured the almost impossible beauty of our home galaxy with millions of stars, probably hundreds and hundreds of -- who knows how many -- planets, maybe even an ocean that we will probably call Sylvia in time.

Sylvia has said we must use every capacity we have in order to know the oceans.

If we would know the oceans, we must go to the oceans.

And what I'd like to talk to you today about, a little bit, is really transforming the relationship, or the interplay, between humans and oceans with a new capability that is not at all routine yet.

I hope it will be.

There are a few key points.

So what scientists do when they begin is to start with the system.

They define what the system is.

It's the whole planet, the entire planet, continents and oceans together.

That's the system. 

And basically, our challenge is to optimize the benefits and mitigate the risks of living on a planet that's driven by only two processes, two sources of energy, one of which is solar, that drives the winds, the waves, the clouds, the storms and photosynthesis.

The second one is internal energy.

And these two war against one another almost continuously.

Mountain ranges, plate tectonics, moves the continents around, forms ore deposits.

Volcanoes erupt.

That's the planet that we live on.

It's immensely complex. 

Now I don't expect all of you to see all the details here, but what I want you to see is this is about 10 percent of the processes that operate within the oceans almost continuously, and have for the last 4 billion years.

This is a system that's been around a very long time.

And these have all co-evolved.

What do I mean by that?

They interact with one another constantly.

All of them interact with one another.

So the complexity of this system that we're looking at, the one driven by the sun -- upper portion, mostly -- and the lower portion is partly driven by the input from heat below and by other processes.

We must understand it.

If you can see the complexity, you can see how tiny, little eddies and large eddies and the motion -- this is just sea surface temperature, but it's immensely complicated.

Now a layer in, the other two or three hundred processes that are all interacting, partly as a function of temperature, partly as a function of all the other factors, and you've got a really complicated system.

That's our challenge, is to understand, understand this system in new and phenomenal ways.

And there's an urgency to this.

Part of the urgency comes from the fact that, of order, a billion people on the planet currently are undernourished or starving.

And part of the issue is for Cody -- who's here, 16 years old -- and I have permission to relay this number.

When he, 40 years from now, is the age of Nancy Brown, there are going to be another two and a half billion people on the planet.

We can't solve all the problems by looking only at the oceans, but if we don't understand the fundamental life support system of this planet much more thoroughly than we do now, then the stresses that we will face, and that Cody will face, and even Nancy, who's going to live till she's 98, will have really problems coping. 

All right, let's talk about another perspective on the importance of the oceans.

Look at this diagram, which is showing warm waters in red, cool waters in blue, and on the continents, what you're seeing in bright green, is the growth of vegetation, and in olive green, the dieback of vegetation.

And in the lower left hand corner there's a clock ticking away from 1982 to 1998 and then cycling again.

What you'll see is that the rhythms of growth, of vegetation -- a subset of which is food on the continents -- is directly tied to the rhythms of the sea surface temperatures.

The oceans control, or at least significantly influence, correlate with, the growth patterns and the drought patterns and the rain patterns on the continents.

So people in Kansas, in a wheat field in Kansas, need to understand that the oceans are central to them as well.

Another complexity: this is the age of the oceans.

I'm going to layer in on top of this the tectonic plates.

The age of the ocean, the tectonic plates, gives rise to a totally new phenomenon that we have heard about in this conference. 

And I share with you some very high-definition video that we collected in real time.

Seconds after this video was taken, people in Beijing, people in Sydney, people in Amsterdam, people in Washington D.C. were watching this.

This is very, very exciting.

It may be the next rainforest, in terms of pharmaceuticals.

We know little or nothing about it. 

Well, Marcel Proust has this wonderful saying that, "The real voyage of discovery consists not so much in seeking new territory, but possibly in having new sets of eyes," new ways of seeing things, a new mindset.

Some of you remember this, I'm sure.

And now, we have an entire suite of tools that are really pretty powerful -- ships, satellites, moorings.

And the program that I wanted to talk to you about just a little bit here, was funded, and it involves autonomous vehicles like the one running across the base of this image.

Modeling: on the right hand side, there's a very complex computational model.

On the left hand side, there's a new type of mooring, which I'll show you in just a second.

And on the basis of several points, the oceans are complex, and they're central to the life on earth.

They are changing rapidly, but not predictably.

And the models that we need to predict the future do not have enough data to refine them.

The computational power is amazing.

For a variety of reasons they're dangerous, but we feel that OOI, this Ocean Observatory Initiative, which the National Science Foundation has begun to fund, has the potential to really transform things.

And the goal of the program is to launch an era of scientific discovery and understanding across and within the ocean basins, utilizing widely accessible, interactive telepresence.

It's a new world. 

We will be present throughout the volume of the ocean, at will, communicating in real time.

And this is what the system involves, a number of sites in the southern hemisphere, shown in those circles.

And in the northern hemisphere there are four sites.

It was once called Neptune.

And let me show you what's behind it. 

Fiber: next-generation way of communicating.

You can see the copper tips on these things.

We are already laced up as if we're in a fiber optic corset, if you like.

It's a very powerful system, and most of our communications consist of it. 

So this is the system that I'm talking about, off the west coast.

And it's going to deliver abundant power and unprecedented bandwidth across this entire volume -- in the overlying ocean, on the sea floor and below the sea floor.

Bandwidth and power and a wide variety of processes that will be operating.

They will bring it and link it in.

It'll be, in a sense, like having time on a telescope, except you'll have your own port.

Climate change, ocean acidification, dissolved oxygen, carbon cycle, coastal upwelling, fishing dynamics -- the full spectrum of earth science and ocean science simultaneously in the same volume.

In conjunction with our Canadian colleagues, we've set this up. 

Now I want to take you into the caldera.

Here's what this system is going to look like that we are funded to build at this point.

Very powerful.

That's an elevator that's constantly moving up and down, but it can be controlled by the folks on land who are responsible for it.

There will be massive amounts of data flowing ashore, all available to anyone who has any interest in using it.

This is going to be much more powerful than having a single ship in a single location, then move to a new location. 

This is going to be much more powerful than having a single ship in a single location, then move to a new location. 

We're flying across the caldera floor.

There is a number of robotic systems.

There's cameras that can be turned on and off at your will, if those are your experiments.

The kinds of systems that will be down there, the kinds of instruments that will be on the sea floor, consist of -- if you can read them there -- there's cameras, there's pressure sensors, fluorometers, there's seismometers.

It's a full spectrum of tools.

Now, that mound right there actually looks like this.

This is what it actually looks like.

And this is the kind of activity that we can see with high-definition video, because the bandwidth of these cables is so huge that we could have five to 10 stereo HD systems running continuously and, again, directed through robotic techniques from land.

So what can we actually do tomorrow?

We're about to ride the wave of technological opportunity.

There are emerging technologies throughout the field around oceanography, which we will incorporate into oceanography, and through that convergence, we will transform oceanography into something even more magical.

Robotics systems are just incredible these days, absolutely incredible.

And we will be bringing robotics of all sorts into the ocean.

Nanotechnology: this is a small generator.

It's smaller than a postage stamp, and it can generate power just by being attached to your shirt as you move.

Just as you move, it generates power.

There are many kinds of things that can be used in the ocean, continuously.

And this is the magic one.

As a result of the human genome process, we are in a situation where events that take place in the ocean -- like an erupting volcano, or something of that sort -- can actually be sampled.

Grid computing: the power of grid computers is going to be just amazing here.

We will soon be using grid computing to do pretty much everything, like adjust the data and everything that goes with the data.

It's far beyond what we currently have.

So the presence of the power and the bandwidth in the environment will allow all of these new technologies to converge in a manner that is just unprecedented. 

So within five to seven years, I see us having a capacity to be completely present throughout the ocean and have all of that connected to the Internet, so we can reach many, many folks.

Delivering the power and the bandwidth into the ocean will dramatically accelerate adaptation.

Here's an example.

When earthquakes take place, massive amounts of these new microbes we've never seen before come out of the sea floor.

We have a way of addressing that, a new way of addressing that.

And they fly into the erupting volcano.

They sample the fluids coming out of the sea floor during an eruption, which have the microbes that have never been to the surface of the planet before.

A laboratory: many of you heard what happened on 9/7.

Some doctors in New York City removed the gallbladder of a woman in France.

So we can bring an entirely new telepresence to the world, throughout the ocean.

It's going to be amazing. 

Many of you don't think of this yet, but the ocean will be in your pocket.

So let me leave you then with a few words from another poet, if you'll forgive me.

In 1943, T.S.

Thank you. 

