I've been working on ocean pollution for quite a long time -- the impacts on marine life and particularly the impacts on marine mammals.

As it turns out, marine mammals are at the top of this food chain that we're pouring millions of tons of toxic substances into every year.

And they are showing the signs of this.

And they're dying off rather regularly, tens of thousands around the world.

It's predicted they may go extinct -- about a third of them -- within about 30 years. 

We're tracking pollution at the top of the food web, in marine mammals and fish.

It's a region-wide, eco-toxicological investigation.

So we are tracking how do these things get from the products into the ocean, which is the final sink for them.

They wind up in waste water treatment plants.

As you all know, we throw out billions of computers and TVs every year.

And those go to e-waste dumps.

Well, we detected 113 different compounds in my blood.

And I must say, if any of you would have this done, you'd probably find a similar profile, or cocktail, as they call it.

We're hardly regulating them at all.

And we're letting industry run the show.

And Jackie Savitz spoke this morning about Big Oil and the propaganda and how we're all brainwashed with their, you know, lies and so forth.

Well, Big Chemical is what we're dealing with here.

So it's a case of innocent until proven guilty.

The burden of proof is not on the producer. 

So I then was invited to go to the Gulf in May.

I went down there on a preliminary investigation to look into dispersants and how they're going into the water column and so forth.

And I was told that I was the only toxicologist to date who was dumb enough to get into the water, but I did.

And we dove in the slick without even HazMat gear.

And I did get sick.

I got a ferocious sore throat two days later.

I felt like my throat was on fire.

But it did pass.

And as you go down, they're catching all kinds of plankton, bumping into, you know, little wisps of life that are the food for the planktivores, the herring kind of fish.

And you could just see the web of death as you go down in the water column. 

And I didn't agree with that decision at the time; I still don't.

The decision was to protect the marshes.

When the oil gets into the marshes, you can't get it out.

And as you know, there's been a very weak response, up until recently, to actually collect the oil.

It's gotten much more aggressive.

This is an Exxon slide showing what happens, the scenario and the trade-off.

So this shows oil on the surface.

You can see it getting up into the mangrove, but it is not harming the corals or the sea grass, right.

So here we have the other scenario.

And then there's the problem of the plumes.

What plumes?

It turns out there are plumes.

Independent researchers found that.

And then there's the looming, messy problem of human health, reported human health effects.

So it is not at all rational. 

Now they're on 9500.

So what we're doing, we're putting compounds with petroleum solvents onto a petroleum spill.

Does this make sense?

So this is the way it works.

And I want to show you this cute little thing that happens here.

It's a micelle.

Micelles form around the oil.

The surfactants -- which are like things we use on fast food wrappers -- they grab around the droplets of oil, and they make little, tiny droplets with nice, little surfactant edges to them.

The thing to remember about the micelles -- these little floating globules of toxin -- is they are there to deliver.

They're like the FedEx guys.

And usually the exposure is a combined exposure.

The dispersants -- as I was saying -- their job is to break down the lipid membrane.

The solvents in them do that very efficiently.

So it actually hastens oil getting into the body easily and readily.

Oil contains hundreds of hydrocarbon compounds and other compounds that are toxic to every organ in the body.

And so with the dispersants combined, you have this very synergistic combined toxicity.

Corexit also contains petroleum solvents and many other toxic compounds.

And now they were forced to release the ultimate list of everything that's in Corexit.

Trade secrets again.

But we do have quite a lot at risk down there, as we all know, the 33 wildlife refuges, so much wildlife and fish and diversity.

And I appreciate being able to vent some of my anguish upon you.

What we do know is that the corals are going to get hit hard.

And this is a study that was done on the Australian coast, the coast of Tasmania.

Corals are, you know, the home to about a quarter of all marine species.

And with the Corexit and the oil, there's zero percent fertilization.

Here's another group.

I could see myself easily in the water column.

And we do know from other studies that this is a highly toxic mixture.

But my bad dreams go like this.

The piscivorous fish, the cobia, grouper, amberjacks, those big fish, also the tuna and sharks, are going to hit by this.

And the gills are quite sensitive.

The respiratory system is very sensitive.

It also will cause internal bleeding upon ingestion.

The Corexit is transporting the oil into every membrane and every system of the body.

And you're having a lot of different unpleasant effects, but burns to the eyes and mouth, skin ulcers, lesions.

And I think, personally, that we have not begun to see the impacts of this spill on the wildlife of the Gulf. 

So our thought was -- this is a simple thinking process, but ... obviously the plankton, the planktivores, and that's about as far as we got.

And then it turns out we're not very good at figuring this stuff out.

They thought that eventually the killer whale would be at the top of this cascade.

Actually the kelp and the barnacles that attach to the rock were decimated by the combination of Corexit and the oil.

They were replaced by invasive species, which had less holding power to the rock.

And this was the entire food web for the sea ducks.

So we are launching an independent study.

But we are actually going to be assessing toxic impacts, but we need lots and lots of partners to do this intelligently.

We have some of the partners lined up.

And we hope that some of you will help us.

Surely we have the right to learn what loss we are going through in the Gulf.

And my wish would be -- for the gulf prize -- would be that we have the truth.

