Today, I'm going to take you around the world in 18 minutes.

I knew even then that I would encounter cultural differences and misunderstandings, but they popped up when I least expected it. 

On my first day, I went to a restaurant, and I ordered a cup of green tea with sugar.

Resting on the saucer were two packets of sugar. 

My failure to procure myself a cup of sweet, green tea was not due to a simple misunderstanding.

This was due to a fundamental difference in our ideas about choice.

From my American perspective, when a paying customer makes a reasonable request based on her preferences, she has every right to have that request met.

Let's face it: the way I wanted my tea was inappropriate according to cultural standards, and they were doing their best to help me save face. 

Americans tend to believe that they've reached some sort of pinnacle in the way they practice choice.

They think that choice, as seen through the American lens best fulfills an innate and universal desire for choice in all humans.

Unfortunately, these beliefs are based on assumptions that don't always hold true in many countries, in many cultures.

At times they don't even hold true at America's own borders.

I'd like to discuss some of these assumptions and the problems associated with them.

As I do so, I hope you'll start thinking about some of your own assumptions and how they were shaped by your backgrounds. 

First assumption: if a choice affects you, then you should be the one to make it.

This is the only way to ensure that your preferences and interests will be most fully accounted for.

It is essential for success.

In America, the primary locus of choice is the individual.

People must choose for themselves, sometimes sticking to their guns, regardless of what other people want or recommend.

It's called "being true to yourself."

But do all individuals benefit from taking such an approach to choice?

Mark Lepper and I did a series of studies in which we sought the answer to this very question.

Now when the third group came in, they were told that their anagrams and their markers had been chosen by their mothers.

(Laughter) In reality, the kids who were told what to do, whether by Miss Smith or their mothers, were actually given the very same activity, which their counterparts in the first group had freely chosen. 

With this procedure, we were able to ensure that the kids across the three groups all did the same activity, making it easier for us to compare performance.

Such small differences in the way we administered the activity yielded striking differences in how well they performed.

It didn't matter who did the choosing, if the task was dictated by another, their performance suffered.

In fact, some of the kids were visibly embarrassed when they were told that their mothers had been consulted.

(Laughter) One girl named Mary said, "You asked my mother?"

(Laughter) 

In contrast, Asian-American children performed best when they believed their mothers had made the choice, second best when they chose for themselves, and least well when it had been chosen by Miss Smith.

For them, choice was not just a way of defining and asserting their individuality, but a way to create community and harmony by deferring to the choices of people whom they trusted and respected.

If they had a concept of being true to one's self, then that self, most likely, [was] composed, not of an individual, but of a collective.

Success was just as much about pleasing key figures as it was about satisfying one's own preferences.

Or, you could say that the individual's preferences were shaped by the preferences of specific others. 

To insist that they choose independently might actually compromise both their performance and their relationships.

Yet that is exactly what the American paradigm demands.

It leaves little room for interdependence or an acknowledgment of individual fallibility.

It requires that everyone treat choice as a private and self-defining act.

The second assumption which informs the American view of choice goes something like this.

The more choices you have, the more likely you are to make the best choice.

You will surely find the perfect match.

Let's test this assumption by heading over to Eastern Europe.

One of the most interesting revelations came not from an answer to a question, but from a simple gesture of hospitality.

When the participants arrived for their interview, I offered them a set of drinks: Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite -- seven, to be exact. 

During the very first session, which was run in Russia, one of the participants made a comment that really caught me off guard.

You know, research shows repeatedly that we can't actually tell the difference between Coke and Pepsi.

Of course, you and I know that Coke is the better choice. 

(Laughter) 

For modern Americans who are exposed to more options and more ads associated with options than anyone else in the world, choice is just as much about who they are as it is about what the product is.

Combine this with the assumption that more choices are always better, and you have a group of people for whom every little difference matters and so every choice matters.

But for Eastern Europeans, the sudden availability of all these consumer products on the marketplace was a deluge.

There are some dilemmas you see.

The value of choice depends on our ability to perceive differences between the options.

In fact, though all humans share a basic need and desire for choice, we don't all see choice in the same places or to the same extent.

When someone can't see how one choice is unlike another, or when there are too many choices to compare and contrast, the process of choosing can be confusing and frustrating.

Instead of making better choices, we become overwhelmed by choice, sometimes even afraid of it.

Choice no longer offers opportunities, but imposes constraints.

In other words, choice can develop into the very opposite of everything it represents in America when it is thrust upon those who are insufficiently prepared for it.

But it is not only other people in other places that are feeling the pressure of ever-increasing choice.

Americans themselves are discovering that unlimited choice seems more attractive in theory than in practice. 

We all have physical, mental and emotional (Laughter) limitations that make it impossible for us to process every single choice we encounter, even in the grocery store, let alone over the course of our entire lives.

Yet still, many of us believe that we should make all our own choices and seek out even more of them. 

Right outside Chicago, a young couple, Susan and Daniel Mitchell, were about to have their first baby.

They'd already picked out a name for her, Barbara, after her grandmother.

One night, when Susan was seven months pregnant, she started to experience contractions and was rushed to the emergency room.

The baby was delivered through a C-section, but Barbara suffered cerebral anoxia, a loss of oxygen to the brain.

If she survived, she would remain in a permanent vegetative state, never able to walk, talk or interact with others.

What do they do?

What do any parent do? 

In a study I conducted with Simona Botti and Kristina Orfali, American and French parents were interviewed.

They had all suffered the same tragedy.

In all cases, the life support was removed, and the infants had died.

But there was a big difference.

In France, the doctors decided whether and when the life support would be removed, while in the United States, the final decision rested with the parents.

We wondered: does this have an effect on how the parents cope with the loss of their loved one?

We found that it did.

They could not imagine turning that choice over to another, even though having made that choice made them feel trapped, guilty, angry.

In a number of cases they were even clinically depressed.

In her essay, "The White Album," Joan Didion writes, "We tell ourselves stories in order to live.

We interpret what we see, select the most workable of the multiple choices.

It's a great story, and it's understandable why they would be reluctant to revise it.

But when you take a close look, you start to see the holes, and you start to see that the story can be told in many other ways. 

Americans have so often tried to disseminate their ideas of choice, believing that they will be, or ought to be, welcomed with open hearts and minds.

But the history books and the daily news tell us it doesn't always work out that way.

The phantasmagoria, the actual experience that we try to understand and organize through narrative, varies from place to place.

No single narrative serves the needs of everyone everywhere.

Moreover, Americans themselves could benefit from incorporating new perspectives into their own narrative, which has been driving their choices for so long. 

But Joseph Brodsky said that, "It is poetry that is gained in translation," suggesting that translation can be a creative, transformative act.

No matter where we're from and what your narrative is, we all have a responsibility to open ourselves up to a wider array of what choice can do, and what it can represent.

And this does not lead to a paralyzing moral relativism.

Rather, it teaches us when and how to act.

It brings us that much closer to realizing the full potential of choice, to inspiring the hope and achieving the freedom that choice promises but doesn't always deliver.

If we learn to speak to one another, albeit through translation, then we can begin to see choice in all its strangeness, complexity and compelling beauty. 

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Thank you.

Sheena Iyengar: Well, it's funny that you should ask that because one of the things that's interesting about being blind is you actually get a different vantage point when you observe the way sighted people make choices.

And as you just mentioned, there's lots of choices out there that are very visual these days.

Yeah, I -- as you would expect -- get pretty frustrated by choices like what nail polish to put on because I have to rely on what other people suggest.

And I can't decide.

And so one time I was in a beauty salon, and I was trying to decide between two very light shades of pink.

(Laughter) 

So I brought these two bottles of nail polish into the laboratory, and I stripped the labels off.

(Laughter) (Applause) At which point you start to wonder who the trick's really played on.

