Seven years ago, a student came to me and asked me to invest in his company.

He said, "I'm working with three friends, and we're going to try to disrupt an industry by selling stuff online."

And I said, "OK, you guys spent the whole summer on this, right?"

And they ended up naming the company Warby Parker. 

(Laughter) They sell glasses online.

Why was I so wrong? 

To find out, I've been studying people that I come to call "originals."

They are people who stand out and speak up.

Originals drive creativity and change in the world.

They're the people you want to bet on.

And they look nothing like I expected.

I want to show you today three things I've learned about recognizing originals and becoming a little bit more like them. 

So the first reason that I passed on Warby Parker was they were really slow getting off the ground.

Yes, that's an actual term.

You know that panic you feel a few hours before a big deadline when you haven't done anything yet.

I just feel that a few months ahead of time. 

I would wake up at 5am, start playing and not stop until I had mastered them.

Eventually it got so out of hand that a local newspaper came and did a story on the dark side of Nintendo, starring me. 

And I was proud of that, until a few years ago.

So I challenged her to get some data.

Then she gets their bosses to rate how creative and innovative they are.

And sure enough, the precrastinators like me, who rush in and do everything early are rated as less creative than people who procrastinate moderately.

So I want to know what happens to the chronic procrastinators.

You actually do see that the people who wait until the last minute are so busy goofing off that they don't have any new ideas.

And on the flip side, the people who race in are in such a frenzy of anxiety that they don't have original thoughts either.

There's a sweet spot where originals seem to live.

Why is this?

Maybe original people just have bad work habits.

Maybe procrastinating does not cause creativity. 

To find out, we designed some experiments.

And sure enough, the moderate procrastinators are 16 percent more creative than the other two groups.

And then I worked diligently toward my goal of not making progress toward my goal.

It was agony.

But when I came back to it, I had all sorts of new ideas.

And along the way I discovered that a lot of great originals in history were procrastinators.

Take Leonardo da Vinci.

He toiled on and off for 16 years on the Mona Lisa.

He felt like a failure.

He wrote as much in his journal.

What about Martin Luther King, Jr.?

The night before the biggest speech of his life, the March on Washington, he was up past 3am, rewriting it.

He's sitting in the audience waiting for his turn to go onstage, and he is still scribbling notes and crossing out lines.

By delaying the task of finalizing the speech until the very last minute, he left himself open to the widest range of possible ideas.

And because the text wasn't set in stone, he had freedom to improvise. 

Procrastinating is a vice when it comes to productivity, but it can be a virtue for creativity.

What you see with a lot of great originals is that they are quick to start but they're slow to finish.

And this is what I missed with Warby Parker.

But what I didn't realize was they were spending all that time trying to figure out how to get people to be comfortable ordering glasses online.

And it turns out the first-mover advantage is mostly a myth.

Look at Facebook, waiting to build a social network until after Myspace and Friendster.

Look at Google, waiting for years after Altavista and Yahoo.

It's much easier to improve on somebody else's idea than it is to create something new from scratch.

So the lesson I learned is that to be original you don't have to be first.

You just have to be different and better. 

But that wasn't the only reason I passed on Warby Parker.

They were also full of doubts.

Now, on the surface, a lot of original people look confident, but behind the scenes, they feel the same fear and doubt that the rest of us do.

They just manage it differently.

Self-doubt is paralyzing.

It leads you to freeze.

But idea doubt is energizing.

And so the key to being original is just a simple thing of avoiding the leap from step three to step four.

Well, there's a clue, it turns out, in the Internet browser that you use.

We can predict your job performance and your commitment just by knowing what web browser you use.

Now, some of you are not going to like the results of this study -- 

But there is good evidence that Firefox and Chrome users significantly outperform Internet Explorer and Safari users.

Yes. 

The four browser groups on average have similar typing speed and they also have similar levels of computer knowledge.

It's about how you got the browser.

No, it's about being the kind of person who takes the initiative to doubt the default and look for a better option.

Vuja de is when you look at something you've seen many times before and all of a sudden see it with fresh eyes.

In every past version, the main character has been an evil queen.

But Jennifer Lee starts to question whether that makes sense.

So there's a simple message from this story.

When you feel doubt, don't let it go. 

What about fear?

Originals feel fear, too.

They know you can fail by starting a business that goes bankrupt or by failing to start a business at all.

They know that in the long run, our biggest regrets are not our actions but our inactions.

The things we wish we could redo, if you look at the science, are the chances not taken. 

Elon Musk told me recently, he didn't expect Tesla to succeed.

And for so many of us, when we have an important idea, we don't bother to try.

But I have some good news for you.

You are not going to get judged on your bad ideas.

A lot of people think they will.

If you look across industries and ask people about their biggest idea, their most important suggestion, 85 percent of them stayed silent instead of speaking up.

Take the guy who invented this.

Do you care that he came up with a talking doll so creepy that it scared not only kids but adults, too?

One of the best predictors is the sheer volume of compositions that they generate.

The more output you churn out, the more variety you get and the better your chances of stumbling on something truly original.

Even the three icons of classical music -- Bach, Beethoven, Mozart -- had to generate hundreds and hundreds of compositions to come up with a much smaller number of masterpieces.

I don't know how Wagner pulled that off.

But for most of us, if we want to be more original, we have to generate more ideas. 

They have bad ideas.

And sometimes, it's not in spite of those qualities but because of them that they succeed. 

So when you see those things, don't make the same mistake I did.

Don't write them off.

And when that's you, don't count yourself out either.

Thank you. 

