Well, indeed, I'm very, very lucky.

Now that was, ironically, and very befittingly, the way we found his grave.

As it was the custom of the time, Copernicus was actually simply buried in an unmarked grave, together with 14 others in that cathedral.

That match was unambiguous.

And at the time, people actually answered that question positively: "Yes."

But there was no evidence.

Are we alone?"

Now, the good news.

And as we already heard, there is a way in which we are trying, and now able, to answer that question.

It's a new telescope.

And if, in the next couple of months, you walk out in the early evening and look straight up and place you palm like this, you will actually be looking at the field of the sky where this telescope is searching for planets day and night, without any interruption, for the next four years. 

The way we do that, actually, is with a method, which we call the transit method.

It's actually mini-eclipses that occur when a planet passes in front of its star.

Not all of the planets will be fortuitously oriented for us to be able do that, but if you have a million stars, you'll find enough planets.

And as you see on this animation, what Kepler is going to detect is just the dimming of the light from the star.

We are not going to see the image of the star and the planet as this.

All the stars for Kepler are just points of light.

But we learn a lot from that: not only that there is a planet there, but we also learn its size.

How much of the light is being dimmed depends on how big the planet is.

We learn about its orbit, the period of its orbit and so on.

So, what have we learned?

Well, let me try to walk you through what we actually see and so you understand the news that I'm here to tell you today. 

What Kepler does is discover a lot of candidates, which we then follow up and find as planets, confirm as planets.

It basically tells us this is the distribution of planets in size.

There are small planets, there are bigger planets, there are big planets, okay.

So we count many, many such planets, and they have different sizes.

We do that in our solar system.

Now the total planet number in our solar system was nine.

So now we have Pluto to join the numbers of small planets.

But up until, literally, 15 years ago, that was all we knew about planets.

And that's what the frustration was.

The Copernican dream was unfulfilled. 

Finally, 15 years ago, the technology came to the point where we could discover a planet around another star, and we actually did pretty well.

In the next 15 years, almost 500 planets were discovered orbiting other stars, with different methods.

Unfortunately, as you can see, there was a very different picture.

But you see, we haven't gone very far.

We were still back where Copernicus was.

We didn't have any evidence whether planets like the Earth are out there.

And we didn't have the evidence for that. 

You can see here, the small planets dominate the picture.

The planets which are marked "like Earth," [are] definitely more than any other planets that we see.

And now for the first time, we can say that.

There is a lot more work we need to do with this.

Most of these are candidates.

In the next few years we will confirm them.

But the statistical result is loud and clear.

And the statistical result is that planets like our own Earth are out there.

Our own Milky Way Galaxy is rich in this kind of planets. 

So the question is: what do we do next?

Well, first of all, we can study them now that we know where they are.

And we can find those that we would call habitable, meaning that they have similar conditions to the conditions that we experience here on Earth and where a lot of complex chemistry can happen.

So, we can even put a number to how many of those planets now do we expect our own Milky Way Galaxy harbors.

And the number, as you might expect, is pretty staggering.

Because with our own little telescope, just in the next two years, we'll be able to identify at least 60 of them.

So that's great because then we can go and study them -- remotely, of course -- with all the techniques that we already have tested in the past five years.

We can find what they're made of, would their atmospheres have water, carbon dioxide, methane.

We know and expect that we'll see that. 

That's great, but that is not the whole news.

That's not why I'm here.

Why I'm here is to tell you that the next step is really the exciting part.

The one that this step is enabling us to do is coming next.

I really mean life on Earth, past and present, from microbes to us humans, in its rich molecular diversity, the way we now understand life on Earth as being a set of molecules and chemical reactions -- and we call that, collectively, biochemistry, life as a chemical process, as a chemical phenomenon. 

We don't need to go to space to answer that question.

And a lot of the good news comes from that part of the bridge that we are trying to build as well. 

So this is one example that I want to show you here.

And they really help molecules, like nucleic acids, like RNA and DNA, stay inside, develop, change, divide and do some of the processes that we call life. 

Now this is just an example to tell you the pathway in which we are trying to answer that bigger question about the universality of the phenomenon.

And in a sense, you can think of that work that people are starting to do now around the world as building a bridge, building a bridge from two sides of the river.

On one hand, on the left bank of the river, are the people like me who study those planets and try to define the environments.

So why should you care about that?

Why am I trying to sell you a half-built bridge?

Am I that charming?

Well, there are many reasons, and you heard some of them in the short talk today.

This understanding of chemistry actually can help us with our daily lives.

But there is something more profound here, something deeper.

And that deeper, underlying point is that science is in the process of redefining life as we know it.

And that is going to change our worldview in a profound way -- not in a dissimilar way as 400 years ago, Copernicus' act did, by changing the way we view space and time.

Now it's about something else, but it's equally profound.

And half the time, what's happened is it's related this kind of sense of insignificance to humankind, to the Earth in a bigger space.

And the more we learn, the more that was reinforced.

You've all learned that in school -- how small the Earth is compared to the immense universe.

And the bigger the telescope, the bigger that universe becomes.

It is the Earth as we know it.

It is seen from, in this case, from outside the orbit of Saturn.

But it's really tiny.

We know that.

The biosphere is the size of the Earth.

Life on Earth is the size of the Earth.

And let's compare it to the rest of the world in spatial terms.

Let's actually try that. 

So in space, the Earth is very small.

Can you imagine how small it is?

Let me try it.

Okay, let's say this is the size of the observable universe, with all the galaxies, with all the stars, okay, from here to here.

Do you know what the size of life in this necktie will be?

It will be the size of a single, small atom.

It is unimaginably small.

But that's not the whole story, you see.

This is very significant.

So what does this tell us?

This tells us that that insignificance paradigm that we somehow got to learn from the Copernican principle, it's all wrong.

And if we are to be stewards of our planet Earth and its biosphere, we'd better understand the cosmic significance and do something about it.

And the good news is we can actually, indeed do it.

And let's do it.

Let's start this new revolution at the tail end of the old one, with synthetic biology being the way to transform both our environment and our future.

And let's hope that we can build this bridge together and meet in the middle. 

Thank you very much. 

