In October 2010, the Justice League of America will be teaming up with The 99.

Icons like Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and their colleagues will be teaming up with icons Jabbar, Noora, Jami and their colleagues.

As fascism took over Europe in the 1930s, an unlikely reaction came out of North America.

As Christian iconography got changed, and swastikas were created out of crucifixes, Batman and Superman were created by Jewish young men in the United States and Canada, also going back to the Bible. 

Spiderman is raised by his aunt and uncle.

And all of them, just like the prophets who get their message from God through Gabriel, get their message from above.

Peter Parker is in a library in Manhattan when the spider descends from above and gives him his message through a bite.

Bruce Wayne is in his bedroom when a big bat flies over his head, and he sees it as an omen to become Batman.

(Laughter) And you hear the voice of his father, Jor-El, saying to Earth, "I have sent to you my only son."

(Laughter) 

These are clearly biblical archetypes, and the thinking behind that was to create positive, globally-resonating storylines that could be tied to the same things that other people were pulling mean messages out of because then the person that's using religion for the wrong purpose just becomes a bad man with a bad message.

And it's only by linking positive things that the negative can be delinked.

Those are basic human values. 

It's a story passed on generation after generation.

(Laughter) (Applause) So the librarians find out and they get together a special solution, a chemical solution called King's Water, that when mixed with 99 stones would be able to save all that culture and history in the books.

Some librarians escape, and over the course of days and weeks, they dip the stones into the Tigris and suck up that collective wisdom that we all think is lost to civilization. 

Those stones have been smuggled as three prayer beads of 33 stones each through Arabia into Andalusia in Spain, where they're safe for 200 years.

But in 1492, two important things happen.

The first is the fall of Granada, the last Muslim enclave in Europe.

The second is Columbus finally gets funded to go to India, but he gets lost.

(Laughter) So 33 of the stones are smuggled onto the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria and are spread in the New World.

And now it's 2010, and there are 99 heroes from 99 different countries.

To which he said, "Let them be, because what they're giving us is worth a lot more than what we're paying them."

So the idea of an open architecture, an open knowledge, is not new to my neck of the desert. 

The concept centers on something called the Noor stones.

Noor is Arabic for light.

There's a King Arthur element to the storyline, okay.

And there's a very strong message in there that when you start abusing your stone, you get taken advantage of by people who will exploit your powers, okay.

Number three, the 99 stones all have within them a mechanism that self-updates. 

Now there are two groups that exist within the Muslim world.

Everybody believes the Koran is for all time and all place.

Some believe that means that the original interpretation from a couple thousand years ago is what's relevant today.

I don't belong there.

He can't use the stones, but he can stop them.

And the last point about the 99 Noor stones is this.

I think that's there in all cultures, right?

But this is not about religion, it's not about proselytizing.

And so this is the way I dealt with it.

They work in teams of three: two boys and a girl, two girls and a boy, three boys, three girls, no problem.

And the Swiss psychoanalyst, Carl Jung, also spoke about the importance of the number three in all cultures, so I figure I'm covered.

Al-Batina is the hidden.

So Al-Batina is hidden, but she's a superhero.

I came home to my wife and I said, "I created a character after you."

(Laughter) 

Next to him is John McCrea, who was an inker for Spiderman.

Now I went to Dubai, to an Arab Thought Foundation Conference, and I was waiting by the coffee for the right journalist.

Didn't have a product, but had energy.

And I found somebody from The New York Times, and I cornered him, and I pitched him.

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

(Laughter) So I said, "Great."

Like I care, right?

And The 99 were like superheroes kind of flying out of what was happening around the world.

Rughal: There must be something we can do. 

Man: I won't send any more commandos in until I know it's safe. 

Miklos: Must download file contents.

I can't forget auntie. 

Thank you. 

As the father of five sons, I worry about who they're going to be using as role models.

I worry because all around me, even within my extended family, I see religion being manipulated.

And torture's a terrible enough thing as it is, but when it's done by your hero, that just breaks you in so many ways.

I left Bellevue, went to business school and started this. 

And I took away the name of the writer, the name of the [unclear] -- everything was gone except the facts.

Any boys and girls caught flirting would get married off immediately, okay.

The second one was about a woman complaining because three minivans with six bearded men pulled up and started interrogating her on the spot for talking to a man who wasn't related to her. 

The second one, they were actually split between Saudi and Afghanistan.

What blew their mind was the first one took place in India, it was the party of a Hindu God.

The second one took place in upstate New York.

It was an Orthodox Jewish community.

But what breaks my heart and what's alarming is that in those two interviews, the people around, who were interviewed as well, refer to that behavior as Talibanization.

It's dangerous when a group self-identifies itself as extreme. 

You can tell by the glasses there.

(Laughter) (Applause) Rayan reframed the situation and brought himself down to my level. 

(Laughter) 

And with The 99, that is what we aim to do.

You know, I think that there's a big parallel between bending the crucifix out of shape and creating swastikas.

And I think -- I think The 99 can and will achieve its mission. 

As an undergrad at Tufts University, we were giving away free falafel one day and, you know, it was Middle East Day or something.

And people came up and picked up the culturally resonant image of the falafel, ate it and, you know, talked and left.

And no two people could disagree about what the word free was and what the word falafel was, behind us, "free falafel."

(Laughter) Or so we thought, until a woman came rushing across the campus and dropped her bag on the floor, pointed up to the sign and said, "Who's falafel?"

(Laughter) True story.

(Laughter) She was actually coming out of an Amnesty International meeting. 

(Laughter) 

Just today, D.C. Comics announced the cover of our upcoming crossover.

On that cover you see Batman, Superman and a fully-clothed Wonder Woman with our Saudi member of The 99, our Emirati member and our Libyan member.

On April 26, 2010, President Barack Obama said that of all the initiatives since his now famous Cairo speech -- in which he reached out to the Muslim world -- the most innovative was that The 99 reach back out to the Justice League of America.

We live in a world in which the most culturally innocuous symbols, like the falafel, can be misunderstood because of baggage, and where religion can be twisted and purposefully made where it's not supposed to be by others.

In a world like that, they'll always be a job for Superman and The 99. 

Thank you very much. 

