Chris Anderson: Julian, welcome.

CA: How does it work?

How do people release the documents?

And how do you secure their privacy? 

So we use this state-of-the-art encryption to bounce stuff around the Internet, to hide trails, pass it through legal jurisdictions like Sweden and Belgium to enact those legal protections.

We get information in the mail, the regular postal mail, encrypted or not, vet it like a regular news organization, format it -- which is sometimes something that's quite hard to do, when you're talking about giant databases of information -- release it to the public and then defend ourselves against the inevitable legal and political attacks. 

CA: So you make an effort to ensure the documents are legitimate, but you actually almost never know who the identity of the source is? 

(Laughter) 

CA: I think that's the CIA asking what the code is for a TED membership. 

(Laughter) 

So let's take [an] example, actually.

This is something you leaked a few years ago.

If we can have this document up ...

So this was a story in Kenya a few years ago.

Can you tell us what you leaked and what happened? 

Prior to 2004, Kenya was ruled by Daniel arap Moi for about 18 years.

He was a soft dictator of Kenya.

And when Kibaki got into power -- through a coalition of forces that were trying to clean up corruption in Kenya -- they commissioned this report, spent about two million pounds on this and an associated report.

It's the Holy Grail of Kenyan journalism.

And so it came in from the outside.

And that, after a couple of days, made the Kenyan press feel safe to talk about it.

And it ran for 20 nights straight on Kenyan TV, shifted the vote by 10 percent, according to a Kenyan intelligence report, which changed the result of the election. 

CA: Wow, so your leak really substantially changed the world? 

CA: Here's -- We're going to just show a short clip from this Baghdad airstrike video.

The video itself is longer, but here's a short clip.

This is -- this is intense material, I should warn you. 

CA: So, what was the impact of that? 

JA: The impact on the people who worked on it was severe.

We ended up sending two people to Baghdad to further research that story.

So this is just the first of three attacks that occurred in that scene. 

There were between 18 and 26 people killed all together. 

CA: And releasing this caused widespread outrage.

What was the key element of this that actually caused the outrage, do you think? 

You have guys walking in a relaxed way down the street, and then an Apache helicopter sitting up at one kilometer firing 30-millimeter cannon shells on everyone -- looking for any excuse to do so -- and killing people rescuing the wounded.

And there was two journalists involved that clearly weren't insurgents because that's their full-time job. 

JA: We have denied receiving those cables.

He has been charged, about five days ago, with obtaining 150,000 cables and releasing 50.

Now, we had released, early in the year, a cable from the Reykjavik U.S. embassy, but this is not necessarily connected.

I mean, I was a known visitor of that embassy. 

JA: Well, because these sort of things reveal what the true state of, say, Arab governments are like, the true human-rights abuses in those governments.

If you look at declassified cables, that's the sort of material that's there. 

CA: So let's talk a little more broadly about this.

I mean, in general, what's your philosophy?

Why is it right to encourage leaking of secret information? 

JA: Well, there's a question as to what sort of information is important in the world, what sort of information can achieve reform.

And there's a lot of information.

CA: But are there risks with that, either to the individuals concerned or indeed to society at large, where leaking can actually have an unintended consequence? 

JA: Not that we have seen with anything we have released.

I mean, we have a harm immunization policy.

We have a way of dealing with information that has sort of personal -- personally identifying information in it.

JA: Yeah, we do get a lot of that.

That's what they see every day.

CA: So you found a way to shine light into what you see as these sort of dark secrets in companies and in government.

We don't have sources who are dissidents on other sources.

CA: I'd actually be interested, just based on what we've heard so far -- I'm curious as to the opinion in the TED audience.

You know, there might be a couple of views of WikiLeaks and of Julian.

Now here's something that you haven't yet leaked, but I think for TED you are.

I mean it's an intriguing story that's just happened, right?

What is this? 

JA: So this is a sample of what we do sort of every day.

And we got a report -- a sort of engineering analysis into what happened -- saying that, in fact, security guards from some rival, various competing oil firms had, in fact, parked trucks there and blown them up.

We couldn't verify it because we didn't know who wrote it and knew what it was about.

So we were kind of skeptical that maybe it was a competing oil firm just sort of playing the issue up.

That's a problem.

CA: So that's the key bottleneck, basically journalistic volunteers and/or the funding of journalistic salaries? 

CA: So help us understand a bit about you personally and how you came to do this.

JA: Well, my parents were in the movie business and then on the run from a cult, so the combination between the two ... 

(Laughter) 

CA: I mean, a psychologist might say that's a recipe for breeding paranoia. 

JA: What, the movie business? 

(Laughter) 

CA: And you were also -- I mean, you were also a hacker at an early age and ran into the authorities early on.

JA: Well, I was a journalist.

You know, I was a very young journalist activist at an early age.

So you have to be careful with hacker.

I mean there's like -- there's a method that can be deployed for various things.

Unfortunately, at the moment, it's mostly deployed by the Russian mafia in order to steal your grandmother's bank accounts.

So this phrase is not, not as nice as it used to be. 

Can you give us a sense of what they are and maybe some incident in your life that helped determine them? 

And that's something from my father and something from other capable, generous men that have been in my life. 

And so that is something that has been in my character for a long time. 

CA: So just tell us, very quickly in the last minute, the story: what happened in Iceland?

You basically published something there, ran into trouble with a bank, then the news service there was injuncted from running the story.

Instead, they publicized your side.

JA: Yeah, this is a great case, you know.

Iceland went through this financial crisis.

It was the hardest hit of any country in the world.

Its banking sector was 10 times the GDP of the rest of the economy.

Anyway, so we release this report in July last year.

Iceland's a Nordic country, so, like Norway, it's able to tap into the system.

And just a month ago, this was passed by the Icelandic parliament unanimously. 

Last question, Julian.

When you think of the future then, do you think it's more likely to be Big Brother exerting more control, more secrecy, or us watching Big Brother, or it's just all to be played for either way? 

JA: I'm not sure which way it's going to go.

