I'm a storyteller.

But before I go there, please allow me to share with you glimpses of my personal story.

Shortly after, my parents got separated, and I came to Turkey with my mom.

From then on, I was raised as a single child by a single mother.

Now in the early 1970s, in Ankara, that was a bit unusual.

In fact, I grew up observing two different kinds of womanhood.

This was a woman who read coffee grounds to see the future and melted lead into mysterious shapes to fend off the evil eye. 

Each time, my grandmother would utter some words in Arabic, take a red apple and stab it with as many rose thorns as the number of warts she wanted to remove.

Then one by one, she would encircle these thorns with dark ink.

A week later, the patient would come back for a follow-up examination.

It will dry up inside.

Now we all live in some kind of a social and cultural circle.

We all do.

We're born into a certain family, nation, class.

But if we have no connection whatsoever with the worlds beyond the one we take for granted, then we too run the risk of drying up inside.

Our friends, neighbors, colleagues, family -- if all the people in our inner circle resemble us, it means we are surrounded with our mirror image. 

Now one other thing women like my grandma do in Turkey is to cover mirrors with velvet or to hang them on the walls with their backs facing out.

Ironically, [living in] communities of the like-minded is one of the greatest dangers of today's globalized world.

In my opinion, one way of transcending these cultural ghettos is through the art of storytelling.

Stories cannot demolish frontiers, but they can punch holes in our mental walls.

And through those holes, we can get a glimpse of the other, and sometimes even like what we see. 

I started writing fiction at the age of eight.

My mother came home one day with a turquoise notebook and asked me if I'd be interested in keeping a personal journal.

In retrospect, I think she was slightly worried about my sanity.

What she didn't know was that I thought my life was terribly boring, and the last thing I wanted to do was to write about myself.

Instead, I began to write about people other than me and things that never really happened.

And thus began my life-long passion for writing fiction.

So from the very beginning, fiction for me was less of an autobiographical manifestation than a transcendental journey into other lives, other possibilities.

Now one other thing happened around this same time.

My mother became a diplomat.

It was here that I had my first encounter with what I call the "representative foreigner."

The child who represented it was mocked, ridiculed and bullied endlessly.

I skipped school often and dreamed of becoming a sailor during those days.

I was in Istanbul when the earthquake hit in 1999.

When I ran out of the building at three in the morning, I saw something that stopped me in my tracks.

But I've always believed that stories, too, have a similar effect on us.

Shortly after, I went to a women's college in Boston, then Michigan.

I experienced this, not so much as a geographical shift, as a linguistic one.

I started writing fiction in English.

So I feel connected to each language in a different way.

For me, like millions of other people around the world today, English is an acquired language.

When you're a latecomer to a language, what happens is you live there with a continuous and perpetual frustration.

And that gap is very intimidating.

But if we manage not to be frightened by it, it's also stimulating.

And because God loves her, I did get married.

(Laughter) But instead of settling down, I went to Arizona.

Yet as much as I love stories, recently, I've also begun to think that they lose their magic if and when a story is seen as more than a story.

And this is a subject that I would love to think about together.

When my first novel written in English came out in America, I heard an interesting remark from a literary critic.

And I also understood that I would keep disappointing him.

He wanted to see the manifestation of my identity.

If you're a woman writer from the Muslim world, like me, then you are expected to write the stories of Muslim women and, preferably, the unhappy stories of unhappy Muslim women.

What I experienced as a child in that school in Madrid is happening in the literary world today.

We're all thought to have something very distinctive, if not peculiar. 

The writer and commuter James Baldwin gave an interview in 1984 in which he was repeatedly asked about his homosexuality.

But I must quickly add that this tendency to see a story as more than a story does not solely come from the West.

It comes from everywhere.

I had intended to write a constructive, multi-layered novel about an Armenian and a Turkish family through the eyes of women.

My micro story became a macro issue when I was prosecuted.

But there were times when I wanted to remind both sides that this was fiction.

It was just a story.

And when I say, "just a story," I'm not trying to belittle my work.

One is interested in sweeping generalizations.

The other, in nuances.

Identity politics is made of solid bricks.

Fiction is flowing water. 

In the Ottoman times, there were itinerant storytellers called "meddah."

Everybody could go and listen, you know -- ordinary people, even the sultan, Muslims and non-Muslims.

Today, stories continue to transcend borders.

Literature has to take us beyond.

If it cannot take us there, it is not good literature. 

When the poet and mystic, Rumi, met his spiritual companion, Shams of Tabriz, one of the first things the latter did was to toss Rumi's books into water and watch the letters dissolve.

The Sufis say, "Knowledge that takes you not beyond yourself is far worse than ignorance."

As you know, one leg of the compass is static, rooted in a place.

Meanwhile, the other leg draws a wide circle, constantly moving.

Like that, my fiction as well.

In that sense, I like to think of my fiction as both local and universal, both from here and everywhere. 

In the palace, just outside the quarters of the favorite concubines, there's an area called The Gathering Place of the Djinn.

It's between buildings.

I'm intrigued by this concept.

We usually distrust those areas that fall in between things.

We see them as the domain of supernatural creatures like the djinn, who are made of smokeless fire and are the symbol of elusiveness.

But my point is perhaps that elusive space is what writers and artists need most.

When I write fiction I cherish elusiveness and changeability.

I like not knowing what will happen 10 pages later.

I like it when my characters surprise me.

As long as it comes from our hearts, we can write about anything and everything. 

In the end, stories move like whirling dervishes, drawing circles beyond circles.

And I would like to finish with an old Sufi poem: "Come, let us be friends for once; let us make life easy on us; let us be lovers and loved ones; the earth shall be left to no one."

Thank you. 

