That said, it's been really hard to ignore football for the last couple of weeks.

But the one that's really been sort of stressing me out, that I haven't been able to figure out, is this phrase "Cala a boca, Galvao."

If you've gone onto Twitter in the last couple of weeks, you've probably seen this.

It's been a major trending topic. 

Being a monolingual American, I obviously don't know what the phrase means.

So I went onto Twitter, and I asked some people if they could explain to me "Cala a boca, Galvao."

And fortunately, my Brazilian friends were more than ready to help.

They explained that the Galvao bird is a rare and endangered parrot that's in terrible, terrible danger.

In fact, I'll let them tell you a bit more about it.

Narrator: A word about Galvao, a very rare kind of bird native to Brazil.

Every year, more than 300,000 Galvao birds are killed during Carnival parades.

It turns out that, not only is the Galvao parrot very attractive, useful for headdresses, it evidently has certain hallucinogenic properties, which means that there's a terrible problem with Galvao abuse.

Some sick and twisted people have found themselves snorting Galvao.

And it's terribly endangered.

Now, most of you have figured out that this was a prank, and actually a very, very good one.

"Cala a boca, Galvao" actually means something very different.

And what I understand from my Brazilian friends is that this guy is just a cliche machine.

He can ruin the most interesting match by just spouting cliche again and again and again.

And in fact, were so successful at this that it topped Twitter for two weeks. 

Now there's a couple -- there's a couple of lessons that you can take from this.

So as long as activism is that simple, it's pretty easy to get away with.

The other thing you can take from this, by the way, is that there are a lot of Brazilians on Twitter.

There's more than five million of them.

As far as national representation, 11 percent of Brazilian internet users are on Twitter.

That's a much higher number than in the U.S. or U.K. Next to Japan, it's the second most represented by population. 

Now if you're using Twitter or other social networks, and you didn't realize this was a space with a lot of Brazilians in it, you're like most of us.

Because what happens on a social network is you interact with the people that you have chosen to interact with.

It's also extremely surprising to many Americans, a heavily African-American space.

Twitter recently did some research.

That's about twice as high as African-Americans are represented in the population.

And again, that was very shocking to many Twitter users, but it shouldn't be.

And the reason it shouldn't be is that on any day you can go into Trending Topics.

And you tend to find topics that are almost entirely African-American conversations. 

It turns out that oil spill is a mostly white conversation, that cookout is a mostly black conversation.

And what's crazy about this is that if you wanted to mix up who you were seeing on Twitter, it's literally a quick click away.

And we tend not to see that wider picture. 

Negroponte started his book with a story about how hard it is to build connections in the world of atoms.

And Negroponte says this is crazy.

We're heading to the future of bits, where everything is speedy, it's weightless.

It can be anywhere in the world at any time.

And it's going to change the world as we know it. 

It turns out that in many cases atoms are much more mobile than bits.

If I walk into a store in the United States, it's very, very easy for me to buy water that's bottled in Fiji, shipped at great expense to the United States.

It's actually surprisingly hard for me to see a Fijian feature film.

It's really difficult for me to listen to Fijian music.

There's crackdowns on the press.

It's actually a place that we probably should be paying attention to at the moment. 

Here's what I think is going on.

I think that we tend to look a lot at the infrastructure of globalization.

We look at the framework that makes it possible to live in this connected world.

You can get on a flight in London, you can end up in Bangalore later today.

Two hops, you're in Suva, the capitol of Fiji.

It's all right there. 

When you start looking at what actually flows on top of these networks, you get a very different picture.

You start looking at how the global plane flights move, and you suddenly discover that the world isn't even close to flat.

It's extremely lumpy.

There are parts of the world that are very, very well connected.

There's basically a giant pathway in the sky between London and New York.

And you'll discover that there are parts of the globe that are systematically cut off.

When we stop looking at the infrastructure that makes connection possible, and we look at what actually happens, we start realizing that the world doesn't work quite the same way that we think it does. 

So here's the problem that I've been interested in in the last decade or so.

The world is, in fact, getting more global.

It's getting more connected.

More of problems are global in scale.

More of our economics is global in scale.

And our media is less global by the day.

If you watched a television broadcast in the United States in the 1970s, 35 to 40 percent of it would have been international news on a nightly new broadcast.

That's down to about 12 to 15 percent.

And this tends to give us a very distorted view of the world.

Here's a slide that Alisa Miller showed at a previous TED Talk.

And you see that when you distort a map based on attention, the world within American television news is basically reduced to this giant bloated U.S. and a couple of other countries which we've invaded.

And that's basically what our media is about.

When you look at the New York Times, you look at other elite media, what you largely get are pictures of very wealthy nations and the nations we've invaded. 

It turns out that new media isn't necessarily helping us all that much.

Here's a map made by Mark Graham who's down the street at the Oxford Internet Institute.

A this is a map of articles in Wikipedia that have been geo-coded.

And you'll notice that there's a very heavy bias towards North America and Western Europe.

If you look at online media consumption -- in this case, in the top 10 users of the internet -- more than 95 percent of the news readership is on domestic news sites.

So all of this starts leading me to think that we're in a state that I refer to as imaginary cosmopolitanism.

We occasionally stumble onto a page in Chinese, and we decide that we do in fact have the greatest technology ever built to connect us to the rest of the world.

This is a problem we have to solve. 

So here's the good news.

For six years, I've been hanging out with these guys.

Our mission was to fix the world's media.

We started in 2004.

You might have noticed, we haven't done all that well so far.

Nor do I think we are by ourselves, actually going to solve the problem.

But the more that I think about it, the more that I think that a few things that we have learned along the way are interesting lessons for how we would rewire if we we wanted to use the web to have a wider world.

The first thing you have to consider is that there are parts of the world that are dark spots in terms of attention.

What I'm starting to realize is that you can get media, it's just an enormous amount of work, and you need an enormous amount of encouragement.

And so the people who founded Foko Club in Madagascar weren't actually concerned with trying to change the image of their country.

They were doing something much simpler.

It was a club to learn English and to learn computers and the internet.

but what happened was that Madagascar went through a violent coup.

Most independent media was shut down.

So a very, very small program designed to get people in front of computers, publishing their own thoughts, publishing independent media, ended up having a huge impact on what we know about this country. 

Fortunately people are trying to figure out how to fix this.

Unfortunately, it's a machine translation of the page.

And while Google is very, very good with some languages, it's actually pretty dreadful with Chinese.

And the results can be pretty funny.

What you really want -- what I really want, is eventually the ability to push a button and have this queued so a human being can translate this. 

And if you think this is absurd, it's not.

There's a group right now in China called Yeeyan.

And Yeeyan is a group of 150,000 volunteers who get online every day.

And he said, "If there's one thing I can do, I can start translating, so that people between these countries start understanding each other a little bit better."

My guess is at least one of them has something interesting to say. 

So even if we can find a way to translate from Chinese, there's no guarantee that we're going to find it.

When we look for information online, we basically have two strategies.

We use a lot of search.

And search is terrific if you know what you're looking for.

She has one of the hardest jobs in the world.

Not only does she have to keep our Israeli and Palestinian contributors from killing each other, she has to figure out what is going to interest you about the Middle East.

I don't think this is necessarily an algorithmic process.

I think what's great about the internet is that it actually makes it much easier for deejays to reach a wider audience.

But with the internet, she's in a position where she can tell a lot of people what to read.

So once you start widening like this, once you start lighting up voices in the dark spots, once you start translating, once you start curating, you end up in some really weird places.

This is an image from pretty much my favorite blog, which is AfriGadget.

And AfriGadget is a blog that looks at technology in an Africa context.

And specifically, it's looking at a blacksmith in Kibera in Nairobi, who is turning the shaft of a Landrover into a cold chisel.

He goes by the moniker White African.

He is a bridge figure.

He is someone who literally has feet in both worlds -- one in the world of the African technology community, one in the world of the American technology community.

These bridge figures, I'm pretty well convinced, are the future of how we try to make the world wider through using the web. 

But the trick with bridges is, ultimately, you need someone to cross them.

And that's where we start talking about xenophiles.

Dhani Jones, who is the middle linebacker for the Cincinnati Bengals, has a slightly different approach to the off-season.

Dhani has a television show.

It's called "Dhani Tackles the Globe."

He trains with them for a week, and he plays a match with them.

And his reason for this is not just that he wants to master Muay Thai boxing.

For a lot of us it might be literature or writing.

But there are all these different techniques that allow you to go out and look at the world and find your place within it. 

The goal of my Talk here is not to persuade the people in this room to embrace your xenophilia.

My challenge instead is this.

It's not enough to make the personal decision that you want a wider world.

We have to figure out how to rewire the systems that we have.

We have to fix our media.

We have to fix our immigration policy.

