When I was a student here in Oxford in the 1970s, the future of the world was bleak.

A cancer epidemic caused by chemicals in the environment was going to shorten our lives.

Per-capita food production is up by a third.

And all this at a time when the population has doubled. 

How did we become the only species that becomes more prosperous as it becomes more populous?

I think to answer that question you need to understand how human beings bring together their brains and enable their ideas to combine and recombine, to meet and, indeed, to mate.

In other words, you need to understand how ideas have sex. 

I've tried to work out which is bigger, and it's almost impossible.

It just tells you they were both designed to fit the human hand.

Homo erectus made the same tool for 30,000 generations.

Of course there were a few changes, but tools changed slower than skeletons in those days.

There was no progress, no innovation.

It's an extraordinary phenomenon, but it's true.

Whereas the object on the right is obsolete after five years.

And more than that, it's a confection of different ideas, the idea of plastic, the idea of a laser, the idea of transistors.

They've all been combined together in this technology. 

How does evolution do cumulative, combinatorial things?

Well, it uses sexual reproduction.

In an asexual species, if you get two different mutations in different creatures, a green one and a red one, then one has to be better than the other.

One goes extinct for the other to survive.

What's the process that's having the same effect in cultural evolution as sex is having in biological evolution?

No other animal does it.

As Adam Smith said, "No man ever saw a dog make a fair exchange of a bone with another dog."

(Laughter) You can have culture without exchange.

You can have, as it were, asexual culture.

Chimpanzees, killer whales, these kinds of creatures, they have culture.

They teach each other traditions which are handed down from parent to offspring.

In this case, chimpanzees teaching each other how to crack nuts with rocks.

Chimpanzee troops have different cultures in different troops.

There's no exchange of ideas between them. 

And why does exchange raise living standards?

Well, the answer came from David Ricardo in 1817.

Adam takes four hours to make a spear and three hours to make an axe.

Oz takes one hour to make a spear and two hours to make an axe.

So Oz is better at both spears and axes than Adam.

He doesn't need Adam.

He can make his own spears and axes.

Well no, because if you think about it, if Oz makes two spears and Adam make two axes, and then they trade, then they will each have saved an hour of work.

So the gains from trade are only going to grow.

Adam and Oz both saved an hour of time.

That is prosperity, the saving of time in satisfying your needs. 

And the answer is about half a second.

In other words, the average person on the average wage could not afford a candle in 1800. 

It was self-sufficiency.

We call that poverty these days.

But the object on the right was made for me by other people.

And that's the way society works.

That's what we've achieved as a species. 

In the old days, if you were rich, you literally had people working for you.

That's how you got to be rich; you employed them.

Louis XIV had a lot of people working for him.

He had 498 people to prepare his dinner every night.

But a modern tourist going around the palace of Versailles and looking at Louis XIV's pictures, he has 498 people doing his dinner tonight too.

And that's what we've done, because we're all working for each other.

We're able to draw upon specialization and exchange to raise each other's living standards. 

That is to say, they specialize with respect to reproduction.

The queen does it all.

In our species, we don't like doing that.

It's the one thing we insist on doing for ourselves, is reproduction.

(Laughter) Even in England, we don't leave reproduction to the Queen. 

Well, I think, probably, the oldest version of this is probably the sexual division of labor.

But I've got no evidence for that.

It just looks like the first thing we did was work male for female and female for male.

And the beauty of this system is that it benefits both sides.

And so both sides raise each other's standards of living through the sexual division of labor. 

But there's no evidence of a sexual division of labor.

There's no evidence of gathering behavior by females.

It looks like the females were cooperative hunters with the men.

For example, in the Caucasus there's a site where you find local Neanderthal tools.

They're always made from local chert.

In the same valley there are modern human remains from about the same date, 30,000 years ago, and some of those are from local chert, but more -- but many of them are made from obsidian from a long way away.

And when human beings began moving objects around like this, it was evidence that they were exchanging between groups. 

And that's evidence that people have started exchanging between groups.

And that will have led to specialization. 

How do you know that long-distance movement means trade rather than migration?

So long-distance movement of tools is a sign of trade, not migration. 

What happens when you cut people off from exchange, from the ability to exchange and specialize?

And the answer is that not only do you slow down technological progress, you can actually throw it into reverse.

An example is Tasmania.

But who knows how to make a computer mouse?

Nobody, literally nobody.

There is nobody on the planet who knows how to make a computer mouse.

He just knows how to run a company.

We all know little bits, but none of us knows the whole. 

And what we've done in human society, through exchange and specialization, is we've created the ability to do things that we don't even understand.

It's not the same with language.

We've gone beyond the capacity of the human mind to an extraordinary degree.

