This is the ocean as I used to know it.

First, just a little bit about me.

It's like you dipped a marble in water.

And all the burning of oil and coal and gas, all the fossil fuels, have changed the atmosphere greatly.

Carbon dioxide level has gone up and up and up.

We're warming the climate.

So the blowout in the Gulf is just a little piece of a much larger problem that we have with the energy that we use to run civilization.

If you take a sea urchin larva from 8.1, put it in a pH of 7.7 -- not a huge change -- it becomes deformed and dies.

And already, commercial oyster larvae are dying at large scales in some places.

Coral reefs are growing slower in some places because of this problem.

So this really matters. 

Now, let's take a little tour around the Gulf a little bit.

One of the things that really impresses me about the people in the Gulf: They are really, really aquatic people.

And they can handle water.

They can handle a hurricane that comes and goes.

When the water goes down, they know what to do.

But when it's something other than water, and their water habitat changes, they don't have many options.

In fact, those entire communities really don't have many options.

They don't have another thing they can do.

If you go to the Gulf and you look around, you do see a lot of oil.

You see a lot of oil on the ocean.

You see a lot of oil on the shoreline.

If you go to the site of the blowout, it looks pretty unbelievable.

It looks like you just emptied the oil pan in your car, and you just dumped it in the ocean.

And one of the really most incredible things, I think, is that there's nobody out there trying to collect it at the site where it is densest.

Parts of the ocean there look just absolutely apocalyptic.

You go in along the shore, you can find it everywhere.

It's really messy.

And they have a very strange way of cleaning up the beach.

They're not allowed to put more than 10 pounds of sand in a 50-gallon plastic bag.

They have thousands and thousands of plastic bags.

I don't know what they're going to do with all that stuff.

Meanwhile, there are still people trying to use the beach.

They don't see the little, tiny sign that says: "Stay out of the water."

If you go to the place where the oil has been a while, it's an even bigger mess.

And there's basically nobody there anymore, a few people trying to keep using it. 

You see people who are really shell-shocked.

They are very hardworking people.

All they know about life is they get up in the morning, and if their engine starts, they go to work.

They always felt that they could rely on the assurances that nature brought them through the ecosystem of the Gulf.

They're finding that their world is really collapsing.

And so you can see, literally, signs of their shock, signs of their outrage, signs of their anger, and signs of their grief.

These are the things that you can see. 

There's a lot you can't see, also, underwater.

What's going on underwater?

And Congressman Markey asks, you know, "Is it going to take a submarine ride to see if there are really oil plumes?"

I think it's being hidden on purpose.

Now this is such a catastrophe and such a mess, that lots of stuff is leaking out on the edges of the information stream.

But as many people have said, there's a large attempt to suppress what's going on.

But you can see it.

So do sea turtles.

These guys have to swim around through it.

That guide's entire calendar year is canceled bookings.

That's the story of thousands of people.

Now, in the Exxon Valdez spill, about 30 percent of the killer whales died in the first few months.

Their numbers have never recovered.

So the recovery rate of all this stuff is going to be variable.

The other thing about the Gulf that is important is that there are a lot of animals that concentrate in the Gulf at certain parts of the year.

They're probably having, at the very least, a catastrophic spawning season this year.

I'm hoping that maybe the adults are avoiding that dirty water.

They don't usually like to go into water that is very cloudy anyway.

But these are really high-performance athletic animals.

I don't know what this kind of stuff will do in their gills.

I don't know if it'll affect the adults.

If it's not, it's certainly affecting their eggs and larvae, I would certainly think.

So while the oil spill, the leak, the eruption, is a catastrophe, I think it's important to keep in mind that we've done a lot to affect what's in the ocean for a very, very long time.

It's not like we're starting with something that's been okay.

We're starting with something that's had a lot of stresses and a lot of problems to begin with.

And they populate much larger areas.

So for instance, most of the birds in this picture are migratory birds.

Down on the lower left there are Ruddy Turnstones and Sanderlings.

They breed in the high arctic, and they winter down in southern South America.

But they concentrate in the Gulf and then fan out all across the arctic.

I think that this is one of the most absolutely mind-boggling examples of total unpreparedness that I can even think of.

Even when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, at least they shot back.

And we just seem to be unable to figure out what to do.

Mainly what they're doing is booms and dispersants.

The booms are absolutely not made for open water.

That one on the right is called Fishing Fool.

And I think, you know, that's a great name for boats that think that they're going to do anything to make a dent in this by dragging a boom between them when there are literally hundreds of thousands of square miles in the Gulf right now with oil at the surface. 

The dispersants make the oil go right under the booms.

The booms are only about 13 inches in diameter.

So it's just absolutely crazy.

Here they are working.

You can see easily that all the oily water just goes over the back of the boom.

All they're doing is stirring it.

It's just ridiculous.

Also, for all the shoreline that has booms -- hundreds and hundreds of miles of shoreline -- all of the shoreline that has booms, there's adjacent shoreline that doesn't have any booms.

There is ample opportunity for oil and dirty water to get in behind them. 

And that lower photo, that's a bird colony that has been boomed.

Everybody's trying to protect the bird colonies there.

Well, as an ornithologist, I can tell you that birds fly, and that -- (Laughter) and that booming a bird colony doesn't do it; it doesn't do it.

These birds make a living by diving into the water.

In fact, really what I think they should do, if anything -- they're trying so hard to protect those nests -- actually, if they destroyed every single nest some of the birds would leave, and that would be better for them this year.

As far as cleaning them, I don't mean to cast any aspersion on people cleaning birds.

It's really, really important that we express our compassion.

I think that's the most important thing that people have, is compassion.

It's really important to get those images and to show it.

But really, where are those birds going to get released to?

It's like taking somebody out of a burning building, treating them for smoke inhalation and sending them back into the building, because the oil is still gushing. 

I refuse to acknowledge this as anything like an accident.

I think that this is the result of gross negligence.

It turns out that -- you see this sign on almost every commercial vessel in the United States -- you know, if you spilled a couple of gallons of oil, you would be in big trouble.

We could have the kinds of equipment that we would really need.

It would not take an awful lot to anticipate that after making 30,000 holes in the sea floor of the Gulf of Mexico looking for oil, oil might start coming out of one of them.

And you'd have some idea of what to do.

That's certainly one of the things we need to do. 

But I think we have to understand where this leak really started from.

It really started from the destruction of the idea that the government is there because it's our government, meant to protect the larger public interest.

So I think that the oil blowout, the bank bailout, the mortgage crisis and all these things are absolutely symptoms of the same cause.

We still seem to understand that at least we need the police to protect us from a few bad people.

Now this has been a problem for a very, very long time.

That's what it would really mean to be conservative.

So what we really need to do is regain the idea that it's our government safeguarding our interests and regain a sense of unity and common cause in our country that really has been lost.

I think there are signs of hope. 

We seem to be waking up a little bit.

The Glass-Steagall Act -- which was really to protect us from the kind of thing that caused the recession to happen, and the bank meltdown and all that stuff that required the bailouts -- that was put in effect in 1933, was systematically destroyed.

So it's a continued fight.

It's a historic moment right now.

There's certainly a common theme about needing to make the moment out of this. 

We've been through this before with other ways of offshore drilling.

The first offshore wells were called whales.

The first offshore drills were called harpoons.

We emptied the ocean of the whales at that time.

Now are we stuck with this?

We're still lighting something on fire every time we want energy. 

Who says it's too expensive?

People who sell us fossil fuels.

Energy is always a moral issue.

It's an issue that is moral right now.

It's a matter of right and wrong. 

Thank you very much. 

