This box contains one billion people.

And our teacher told us that the industrialized world, 1960, had one billion people.

In the developing world, she said, they had two billion people.

And they lived away then.

There was a big gap between the one billion in the industrialized world and the two billion in the developing world.

In the industrialized world, people were healthy, educated, rich, and they had small families.

And their aspiration was to buy a car.

And in 1960, all Swedes were saving to try to buy a Volvo like this.

This was the economic level at which Sweden was.

But in contrast to this, in the developing world, far away, the aspiration of the average family there was to have food for the day.

They were saving to be able to buy a pair of shoes.

There was an enormous gap in the world when I grew up.

And this gap between the West and the rest has created a mindset of the world, which we still use linguistically when we talk about "the West" and "the Developing World."

Just look how many.

The world population has doubled since I went to school.

And of course, there's been economic growth in the West.

So this is where they are today.

So there they are.

But the distance from the poorest here, the very poorest, to the very richest over here is wider than ever.

This is the new world we have today in 2010. 

And what will happen in the future?

They will start flying.

And these lower or middle income countries, the emerging income countries, they will also forge forwards economically.

And if, but only if, we invest in the right green technology -- so that we can avoid severe climate change, and energy can still be relatively cheap -- then they will move all the way up here.

And they will start to buy electric cars.

This is what we will find there. 

So what about the poorest two billion?

What about the poorest two billion here?

Will they move on?

Here [among the poorest], population is growing.

There is nothing -- but a nuclear war of a kind we've never seen -- that can stop this [growth] from happening.

Because we already have this [growth] in process.

But if, and only if, [the poorest] get out of poverty, they get education, they get improved child survival, they can buy a bicycle and a cell phone and come [to live] here, then population growth will stop in 2050.

And let me show you why by converting back to the old-time digital technology.

The colors show the continent.

The year is 1960.

Look, Bangladesh catching up with India.

They are still up here.

We can stop at nine billion if we do the right things.

Child survival is the new green.

It's only by child survival that we will stop population growth.

And will it happen?

Well, I'm not an optimist, neither am I a pessimist.

It can be done.

We can have a much more just world.

With green technology and with investments to alleviate poverty, and global governance, the world can become like this. 

Thank you very much. 

