Trees epitomize stasis.

And I decided to explore this movement by turning trees into artists.

I simply tied the end of a paintbrush onto a twig.

You might have a guess.

The answer is actually 186,540 miles, or seven times around the globe.

And so simply by shifting our perspective from a single trunk to the many dynamic twigs, we are able to see that trees are not simply static entities, but rather extremely dynamic. 

And our prison system itself is stuck.

The United States has over 2.3 million incarcerated men and women.

That number is rising.

Of the 100 incarcerated people that are released, 60 will return to prison.

We give science lectures, and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting.

That, I think, is movement.

And just recently, we've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call Supermax facilities.

They've incurred violent infractions by becoming violent with guards and with other prisoners.

They're kept in bare cells like this for 23 hours a day.

When they have meetings with their review boards or mental health professionals, they're placed in immobile booths like this.

For one hour a day they're brought to these bleak and bland exercise yards.

Although we can't bring trees and prairie plants and frogs into these environments, we are bringing images of nature into these exercise yards, putting them on the walls, so at least they get contact with visual images of nature.

And so what we see, I think, is that small, collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope.

We know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks.

But if trees can create art, if they can encircle the globe seven times in one year, if prisoners can grow plants and raise frogs, then perhaps there are other static entities that we hold inside ourselves, like grief, like addictions, like racism, that can also change. 

Thank you very much. 

