I'm Ellen, and I'm totally obsessed with food.

But I didn't start out obsessed with food.

Especially if you're hungry and your kids are hungry and your neighbor's kids are hungry and your whole neighborhood is hungry, you're pretty angry.

And actually, lo and behold, it looks pretty much like the areas of the world that are hungry are also the areas of the world that are pretty insecure. 

And while I was there, I came across what I think is the most brilliant of their programs.

All this time you're -- when you think about hunger, it's a hard thing to think about, because what we think about is eating.

I think about eating a lot, and I really love it.

And the thing that's a little strange about international hunger and talking about international issues is that most people kind of want to know: "What are you doing in America?"

"What are you doing for America's kids?"

I mean that's pretty dramatic for our own country.

The other thing that's dramatic is that both hunger and obesity have really risen in the last 30 years.

Unfortunately, obesity's not only an American problem.

The numbers are pretty crazy.

Well, they're both about food.

And when you think about food, the underpinning of food in both cases is potentially problematic agriculture.

And agriculture is where food comes from.

Well, agriculture in America's very interesting.

Well, the foods that are produced are, more or less, corn, soy and wheat.

And as you can see, that's three-quarters of the food that we're eating for the most part: processed foods and fast foods.

So somehow we're not making the connect between exporting a good agricultural system that will help feed people all around the world. 

And you know, the reality is that between farmers in America, who actually, quite frankly, when I spend time in the Midwest, are pretty large in general.

And their farms are also large.

But farmers in the rest of the world are actually quite skinny, and that's because they're starving.

Most hungry people in the world are subsistence farmers.

I think it's really interesting to look at agriculture from these two sides.

And then in the same time period, you know, we've kind of left Africa's farmers to do their own thing.

Unfortunately, what is farmed ends up as what we eat.

And in America, a lot of what we eat has led to obesity and has led to a real change in sort of what our diet is in the last 30 years. 

It's crazy.

And in one generation, they're going from hunger, and all of the detrimental health effects of hunger, to obesity and things like diabetes and heart disease in one generation.

So the problematic food system is affecting both hunger and obesity.

I think that's the only way to look at it.

And instead of taking these two things as bifurcated problems that are very separate, it's really important to look at them as one system.

You know, there's 30-year cycles.

So that's the first birthday I want to talk about.

You know, I think if we really think that this is something that's happened in the last 30 years, there's hope in that.

So there's a lot of reasons to take this 30-year time period as sort of the creation of this new food system.

I'm not the only one who's obsessed with this whole 30-year thing.

The icons like Michael Pollan and Jamie Oliver in his TED Prize wish both addressed this last three-decade time period as incredibly relevant for food system change.

And so in my lifetime, a lot of what's happened in the world -- and being a person obsessed with food -- a lot of this has really changed. 

So my second dream is that I think we can look to the next 30 years as a time to change the food system again.

So I'm announcing today the start of a new organization, or a new fund within the FEED Foundation, called the 30 Project.

And the 30 Project is really focused on these long-term ideas for food system change.

So I'm hoping that by connecting really disparate organizations like the ONE campaign and Slow Food, which don't seem right now to have much in common, we can talk about holistic, long-term, systemic solutions that will improve food for everyone.

Some ideas I've had is like, look, the reality is -- kids in the South Bronx need apples and carrots and so do kids in Botswana.

And how are we going to get those kids those nutritious foods? 

Another thing that's become incredibly global is production of meat and fish.

Understanding how to produce protein in a way that's healthy for the environment and healthy for people will be incredibly important to address things like climate change and how we use petrochemical fertilizers.

And it'll be growing over the next few months.

But I really hope that you will all think of ways that you can look long term at things like the food system and make change. 

