(Laughter) Well, the topic I'm going to discuss is one which is, in a certain sense, very peculiar because it's very old.

There are many different kinds of mess.

And so today, I would like to present to you a few examples of what this represents.

But it is not so.

Regularity is the contrary of roughness because the basic aspect of the world is very rough. 

So let me show you a few objects.

Some of them are artificial.

Now why do I show a cauliflower, a very ordinary and ancient vegetable?

Because old and ancient as it may be, it's very complicated and it's very simple, both at the same time.

Well, it's very interesting.

If you cut, with a sharp knife, one of the florets of a cauliflower and look at it separately, you think of a whole cauliflower, but smaller.

So the experience of humanity has always been that there are some shapes which have this peculiar property, that each part is like the whole, but smaller.

Now, what did humanity do with that?

(Laughter) 

So what I did actually is to study this problem, and I found something quite surprising.

That one can measure roughness by a number, a number, 2.3, 1.2 and sometimes much more.

Now, it didn't take me any time.

I've been looking at these things for so long.

So these numbers are the numbers which denote the roughness of these surfaces.

I hasten to say that these surfaces are completely artificial.

So on the left, I took the roughness copied from many landscapes.

Humanity had to learn about measuring roughness.

This is very rough, and this is sort of smooth, and this perfectly smooth.

Very few things are very smooth.

So then if you try to ask questions: "What's the surface of a cauliflower?"

Well, you measure and measure and measure.

Each time you're closer, it gets bigger, down to very, very small distances.

What's the length of the coastline of these lakes?

The closer you measure, the longer it is.

You must do it differently. 

What good is that, to know these things?

Well, surprisingly enough, it's good in many ways.

To begin with, artificial landscapes, which I invented sort of, are used in cinema all the time.

We see mountains in the distance.

They may be mountains, but they may be just formulae, just cranked on.

Now it's very easy to do.

Now a lung is something very strange.

If you take this thing, you know very well it weighs very little.

Anatomists were arguing very much about that.

The bronchi branch, branch, branch and they stop branching, not because of any matter of principle, but because of physical considerations: the mucus, which is in the lung.

So what happens is that in a way you have a much bigger lung, but it branches and branches down to distances about the same for a whale, for a man and for a little rodent. 

And I think that my mathematics, surprisingly enough, has been of great help to the surgeons studying lung illnesses and also kidney illnesses, all these branching systems, for which there was no geometry.

So I found myself, in other words, constructing a geometry, a geometry of things which had no geometry.

And a surprising aspect of it is that very often, the rules of this geometry are extremely short.

You have formulas that long.

And you crank it several times.

Sometimes repeatedly: again, again, again, the same repetition.

And at the end, you get things like that. 

This cloud is completely, 100 percent artificial.

Something so complicated like a cloud, so unstable, so varying, should have a simple rule behind it.

Now this simple rule is not an explanation of clouds.

The seer of clouds had to take account of it.

I don't know how much advanced these pictures are.

I was very much involved in it, but then turned my attention to other phenomena. 

Now, here is another thing which is rather interesting.

One of the shattering events in the history of mathematics, which is not appreciated by many people, occurred about 130 years ago, 145 years ago.

Mathematicians began to create shapes that didn't exist.

Mathematicians got into self-praise to an extent which was absolutely amazing, that man can invent things that nature did not know.

In particular, it could invent things like a curve which fills the plane.

A curve's a curve, a plane's a plane, and the two won't mix.

Well, they do mix.

A man named Peano did define such curves, and it became an object of extraordinary interest.

It was very important, but mostly interesting because a kind of break, a separation between the mathematics coming from reality, on the one hand, and new mathematics coming from pure man's mind.

Well, I was very sorry to point out that the pure man's mind has, in fact, seen at long last what had been seen for a long time.

And so here I introduce something, the set of rivers of a plane-filling curve.

And well, it's a story unto itself.

So it was in 1875 to 1925, an extraordinary period in which mathematics prepared itself to break out from the world.

And the objects which were used as examples, when I was a child and a student, as examples of the break between mathematics and visible reality -- those objects, I turned them completely around.

I used them for describing some of the aspects of the complexity of nature. 

The great painter Hokusai knew it very well.

The things on the ground are algae.

He did not know the mathematics; it didn't yet exist.

And he was Japanese who had no contact with the West.

But painting for a long time had a fractal side.

I could speak of that for a long time.

The Eiffel Tower has a fractal aspect.

This is a mess, mess, mess, Brownian loop.

One day I decided -- halfway through my career, I was held by so many things in my work -- I decided to test myself.

Could I just look at something which everybody had been looking at for a long time and find something dramatically new?

Well, so I looked at these things called Brownian motion -- just goes around.

I played with it for a while, and I made it return to the origin.

It took my friends 20 years.

Three of them were having incomplete proofs.

They got together, and together they had the proof.

Well actually I started, oddly enough, studying stock market prices.

To the right, on top, you see a theory which is very, very fashionable.

It was very easy, and you can write many books very fast about it.

(Laughter) There are thousands of books on that.

Well, these other lines include some real price increments and some forgery which I did.

And it went really well 50 years ago.

For 50 years, people were sort of pooh-poohing me because they could do it much, much easier.

But I tell you, at this point, people listened to me.

In other words, it is not acts of God that we should put aside.

That is the meat, the problem.

Now, I get to the final thing, which is the set of which my name is attached.

In a way, it's the story of my life.

My adolescence was spent during the German occupation of France.

And after the war, I saw an uncle again.

This shape is of an extraordinary complication.

It's so uninteresting.

Now you turn the crank once, twice: twice, marvels come out.

I mean this comes out.

Shapes which are of such complication, such harmony and such beauty.

And then you get these extraordinary baroque decorations all over the place.

All that from this little formula, which has whatever, five symbols in it.

First of all, because these shapes are so complicated that one couldn't make any sense of the numbers.

It's so complicated. 

(Laughter) 

So where did this come from?

Obviously, from extraterrestrials.

(Laughter) Well, so the newspaper in Cambridge published an article about that "discovery" and received the next day 5,000 letters from people saying, "But that's simply a Mandelbrot set very big."

Well, let me finish.

This shape here just came out of an exercise in pure mathematics.

Bottomless wonders spring from simple rules, which are repeated without end. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

