It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean.

And it can be a very complicated thing, what human health is.

And those simple themes aren't really themes about the complex science of what's going on, but things that we all pretty well know.

And we're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways. 

This is a shot of Cannery Row in 1932.

And that flow, that flow of life, from the very base up to the very top, is the flow that ecologists see.

Now why does that matter for human health?

Because when we jam things in the bottom of that pyramid that shouldn't be there, some very frightening things happen.

Pollutants, some pollutants have been created by us: molecules like PCBs that can't be broken down by our bodies.

PCBs accumulate.

We have great examples of that, unfortunately.

The dolphins eat the fish that have PCBs from the plankton, and those PCBs, being fat-soluble, accumulate in these dolphins.

In mother's milk.

Here's a diagram of the PCB load of dolphins in Sarasota Bay.

Females after their first calf is already weaned: a lower load.

The death rate in these dolphins, for the first calf born of every female dolphin, is 60 to 80 percent.

There's another top predator in the ocean, it turns out.

That top predator, of course, is us.

But some of them were not whale meat at all.

And those dolphin parts had a huge load of PCBs, dioxins and heavy metals.

We had these data a few years ago.

These women have toxic breast milk.

It means that their children's development can be compromised.

There's other ways of breaking the pyramid.

The pyramid, if we jam things in the bottom, can get backed up like a sewer line that's clogged.

And if we jam nutrients, sewage, fertilizer in the base of that food pyramid, it can back up all through it.

It happens because we have jammed so much into the base of the natural ocean pyramid that these bacteria clog it up and overfill onto our beaches.

Often what jams us up is sewage. 

Now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national park where you had a big sign at the front saying, "Closed because human sewage is so far over this park that you can't use it"?

Now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national park where you had a big sign at the front saying, "Closed because human sewage is so far over this park that you can't use it"?

These vibrios, these bacteria, can actually infect people.

They can go into your skin and create skin infections. 

Surfers, for example, know this incredibly.

And if you can see on some surfing sites, in fact, not only do you see what the waves are like or what the weather's like, but on some surf rider sites, you see a little flashing poo alert.

These same infections create harmful algal blooms.

Rita Calwell very famously traced a very interesting story of cholera into human communities, brought there, not by a normal human vector, but by a marine vector, this copepod.

Copepods are small crustaceans.

So what do you do?

What do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow?

Well, there's a bunch of things you could do.

You could call Joe the Plumber, for example.

And he could come in and fix the flow.

But in fact, if you look around the world, not only are there hope spots for where we may be able to fix problems, there have been places where problems have been fixed, where people have come to grips with these issues and begun to turn them around.

Monterey is one of those. 

In 1932, that's the picture.

They need a functioning pyramid from the base all the way to the top.

On the left there, Julia Platt, the mayor of my little hometown in Pacific Grove.

And it's only through having the ocean being healthy that we can remain healthy ourselves. 

Thank you very much. 

