So why is this important?

I think there are any number of reasons, and I'm just going to not get into detail but mention a few.

So strictly from a climate change perspective, the cities are already relatively green.

The big opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is actually in urbanizing the suburbs.

All that driving that we've been doing out in the suburbs, we have doubled the amount of miles we drive.

It's increased our dependence on foreign oil despite the gains in fuel efficiency.

We're just driving so much more; we haven't been able to keep up technologically. 

Public health is another reason to consider retrofitting.

Researchers at the CDC and other places have increasingly been linking suburban development patterns with sedentary lifestyles.

And that rate has been escalating at the same rate as children not walking to school anymore, again, because of our development patterns. 

But increasingly, the savings promised by drive-till-you-qualify affordability -- which is basically our model -- those savings are wiped out when you consider the transportation costs.

Whether you love suburbia's leafy privacy or you hate its soulless commercial strips, there are reasons why it's important to retrofit.

But is it practical?

I think it is.

We all tend to think of suburbia as this very family-focused place, but that's really not the case anymore.

Since 2000, already two-thirds of households in suburbia did not have kids in them.

We just haven't caught up with the actual realities of this.

They're still having kids -- but Generation Y hasn't even started hitting child-rearing age.

They're the other big generation. 

So as a result of that, demographers predict that through 2025, 75 to 85 percent of new households will not have kids in them.

That basically, the Boomers want to be able to age in place, and Gen Y would like to live an urban lifestyle, but most of their jobs will continue to be out in suburbia. 

When the postwar suburbs were first built out on the cheap land away from downtown, it made sense to just build surface parking lots.

It no longer just makes sense.

That land is more valuable than just surface parking lots.

It now makes sense to go back in, build a deck and build up on those sites.

So what do you do with a dead mall, dead office park?

So this happens to be a dead mall in St. Louis that's been re-inhabited as art-space.

It's now home to artist studios, theater groups, dance troupes.

It's becoming, I think, a really great institution.

Other malls have been re-inhabited as nursing homes, as universities, and as all variety of office space.

This was a little grocery store, a Food Lion grocery store, that is now a public library.

This one is a little L-shaped strip shopping center in Phoenix, Arizona.

Really all they did was they gave it a fresh coat of bright paint, a gourmet grocery, and they put up a restaurant in the old post office.

If home is the first place and work is the second place, the third place is where you go to hang out and build community.

And especially as suburbia is becoming less centered on the family, the family households, there's a real hunger for more third places. 

So the most dramatic retrofits are really those in the next category, the next strategy: redevelopment.

But some of them have been much more incremental.

This is Mashpee Commons, the oldest retrofit that we've found.

And it's just incrementally, over the last 20 years, built urbanism on top of its parking lots.

This is another infill project on the parking lots, this one of an office park outside of Washington D.C.

Here is the site in 1940: It was just a little farm in the village of Hyattsville.

Today, the transit, the Main Street and the new housing have all been built.

Eventually, I expect that the streets will probably extend through a redevelopment of the mall.

So here's what it looks like.

You can sort of see the funky new condo buildings in between the office buildings and the public space and the new Main Street. 

This one is one of my favorites, Belmar.

But the one story stuff ... that's really history. 

So here it is at projected build-out.

This project, I think, has great connectivity to the existing neighborhoods.

It's providing 1,500 households with the option of a more urban lifestyle.

It's very successful, and it's helped to prompt -- eight of the 13 regional malls in Denver have now, or have announced plans to be, retrofitted.

But it's important to note that all of this retrofitting is not occurring -- just bulldozers are coming and just plowing down the whole city.

But it's also not really enough to just create pockets of walkability.

You want to also try to get more systemic transformation.

We need to also retrofit the corridors themselves.

So this is one that has been retrofitted in California.

I could imagine beautiful housing going up along there without tearing down another tree.

But densification is not going to work everywhere.

Sometimes re-greening is really the better answer.

There's a lot to learn from successful landbanking programs in cities like Flint, Michigan.

There's also a burgeoning suburban farming movement -- sort of victory gardens meets the Internet.

So they've managed to both restore the local ecology and the local economy at the same time.

So I've shown you some of the first generation of retrofits.

What's next?

I think we have three challenges for the future.

The first is to plan retrofitting much more systemically at the metropolitan scale.

These slides just show two images from a larger project that looked at trying to do that for Atlanta.

I led a team that was asked to imagine Atlanta 100 years from now.

So the second challenge is to improve the architectural design quality of the retrofits.

I have to say, these are very hybrid places.

They are new but trying to look old.

They have urban streetscapes, but suburban parking ratios.

Their populations are more diverse than typical suburbia, but they're less diverse than cities.

And they are public places, but that are managed by private companies.

And just the surface appearance are often -- like the Astroturf here -- they make me wince.

So, you know, I mean I'm glad that the urbanism is doing its job.

The fact that a protest is happening really does mean that the layout of the blocks, the streets and blocks, the putting in of public space, compromised as it may be, is still a really great thing.

But we've got to get the architecture better. 

The final challenge is for all of you.

I want you to join the protest and start demanding more sustainable suburban places -- more sustainable places, period.

But culturally, we tend to think that downtowns should be dynamic, and we expect that.

But we seem to have an expectation that the suburbs should forever remain frozen in whatever adolescent form they were first given birth to.

Thank you. 

