It's a great pleasure to be here.

It's a great pleasure to speak after Brian Cox from CERN.

I think CERN is the home of the Large Hadron Collider.

What ever happened to the Small Hadron Collider?

Where is the Small Hadron Collider?

Because the Small Hadron Collider once was the big thing.

Now, the Small Hadron Collider is in a cupboard, overlooked and neglected.

The whole Hadron Collider family needs unlocking. 

So the vantage point you take determines virtually everything that you will see.

The question that you will ask will determine much of the answer that you get. 

The Finns may be a bit boring and depressive and there's a very high suicide rate, but by golly, they are qualified.

And they have absolutely amazing education systems.

Well, so, for this last year, with the help of Cisco who sponsored me, for some balmy reason, to do this, I've been looking somewhere else.

So I ended up in places like this.

Most of the population growth of the next 50 years will be in cities.

We'll grow by six cities of 12 million people a year for the next 30 years.

This is where you'll find the fastest growing young populations of the world.

This is a guy called Juanderson.

At the age of 14, in common with many 14-year-olds in the Brazilian education system, he dropped out of school.

It was boring.

And by the age of 16, with rapid promotion, he was running the drugs trade in 10 favelas.

Or you can go to places like this.

This is Kibera, which is the largest slum in East Africa.

Millions of people living here, stretched over many kilometers.

They just finished their Kenyan certificate of secondary education.

So there are schools in slums like this.

They're places like this.

The one technology that spans rich and poor in places like this is not anything to do with industrial technology.

If you want to design from scratch virtually any service in Africa, you would start now with the mobile phone.

Or you could go to places like this. 

All across the developing world there are millions of parents -- tens, hundreds of millions -- who for the first time are with children doing homework and exams.

And the reason they carry on studying is not because they went to a school like this.

This is the best you can get in Hyderabad in Indian education.

The reason they went on studying was this. 

Those girls have never touched Google.

They know nothing about Wikipedia.

Imagine what their lives would be like if you could get that to them. 

So if you look, as I did, through this tour, and by looking at about a hundred case studies of different social entrepreneurs working in these very extreme conditions, look at the recipes that they come up with for learning, they look nothing like school.

What do they look like?

Well, education is a global religion.

And education, plus technology, is a great source of hope.

You can go to places like this. 

This is a school three hours outside of Sao Paulo.

But they find it completely obvious to use computers, websites, make videos, so on and so forth.

When you go to places like this what you see is that education in these settings works by pull, not push.

Most of our education system is push.

I was literally pushed to school.

That isn't really going to attract him.

And so the idea of a curriculum is completely irrelevant in a setting like this.

You need to start education from things that make a difference to them in their settings.

That's too long if you're poor.

And you also need to make it intrinsically interesting. 

He's invented more than 200 games to teach virtually any subject under the sun.

In the schools and communities that Taio works in, the day always starts in a circle and always starts from a question.

So El Sistema in Venezuela uses a violin as a technology of learning.

Taio Rocha uses making soap as a technology of learning.

And what you find when you go to these schemes is that they use people and places in incredibly creative ways.

Masses of peer learning.

Well, you create your own teachers.

You create peer-to-peer learning, or you create para-teachers, or you bring in specialist skills.

But you find ways to get learning that's relevant to people through technology, people and places that are different. 

That's one city.

Well, this is a very simple scheme to get the learning to them through a bus.

And they all treat learning, not as some sort of academic, analytical activity, but as that's something that's productive, something you make, something that you can do, perhaps earn a living from. 

So I met this character, Steven.

Here, there isn't really an option.

And Pratham runs preschool play groups for, now, 21 million children in India.

It's the largest NGO in education in the world.

And it also supports working-class kids going into Indian schools.

He's a complete revolutionary.

He's actually a trade union organizer by background, and that's how he learned the skills to build his organization. 

When they got to a certain stage, Pratham got big enough to attract some pro bono support from McKinsey.

You should turn it into McDonald's.

And what you do when you go to any new site is you kind of roll out a franchise.

And it's the same wherever you go.

It's reliable and people know exactly where they are.

There are Chinese restaurants everywhere, but there is no Chinese restaurant chain.

Yet, everyone knows what is a Chinese restaurant.

They know what to expect, even though it'll be subtly different and the colors will be different and the name will be different.

You know a Chinese restaurant when you see it.

So mass education started with social entrepreneurship in the 19th century.

And that's desperately what we need again on a global scale.

And what can we learn from all of that?

And this is just a very simple way of understanding what kind of innovation, what kind of different design we need. 

There are two basic types of innovation.

There's sustaining innovation, which will sustain an existing institution or an organization, and disruptive innovation that will break it apart, create some different way of doing it.

There are formal settings -- schools, colleges, hospitals -- in which innovation can take place, and informal settings -- communities, families, social networks.

And in our system, we know that simply doing more of this won't eat into deep educational inequalities, especially in inner cities and former industrial areas. 

So that's why we need three more kinds of innovation.

We need more reinvention.

And all around the world now you see more and more schools reinventing themselves.

They're recognizably schools, but they look different.

Of 14 of them, only two of them are in schools.

Most of them are in other buildings not designed as schools.

There is an amazing school in Northen Queensland called Jaringan.

So we certainly need more of that. 

You need efforts to supplement schools.

We need more of that completely new and radical thinking.

You can go to places an hour away, less, from this room, just down the road, which need that, which need radicalism of a kind that we haven't imagined. 

So we are on the verge, 2015, of an amazing achievement, the schoolification of the world.

Every child up to the age of 15 who wants a place in school will be able to have one in 2015.

It's an amazing thing.

It's recognizably 19th century in its roots.

And of course it's a huge achievement.

And of course it will bring great things.

It will bring skills and learning and reading.

But it will also lay waste to imagination.

It will stratify society as much as it liberates it.

And we are bequeathing to the developing world school systems that they will now spend a century trying to reform.

