Our primitive ancestors, when they found their homes and livelihood endangered, they dared to make their way into unfamiliar territories in search of better opportunities.

And as the descendants of these explorers, we have their nomadic blood coursing through our own veins.

But at the same time, distracted by our bread and circuses and embroiled in the wars that we have waged on each other, it seems that we have forgotten this desire to explore.

While Mars and all the movies made in its name have reinvigorated the ethos for space travel, few of us seem to truly realize that our species' fragile constitution is woefully unprepared for long duration journeys into space. 

Let us take a trek to your local national forest for a quick reality check.

That's a decent amount.

How about a few months?

That's pretty good too.

So for a fun twist, let us imagine that the only source of water available is trapped as frozen blocks miles below the surface.

Soil nutrients are so minimal that no vegetation can be found, and of course hardly any atmosphere exists to speak of. 

Such examples are only a few of the many challenges we would face on a planet like Mars.

Build space elevators, or impossible miles of transport belts that tether your planet of choice to our home planet?

And how do we grow things like food that grew up on Earth like us? 

But I'm getting ahead of myself.

The longest continuous amount of time that any human has spent in space is in the vicinity of 12 to 14 months.

So far we've been looking to this new piece of mechanical technology or that great next generation robot as part of a lineup to ensure our species safe passage in space.

It requires fairly little to maintain, offers much flexibility in design and only asks to be carried in a single plastic tube. 

The field of study that has enabled us to utilize the capabilities of the microbe is known as synthetic biology.

It comes from molecular biology, which has given us antibiotics, vaccines and better ways to observe the physiological nuances of the human body.

Given the limitations of our man-made machines, synthetic biology will be a means for us to engineer not only our food, our fuel and our environment, but also ourselves to compensate for our physical inadequacies and to ensure our survival in space. 

To give you an example of how we can use synthetic biology for space exploration, let us return to the Mars environment.

The Martian soil composition is similar to that of Hawaiian volcanic ash, with trace amounts of organic material.

The first question we should probably ask is, how would we make our plants cold-tolerant?

Because, on average, the temperature on Mars is a very uninviting negative 60 degrees centigrade.

The next question we should ask is, how do we make our plants drought-tolerant?

Considering that most of the water that forms as frost evaporates more quickly than I can say the word "evaporate."

Well, it turns out we've already done things like this.

We have simply found more precise ways to do it. 

So why would we want to change the genetic makeup of plants for space?

Well, to not do so would mean needing to engineer endless acres of land on an entirely new planet by releasing trillions of gallons of atmospheric gasses and then constructing a giant glass dome to contain it all.

It's an unrealistic engineering enterprise that quickly becomes a high-cost cargo transport mission.

One of the best ways to ensure that we will have the food supplies and the air that we need is to bring with us organisms that have been engineered to adapt to new and harsh environments.

These organisms can then also be engineered to make medicine or fuel. 

Well, I mentioned earlier that we, as a species, were evolved uniquely for planet Earth.

And so, if we were to dump any of us on Mars right this minute, even given ample food, water, air and a suit, we are likely to experience very unpleasant health problems from the amount of ionizing radiation that bombards the surface of planets like Mars that have little or nonexistent atmosphere.

So let us appeal to nature for inspiration.

And among these organisms is a bacterium by the name of Deinococcus radiodurans.

While its radiation tolerance mechanisms are known, we have yet to adapt the relevant genes to mammals.

To do so is not particularly easy.

But given a little bit of human ingenuity and a little bit of time, I think to do so is not very hard either.

