I'm going to begin by reciting a poem.

"Oh beloved dentist: Your rubber fingers in my mouth ... your voice so soft and muffled ... Lower the mask, dear dentist, lower the mask."

(Laughter) 

Okay, in this presentation, I'm going to be putting the right side of your brains through a fairly serious workout.

So I am one of those people with a transformative personal story.

But something weird happened.

I became bizarrely popular.

Now, this is heresy in the design world.

The ego is not supposed to be involved in graphic design.

But I find that for myself, without exception, the more I deal with the work as something of my own, as something that is personal, the more successful it is as something that's compelling, interesting and sustaining.

So I exist somewhat outside of the mainstream of design thinking.

"Is there a sense of wonder?"

and "Does it invoke curiosity?"

This is a scientific diagram, by the way.

I don't have time to explain it, but it has to do with DNA and RNA.

So I have a particular imaginative approach to visual work.

The things that interest me when I'm working are visual structure, surprise and anything that requires figuring things out.

So for this reason, I'm particularly drawn to systems and patterns.

I'm going to give you a couple of examples of how my brain works. 

This is a piece that I did for The Guardian newspaper in the U.K.

They have a magazine that they call G2.

And this is for their puzzle special in 2007.

And puzzling it is.

I started by creating a series of tiling units.

But then as well, I was able to just flip them, rotate them and combine them in different ways to create either regular patterns or abstract patterns.

So here's the word puzzle again.

And here it is with the abstract surrounding.

And as you can see, it's extremely difficult to read.

But all I have to do is fill certain areas of those letterforms and I can bring those words out of the background pattern.

But maybe that's a little too obvious.

So ultimately, my goal is to create something unexpected.

To this end, I have worked in sugar for Stefan Sagmeister, three-time TED speaker.

And this project began essentially on my kitchen table.

And for that same amount of time, I've been spilling sugar on the table and just kind of playing with it with my fingers.

And eventually I used this technique to create a piece of artwork.

Recently, I've also made some rather highbrow baroque borders out of lowbrow pasta.

This is what you can do with some household tinfoil.

Okay, well, it's what I can do with some household tinfoil. 

(Laughter) 

To say I wonder is to say I question, I ask.

And to experience wonder is to experience awe.

The world is full of wonder.

I think that one of the things that religions got right was the use of visual wonder to deliver a message.

When we look at works like this, we tend to associate them with children's literature.

There's an implication that ornamental graphics detract from the seriousness of the content.

But I really hope to have the opportunity to change that perception.

This book is taking rather a long time, but I'm nearly done. 

For some reason, I thought it would be a good idea to put an intermission in my talk.

And this is it -- just to give you and me a moment to catch up. 

(Laughter) 

So I do these valentines.

I've been sending out valentines on a fairly large scale since 2005.

These are my valentines from 2005 and 2006.

But in 2007, I got the cockamamie idea to hand-draw each valentine for everyone on my mailing list.

I reduced my mailing list to 150 people.

And I drew each person their own unique valentine and put their name on it and numbered it and signed it and sent it out.

Believe it or not, I devised this as a timesaving method.

And I thought that I could kind of do this piecemeal as I was traveling.

It didn't exactly work out that way.

There's a longer story to this, but I did get them all done in time, and they were extremely well received.

I got an almost 100 percent response rate.

(Laughter) And those who didn't respond will never receive anything from me ever again. 

(Laughter) 

Last year, I took a more conceptual approach to the valentine.

I had this idea that I wanted people to receive a kind of mysterious love letter, like a found fragment in their mailbox.

There were four different versions of this.

And I wrote them so that they begin in the middle of a sentence, end in the middle of a sentence.

So I wanted people to really get the sense that they had received something that could have been a love letter to them.

And I'm just going to read one of them to you. 

I know this makes you embarrassed.

I'm certain I can see you blushing.

But I just have to tell you because sometimes I hear your self-doubt, and it's so crushing to think that you may not know how truly wonderful you are, how inspiring and delightful and really, truly the most completely ..." 

(Laughter) 

Each one of them is completely different.

I'm just really, really thrilled with them.

I do spend a lot of time on my work.

And one of the things that I've been thinking about recently is what is worth while.

What is it that's worth spending my time on and my life on in this way?

Working in the commercial world, this is something that I do have to struggle with at times.

And yes, sometimes I'm swayed by money.

But ultimately, I don't consider that a worthy goal.

What makes something worthwhile for me is the people I work for or with, the conditions I work under and the audience that I'm able to reach.

So I might ask: "Who is it for?"

"What does it say?"

and "What does it do?"

Here I am; I'm showing you some pretty visuals and talking about aesthetics.

