We get told that we need to study harder or be more focused or get a tutor.

My parents got me a tutor in French, and I still suck in French.

Two years ago, I was the highest-rated lecturer at MIT's entrepreneurial master's program.

And it was a speaking event in front of groups of entrepreneurs from around the world.

Our MBA programs do not teach kids to be entrepreneurs.

The reason that I avoided an MBA program -- other than the fact that I couldn't get into any because I had a 61 percent average out of high school and then 61 percent average at the only school in Canada that accepted me, Carlton -- but our MBA programs don't teach kids to be entrepreneurs.

They teach them to go work in corporations. 

Even in popular literature, the only book I've ever found -- and this should be on all of your reading lists -- the only book I've ever found that makes the entrepreneur into the hero is "Atlas Shrugged."

Everything else in the world tends to look at entrepreneurs and say that we're bad people.

Both my brother and sister and I, all three of us own companies as well.

And we all decided to start these things because it's really the only place we fit.

But kids could be entrepreneurs as well.

I have 18 out of the 19 signs of attention deficit disorder diagnosed.

All three of the founders of Netscape had it.

I could go on and on.

Kids -- you can see these signs in kids.

So I just figured that out earlier. 

I'm also quoted -- and I told the person who wrote the textbook -- I'm now quoted in that exact same university textbook in every Canadian university and college studies.

In managerial accounting, I'm chapter eight.

I open up chapter eight talking about budgeting.

And I told the author, after they did my interview, that I cheated in that same course.

And she thought it was too funny to not include it anyway. 

But kids, you can see these signs in them.

The definition of an entrepreneur is "a person who organizes, operates and assumes the risk of a business venture."

That doesn't mean you have to go to an MBA program.

It doesn't mean you have to get through school.

I was groomed as an entrepreneur. 

And there was about a thousand coat hangers that I'd collected.

Because, when I told her I was going out to play with the kids, I was going door to door in the neighborhood to collect coat hangers to put in the basement to sell.

And I knew she wouldn't want me to go get them, so I just did it anyway.

And I learned that you could actually negotiate with people.

This one person offered me three cents and I got him up to three and a half.

I sold license plate protectors door to door.

My dad actually made me go find someone who would sell me these things at wholesale.

I sold newspapers.

And he wouldn't buy a newspaper from me ever.

But I was convinced I was going to get him to buy a license plate protector.

If I couldn't sell all four, I could at least get one.

I learned that at a young age. 

I did comic book arbitrage.

When I was about 10 years old, I sold comic books out of our cottage on Georgian Bay.

And I would go biking up to the end of the beach and buy all the comics from the poor kids.

I was forced to get a paper route at 10 years old.

He could just deliver them.

Because then I realized I could make the money.

By this point, I was definitely not going to be an employee. 

My dad owned an automotive and industrial repair shop.

He had all these old automotive parts lying around.

I saw there was money in garbage.

And I was actually collecting it from all the automotive shops in the area on my bicycle.

And then my dad would drive me on Saturdays to a scrap metal recycler where I got paid.

And you made these pincushions out of wooden clothespins -- when we used to hang clothes on clotheslines outside.

And you'd make these chairs.

And I had these little pillows that I would sew up.

And you could stuff pins in them.

Because people used to sew and they needed a pin cushion.

But what I realized was that you had to have options.

So I actually spray painted a whole bunch of them brown.

And then when I went to the door, it wasn't, "Do you want to buy one?"

It was, "Which color would you like?"

So I learned that lesson at a young age. 

I learned that manual labor really sucks.

Right, like cutting lawns is brutal.

But because I had to cut lawns all summer for all of our neighbors and get paid to do that, I realized that recurring revenue from one client is amazing.

That if I land this client once, and every week I get paid by that person, that's way better than trying to sell one clothespin thing to one person.

Because you can't sell them more.

So I love that recurring revenue model I started to learn at a young age. 

I would caddy, I would go to the golf course and caddy for people.

But I realized that there was this one hill on our golf course, the 13th hole that had this huge hill.

And people could never get their bags up it.

So I would sit there with a lawn chair and just carry up all the people who didn't have caddies.

I would carry their golf bags up to the top, and they'd pay me a dollar.

Meanwhile, my friends were working for five hours to haul some guy's bag around and get paid 10 bucks.

I'm like, "That's stupid because you have to work for five hours.

And they'd give me their orders for the following week.

You just needed to have a supply and demand and this audience who bought into you.

I went and got golf balls from golf courses.

So I would go into the ponds and crawl around and pick them up with my toes.

You just pick them up with both feet.

You can't do it on stage.

You get the golf balls, and you just throw them in your bathing suit trunks and when you're done you've got a couple hundred of them.

I packaged them up three ways.

And then I'd sell 50 at a time of all the crappy ones.

And they could use those for practice balls. 

I sold sunglasses, when I was in school, to all the kids in high school.

But it paid the bills.

So I sold lots and lots of sunglasses.

And I think I was 14. 

Then I paid my entire way through first year university at Carlton by selling wine skins door to door.

Supply, demand, big opportunity.

I also branded it, so I sold them for five times the normal cost.

It had our university logo on it. 

Why don't you teach them not to waste money?

And I remember that lesson to this day. 

Allowances teach kids the wrong habits.

Allowances, by nature, are teaching kids to think about a job.

An entrepreneur doesn't expect a regular paycheck.

What I do with my kids now -- I've got two, nine and seven -- is I teach them to walk around the house and the yard, looking for stuff that needs to get done.

Come to me and tell me what it is.

Fifty percent of all the money that they earn or get gifted, 50 percent goes in their house account, 50 percent goes in their toy account.

Anything in their toy account they can spend on whatever they want.

Both my nine- and seven-year-olds have a stock broker already.

But I'm teaching them to force that savings habit.

Don't read them bedtime stories every night.

Maybe four nights out of the week read them bedtime stories and three nights of the week have them tell stories.

Why don't you sit down with kids and give them four items, a red shirt, a blue tie, a kangaroo and a laptop, and have them tell a story about those four things?

My kids do that all the time.

It teaches them to sell; it teaches them creativity; it teaches them to think on their feet.

Just do that kind of stuff and have fun with it. 

Those are entrepreneurial traits that you want to be nurturing.

Show the kids what bad customers or bad employees look like.

Show them the grumpy employees.

And they can actually sell it and learn how to find scammers when they get email offers come in.

They can come into your account or a sub account or whatever.

But teach them how to fix the price, guess the price, pull up the photos.

Teach them how to do that kind of stuff and make money.

Then the money they get, 50 percent goes in their house account, 50 percent goes in their toy account.

My kids love this stuff. 

Look for that kind of stuff.

Bipolar disorder is nicknamed the CEO disease.

Al Gore really would have had to invented the Internet. 

These skills are the skills we should be teaching in the classroom as well as everything else.

I'm not saying don't get kids to want to be lawyers.

But how about getting entrepreneurship to be ranked right up there with the rest of them as well?

Because there's huge opportunities in that. 

I want to close with a quick little video.

It's a video that was done by one of the companies that I mentor.

Thank you very much for having me. 

