So, if you're in the audience today, or maybe you're watching this talk in some other time or place, you are a participant in the digital rights ecosystem.

Whether you're an artist, a technologist, a lawyer or a fan, the handling of copyright directly impacts your life.

Let's look at a specific video so you can see how it works.

Two years ago, recording artist Chris Brown released the official video of his single "Forever."

A fan saw it on TV, recorded it with her camera phone, and uploaded it to YouTube.

Because Sony Music had registered Chris Brown's video in our Content ID system, within seconds of attempting to upload the video, the copy was detected, giving Sony the choice of what to do next. 

But how do we know that the user's video was a copy?

Well, it starts with content owners delivering assets into our database, along with a usage policy that tells us what to do when we find a match.

We compare each upload against all of the reference files in our database.

This heat map is going to show you how the brain of the system works.

Here we can see the original reference file being compared to the user generated content.

The system compares every moment of one to the other to see if there's a match.

This means that we can identify a match even if the copy used is just a portion of the original file, plays it in slow motion and has degraded audio and video quality.

When we find a match, we apply the policy that the rights owner has set down. 

And the scale and the speed of this system is truly breathtaking.

When we compare those hundred years of video, we're comparing it against millions of reference files in our database.

It would be like 36,000 people staring at 36,000 monitors each and every day, without so much as a coffee break. 

Now, what do we do when we find a match?

Well, most rights owners, instead of blocking, will allow the copy to be published.

And then they benefit through the exposure, advertising and linked sales.

Remember Chris Brown's video "Forever"?

You may have seen it. 

So their little wedding video went on to get over 40 million views.

And the song, 18 months old, went back to number four on the iTunes charts.

So Sony is generating revenue from both of these.

The video's inspired over 26,000 dollars in donations to end domestic violence.

Because it's not just amateurs borrowing from big studios, but sometimes big studios borrowing back. 

By empowering choice, we can create a culture of opportunity.

And all it took to change things around was to allow for choice through rights identification.

So why has no one ever solved this problem before?

It's because it's a big problem, and it's complicated and messy.

It's not uncommon for a single video to have multiple rights owners.

There's musical labels.

There's multiple music publishers.

And each of these can vary by country.

There's lots of cases where we have more than one work mashed together.

So we have to manage many claims to the same video. 

YouTube's Content ID system addresses all of these cases.

But the system only works through the participation of rights owners.

But it's not just about dollars and impressions.

