Another update: You will recall I introduced you guys to the Quadro Tracker.

It's like a water dowsing device.

So what I want to talk about today is belief.

We believe all sorts of things.

It's more difficult.

It's uncomfortable to not believe things.

Essentially, we are pattern-seeking primates.

We find patterns, we make those connections, whether it's Pavlov's dog here associating the sound of the bell with the food, and then he salivates to the sound of the bell, or whether it's a Skinnerian rat, in which he's having an association between his behavior and a reward for it, and therefore he repeats the behavior.

And whatever they were doing just before they got the reward, they repeat that particular pattern.

Sometimes it was even spinning around twice counterclockwise, once clockwise and peck the key twice.

A Type I error, or false positive, is believing a pattern is real when it's not.

Our second type of error is a false negative.

A Type II error is not believing a pattern is real when it is.

So let's do a thought experiment.

And you hear a rustle in the grass.

Your next decision could be the most important one of your life.

On the other hand, if you believe that the rustle in the grass is just the wind, and it turns out it's a dangerous predator, you're lunch.

You've just won a Darwin award.

You've been taken out of the gene pool. 

Now the problem here is that patternicities will occur whenever the cost of making a Type I error is less than the cost of making a Type II error.

This is the only equation in the talk by the way.

That's a pattern.

And is it really a horse?

Or is it more like a frog?

For example, what do you see here?

Yes, of course, it's a cow.

Once I prime the brain -- it's called cognitive priming -- once I prime the brain to see it, it pops back out again even without the pattern that I've imposed on it.

And what do you see here?

How about here?

That is, almost everybody sees the planet Saturn.

People that are put in a condition of feeling out of control are more likely to see something in this, which is allegedly patternless.

In other words, the propensity to find these patterns goes up when there's a lack of control.

For example, baseball players are notoriously superstitious when they're batting, but not so much when they're fielding.

Because fielders are successful 90 to 95 percent of the time.

The best batters fail seven out of 10 times.

So their superstitions, their patternicities, are all associated with feelings of lack of control and so forth. 

What do you see in this particular one here, in this field?

While you're thinking about that, this was an experiment done by Susan Blackmore, a psychologist in England, who showed subjects this degraded image and then ran a correlation between their scores on an ESP test: How much did they believe in the paranormal, supernatural, angels and so forth.

And those who scored high on the ESP scale, tended to not only see more patterns in the degraded images but incorrect patterns.

Here is what you show subjects.

So if you present subjects the images such that it's going to end up on the right hemisphere instead of the left, then they're more likely to see patterns than if you put it on the left hemisphere.

Our right hemisphere appears to be where a lot of this patternicity occurs.

So what we're trying to do is bore into the brain to see where all this happens. 

Brugger and his colleague, Christine Mohr, gave subjects L-DOPA.

L-DOPA's a drug, as you know, given for treating Parkinson's disease, which is related to a decrease in dopamine.

So dopamine appears to be the drug associated with patternicity.

And if you give them drugs that are dopamine antagonists, they go away.

That is, you decrease the amount of dopamine, and their tendency to see patterns like that decreases.

On the other hand, amphetamines like cocaine are dopamine agonists.

In fact, I saw Robin Williams recently talk about how he thought he was much funnier when he was doing cocaine, when he had that issue, than now.

So perhaps more dopamine is related to more creativity.

Dopamine, I think, changes our signal-to-noise ratio.

If you're too skeptical, you'll miss the really interesting good ideas.

Just right, you're creative, and yet you don't fall for too much baloney.

Too high and maybe you see patterns everywhere.

And if you go too far on that, that's just simply labeled as madness.

It's a distinction perhaps we might make between two Nobel laureates, Richard Feynman and John Nash.

One sees maybe just the right number of patterns to win a Nobel Prize.

The other one also, but maybe too many patterns.

And we then call that schizophrenia. 

So the signal-to-noise ratio then presents us with a pattern-detection problem.

And what pattern do you see here?

Again, I'm putting your anterior cingulate cortex to the test here, causing you conflicting pattern detections.

You know, of course, this is Via Uno shoes.

These are sandals.

Pretty sexy feet, I must say.

Maybe a little Photoshopped.

And of course, the ambiguous figures that seem to flip-flop back and forth.

It turns out what you're thinking about a lot influences what you tend to see.

And you see the lamp here, I know.

Because the lights on here.

Of course, thanks to the environmentalist movement we're all sensitive to the plight of marine mammals.

The impossible crate illusion.

This is a fairly new one that throws us off because of the conflicting patterns of comparing this angle with that angle.

In fact, it's the exact same picture side by side.

So what you're doing is comparing that angle instead of with this one, but with that one.

And so your brain is fooled.

Yet again, your pattern detection devices are fooled. 

Faces are easy to see because we have an additional evolved facial recognition software in our temporal lobes.

But anyway, the point is still made.

Now which one of these looks odd to you?

And you are correct.

A fairly famous illusion -- it was first done with Margaret Thatcher.

So you recognize Obama immediately.

And then you notice something quite a little bit odd about the eyes and the mouth.

Especially when they're upside down, you're engaging that general facial recognition software there. 

And I call this process agenticity.

This is an idea that we got from a fellow TEDster here, Dan Dennett, who talked about taking the intentional stance. 

I think it's the basis of animism and polytheism and monotheism.

It's the belief that aliens are somehow more advanced than us, more moral than us, and the narratives always are that they're coming here to save us and rescue us from on high.

The intelligent designer's always portrayed as this super intelligent, moral being that comes down to design life.

And this is also, I think, the basis of conspiracy theories.

There's somebody hiding behind there pulling the strings, whether it's the Illuminati or the Bilderbergers.

But this is a pattern detection problem, isn't it?

Some patterns are real and some are not.

Was JFK assassinated by a conspiracy or by a lone assassin?

Well, if you go there -- there's people there on any given day -- like when I went there, here -- showing me where the different shooters were.

Because, let's face it, some patterns are real.

Some conspiracies really are true.

Explains a lot, maybe. 

We did a whole issue on it.

Nineteen members of Al Queda plotting to fly planes into buildings constitutes a conspiracy.

But that's not what the "9/11 truthers" think.

You know how we know that 9/11 was not orchestrated by the Bush administration?

Because it worked. 

So we are natural-born dualists.

Our agenticity process comes from the fact that we can enjoy movies like these.

Because we can imagine, in essence, continuing on.

Or you can do it through loss of consciousness, by accelerating in a centrifuge.

It's just a minute and a half.

It ties together all this into the power of expectation and the power of belief.

Go ahead and roll it. 

Narrator: This is the venue they chose for their fake auditions for an advert for lip balm. 

Woman: We're hoping we can use part of this in a national commercial, right?

And this is test on some lip balms that we have over here.

Girl: No. 

Girl: No. 

Girl: No. 

Woman: It's completely blind now, right? 

Now, what I'm going to be looking for in this test is how it protects your lips, the texture, right, and maybe if you can discern any flavor or not. 

Girl: No. 

Girl: No. 

Girl: No. 

Woman: Take a step here.

Okay, now I'm going to ask you to pucker up.

Pucker up big and lean in just a little bit, okay? 

Woman: Okay.

And, Jennifer, how did that feel? 

Jennifer: Good. 

