This is the venue where, as a young man, some of the music that I wrote was first performed.

It was, remarkably, a pretty good sounding room.

With all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere, it actually sounded pretty good.

This is a song that was recorded there.

The clientele behavior was very much the same too.

I've played the Disney Hall here and Carnegie Hall and places like that.

And it's been very exciting.

But I also noticed that sometimes the music that I had written, or was writing at the time, didn't sound all that great in some of those halls.

We managed, but sometimes those halls didn't seem exactly suited to the music I was making or had made.

Do I have a place, a venue, in mind when I write?

Is that a kind of model for creativity?

Do we all make things with a venue, a context, in mind? 

Okay, Africa.

(Music: "Wenlenga" / Various artists) Most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in West Africa.

The music works perfectly in that setting.

There's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms.

The instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification, etc., etc.

It's no accident.

It's perfect for that particular context.

It actually improves it.

This is the room that Bach wrote some of his music for.

It's not as big as a gothic cathedral, so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate.

I think we're in like 1770, somewhere around there.

People in the audience in these opera houses, when they were built, they used to yell out to one another.

(Laughter) And well, that was an opera experience.

It's smaller than this.

But Wagner made an innovation.

He wanted a bigger band.

It's larger than some of the other symphony halls.

And they're a lot more reverberant than La Scala.

They had to be very quiet.

So those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls.

It meant that there could be extreme dynamics, which there weren't in some of these other kinds of music.

Quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting.

Popular music, coming along at the same time.

This is a jazz band.

There's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked.

And they'd say, "Play that part again."

Well, there's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers.

So the bands started to improvise new melodies.

[Live music] doesn't really change that much. 

Microphones enabled singers, in particular, and musicians and composers, to completely change the kind of music that they were writing.

So far, a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music, but singers, like Frank Sinatra, could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone.

Other singers after him went even further.

(Music: "My Funny Valentine" by Chet Baker) This is Chet Baker.

And this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone.

It would have been impossible without recorded music as well.

And he's singing right into your ear.

He's whispering into your ears.

The effect is just electric.

It's like the guy is sitting next to you, whispering who knows what into your ear. 

So at this point, music diverged.

There's live music, and there's recorded music.

And they no longer have to be exactly the same.

People began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems.

Live performance, when it was incredibly successful, ended up in what is probably, acoustically, the worst sounding venues on the planet: sports stadiums, basketball arenas and hockey arenas.

Musicians who ended up there did the best they could.

It's more a social situation than a musical situation.

And in some ways, the music that they're writing for this place works perfectly. 

So there's more new venues.

One of the new ones is the automobile.

So that doesn't really work.

And birds like this Savannah sparrow, they tend to have a buzzing (Sound clip: Savannah sparrow song) type call.

And it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs.

Other birds, like this tanager, have adapted within the same species.

The tananger on the East Coast of the United States, where the forests are a little denser, has one kind of call, and the tananger on the other side, on the west (Sound clip: Scarlet tanager song) has a different kind of call.

(Sound clip: Scarlet tanager song) So birds do it too. 

It's adaptive.

But the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there.

This is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional Romantic view.

We already know where that passion is going.

But this conflict of views is kind of interesting. 

I'm saying the two, the passion, the joy, are not mutually exclusive. 

Maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds.

Thank you very much. 

