You'd still have five billion left in change, and people would ask for the trains to be slowed down.

So there seems to be a complete disconnect here.

So what I'm asking for is the creation of a new job title -- I'll come to this a little later -- and perhaps the addition of a new word into the English language.

Because it does seem to me that large organizations including government, which is, of course, the largest organization of all, have actually become completely disconnected with what actually matters to people. 

Let me give you one example of this.

It may still be, for all I know.

Now, all of you in this room, in one form or other, are probably customers of one or both of those organizations that merged.

Just interested, did anybody notice anything different as a result of this at all?

So unless you happened to be a shareholder of one or the other organizations or one of the dealmakers or lawyers involved in the no-doubt lucrative activity, you're actually engaging in a huge piece of activity that meant absolutely bugger-all to anybody, okay?

By contrast, years of marketing have taught me that if you actually want people to remember you and to appreciate what you do, the most potent things are actually very, very small.

(Laughter) Now, years after you remember the strategic question of whether you're flying in a 777 or an Airbus, you remember those words and that experience. 

Similarly, this is from a hotel in Stockholm, the Lydmar.

Has anybody stayed there?

It's the lift, it's a series of buttons in the lift.

My guess is that the cost of installing this in the lift in the Lydmar Hotel in Stockholm is probably 500 to 1,000 pounds max.

Now, these are trivial marketing examples, I accept.

But I was at a TED event recently and Esther Duflo, probably one of the leading experts in, effectively, the eradication of poverty in the developing world, actually spoke.

It's a tiny, tiny thing.

Our own sense of self-aggrandizement feels that big important problems need to have big important, and most of all, expensive solutions attached to them.

But everything about institutions makes them uncomfortable with that disproportionality.

And once you have a very, very large budget, you actually look for expensive things to spend it on.

What is completely lacking is a class of people who have immense amounts of power, but no money at all.

(Laughter) It's those people I'd quite like to create in the world going forward. 

You come out of "Arrive" at the airport, and you follow a big yellow sign that says "Trains" and it's in front of you.

Actually, what happens in the world increasingly -- now, all credit to the British Airport Authority.

One of them also being, although logically it's quite a good idea to have a lift with no up and down button in it, if it only serves two floors, it's actually bloody terrifying, okay?

Because when the door closes and there's nothing for you to do, you've actually just stepped into a Hammer film. 

(Laughter) 

But the small stuff, what you might call the user interface, is done spectacularly badly.

But also, there seems to be a complete sort of gridlock in terms of solving these small solutions.

Because the people who can actually solve them actually are too powerful and too preoccupied with something they think of as "strategy" to actually solve them.

I said, "It's really, really easy."

I've got friends who actually never use their own bank cash machines because there's the risk that it might display their balance on the screen. 

Why would you willingly expose yourself to bad news?

Okay, you simply wouldn't.

Let's face it, most of us -- how many of you actually check your balance before you remove cash from a cash machine?

But what's interesting about that suggestion was that, to implement that suggestion wouldn't cost 10 million pounds; it wouldn't involve large amounts of expenditure; it would actually cost about 50 quid.

And yet, it never happens. 

Because there's a fundamental disconnect, as I said, that actually, the people with the power want to do big expensive things.

And there's to some extent a big strategy myth that's prevalent in business now.

And if you think about it, it's very, very important that the strategy myth is maintained.

But what is happening is that effectively -- and the invention of the spreadsheet hasn't helped this; lots of things haven't helped this -- business and government suffers from a kind of physics envy.

It wants the world to be the kind of place where the input and the change are proportionate.

It's a kind of mechanistic world that we'd all love to live in where, effectively, it sits very nicely on spreadsheets, everything is numerically expressible, and the amount you spend on something is proportionate to the scale of your success.

But it's very, very uncomfortable for us to actually acknowledge that we're living in such a world. 

But what I'm saying is we could just make things a little bit better for ourselves if we looked at it in this very simple four-way approach.

That is actually strategy, and I'm not denying that strategy has a role.

You know, there are cases where you spend quite a lot of money and you accomplish quite a lot.

And I'd be wrong to dis that completely.

Moving over, we come, of course, to consultancy. 

(Laughter) 

I thought it was very indecent of Accenture to ditch Tiger Woods in such a sort of hurried and hasty way.

I mean, Tiger surely was actually obeying the Accenture model.

So what Accenture suddenly found so unattractive about that, I'm not sure. 

Then there are other things that don't cost much and achieve absolutely nothing.

That's called trivia.

But there's a fourth thing.

And the fundamental problem is we don't actually have a word for this stuff.

We don't know what to call it.

And the second thing, I think, is that the world needs to have people in charge of that.

That's why I call for the "Chief Detail Officer."

Every corporation should have one, and every government should have a Ministry of Detail.

And if actually we created a Ministry of Detail and business actually had Chief Detail Officers, then that fourth quadrant, which is so woefully neglected at the moment, might finally get the attention it deserves. 

Thank you very much. 

