Ultimately, that led me to my dream job.

He is definitely my hero. 

But as much as (Applause) -- yeah, deserves it -- 

They don't all make national headlines.

In fact, most of them don't.

They go largely unnoticed, in a nation that's kind of come to accept a disgraceful national epidemic as some kind of new normal. 

Only instead of doing it to sell products, doing it to save lives.

And that comes down to finding common ground, where what I want overlaps with what you want.

And you might be surprised to learn, when it comes to gun violence, just how much common ground there is. 

In some places, the first day of hunting season is actually a school holiday.

They believe deeply in the Second Amendment right to own those guns.

But that doesn't mean there isn't common ground. 

This isn't about taking certain guns away from all people.

In 20 years, Brady background checks at federally licensed firearm dealers have blocked 2.4 million gun sales to those people that we all agree shouldn't have guns. 

And -- 

And -- 

And -- 

This is not a controversial idea.

In fact, only six percent of the American public disagrees.

That's about the percentage of the American public that believes the moon landing was a fake. 

And it's also about the percentage that believes the government is putting mind-controlling technology in our TV broadcast signals.

That's the extent to which we agree about background checks. 

But what about the 300 million guns already out there in homes across America?

In fact, that's why more and more people are choosing to own guns.

Ten years ago, 42 percent of the American public believed -- incorrectly -- that a gun makes your home safer.

Today, that number is 63 percent. 

Why?

I kind of hate to say it, because it gets to the dark underbelly of advertising, which is if you tell a big enough lie enough times, eventually that lie becomes the truth.

And that's exactly what's happened here.

And a lot of those people are children.

These are not bad people.

But I'm not here to talk about the nightmare of gun violence.

For my organization, for the Brady Campaign, that dream is reflected in the bold goal to cut the number of gun deaths in the US in half by 2025.

And I hope to leave all of you here tonight with a strong sense of exactly why that dream is so absolutely within reach.

It's so much bigger than that.

And if you want proof, let's start where most conversations in the US seem to start -- with Kim Kardashian. 

And here's the thing: it's not really a joke.

I mean, think about when issues change.

It's when they go from being political and advocacy issues to being part of pop culture, voices coming from everywhere, celebrities using their platforms, musicians, athletes.

The NBA has come forward.

Let's look at the political elections that are heating up.

This used to be the classic third-rail issue for Democrats.

Some are being forced to reverse very bad positions they defended very comfortably, until very recently.

For somebody like me, watching people wave around their negative NRA ratings -- it's almost surreal to watch.

We're still outfunded, yes, by the corporate gun lobby, and ultimately that needs to change.

But you know what?

You know, they say that the Internet democratizes information.

Social media and some of the organizing tools that plug into it have democratized activism.

It's allowed us to show what 90 percent support really looks like.

It's enabled us to start to really close -- and this is the bottom line -- close that disgraceful disconnect between what the American public wants and what our elected leaders are doing about it. 

After that recent terrible tragedy in San Bernardino, we jammed Congressional switchboards.

We got a vote on a bill that nobody thought was going to see the light of day anytime soon.

We're seeing real movement to repeal some of the most evil, ugly gun lobby legislation passed over the last dark decade.

The stranglehold of the gun lobby is clearly being broken.

We've seen President Obama's historic executive actions.

We're marching across the country, state by state, marriage-equality style. 

Congress is almost always the last to wake up and realize that it's on the wrong side of history.

And when they do, it's always because the American public shakes them.

And ultimately it dawned on me: what tremendous inspiration to those of us who have this dream to end gun violence.

That is the magnitude of the change we have the potential to create around gun violence. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

