I think it will be quite a challenge for me. 

Most African stories these days, they talk about famine, HIV and AIDS, poverty or war.

But my story that I would like to share with you today is the one about success.

Namibia has got 2.1 million people, but it is only twice the size of California. 

I come from a region in the remote northwest part of the country.

It's called Kunene region.

This is where I'm coming from.

A Himba is one of the 29 ethnic groups in Namibia.

We live a very traditional lifestyle.

In addition to being an ordinary Namibian and in addition to being a Himba I'm also a trained conservationist.

And it is very important if you are in the field to know what to confront and what to run from.

I was born in 1971.

We lived under apartheid regime.

Whenever we tried to hunt, we were called poachers.

And as a result, we were fined and locked up in jail. 

Between 1966 and 1990, the U.S. and Soviet interests fought for control over my country.

And you know, during war time, there are militaries, armies, that are moving around.

And the army hunted for valuable rhino horns and tusks.

They could sell these things for anything between $5,000 a kilo.

During the same year almost every Himba had a rifle.

Because it was wartime, the British .303 rifle was just all over the whole country. 

Then in the same time, around 1980, we had a very big drought.

It killed almost everything that was left.

Our livestock was almost at the brink of extinction, protected as well.

We were hungry.

I remember a night when a hungry leopard went into the house of one of our neighbors and took a sleeping child out of the bed.

It's a very sad story.

But even today, that memory is still in people's minds.

They can pinpoint the exact location where this all happened.

They were trusted by the local communities like our leader, Joshua Kangombe.

Death and despair surrounded Joshua and our entire communities. 

My father has been a poacher for quite a long time.

Instead of shooting poachers dead like they were doing elsewhere in Africa, IRDNC has helped men reclaim their abilities to manage their peoples and their rights to own and manage wildlife.

With independence, the whole approach of community getting involved was embraced by our new government. 

And at this sacred fire, the spirit of our ancestors speak through the headman and advise us where to get water, where to get grazings, and where to go and hunt.

And I think this is the best way of regulating ourselves on the environment.

And here are the new ideas.

And these things we were taught by outsiders.

We learned these things from outsiders.

And we then wanted to see whether we can match our ancestral maps with digital maps made somewhere in the world.

And through this, we actually started realizing our dreams, and we maintained honoring our traditions but we were still open to new ideas. 

The second element is that we wanted to have a life, a better life where we can benefit through many things.

Most poachers, like my father, were people from our own community.

They were not people from outside.

These were our own people.

And sometimes, once they were caught, they were treated with respect, brought back into the communities and they were made part of the bigger dreams.

And when this thing started going on, we started becoming one community, renewing our connection to nature.

And that was a very strong thing in Namibia. 

The last element that actually helped develop these things was the partnerships.

Our government has given legal status over our traditional lands.

The other partners that we have got is business communities.

Business communities helped bring Namibia onto the world map and they have also helped make wildlife a very valuable land use like any other land uses such as agriculture.

And most of my conservation colleagues today that you find in Namibia have been trained through the initiative, through the involvement of World Wildlife Fund in the most up-to-date conservation practices.

They have also given funding for two decades to this whole program.

And so far, with the support of World Wildlife Fund, we've been able to scale up the very small programs to national programs today.

Namibia ... or Sesfontein was no more an isolated village somewhere, hidden away in Namibia.

With these assets we are now part of the global village. 

Thirty years have passed since my father's first job as a community game guard.

(Applause) So please, if you go to Namibia, make sure that you stay in the tents.

Don't walk out at night! 

The black rhino -- they were almost extinct in 1982.

But today, Kunene has the largest concentration of black rhino -- free-roaming black rhinos -- in the world.

This is outside the protected area. 

What started as very small, community rangers getting community involved, has now grown into something that we call conservancies.

Nowhere else in the world has community-adopted conservation at this scale. 

In 2008, conservancy generated 5.7 million dollars.

This is our new economy -- an economy based on the respect of our natural resources.

Very important as well -- we invest this money in AIDS and HIV education.

You know that Africa is being affected by these viruses.

And this is the good news from Africa that we have to shout from the rooftops. 

We knew conservation would fail if it doesn't work to improve the lives of the local communities.

And please, do visit our website to learn more and see how you can help CBNRM in Africa and across the world.

Thank you very much. 

