One thing the world needs, one thing this country desperately needs is a better way of conducting our political debates.

We need to rediscover the lost art of democratic argument.

(Applause) If you think about the arguments we have, most of the time it's shouting matches on cable television, ideological food fights on the floor of Congress.

I have a suggestion.

So what I would like to do today is have something of a discussion.

So, are you ready for the lecture?

Now, you may say, well, that's obvious enough.

The real questions begin when it comes to arguing about who deserves what and why.

Take the example of flutes.

Suppose we're distributing flutes.

Who should get the best flute?

You can just call it out. 

Why?

Actually, that was Aristotle's answer too. 

But here's a harder question.

Peter: The greatest benefit to all. 

MS: The greatest benefit to all.

We'll hear better music if the best flutes should go to the best flute players.

MS: All right.

And the point, the essential nature, of musical performance is to produce excellent music.

It'll be a happy byproduct that we'll all benefit.

But when we think about justice, Aristotle says, what we really need to think about is the essential nature of the activity in question and the qualities that are worth honoring and admiring and recognizing.

One of the reasons that the best flute players should get the best flutes is that musical performance is not only to make the rest of us happy, but to honor and recognize the excellence of the best musicians. 

Now, flutes may seem ... the distribution of flutes may seem a trivial case.

Casey Martin -- a few years ago, Casey Martin -- did any of you hear about him?

He was a very good golfer, but he had a disability.

He had a bad leg, a circulatory problem, that made it very painful for him to walk the course.

In fact, it carried risk of injury.

He asked the PGA, the Professional Golfers' Association, for permission to use a golf cart in the PGA tournaments.

They said, "No.

Now that would give you an unfair advantage."

Suppose you were on the Supreme Court.

Suppose you were deciding the justice of this case.

How many here would say that Casey Martin does have a right to use a golf cart?

And how many say, no, he doesn't?

All right, let's take a poll, show of hands.

Someone who would not grant Casey Martin the right to a golf cart, what would be your reason?

Raise your hand, and we'll try to get you a microphone.

What would be your reason? 

What about those of you who say he should be given a golf cart?

How would you answer the objection?

Yes, all right. 

Audience: The cart's not part of the game. 

Charlie: The cart's not part of the game. 

MS: But what about walking from hole to hole? 

MS: Walking the course is not part of the game of golf? 

Charlie: Not in my book, it isn't. 

MS: Walking all those holes?

Charley: I'll stick to my original thesis. 

Warren: I am not a golfer. 

You know, it's interesting.

In the case, in the lower court, they brought in golfing greats to testify on this very issue.

Is walking the course essential to the game?

And they brought in Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer.

They said, yes, walking the course is strenuous physical exercise.

The fatigue factor is an important part of golf.

The Supreme Court decided.

What do you suppose they said?

And the Supreme Court justices wrestled with that question.

Now, there were two dissenters, one of whom was Justice Scalia.

He wouldn't have granted the cart, and he had a very interesting dissent.

It's interesting because he rejected the Aristotelian premise underlying the majority's opinion.

He said it's not possible to determine the essential nature of a game like golf.

So there you have Justice Scalia taking on the Aristotelian premise of the majority's opinion.

(Laughter) If we had thought that the rules of the sports we care about are merely arbitrary, rather than designed to call forth the virtues and the excellences that we think are worthy of admiring, we wouldn't care about the outcome of the game.

It's also objectionable on a second ground.

On the face of it, it seemed to be -- this debate about the golf cart -- an argument about fairness, what's an unfair advantage.

Then the fairness objection goes away. 

Because what was at stake in the dispute over the golf cart was not only the essential nature of golf, but, relatedly, the question: What abilities are worthy of honor and recognition as athletic talents?

(Laughter) After all, there's no running or jumping, and the ball stands still.

(Laughter) So if golfing is the kind of game that can be played while riding around in a golf cart, it would be hard to confer on the golfing greats the status that we confer, the honor and recognition that goes to truly great athletes.

That illustrates that with golf, as with flutes, it's hard to decide the question of what justice requires, without grappling with the question, "What is the essential nature of the activity in question, and what qualities, what excellences connected with that activity, are worthy of honor and recognition?"

How many here favor the first policy: the state should recognize traditional marriage only?

The opponents of same-sex marriage say that the purpose of marriage, fundamentally, is procreation, and that's what's worthy of honoring and recognizing and encouraging.

That's really what marriage is about.

So with flutes, with golf carts, and even with a fiercely contested question like same-sex marriage, Aristotle has a point.

Very hard to argue about justice without first arguing about the purpose of social institutions and about what qualities are worthy of honor and recognition. 

So let's step back from these cases and see how they shed light on the way we might improve, elevate, the terms of political discourse in the United States, and for that matter, around the world.

There is a tendency to think that if we engage too directly with moral questions in politics, that's a recipe for disagreement, and for that matter, a recipe for intolerance and coercion.

So better to shy away from, to ignore, the moral and the religious convictions that people bring to civic life.

That, it seems to me, is a way to begin to restore the art of democratic argument. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Now look, you're a pioneer of open education.

Your lecture series was one of the first to do it big.

What's your vision for the next phase of this? 

And I think we can do that in public life more generally.

That's what I would love to do. 

CA: So, I would imagine that there are a lot of people who would love to join you in that endeavor.

