Hi there.

I'm going to be talking a little bit about music, machines and life.

Or, more specifically, what we learned from the creation of a very large and complicated machine for a music video.

Some of you may recognize this image.

This is the opening frame of the video that we created.

We'll be showing the video at the end, but before we do, I want to talk a little bit about what it is that they wanted. 

And we were very excited about this because, of course, they have a history of dancing with machines.

They're responsible for this video, "Here It Goes Again."

50-million-plus views on YouTube.

Four guys dancing on treadmills, no cuts, just a static camera.

A fantastically viral and wonderful video.

So we were really excited about working with them.

Now, for those of you who don't know, a Rube Goldberg machine is a complicated contraption, an incredibly over-engineered piece of machinery that accomplishes a relatively simple task.

And we wanted to make sure that we did something that would work for a music video.

They wanted the machine action to follow the song feeling.

So as the song picks up emotion, so should the machine get grander in its process.

They wanted us to make use of the space.

So we have this 10,000-square-foot warehouse we were using, divided between two floors.

It included an exterior loading dock.

They wanted it messy, and we were happy to oblige.

The machine itself would start the music.

So the machine would get started, it would travel some distance, reacting along the way, hit play on an iPod or a tape deck or something that would start playback.

And the machine would maintain synchronization throughout.

And as if that wasn't enough, all of these incredibly complicating things, right, they wanted it in one shot. 

(Laughter) 

Of those 85 takes, only three actually successfully completed their run.

We destroyed two pianos and 10 televisions in the process.

We went to Home Depot well over a hundred times.

And another engineer thought, "Well, that would be a really good thing to use" and ended up using it as a really nice trigger.

And it's actually in the machine. 

So what did we learn from all of this?

Well, having completed this, we have the opportunity to step back and reflect on some of the things.

And we learned that small stuff stinks.

Little balls in wooden tracks are really susceptible to humidity and temperature and a little bit of dust, and they fall out of the tracks, the exact angles makes it hard to get right.

And yet, a bowling ball will always follow the same path.

Small stuff stinks, but, of course, it's essential, right? 

Often, we had to pull things out as a result because of timing or aesthetics or whatever.

And so while planning is important, so is flexibility.

These are all things that ended up not making it into the final machine.

So also, put reliable stuff last, the stuff that's going to run every time.

Again, small to large is relevant here.

But you don't want to have to reset the whole machine because the Lego car at the end doesn't work, right.

So you put that up front so that, if it fails, at least you know you don't have to reset the whole thing. 

Life can be messy.

There were incredibly difficult moments in the building of this thing.

Months were spent in this tiny, cold warehouse.

And the wonderful elation that we had when we finally completed it.

Thank you very much. 

I mean, "Curiosity" -- excuse me.

Let me start again.

