Tom Green: That's a 4chan thing.

These kids on the Internet, they have this group of kids and they like to say funny words like "barrel roll."

I got to tell you, it's driving me nuts, actually.

Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and I scream, "4chan!"

Christopher Poole: When I was 15, I found this website called Futaba Channel.

And it was a Japanese forum and imageboard.

That format of forum, at that time, was not well-known outside of Japan.

And so what I did is I took it, I translated it into English, and I stuck it up for my friends to use.

Now, six and a half years later, over seven million people are using it, contributing over 700,000 posts per day.

And we've gone from one board to 48 boards. 

This is what it looks like.

There's no archive, there are no barriers, there's no registration.

These things that we're used to with forums don't exist on 4chan.

And that's led to this discussion that's completely raw, completely unfiltered.

What the site's known for, because it has this environment, is it's fostered the creation of a lot of Internet phenomena, viral videos and whatnot, known as "memes."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So does a site like this have rules?

We do; they're the codified rules that I've come up with, which are more-or-less ignored by the community.

And so there are three that I want to show you specifically.

/b/ is the first board we started with, and it is, in many ways, the beating heart of the website.

It is where a third of all the traffic is going.

And /b/ is known for, more than anything, not just the memes they've created, but the exploits.

And Chris just touched on one of those a second ago, and that was the Time 100 poll.

So somebody at Time, at the magazine, thought it would be fun to nominate me for this thing they did last year.

And so, you know, 390 percent approval rating ain't so bad.

(Laughter) So they broke that poll.

But that's not what's interesting about this.

Anonymous is this group of people that protested, very famously, Scientology.

They got it taken offline and managed to piss off part of the Internet.

(Laughter) So we've got this activist group that's this grassroots group that's come out of the site. 

(Laughter) So we've got this activist group that's this grassroots group that's come out of the site. 

Dusty is the name that we've given to this cat.

So what they did is they -- I mean, they put CSI to shame here -- the Internet detectives came out.

They matched, they found his MySpace.

They took the YouTube video and they mashed everything in the video.

Within 24 hours, they had his name, and within 48 hours, he was arrested. 

And so, what I think is really intriguing about a community like 4chan is just that it's this open place.

As I said, it's raw, it's unfiltered.

And sites like it are kind of going the way of the dinosaur right now.

They're endangered because we're moving towards social networking.

We're moving towards persistent identity.

We're moving towards, you know, a lack of privacy, really.

We're sacrificing a lot of that, and I think in doing so, moving towards those things, we're losing something valuable. 

Thank you. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you.

Got a couple questions for you.

But if I ask them, is the TED website going to go down? 

CP: You're lucky that this is not being streamed to them live right now. 

Don't tell.

But seriously, this issue on anonymity is -- I mean, you made the case there.

And I'm just curious whether you sometimes lie awake in the night worrying that you've opened Pandora's box. 

CP: Yes and no.

I mean, for as much good that kind of comes out of this environment, there is plenty of bad.

There are plenty of downsides.

And saying whatever you like, I think, is powerful.

Doing whatever you like is now crossing a line.

But I think it's important to have these places.

When I get emails, people say, "Thank you for giving me this place, this outlet, where I can come after work and be myself."

CA: But words, saying things, you know, can be constructive; it can be really damaging.

And if you cut the link between what is said and any attribution back to you, I mean, surely there are huge risks with that. 

CP: Yeah, I posted a thread on Sunday.

And within 24 hours, it had over 12,000 responses.

(Laughter) 99 percent of it is just, would have been, you know, bleeped out.

But there were some good things that came out of that too.

(Laughter) Love and peace were mentioned. 

(Laughter) Love and peace were mentioned. 

CA: Love and peace were mentioned, kind of with quote marks around them, right? 

CP: Cats and dogs were mentioned too.

CA: And that content is all off the board now.

CP: I stuck that thread so it lasted a few days.

It went up to about 16,000 posts, and now it has been taken off. 

What's the commercial picture here? 

And when you've got that, you've pretty much sacrificed any hope of making lots of money. 

CA: But you still live at home, right? 

CP: I actually moved out recently. 

CA: That's very cool. 

CP: I got out of Mom's, and I'm back in school right now. 

CA: But what conversations did you or do you have with your mother about 4chan? 

CP: At first, very kind of pained, awkward conversations.

The content is not dinner table conversation in the least.

But my parents -- I think part of why they kind of are able to appreciate it is because they don't understand it.

(Laughter) CA: And they were probably pleased to see you on top of the Time poll. 

(Laughter) CA: And they were probably pleased to see you on top of the Time poll. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

CA: And so, in 10 years' time, what do you picture yourself doing? 

CP: That's a good question.

