I would like to share with you this morning some stories about the ocean through my work as a still photographer for National Geographic magazine.

I guess I became an underwater photographer and a photojournalist because I fell in love with the sea as a child.

And after even 30 years of doing this, after 30 years of exploring the ocean, I never cease to be amazed at the extraordinary encounters that I have while I'm at sea.

But more and more frequently these days I'm seeing terrible things underwater as well, things that I don't think most people realize.

And all of this is played out against the backdrop of transient pack ice that moves with wind and tide.

But as I got more involved in the story, I realized that there were two big environmental issues I couldn't ignore.

And the ice that is there is quite thin.

But if they don't get 12 days, they can fall into the ocean and die.

This problem has continued to grow each year since I was there.

I read that last year the pup mortality rate was 100 percent in parts of the Gulf of St. Lawrence.

So, clearly, this species has a lot of problems going forward.

This ended up becoming a cover story at National Geographic.

And it received quite a bit of attention. 

These are the tuna, the billfish and the sharks.

The first component of the story that I thought was essential, however, was to give readers a sense of appreciation for the ocean animals that they were eating.

These are the lions and tigers of the sea.

These are animals that can practically swim from the equator to the poles and can crisscross entire oceans in the course of a year.

As I wandered around and made these pictures, it sort of occurred to me that the ocean's not a grocery store, you know.

We can't keep taking without expecting serious consequences as a result. 

This photograph I made of the fisherman holding the shrimp that he caught after towing his nets for one hour.

These are animals that died in the process, but have no commercial value.

And to make that point even more visual, I swam under the shrimp boat and made this picture of the guy shoveling this bycatch into the sea as trash and photographed this cascade of death, you know, animals like guitarfish, bat rays, flounder, pufferfish, that only an hour before, were on the bottom of the ocean, alive, but now being thrown back as trash. 

And with its huge pectoral fins and eyes still very visible, it struck me as sort of a crucifixion, if you will.

This ended up being the lead picture in the global fishery story in National Geographic.

And I hope that it helped readers to take notice of this problem of 100 million sharks. 

And I wanted to show several species that we hadn't shown much in the magazine and worked in a number of locations. 

But the one thing I definitely didn't want to do with this coverage was to continue to portray sharks as something like monsters.

I didn't want them to be overly threatening or scary.

And I think it's a gentler picture, a little less threatening, a little more respectful of the species. 

It's a very solitary creature.

You know, we know almost nothing about them.

You know, we're losing them faster than we can possibly find them. 

But it's an animal that's about 98 percent in decline throughout most of its range.

And lastly with this story, I also wanted to focus on baby sharks, shark nurseries.

And I went to the island of Bimini, in the Bahamas, to work with lemon shark pups.

This is a very sort of un-shark-like photograph.

It's not what you typically might think of as a shark picture.

But, you know, here we see a shark that's maybe 10 or 11 inches long swimming in about a foot of water.

One such story I did documented the leatherback sea turtle.

This is the largest, widest-ranging, deepest-diving and oldest of all turtle species.

Here we see a female crawling out of the ocean under moonlight on the island of Trinidad.

These are animals whose lineage dates back about 100 million years.

And there was a time in their lifespan where they were coming out of the water to nest and saw Tyrannosaurus rex running by.

And today, they crawl out and see condominiums.

Only one in a thousand leatherback hatchlings will reach maturity.

But that's due to natural predators like vultures that pick them off on a beach or predatory fish that are waiting offshore.

Another charismatic megafauna species that I worked with is the story I did on the right whale.

This photo shows an animal popping its head out at sunset off the coast of Florida.

You can see the coal burning plant in the background.

They also get entangled in fishing gear.

This is a picture that shows the tail of a right whale.

And those white markings are not natural markings.

These are entanglement scars.

They hold on to them, and it eventually kills them.

And the other problem is they get hit by ships.

So all of these ills are stacking up against these animals and keeping their numbers very low. 

I went down there in the winter time.

And I got in the water with them, and I was amazed at how curious they were.

You know, I read that the pilgrims, when they landed at Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts in 1620, wrote that you could walk across Cape Cod Bay on the backs of right whales.

And one of the first places I worked was a reserve called Goat Island in Leigh of New Zealand.

What the scientists there told me was that when protected this first marine reserve in 1975, they hoped and expected that certain things might happen. 

But when the fish came back and began predating and controlling the urchin population, low and behold, kelp forests emerged in shallow water.

Little blue cod swimming in for a dash of color.

And I was in a place that had only been protected about 20 years ago.

And I talked to divers that had been diving there for many years, and they said that the marine life was better here today than it was in the 1960s.

And that's because it's been protected, that it has come back. 

So I think the message is clear.

The ocean is, indeed, resilient and tolerant to a point, but we must be good custodians.

Thank you very much. 

