We're 25, 26 years after the advent of the Macintosh, which was an astoundingly seminal event in the history of human-machine interface and in computation in general.

It fundamentally changed the way that people thought about computation, thought about computers, how they used them and who and how many people were able to use them.

It was such a radical change, in fact, that the early Macintosh development team in '82, '83, '84 had to write an entirely new operating system from the ground up.

And to write a new operating system was not a capricious matter.

So it was a necessity. 

But in the quarter-century since then, we've seen all of the fundamental supporting technologies go berserk.

So memory capacity and disk capacity have been multiplied by something between 10,000 and a million.

And, of course, graphics: Today 84 dollars and 97 cents at Best Buy buys you more graphics power than you could have gotten for a million bucks from SGI only a decade ago.

So we've got that incredible ramp-up.

So we've forgotten to invent new interfaces.

Computers and the programming languages that we talk to them in, that we teach them in, are hideously insensate when it comes to space.

They don't understand real world space.

It's a funny thing because the rest of us occupy it quite frequently and quite well.

They also don't understand time, but that's a matter for a separate talk. 

So what happens if you start to explain space to them?

One thing you might get is something like the Luminous Room.

The Luminous Room is a system in which it's considered that input and output spaces are co-located.

That's a strangely simple, and yet unexplored idea, right?

When you use a mouse, your hand is down here on the mouse pad.

And that means input and output are in the same space enabling stuff like this.

That's a digital storage in a physical container.

The contract is the same as with real word objects in real world containers.

Has to come back out, whatever you put in.

This little design experiment that was a small office here knew a few other tricks as well.

If you presented it with a chess board, it tried to figure out what you might mean by that.

And if there was nothing for them to do, the chess pieces eventually got bored and hopped away. 

The beam splitters and lenses are represented by physical objects, and the system projects down the laser beam path.

So you've got an interface that has no interface.

You operate the world as you operate the real world, which is to say, with your hands.

Here, the real world merges with the simulation. 

And finally, to pull out all the stops, this is a system called Urp, for urban planners, in which we give architects and urban planners back the models that we confiscated when we insisted that they use CAD systems.

And if you introduce tools like this inverse clock, then you can control the sun's position in the sky.

That's 8 a.m. shadows.

They get a little shorter at 9 a.m.

There you are, swinging the sun around.

Short shadows at noon and so forth.

And we built up a series of tools like this.

A material wand makes the building into a sort of Frank Gehry thing that reflects light in all directions.

This work is 15 years old.

This stuff was undertaken at MIT and the Media Lab under the incredible direction of Professor Hiroshi Ishii, director of the Tangible Media Group.

But it was that work that was seen by Alex McDowell, one of the world's legendary production designers.

And the result is sort of gratifyingly perpetual.

People still reference those sequences in "Minority Report" when they talk about new UI design.

So this led full circle, in a strange way, to build these ideas into what we believe is the necessary future of human machine interface: the Spatial Operating Environment, we call it. 

So here we have a bunch of stuff, some images.

And that's all well and good.

And the part that isn't spatial can often be spatialized to allow our wetware to make greater sense of it.

And, of course, it's not just about navigation, but about manipulation as well.

Here are some selection planes.

And we'll perform this Boolean operation because we really love yellow and tapirs on green grass. 

So, from there to the world of real work.

There're a lot of elements.

And one thing that's very important is to combine traditional tabular data with three-dimensional and geospatial information.

So here's a familiar place.

And we should, now, be able to fly in here and have a closer look.

One thing that three-dimensional interactions and the general idea of imbuing computation with space affords you is a final destruction of that unfortunate one-to-one pairing between human beings and computers.

Well, that doesn't really cut it anymore.

And we might want to look at these various images.

We might want to ask for some help. 

These are unrelated machines, right?

So the computation is space soluble and network soluble.

Paul is the designer of this wand, and maybe its easiest for him to come over here and tell me in person what's going on.

Kevin, can you help?

Let me see if I can help us find the circuit board.

All right.

So collaborative work, whether it's immediately co-located or distant and distinct, is always important.

And again, that stuff needs to be undertaken in the context of space. 

And finally, I'd like to leave you with a glimpse that takes us back to the world of imagery.

And let's just pick out a few elements.

We can zip through them as a possibility.

We can grab elements off the front, where upon they reanimate, come to life, and drag them down onto the table here.

We'll go over to Jacques Tati here and grab our blue friend and put him down on the table as well.

We may need more than one.

(Laughter) Yeah, let's take that one.

(Laughter) You see, cowboys and French farce people don't go well together, and the system knows that. 

(Laughter) You see, cowboys and French farce people don't go well together, and the system knows that. 

Let me leave with one final thought, and that is that one of the greatest English language writers of the last three decades suggested that great art is always a gift.

And I think that it's time that we asked for the same from technology.

Technology is capable of expressing and being imbued with a certain generosity, and we need to demand that, in fact.

For some of this kind of technology, ground center is a combination of design, which is crucially important.

Can it be for every man, or is this just for corporations and movie producers? 

JU: No, it has to be for every human being.

That's our goal entirely.

CA: But does that mean that, at your desk or in your home, you need projectors, cameras?

You know, how can it work? 

JU: No, this stuff will be built into the bezel of every display.

It'll be built into architecture.

The gloves go away in a matter of months or years.

So this is the inevitability about it. 

CA: So, in your mind, five years time, someone can buy this as part of a standard computer interface? 

JU: I think in five years time when you buy a computer, you'll get this. 

CA: Well that's cool.

(Applause) The world has a habit of surprising us as to how these things are actually used.

What do you think, what in your mind is the first killer app for this? 

At the moment, our early-adopter customers -- and these systems are deployed out in the real world -- do all the big data intensive, data heavy problems with it.

(Laughter) John, thank you for making science-fiction real. 

(Laughter) John, thank you for making science-fiction real. 

JU: It's been a great pleasure.

Thank you to you all. 

