I want to talk about what we learn from conservatives.

Indeed, I was the youngest member of any delegation in the 1980 convention that elected Ronald Reagan to be the Republican nominee for president. 

Now, I know what you're thinking.

(Laughter) You're thinking, "That's not what the Internets say."

You're thinking, "Wikipedia doesn't say this fact."

Perfect.

(Laughter) Okay, speaker Lawrence Lessig, right.

Great, here we go.

And ... Wikipedia is fixed, finally.

Okay, but no, this is really besides the point. 

Now, you know, I mean, a lot of people go to church.

I'm not talking about that only conservatives go to church.

And I'm not talking about the God thing.

I don't want to get into that, you know; that's not my point.

They go to church, by which I mean, they do lots of things for free for each other.

They hold potluck dinners.

Indeed, they sell books about potluck dinners.

They serve food to poor people.

And not only food, right. 

Indeed, they, like all of us, celebrate this kind of relationship.

And the second great thing about conservatives: they get ecology.

They first taught us about ecology in the context of natural resources.

Okay, so Julian made this video.

So here he is beginning. 

Larry Lessig: So what he does is he begins to tell us about these three videos.

Which, of course, spread virally.

Hugely successful. 

(Music) And then some people from Brooklyn saw it.

They decided they wanted to do the same.

(Music) And then, of course, people from San Fransisco saw it.

And San Franciscans thought they had to do the same as well.

Here's lesson number one. 

LL: And so then, what this libertarian draws from these two points ... 

The point is they, he, here, gets that culture. 

Now, my concern is, we Dems, too often, not so much.

All right, take for example this great company.

This man was a remixer extraordinaire.

He is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity. 

Wildly different.

This guy is no Republican. 

Read the license.

The license for these remixers assigns all of the rights to the remix back to Lucas.

The mashup is owned by Lucas.

Indeed, anything you add to the mashup, music you might add, Lucas has a worldwide perpetual right to exploit that for free.

There is no creator here to be recognized.

The creator doesn't have any rights.

The creator is a sharecropper in this story.

Now, I think there are lessons we should learn here, lessons about openness.

Even for the head of Goldman Sachs, at least in part.

And for that sharing activity to happen, we have to have well-protected spaces of fair use. 

Freedom, which means without permission from anyone, the ability to create.

Now, this explains the right-wing nonprofit Creative Commons.

Well, as you all know, not many of us believe we do.

So I didn't think much about it. 

But then I went to the site and all of the audio in my site had been silenced.

I went to this site, and I had to answer these questions.

And I felt like I was in third grade again.

It is outrageous.

Now, that was the story of me then, my good old days of right-wing lunacy.

Not a single example of reform has been produced yet.

It's a value of the limits in regulation.

It's a value respecting the creator.

Now, if we can learn those values from at least some influences on the Right, if we can take them and incorporate them, maybe we could do a little trade.

Anyway, please join me in teaching these values. 

Thank you very much. 

