Do you worry about what is going to kill you?

But what really threatens humanity?

A few years ago, Professor Vaclav Smil tried to calculate the probability of sudden disasters large enough to change history.

Every year, 36,000 people in the United States die of seasonal flu.

In the developing world, the data is much sketchier but the death toll is almost certainly higher.

In 1918, a new virus appeared that killed some 50 to 100 million people.

Are we safer today?

We can do this.

But with new or better vaccines for malaria, TB, HIV, pneumonia, diarrhea, flu, we could end suffering that has been on the Earth since the beginning of time. 

So, I'm here to trumpet vaccines for you.

Now, some of us are old enough to have a small, circular scar on our arms from an inoculation we received as children.

Why is that?

Well, here's the dirty little secret.

Until recently, we haven't had to know exactly how a vaccine worked.

We knew they worked through old-fashioned trial and error.

So let's explore how vaccines work.

They basically create a cache of weapons for your immune system which you can deploy when needed.

When you're pre-immunized, what happens is you have forces in your body pre-trained to recognize and defeat specific foes.

So that's really how vaccines work.

Narrator: A vaccine trains the body in advance how to recognize and neutralize a specific invader.

After HIV penetrates the body's mucosal barriers, it infects immune cells to replicate.

The invader draws the attention of the immune system's front-line troops.

Dendritic cells, or macrophages, capture the virus and display pieces of it.

Memory cells generated by the HIV vaccine are activated when they learn HIV is present from the front-line troops.

These memory cells immediately deploy the exact weapons needed.

The virus is defeated.

Without a vaccine, these responses would have taken more than a week.

By that time, the battle against HIV would already have been lost. 

Seth Berkley: Really cool video, isn't it?

The antibodies you just saw in this video, in action, are the ones that make most vaccines work.

So the real question then is: How do we ensure that your body makes the exact ones that we need to protect against flu and HIV?

The principal challenge for both of these viruses is that they're always changing.

So let's take a look at the flu virus.

In this rendering of the flu virus, these different colored spikes are what it uses to infect you.

And also, what the antibodies use is a handle to essentially grab and neutralize the virus.

When these mutate, they change their shape, and the antibodies don't know what they're looking at anymore.

So that's why every year you can catch a slightly different strain of flu.

It's also why in the spring, we have to make a best guess at which three strains are going to prevail the next year, put those into a single vaccine and rush those into production for the fall. 

Even worse, the most common influenza -- influenza A -- also infects animals that live in close proximity to humans, and they can recombine in those particular animals.

In addition, wild aquatic birds carry all known strains of influenza.

Now luckily, that particular virus, although very scary at the time, did not transmit from person to person very easily.

Now let's take a look at HIV.

As variable as flu is, HIV makes flu look like the Rock of Gibraltar.

The virus that causes AIDS is the trickiest pathogen scientists have ever confronted.

In the video a moment ago, you saw fleets of new viruses launching from infected cells.

Now realize that in a recently infected person, there are millions of these ships; each one is just slightly different.

Finding a weapon that recognizes and sinks all of them makes the job that much harder. 

The vaccine effort though is really quite different.

Newer concepts and early testing now show even greater promise in the best of our animal models.

But in the past few months, researchers have also isolated several new broadly neutralizing antibodies from the blood of an HIV infected individual.

Now, what does this mean?

If you take these and you put them in the best of our monkey models, they provide full protection from infection.

So what we've got is a situation.

So think of it this way.

And that would create a universal HIV vaccine.

And if you guys have ideas to help us solve this, we'd love to hear about it. 

But, you know, the research that has occurred from HIV now has really helped with innovation with other diseases.

In the longer term, what they can do is use these tools of retro-vaccinology to make a preventive flu vaccine.

Now, retro-vaccinology is just one technique within the ambit of so-called rational vaccine design. 

Let me give you another example.

Now it turns out that these spots also don't change much when the virus mutates.

If you can cripple these with specific antibodies, you could cripple all versions of the flu.

We really could think of flu, then, as just a bad cold. 

Of course, the best vaccine imaginable is only valuable to the extent we get it to everyone who needs it.

So I want you to think back a few months ago.

In June, the World Health Organization declared the first global flu pandemic in 41 years.

The U.S. government promised 150 million doses of vaccine by October 15th for the flu peak.

Vaccines were promised to developing countries.

Hundreds of millions of dollars were spent and flowed to accelerating vaccine manufacturing.

So what happened? 

Well, we first figured out how to make flu vaccines, how to produce them, in the early 1940s.

For most strains, you could get one to two doses of vaccine per egg.

Luckily for us, we live in an era of breathtaking biomedical advances.

Almost nothing has changed.

So, here's an alarming thought.

What if that wild bird flies by again?

So, Dan [Barber], if you want billions of chicken pellets for your fish farm, I know where to get them.

And the process still takes more than half a year. 

So are we better prepared than we were in 1918?

Well, with the new technologies emerging now, I hope we can say definitively, "Yes."

With a range of new technologies, we could.

If you lop this off and attach it to the tail of a different bacterium, which creates a vigorous immune response, they've created a very powerful flu fighter.

So here's a comparison of several of these new vaccine technologies.

And, aside from the radically increased production and huge cost savings -- for example, the E. coli method I just talked about -- look at the time saved: this would be lives saved.

Because these technologies are so efficient and relatively cheap, billions of people can have access to lifesaving vaccines if we can figure out how to deliver them. 

Now think of where this leads us.

Some day, perhaps soon, we'll have a virus that is going to threaten all of us.

Will we be quick enough to react before millions die?

Luckily, this year's flu was relatively mild.

I say, "luckily" in part because virtually no one in the developing world was vaccinated.

No longer must flu have to kill half a million people a year.

No longer does AIDS need to kill two million a year.

Instead of having Vaclav Smil's "massively fatal discontinuity" of life, we can ensure the continuity of life.

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

So, the science is changing.

In your mind, Seth -- I mean, you must dream about this -- what is the kind of time scale on, let's start with HIV, for a game-changing vaccine that's actually out there and usable? 

And with these types of antibodies, we know humans can make them.

So, the challenge is full speed ahead. 

CA: In your gut, do you think it's probably going to be at least another five years? 

CA: And that's the same with universal flu vaccine, the same kind of thing? 

CA: And malaria's even further behind? 

It probably isn't the perfect vaccine, but it's moving along. 

Thank you. 

SB: Thank you. 

