Today, I want you to look at children who become suicide bombers through a completely different lens.

In 2009, there were 500 bomb blasts across Pakistan.

I want you to watch a short video from my latest documentary film, "Children of the Taliban."

The Taliban now run their own schools.

They target poor families and convince the parents to send their children.

In return, they provide free food and shelter and sometimes pay the families a monthly stipend.

We've obtained a propaganda video made by the Taliban.

Young boys are taught justifications for suicide attacks and the execution of spies. 

I made contact with a child from Swat who studied in a madrassa like this.

Hazrat Ali is from a poor farming family in Swat.

He joined the Taliban a year ago when he was 13. 

Hazrat Ali: They first call us to the mosque and preach to us.

Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy: He tells me that children are then given months of military training. 

HA: They teach us to use machine guns, Kalashnikov, rocket launchers, grenades, bombs.

They ask us to use them only against the infidels.

Then they teach us to do a suicide attack. 

HA: If God gives me strength. 

Step one is that the Taliban prey on families that are large, that are poor, that live in rural areas.

They separate the parents from the children by promising to provide food, clothing, shelter to these children.

They rely very heavily on teachers, who I have personally seen distort the message to these children as and when it suits their purpose to.

These children are explicitly forbidden from reading newspapers, listening to radio, reading any books that the teachers do not prescribe them.

If any child is found violating these rules, he is severely reprimanded.

Effectively, the Taliban create a complete blackout of any other source of information for these children. 

Step three: The Taliban want these children to hate the world that they currently live in.

Their parents are so poor, they have no resources to get them back. 

Step four: The older members of the Taliban, the fighters, start talking to the younger boys about the glories of martyrdom.

Effectively, this is the brainwashing process that has begun. 

Step five: I believe the Taliban have one of the most effective means of propaganda.

That's why Pakistani civilians, over 6,000 of whom have been killed in the last two years alone, are fair game.

Now these children are primed to become suicide bombers.

This boy is called Zenola.

He blew himself up, killing six.

This boy is called Sadik.

He killed 28.

The Taliban are running suicide schools, preparing a generation of boys for atrocities against civilians. 

As one Taliban recruiter told me, "There will always be sacrificial lambs in this war."

