But we still live in a world where the color of our skin not only gives a first impression, but a lasting one that remains. 

I was born in a family full of colors.

My mother is a cinnamon-skin daughter of a native Brazilian, with a pinch of hazel and honey, and a man [who is] a mix of coffee with milk, but with a lot of coffee.

Growing up in this family, color was never important for me.

Outside home, however, things were different soon.

Color had many other meanings. 

I remember my first drawing lessons in school as a bunch of contradictory feelings.

My skin was brown, and people said I was black.

I was seven years old with a mess of colors in my head. 

Later, when I took my cousin to school, I was usually taken for the nanny.

By helping in the kitchen at a friend's party, people thought I was the maid.

I was even treated like a prostitute just because I was walking alone on the beach with European friends.

And many times, visiting my grandma or friends in upper class buildings, I was invited not to use the main elevator.

Because in the end, with this color and this hair, I cannot belong to some places. 

In some way, I get to used to it and accept part of it.

However, something inside of me keeps revolving and struggling. 

Years later I married a Spaniard.

Since then, a new question started to chase me.

What will be the color of your children?

As you can understand, this is my last concern.

It's a kind of game to question our codes.

It's a work in progress from a personal story to a global history. 

Then I choose an 11-pixel square from the nose, paint the background, and look for the corresponding color in the industrial palette, Pantone. 

I started with my family and friends, then more and more people joined the adventure, thanks to public calls coming through the social media. 

And among them, my favorite: when Humanae occupies public spaces and appears in the street, it fosters a popular debate and creates a feeling of community. 

All kinds of beliefs, gender identities or physical impairments, a newborn or terminally ill. We all together build Humanae. 

Those portraits make us rethink how we see each other.

When modern science is questioning the race concept, what does it mean for us to be black, white, yellow, red?

Is it the eye, the nose, the mouth, the hair?

Or does it have to do with our origin, nationality or bank account? 

This personal exercise turned out to be a discovery.

Suddenly I realized that Humanae was useful for many people.

It was amazing that people started to share their thoughts about the work with me.

I have hundreds of that, I will share with you, too. 

Besides these unexpected and touching reactions, Humanae finds a new life in a different variety of fields.

Just to show you some examples, illustrators and art students using it as a reference for their sketches and their studies.

It's a collection of faces. 

One of the most important impacts of the project is that Humanae was chosen to be the cover of Foreign Affairs, one of the most relevant political publications.

They are the ones that use Humanae as a tool for educational purposes.

As a photographer, I realize that I can be a channel for others to communicate.

As an individual, as Angélica, every time I take a picture, I feel that I am sitting in front of a therapist.

All the frustration, fear and loneliness that I once felt ... becomes love. 

We still have to work hard to abolish discrimination.

That remains a common practice worldwide, and that will not disappear by itself. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

