I heard this amazing story about Miuccia Prada.

She's an Italian fashion designer.

She goes to this vintage store in Paris with a friend of hers.

Her friend says, "Buy it already."

You might also be asking whether it's possible that this is illegal for her to do this.

Well, it turns out that it's actually not illegal.

The only thing that they can't copy is the actual trademark label within that piece of apparel.

That's one reason that you see logos splattered all over these products.

It's because it's a lot harder for knock-off artists to knock off these designs because they can't knock off the logo.

But if you go to Santee Alley, yeah.

And sometimes these are fun, right? 

Now, the reason for this, the reason that the fashion industry doesn't have any copyright protection is because the courts decided long ago that apparel is too utilitarian to qualify for copyright protection.

They didn't want a handful of designers owning the seminal building blocks of our clothing.

We think of it as maybe too silly, too unnecessary. 

Because there's no copyright protection in this industry, there's a very open and creative ecology of creativity. 

Unlike their creative brothers and sisters, who are sculptors or photographers or filmmakers or musicians, fashion designers can sample from all their peers' designs.

They can take any element from any garment from the history of fashion and incorporate it into their own design.

They're also notorious for riffing off of the zeitgeist.

And here, I suspect, they were influenced by the costumes in Avatar.

Maybe just a little.

Can't copyright a costume either. 

I've heard this dress actually sort of sounds like wind chimes as they walk through.

Well, it's because it's legal for people to copy one another. 

Now, the fast fashion giants have probably benefited the most from the lack of copyright protection in the fashion industry.

They are notorious for knocking off high-end designs and selling them at very low prices.

And they've been faced with a lot of lawsuits, but those lawsuits are usually not won by fashion designers.

The courts have said over and over again, "You don't need any more intellectual property protection."

Here's what he had to say.

Tom Ford: And we found after much research that -- actually not much research, quite simple research -- that the counterfeit customer was not our customer. 

Johanna Blakley: Imagine that.

The people on Santee Alley are not the ones who shop at Gucci.

(Laughter) This is a very different demographic.

And, you know, a knock-off is never the same as an original high-end design, at least in terms of the materials; they're always made of cheaper materials.

There's lots of virtues of copying.

Fashion, whether you like it or not, helps you project who you are to the world.

Because of fast fashion, global trends actually get established much more quickly than they used to.

For fashionistas, they want to stay ahead of the curve.

They don't want to be wearing what everybody else is wearing.

And so, they want to move on to the next trend as soon as possible. 

I tell you, there is no rest for the fashionable.

Every season, these designers have to struggle to come up with the new fabulous idea that everybody's going to love.

And this, let me tell you, is very good for the bottom line.

Now of course, there's a bunch of effects that this culture of copying has on the creative process.

And Stuart Weitzman is a very successful shoe designer.

He had to come up with new ideas, new things that would be hard to copy.

And that actually reminded me of jazz great, Charlie Parker.

I don't know if you've heard this anecdote, but I have.

They're trying to put together a signature look, an aesthetic that reflects who they are.

This is not unlike the world of comedy.

I don't know if you know that jokes also can't be copyright protected.

So when one-liners were really popular, everybody stole them from one another.

But now, we have a different kind of comic.

They develop a persona, a signature style, much like fashion designers.

And their jokes, much like the fashion designs by a fashion designer, really only work within that aesthetic.

If somebody steals a joke from Larry David, for instance, it's not as funny. 

Now, the other thing that fashion designers have done to survive in this culture of copying is they've learned how to copy themselves.

They knock themselves off.

They make deals with the fast fashion giants and they come up with a way to sell their product to a whole new demographic: the Santee Alley demographic. 

And that's sort of like the novelty standard for a U.S. patent, which fashion designers never get -- rarely get here in the states. 

In the European Union, they went in the other direction.

Very low novelty standard, anybody can register anything.

It turns out it's because the novelty standard is too low.

A person can come in and take somebody else's gown, cut off three inches from the bottom, go to the E.U.

So, that does not stop the knock-off artists.

But this has not stopped Diane von Furstenberg.

The retailers have kind of quashed this notion though.

Who owns a look?

That is a very difficult question to answer.

You know, it's not just the fashion industry that doesn't have copyright protection.

There's a bunch of other industries that don't have copyright protection, including the food industry.

Same with automobiles.

It's a utilitarian article, that's why.

Magic tricks, I think they're instructions, sort of like recipes: no copyright protection.

Hairdos, no copyright protection.

Open source software, these guys decided they didn't want copyright protection.

They thought it'd be more innovative without it.

It's really hard to get copyright for databases.

Tattoo artists, they don't want it; it's not cool.

They share their designs.

Jokes, no copyright protection.

Fireworks displays, the rules of games, the smell of perfume: no.

(Applause) It ain't pretty. 

(Applause) 

Because right now, those industries with a lot of copyright protection are operating in an atmosphere where it's as if they don't have any protection, and they don't know what to do. 

These are the two main sort of binary oppositions within the logic of copyright law.

It is more complex than this, but this will do.

First: Is something an artistic object?

Then it deserves protection.

Is it a utilitarian object?

Then no, it does not deserve protection.

This is a difficult, unstable binary. 

The other one is: Is it an idea?

Is it something that needs to freely circulate in a free society?

No protection.

Or is it a physically fixed expression of an idea: something that somebody made and they deserve to own it for a while and make money from it?

The problem is that digital technology has completely subverted the logic of this physically fixed, expression versus idea concept.

Nowadays, we don't really recognize a book as something that sits on our shelf or music as something that is a physical object that we can hold.

It's a digital file.

It is barely tethered to any sort of physical reality in our minds.

And these things, because we can copy and transmit them so easily, actually circulate within our culture a lot more like ideas than like physically instantiated objects. 

But you want an interdisciplinary team of people hashing this out, trying to figure out: What is the kind of ownership model, in a digital world, that's going to lead to the most innovation?

And my suggestion is that fashion might be a really good place to start looking for a model for creative industries in the future. 

And I really want to thank Veronica Jauriqui for making this very fashionable presentation. 

(Applause) 

