I'll try to spin a story about energy, and oil's a convenient starting place.

The talk will be broadly about energy, but oil's a good place to start.

And one of the reasons is this is remarkable stuff.

You take about eight or so carbon atoms, about 20 hydrogen atoms, you put them together in exactly the right way and you get this marvelous liquid: very energy-dense and very easy to refine into a number of very useful products and fuels.

It's great stuff.

Now, as far as it goes, there's a lot of oil out there in the world. 

Here's my little pocket map of where it's all located.

This is about 100 trillion gallons of crude oil still to be developed and produced in the world today.

But there's actually more to the story than that.

There was one kind of peak oil in 1985, when oil represented 50 percent of global energy supply.

Now, it's about 35 percent.

It's been declining and I believe it will continue to decline.

Gasoline consumption in the U.S. probably peaked in 2007 and is declining. 

So oil is playing a less significant role every year.

And so, 25 years ago, there was a peak oil; just like, in the 1920s, there was a peak coal; and a hundred years before that, there was a peak wood.

This is a very important picture of the evolution of energy systems.

And what's been taking up the slack in the last few decades?

Well, a lot of natural gas and a little bit of nuclear, for starters.

Now, I'll tell you another little, very important story about this picture.

Energy systems of the world becoming progressively -- year on year, decade on decade, century on century -- becoming less carbon intense.

Now that might be the end of the story -- Okay, we just replace it all with conventional renewables -- but I think, actually, there's more to the story than that. 

And to tell the next part of the story -- and this is looking out say 2100 and beyond.

What is the future of truly sustainable, carbon-free energy?

Here's a piece of limestone.

I picked it up outside of Marble Falls, Texas.

It's about 400 million years old.

And it's just limestone, nothing really special about it.

And it's different than this limestone, you can see that.

What's different is how the molecules are put together. 

Now, millions of abalone every year make this shell.

Oh, by the way, just in case you weren't already guessing, it's calcium carbonate.

It's the same stuff as this and the same stuff as this.

But it's not the same stuff; it's different.

Very specialized material that the abalone self-assembles, millions of abalone, all the time, every day, every year.

This is pretty incredible stuff.

All the same, what's different?

How the molecules are put together. 

Now, what does this have to do with energy?

Here's a piece of coal.

And I'll suggest that this coal is about as exciting as this chalk.

Now, whether we're talking about fuels or energy carriers, or perhaps novel materials for batteries or fuel cells, nature hasn't ever built those perfect materials yet because nature didn't need to.

And so that is my story.

The oil will never run out.

(Laughter) It's ideas, it's innovation, it's technology that will end the age of oil, long before we run out of oil. 

Thank you very much. 

