I want to talk about penguins today.

When I came to the Galapagos 40 years ago, there were 3,000 people that lived in the Galapagos.

Now there are over 30,000.

There were two Jeeps on Santa Cruz.

Now, there are around a thousand trucks and buses and cars there.

And one of the major problems that we have is our operating system is not giving us the proper feedback.

But moreover, I'd never lived on an uninhabited island.

So a lot has happened in the last 40 years, 

Humans, without fins: 90 meters, 3.5 minutes.

You have to train to be able to do that.

So penguins are amazing athletes. 

The other thing is, I've never met anybody that really doesn't say that they like penguins.

They're comical, they walk upright, and, of course, they're diligent.

And, more importantly, they're well-dressed.

But scientifically, they're amazing because they're sentinels.

They tell us about our world in a lot of different ways, and particularly the ocean. 

And that's what I came to study.

These are the rarest penguins in the world.

Why I thought I was going to be able to do that, I don't know.

If you go and do it now, the national parks count about 500.

And this is true of most of our living systems.

And I want to just show you a little bit about why. 

I fell in love with penguins, and it certainly has changed the rest of my life.

That brings all the nutrients: When this is cold in the Galapagos, it's rich, and there's plenty of food for everyone. 

And you can imagine being on an island hoping you're going to see penguins, and you're in the middle of an El Nino event and there are no penguins.

They're not breeding; they're not even around.

And if you look along the coast of Argentina, where I work now, at a place called Punta Tombo -- the largest Magellanic penguin colony in the world down here about 44 degrees south latitude -- you see that there's great variation here.

Some years, the cold water goes all the way up to Brazil, and other years, in these La Nina years, it doesn't.

I went there because the Japanese wanted to start harvesting them and turning them into high fashion golf gloves, protein and oil.

Fortunately, nobody has harvested any penguins and we're getting over 100,000 tourists a year to see them.

But the population is declining and it's declined fairly substantially, about 21 percent since 1987, when I started these surveys, in terms of number of active nests.

And science is important in informing decision makers, and also in changing how we do and knowing the direction of change that we're going in. 

The nice thing is, if you look down here in Argentina, there's no surface oil pollution from this composite map.

But, in fact, when we went to Argentina, penguins were often found totally covered in oil.

Because when tankers carry oil they have to have ballast at some point, so when they're empty, they have the ballast water in there.

Eventually, the government listened and, amazingly, they changed their laws.

So this is Turbo.

So penguins really differ in their personalities just like our dogs and our cats. 

We're also trying to collect our information and become more technologically literate.

This is a radio frequency ID system.

You put a little piece of rice in the foot of a penguin that has a barcode, so it tells you who it is.

It walks over the pad, and you know who it is. 

She's really rushing back, because it's hot, to try to feed her chicks.

You can see this penguin, he goes over, he looks at those wires, does not like that wire.

He unplugs the wire; we have no data. 

So, they really are pretty amazing creatures.

OK.

