I sell a product to a market that doesn't want it, but is forced by law to buy it.

I mean, it's just a losing proposition. 

I could give you guys an algebra-two final exam, and I would expect no higher than a 25 percent pass rate.

And both of these facts say less about you or my students than they do about what we call math education in the U.S. today. 

For example, factoring quadratics with leading coefficients greater than one.

This is what we would love students to retain, even if they don't go into mathematical fields.

So, I'd like to talk about why that is, why that's such a calamity for society, what we can do about it and, to close with, why this is an amazing time to be a math teacher. 

You finish your lecture block and immediately you have five hands going up asking you to re-explain the entire thing at their desks.

This is really destructive. 

David Milch, creator of "Deadwood" and other amazing TV shows, has a really good description for this.

He called it, "an impatience with irresolution."

You're impatient with things that don't resolve quickly.

You expect sitcom-sized problems that wrap up in 22 minutes, three commercial breaks and a laugh track.

And I'll put it to all of you, what you already know, that no problem worth solving is that simple.

I am very concerned about this because I'm going to retire in a world that my students will run.

I'm doing bad things to my own future and well-being when I teach this way.

It applies equally to math.

I'm sure we all agree that no problem worth solving is like that.

And if the student still doesn't recognize the stamp this was molded from, it helpfully explains to you what sample problem you can return to to find the formula.

You could literally, I mean this, pass this particular unit without knowing any physics, just knowing how to decode a textbook.

It's about defining steepness and slope using a ski lift.

That's all we're doing here.

So I want to put to you that if we can separate these in a different way and build them up with students, we can have everything we're looking for in terms of patient problem solving. 

And then eventually we realize it's getting annoying to talk about the skier in the lower left-hand side of the screen or the skier just above the mid line.

And we realize how great would it be if we just had some A, B, C and D labels to talk about them more easily.

And then as we start to define what does steepness mean, we realize it would be nice to have some measurements to really narrow it down, specifically what that means.

And then and only then, we throw down that mathematical structure.

And at that point, I'll put it to you that nine out of 10 classes are good to go on the whole slope, steepness thing.

But if you need to, your students can then develop those substeps together. 

Do you guys see how this, right here, compared to that -- which one creates that patient problem solving, that math reasoning?

It's been obvious in my practice, to me.

So 90 percent of what I do with my five hours of prep time per week is to take fairly compelling elements of problems like this from my textbook and rebuild them in a way that supports math reasoning and patient problem solving.

First things first, we eliminate all the substeps.

And then notice that all the information written on there is stuff you'll need.

None of it's a distractor, so we lose that.

Such an underrepresented question in math curriculum.

So now we have a water tank.

So now we have the real deal.

How long will it take it to fill it up?

It's tedious.

But here, every student is on a level playing field of intuition.

I've got kids who are mathematically and conversationally intimidated joining the conversation.

And the best part here, or one of the better parts is that we don't get our answer from the answer key in the back of the teacher's edition.

We, instead, just watch the end of the movie.

But those conversations have been so valuable, among the most valuable. 

So I'm here to report some really fun games with students who come pre-installed with these viruses day one of the class.

We're no longer averse to word problems, because we've redefined what a word problem is.

This has been a lot of fun. 

And why this is an amazing time to be a math teacher right now is because we have the tools to create this high-quality curriculum in our front pocket.

Math makes sense of the world.

