And let me start with this.

Something like this is what I first saw when I jumped in the water for the first time in the Mediterranean coast off Spain.

Now, if an alien came to earth -- let's call him Joe -- what would Joe see?

If Joe jumped in a coral reef, there are many things the alien could see.

Very unlikely, Joe would jump on a pristine coral reef, a virgin coral reef with lots of coral, sharks, crocodiles, manatees, groupers, turtles, etc.

So, probably, what Joe would see would be in this part, in the greenish part of the picture.

Here we have the extreme with dead corals, microbial soup and jellyfish.

And this is what most marine scientists have seen too.

So I'm going to get us all on a time machine, and we're going to the left; we're going to go back to the past to see what the ocean was like.

So let's start with the first one: Christmas Island, over 5,000 people.

Let's move the dial a little bit to the past.

This is what many divers would consider paradise.

This is where you can see most of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary.

And many people think this is really, really beautiful, if this is your baseline.

If we go back to a place like Palmyra Atoll, where I was with Jeremy Jackson a few years ago, the corals are doing better and there are sharks.

You can see sharks in every single dive.

And this is something that is very unusual in today's coral reefs.

But then, if we shift the dial 200, 500 years back, then we get to the places where the corals are absolutely healthy and gorgeous, forming spectacular structures, and where the predators are the most conspicuous thing, where you see between 25 and 50 sharks per dive. 

What have we learned from these places?

This is what we thought was natural.

Most of the biomass is low on the food chain, the herbivores, the parrotfish, the surgeonfish that eat the algae.

Then the plankton feeders, these little damselfish, the little animals floating in the water.

And then we have a lower biomass of carnivores, and a lower biomass of top head, or the sharks, the large snappers, the large groupers.

But this is a consequence.

This view of the world is a consequence of having studied degraded reefs. 

The top head does account for most of the biomass, in some places up to 85 percent, like Kingman Reef, which is now protected.

The good news is that, in addition to having more predators, there's more of everything.

But still, now we have global warming.

If we don't have fishing because these reefs are protected by law or their remoteness, this is great.

But the water gets warmer for too long and the corals die.

So how are these fish, these predators going to help?

In Christmas, where the food web is really trimmed down, where the large animals are gone, the corals have not recovered.

In Fanning Island, the corals are not recovered.

But you see here a big table coral that died and collapsed.

And the fish have grazed the algae, so the turf of algae is a little lower.

And when you go to the pristine side, did this ever bleach?

These places bleached too, but they recovered faster.

So if we have to reset the baseline, if we have to push the ecosystem back to the left, how can we do it?

Well, there are several ways.

One very clear way is the marine protected areas, especially no-take reserves that we set aside to allow for the recovery for marine life.

And at the same time I was watching Jacques Cousteau's shows on TV, with all this richness and abundance and diversity.

And I thought that this richness belonged to tropical seas, and that the Mediterranean was a naturally poor sea.

But, little did I know, until I jumped for the first time in a marine reserve.

And this is what I saw, lots of fish. 

After a few years, between five and seven years, fish come back, they eat the urchins, and then the algae grow again.

So these places not only help the ecosystem but also help the people who can benefit from the ecosystem. 

This is very substantial.

The abundance, how many fish you have per square meter, increases almost 170 percent.

And the biomass -- this is the most spectacular change -- 4.5 times greater biomass on average, just after five to seven years.

In some places up to 10 times larger biomass inside the reserves. 

One point three million eggs per square meter inside the marine reserve where these snails are very abundant.

This is in the Bahamas: Nassau grouper.

So the fishermen are catching more.

You can see where the limits of the reserve are because you see the boats lined up.

So what we have now -- or a world without reserves -- is like a debit account where we withdraw all the time and we never make any deposit.

Reserves are like savings accounts.

We have this principal that we don't touch; that produces returns, social, economic and ecological.

And if we think about the increase of biomass inside the reserves, this is like compound interest.

Two examples, again, of how these reserves can benefit people.

This is how much fishermen get everyday in Kenya, fishing over a series of years, in a place where there is no protection; it's a free-for-all.

Once the most degrading fishing gear, seine nets, were removed, the fishermen were catching more.

If you fish less, you're actually catching more.

But if we add the no-take reserve on top of that, the fishermen are still making more money by fishing less around an area that is protected. 

This is grouper sex, and the groupers aggregate around the full moons of December and January for a week.

When I went there for the first time in 2000, there were only 3,000 groupers left.

And the fishermen were authorized to catch 30 percent of the entire spawning population every year.

And with the fishery, the entire reproductive ability of the species goes extinct.

It happened in many places around the Caribbean.

And they would make 4,000 dollars per year, total, for the entire fishery, several fishing boats.

So how much of this do we have?

If this is so good, if this is such a no-brainer, how much of this do we have?

And you already heard that less than one percent of the ocean's protected.

Scientific studies recommend that at least 20 percent of the ocean should be protected.

The estimated range is between 20 and 50 percent for a series of goals of biodiversity and fishery enhancement and resilience. 

Many of these subsidies go to destructive fishing practices.

Well, there are a couple estimates of how much it would cost to create a network of protected areas covering 20 percent of the ocean that would be only a fraction of what we are now paying; the government hands out to a fishery that is collapsing.

People are losing their jobs because the fisheries are collapsing.

A creation of a network of reserves would provide direct employment for more than a million people plus all the secondary jobs and all the secondary benefits. 

So how can we do that?

If it's so clear that these savings accounts are good for the environment and for people, why don't we have 20, 50 percent of the ocean?

And how can we reach that goal?

Well, there are two ways of getting there.

The trivial solution is to create really large protected areas like the Chagos Archipelago.

The problem is that we can create these large reserves only in places where there are no people, where there is no social conflict, where the political cost is really low and the economic cost is also low.

And a few of us, a few organizations in this room and elsewhere are working on this. 

But what about the rest of the coast of the world, where people live and make a living out of fishing?

Second, the governance is not right because most coastal communities around the world don't have the authority to monitor the resources to create the reserve and enforce it.

It's a top down hierarchical structure where people wait for government agents to come and this is not effective.

NGOs and governments spend a lot of time and energy and resources in a few small areas, usually.

So marine conservation and coastal protection has become a sink for government or philanthropic money, and this is not sustainable.

So the solutions are just fixing these three issues.

First, we need to develop a global awareness campaign to inspire local communities and governments to create no-take reserves that are better than what we have now.

It's the savings accounts versus the debit accounts with no deposits.

Second, we need to redesign our governance so conservation efforts can be decentralized, so conservation efforts don't depend on work from NGOs or from government agencies and can be created by the local communities, like it happens in the Philippines and a few other places.

And third, and very important, we need to develop new business models.

The philanthropy sink as the only way to create reserves is not sustainable.

The stakes are just too high to continue the way we are going.

Chris Anderson: Thank you Enric. 

Enric Sala: Thank you. 

CA: That was a masterful job of pulling things together.

First of all, your pyramid, your inverted pyramid, showing 85 percent biomass in the predators, that seems impossible.

How could 85 percent survive on 15 percent? 

The big one is moving very slowly, and the small one is moving fast.

That's basically it.

Up there, you have sharks and large fish that live 25, 30 years.

So, basically, the production surplus of these guys down there is enough to maintain this biomass that is not moving.

They are like capacitors of the system. 

CA: That's very fascinating.

So, really, our picture of a food pyramid is just -- we have to change that completely. 

ES: At least in the seas.

What we found in coral reefs is that the inverted pyramid is the equivalent of the Serengeti, with five lions per wildebeest.

And on land, this cannot work.

But at least on coral reefs are systems where there is a bottom component with structure.

We think this is universal.

But we have started studying pristine reefs only very recently. 

CA: So the numbers you presented really are astonishing.

You're saying we're spending 35 billion dollars now on subsidies.

It would only cost 16 billion to set up 20 percent of the ocean as marine protected areas that actually give new living choices to the fishermen as well.

If the world was a smarter place, we could solve this problem for negative 19 billion dollars.

We've got 19 billion to spend on health care or something. 

ES: And then we have the under-performance of fisheries that is 50 billion dollars.

So again, one of the big solutions is have the World Trade Organization shifting the subsidies to sustainable practices. 

So thank you for those numbers.

The last one's a personal question.

A lot of the experience of people here who've been in the oceans for a long time has just been seeing this degradation, the places they saw that were beautiful getting worse, depressing.

Talk to me about the feeling that you must have experienced of going to these pristine areas and seeing things coming back. 

ES: It is a spiritual experience.

But the best feeling is this biophilia that E.O.

And there, only there, you really feel that you are part of a larger thing or of a larger global ecosystem.

And if it were not for these places that show hope, I don't think I could continue doing this job.

It would be just too depressing. 

ES: Thank you very much. 

ES: Thank you very much. 

ES: Thank you very much. 

