We invent.

And we do that for a couple of reasons.

So I'm going to briefly discuss a couple of problems that we have and a couple of problems where we've got some solutions underway. 

Almost all vaccines need to be kept at refrigerator temperatures.

We've got a different solution.

Now, one of these Styrofoam chests will last for about four hours with ice in it. 

Now, this is our second generations prototype.

The third generation prototype is, right now, in Uganda being tested.

Because if you open it up and reach inside, you'd let the heat in, the game would be over.

So the inside of this thing actually looks like a Coke machine.

It vends out little individual vials.

We'll move on to malaria.

Malaria is one of the great public health problems.

Esther Duflo talked a little bit about this.

And there's no way for us here in this country to grasp really what that means to the people involved.

So what can we do about it?

You can spray; the problem is there are environmental issues.

You can try to treat people and create awareness.

It's a very difficult thing to make a vaccine for.

They don't always get to everyone.

Now, malaria is an incredibly complicated disease.

One of those ways might be better diagnosis.

So we hope this year to prototype each of these devices.

The other thing is, you know, it would be even better if you didn't have to draw the blood.

We can see it because of this molecule called hemozoin.

Interesting, anyway, if you're a solid-state physicist.

There's a lot of cool stuff we can do with it. 

This is our femtosecond laser lab.

That's really, really, really short.

And using both this technique and other optical techniques, we think we can make those diagnostics.

This is our thousand-core supercomputer.

One of the problems that you have if you're trying to eradicate malaria or reduce it is you don't know what's the most effective thing to do.

Okay, we heard about bed nets earlier.

You spend a certain amount per bed net.

Or you could spray.

You can give drug administration.

How can you tell?

We picked Madagascar.

We have every road, every village, every, almost, square inch of Madagascar.

So that sets the stage on which you do this.

Ultimately, it gives you this.

This is malaria spreading across Madagascar.

And this is this latter part of the rainy season.

We're going to the dry season now.

And then, of course, the next year it comes roaring back.

We also try to study our foe.

This is a high-speed camera view of a mosquito.

And, in a moment, we're going to see a view of the airflow.

By understanding how mosquitoes fly, we hope to understand how to make them not fly.

Now, one of the ways you can make them not fly is with DDT.

This is a real ad.

This is one of those things you just can't make up.

The United States did.

What can we do to the mosquito?

Well, let's try to kill it with consumer electronics."

Now, that sounds silly, but each of these devices has something interesting in it that maybe you could use.

Your Blu-ray player has a very cheap blue laser.

And, of course, there's signal processing and digital cameras.

So what if we could put all that together to shoot them out of the sky with lasers? 

(Laughter) 

Now, in our company, this is what we call "the pinky-suck moment."

(Laughter) 

What if we could do that?

Now, just suspend disbelief for a moment, and let's think of what could happen if we could do that.

Well, we could protect very high-value targets like clinics.

You really want to protect them.

Of course, if you do that, you could also protect your backyard.

(Laughter) They're completely natural. 

Now, it actually gets better than this.

You could, if you're really smart, you could shine a nonlethal laser on the bug before you zap it, and you could listen to the wing beat frequency and you could measure the size.

They're the only ones that are dangerous.

Mosquitoes only drink blood to lay eggs.

Would you like to see it? 

(Laughter) Now, after thinking about this a little bit we thought, you know, it probably would be simpler to do this with a nonlethal laser.

So, Eric Johanson, who built the device, actually, with parts from eBay; and Pablos Holman over here, he's got mosquitoes in the tank.

Eric Johanson: What we have here is a tank on the other side of the stage.

And we have ... this computer screen can actually see the mosquitoes as they fly around.

And Pablos, if he stirs up our mosquitoes a little bit we can see them flying around.

So you may be able to hear some mosquitoes flying around. 

NM: That's a mosquito wing beat you're hearing. 

EJ: Finally, let's see what this looks like.

There you can see mosquitoes as they fly around, being lit up.

Here we have it running at high-speed mode.

NM: So it wouldn't be any fun to show you that without showing you what actually happens when we hit 'em.

(Laughter) (Laughter) This is very satisfying.

(Laughter) This is one of the first ones we did.

The energy's a little bit high here.

(Laughter) We'll loop around here in just a second, and you'll see another one.

(Laughter) We'll loop around here in just a second, and you'll see another one.

The wing motor is very resilient.

I mean, here we're blowing wings off but the wing motor keeps all the way down. 

