For me, this story begins about 15 years ago, when I was a hospice doctor at the University of Chicago.

And I was observing what happened to people and their families over the course of their terminal illness.

So, when I die, my wife's risk of death can double, for instance, in the first year.

And I had gone to take care of one particular patient, a woman who was dying of dementia.

And in this case, unlike this couple, she was being cared for by her daughter.

And the daughter was exhausted from caring for her mother.

And second, it was not restricted to pairs of people.

And then I realized that these individuals would be connected into foursomes with other pairs of people nearby.

And that, in fact, these connections were vast and that we were all embedded in this broad set of connections with each other.

So I started to see the world in a completely new way and I became obsessed with this.

I became obsessed with how it might be that we're embedded in these social networks, and how they affect our lives.

So, social networks are these intricate things of beauty, and they're so elaborate and so complex and so ubiquitous, in fact, that one has to ask what purpose they serve.

And how do they effect us? 

So my first topic with respect to this, was not death, but obesity.

It had become trendy to speak about the "obesity epidemic."

And, along with my collaborator, James Fowler, we began to wonder whether obesity really was epidemic and could it spread from person to person like the four people I discussed earlier.

So this is a slide of some of our initial results.

In addition, if your body size, if your BMI, your body mass index, is above 30 -- if you're clinically obese -- we also colored the dots yellow.

But the visual complexity is still very high.

It's not obvious exactly what's going on.

And, most importantly, what causes the clusters? 

So we did some mathematics to study the size of these clusters.

On the far left, you see the purple line.

It says that, if your friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 45 percent higher.

And the next bar over, the [red] line, says if your friend's friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 25 percent higher.

And then the next line over says if your friend's friend's friend, someone you probably don't even know, is obese, your risk of obesity is 10 percent higher.

And it's only when you get to your friend's friend's friend's friends that there's no longer a relationship between that person's body size and your own body size. 

Well, what might be causing this clustering?

A kind of induction, a kind of spread from person to person.

And the last possibility is what is known as confounding, because it confounds our ability to figure out what's going on.

And we found that if your friend becomes obese, it increases your risk of obesity by about 57 percent in the same given time period.

Another more subtle possibility is that they start gaining weight, and it changes your ideas of what an acceptable body size is.

Now, headline writers had a field day with our studies.

Lots of people are doing things at the same time.

So, again, every dot is a person.

Every tie between them is a relationship.

And, by the end, you're going to see clusters of obese and non-obese individuals within the network.

And we used a variety of techniques to do this.

And we started exploring all kinds of other phenomena.

We looked at smoking and drinking behavior, and voting behavior, and divorce -- which can spread -- and altruism.

And, eventually, we became interested in emotions.

Now, when we have emotions, we show them.

Why do we show our emotions?

But we don't just experience them, we show them.

And not only do we show them, but others can read them.

And, not only can they read them, but they copy them.

There's emotional contagion that takes place in human populations.

And so this function of emotions suggests that, in addition to any other purpose they serve, they're a kind of primitive form of communication.

And that, in fact, if we really want to understand human emotions, we need to think about them in this way. 

Now, we're accustomed to thinking about emotions in this way, in simple, sort of, brief periods of time.

And, in fact, emotional contagion can be broader still.

Like we could have punctuated expressions of anger, as in riots.

Maybe there's a kind of below the surface, quiet riot that animates us all the time.

Maybe there are emotional stampedes that ripple through social networks.

Maybe, in fact, emotions have a collective existence, not just an individual existence. 

And if you look at this image, you can right away see clusters of happy and unhappy people, again, spreading to three degrees of separation.

And you might form the intuition that the unhappy people occupy a different structural location within the network.

There's a middle and an edge to this network, and the unhappy people seem to be located at the edges.

So, this work with emotions, which are so fundamental, then got us to thinking about: Maybe the fundamental causes of human social networks are somehow encoded in our genes.

But they never look like this.

Why do they not look like this?

Why don't we form human social networks that look like a regular lattice?

And now I'm highlighting a few dots.

But certain other aspects of social network structure are not so obvious. 

Compare node B in the upper left to node A in the lower left.

Now, those people both have four friends, but A's friends all know each other, and B's friends do not.

This is known as transitivity in networks.

But now we, with a bird's eye view looking at this network, can see that they occupy very different social worlds.

So different structural locations have different implications for your life.

But we also found some non-obvious things.

For instance, 47 percent in the variation in whether your friends know each other is attributable to your genes.

Whether your friends know each other has not just to do with their genes, but with yours.

And so some people knit together the networks around them, creating a kind of dense web of ties in which they're comfortably embedded.

And finally, we even found that 30 percent of the variation in whether or not people are in the middle or on the edge of the network can also be attributed to their genes.

So whether you find yourself in the middle or on the edge is also partially heritable. 

Now, what is the point of this?

How does this help us understand?

How does this help us figure out some of the problems that are affecting us these days?

Well, the argument I'd like to make is that networks have value.

They are a kind of social capital.

So think about these two common objects.

So, similarly, the pattern of connections among people confers upon the groups of people different properties.

It is the ties between people that makes the whole greater than the sum of its parts.

Now, the reason, I think, that this is the case is that human beings assemble themselves and form a kind of superorganism.

Like, for example, a hive of bees that's finding a new nesting site, or a flock of birds that's evading a predator, or a flock of birds that's able to pool its wisdom and navigate and find a tiny speck of an island in the middle of the Pacific, or a pack of wolves that's able to bring down larger prey.

Superorganisms have properties that cannot be understood just by studying the individuals.

Now, look at this.

I think we form social networks because the benefits of a connected life outweigh the costs.

So the spread of good and valuable things is required to sustain and nourish social networks.

And what I think the world needs now is more connections. 

Thank you. 

