Today, we spend most of our time tapping and looking at screens.

What happened to interacting with each other?

This is the next step in the evolution.

Now, this is important.

I'm talking about freeing ourselves from the 2D confines of traditional computing. 

And now for the next few minutes, I invite all of you to apply the same perspective to the journey ahead of us. 

Now, as I put this HoloLens on, let me explain the setup a little bit.

Momentarily, I am going to be seeing holograms right on this stage, just as clearly as I can see all of you.

Now at the same time, we have also this special camera that just walked in onstage so that all of you can share in this experience with me up on all the monitors. 

So let's start our journey.

And what better place to begin our journey, than in the computer cave of 2D.

Let's explore the world all around us with this new lens, and understand the computer world from a brand new perspective. 

The computer universe is both marvelous and primitive.

It's a universe based on causality.

Our universe is analog.

Our universe doesn't think in terms of zero or one, true or false, or black or white.

You can see how these two worlds collide. 

So why are screens so pervasive in our analog life?

We see screens from the moment we wake up, to the moment we fall asleep.

Why? 

I think it's because computers give us superpowers.

Within the digital universe, we have the power to displace space and the power to displace time.

It doesn't matter if you're using technology for entertainment, productivity or communication.

As soon as I'm done with this TED Talk, I'm going to immediately call my lovely family in Seattle.

That's displacement of space.

Now, these are such great superpowers that we put up with the two-dimensional limitations of our current digital world.

But what if we didn't have to?

What if we could have these same digital powers in our world?

It's remarkable to dream of this world, a world where technology truly understands us -- where we live, work and communicate -- with tools that enhance the human experience, not machines that limit our humanity. 

So how do we get there?

For me, the answer required looking at the problem from a different perspective.

It required sensing the world from the perspective of a machine.

If you're a machine trying to sense our world, how would you actually break the problem down?

But how would that machine then interact with reality?

And I can think of three ways. 

First, as a machine, I would observe or I would input reality.

Speech recognition and biometric authentication are great examples of a machine interacting with humans from an input perspective.

Secondly, as a machine, I could place digital information, or output information, into reality.

Holograms are examples of a machine interacting with an environment from an output perspective.

Finally, as a machine, I could exchange energy with the world via haptics.

With this perspective, we are able to collapse reality into a simple matrix.

From self-driving cars to smartphones to this holographic computer on my head, machines are becoming capable of understanding our world.

And they are starting to interact with us in significantly more personal ways. 

Now, imagine having granular control over everything in the world.

Now, imagine dialing your entire environment between virtual and real worlds.

I love it down here.

Now, imagine if I could look at all of you and dial from real humans into elves.

When technology truly understands our world, it will again transform the ways we interact, the ways we work and the ways we play. 

Six hundred million humans watched them on grainy, black-and-white televisions.

And the world?

The world was mesmerized. 

We already live in a world where real-time universal translators exist.

And I can squint, and I can already see holographic telepresence in our near future.

In fact, since we've been lucky with our demo so far, let's try doing something else even more crazy.

Can you tell us a little bit more about where all this data from Mars is coming from? 

JN: Absolutely.

Humans are natural explorers.

We can instantly understand an environment, just by being present in it.

We've built tools like our Mars Rover to extend our vision and lengthen our reach.

But for decades, we've explored from a seat behind screens and keyboards.

Now, we're leaping over all of that, over the giant antennas and the relay satellites and the vastness between worlds to take our first steps on this landscape as if we were truly there.

Today, a group of scientists on our mission are seeing Mars as never before -- an alien world made a little more familiar, because they're finally exploring it as humans should. 

But our dreams don't have to end with making it just like being there.

When we dial this real world to the virtual, we can do magical things.

We can see in invisible wavelengths or teleport to the top of a mountain.

Perhaps someday, we'll feel the minerals in a rock just by touching it.

We're taking the first steps.

AK: Thank you Jeff, this was amazing.

Thank you so much for joining us on the TED stage today. 

I dream about this future every single day.

I take inspiration from our ancestors.

We used to live in tribes where we interacted, communicated and worked together.

It's a phenomenal time to be human. 

Thank you. 

AK: OK. 

HW: So there's been some talk in the press.

And I'll just ask you straight, then we have a straight answer.

There's been talk about the difference between the demos and the reality of the commercial product.

Talk about this field of view issue.

Is this type of experience what someone who buys the product will get? 

That's the equivalent of me showing holograms to someone for the first time, and you then saying, "What's the size of your television?"

The field of view for the product is almost irrelevant.

What we should be talking about is the density of lights, or radiance, that shows up.

Better said, what the angular resolution is of the things that you see.

AK: The camera has a fish-eye lens on it.

It's seeing a much wider view than the human eye is.

That's the same as I get on this HoloLens as I will on that one.

Now, this camera sees a much wider view of the world, right? 

Come this way. 

AK: And there's holographic Jeff Norris. 

HW: I knew something was happening, but I really wasn't sure what. 

But the angular resolution of the holograms that you see, the points of light per unit of area, are actually the same. 

AK: That's right. 

AK: The HoloLens maps in real time at about five frames per second, with this technology that we call spatial mapping.

So in your home, as soon as you put it on, holograms will start showing up, and you'll start placing them and they'll start learning your home.

In a stage environment where we're trying to get something on my head to communicate with something over there with all of the wireless connectivity that usually brings all conferences down, we don't take the risk of trying to do this live.

Because ultimately, the holograms are coming from this HoloLens, and that one is just viewing the HoloLens.

So if I lose connectivity, you would stop seeing beautiful things on the screen. 

HW: Hi. 

AK: I'll take a step back. 

Is this scientifically useful now?

That's my question for a hologram. 

JN: Thanks for the question.

We're even using it now to design the next generation of our spacecraft. 

AK: Thank you. 

Thank you. 

