In other words, the minds on the margin are not the marginal minds.

That is the message, which we started 31 years ago.

And what did it start? 

Let me just tell you, briefly, my personal journey, which led me to come to this point.

Was it because I'm brilliant that I'm getting this reward, or because of the revolution?

Is it that I write very well?

Is it that I articulate very well?

Is it that I analyze the data very well?

Is it because I'm a professor, and, therefore, I must be entitled to this reward from society?"

I tried to convince myself that, "No, no, I have worked for the policy changes.

You know, the public policy will become more responsive to the needs of the poor, and, therefore I think it's okay."

It must be the same.

You cannot discriminate.

You cannot be in favor of your own values, which are at a distance from the values that you espouse.

So, fairness to one and to the other is not divisible. 

I'm so sorry to say that.

Is this a beautiful picture or is it a terrible picture?

It depends upon how you look at the life of the people.

If this woman has to carry water on her head for miles and miles and miles, you cannot be celebrating that.

We should be doing something about it.

And let me tell you, with all the science and technology at our command, millions of women still carry water on their heads.

And we do not ask this question. 

You must have taken tea in the morning.

Just do it 10 times; you will realize the pain in this shoulder.

Do poor have legs, mouth and hands, but no head? 

So Honey Bee Network builds upon the resource in which poor people are rich.

And what has happened?

This is what Honey Bee Network is about.

Now, this lady, on the wall of the dung cake heap, has made a painting.

That's the only space she could express her creativity.

And she's so marvelous.

Is she an artisan or an artist?

Obviously she's an artist; she's a creative person.

If we can create markets for these artists, we will not have to employ them for digging earth and breaking stones.

Every morning you have tea, as well as coffee.

If you have 500 grams, 1000, one kilogram, he will grind it for it for you; the flourmill will not grind such a small quantity. 

Please understand the problem of poor people.

They have needs which have to be met efficiently in terms of energy, in terms of cost, in terms of quality.

They don't want second-standard, second-quality outputs.

So here's a model where a two-wheeler washing machine ...

He is washing your clothes and drying them at your doorstep.

Now, what we need is, we need people who will be able to scale them up. 

Somebody from India would know, of course.

It's a tawa.

It's a hot plate made of clay.

Now, what is the beauty in it?

They have to be better, they have to be more efficient, they have to be affordable.

And that is what Mansukh Bhai Prajapati has done.

This lady, she developed a herbal pesticide formulation.

Higher the local fit, greater is the chance of scaling up. 

In the scaling up, there's an inherent inadequacy to match the needs of the local people, point by point, with the supply that you're making.

So why are people willing to adjust with that mismatch?

Now, it is possible that I use only two buttons on the cellphone, only three options on the cellphone.

But if I had to get a match to match, obviously, I would need a different design of a cellphone.

So what we're saying is that scalability should not become an enemy of sustainability.

So either you sub-optimize your needs to a larger scale or else you remain out.

Now, the eminent model, the long-tail model tells you that small sales of a large number of books, for example, having only a few copies sold can still be a viable model.

At the age of 70, he is linking up something very creative. 

Saidullah Sahib: I couldn't wait for the boat.

I had to meet my love.

My desperation made me an innovator.

Even love needs help from technology.

Innovation is the light of my wife, Noor.

AG: Saidulluh Sahib is in Motihari, again in Champaran.

Appachan: I watch the world wake up every day. 

It's not that a coconut fell on my head, and I came upon this idea.

With no money to fund my studies, I scaled new heights.

AG: Many of you might not realize and believe that we have sold this product internationally -- what I call a G2G model, grassroots to global.

So, you know, we are advancing the frontiers of science. 

Remya Jose has developed ... you can go to the YouTube and find India Innovates and then you will find these videos.

Innovation by her when she was in class 10th: a washing machine-cum-exercising machine.

Mr. Kharai who is a physically challenged person, one and a half foot height, only.

But he has modified a two-wheeler so that he can get autonomy and freedom and flexibility.

This innovation is from the slums of Rio.

And this person, Mr. Ubirajara.

We were talking about, my friends in Brazil, how we scale up this model in China and Brazil.

And we have a very vibrant network in China, particularly, but also emerging in Brazil and other parts of the world.

This stand on the front wheel, you will not find on any cycle.

India and China have the largest number of cycles.

But this innovation emerged in Brazil. 

The point is, none of us should be parochial, none of us should be so nationalistic to believe that all good ideas will come only from our country.

No, we have to have the humility to learn from knowledge of economically poor people, wherever they are.

And look at this whole range of cycle-based innovations: cycle that's a sprayer, cycle that generates energy from the shocks on the road.

That is what Kanak Das has done.

And in South Africa, we had taken our innovators, and many of us had gone there share with the colleagues in South Africa as to how innovation can become a means of liberation from the drudgery that people have.

And this is a donkey cart which they modified.

There's an axle here, of 30, 40 kg, serving no purpose.

Remove it, the cart needs one donkey less. 

There's a whole range of innovations that we have.

A car, which runs on compressed air with six paisa per kilometer.

Assam, Kanak Gogoi.

And you would not find this car in U.S. or Europe, but this is available in India.

Now, this lady, she used to do the winding of the yarn for Pochampally Saree.

In one day, 18,000 times, she had to do this winding to generate two sarees.

This is what her son has done after seven years of struggle.

And this is what he did, a sewing machine in Uttar Pradesh.

So, this is what SRISTI is saying: "Give me a place to stand, and I will move the world."

I will just tell you that we are also doing a competition among children for creativity, a whole range of things.

We have sold things all over the world, from Ethiopia to Turkey to U.S. to wherever.

Products have gone to the market, a few.

These are the people whose knowledge made this Herbavate cream for eczema possible.

And incentives: not just material, but also non-material incentives. 

Thank you. 

