And it was really a lot of fun for about 10 years.

I mean, somebody pays you to go around and travel and look at some of the most beautiful places on the planet.

And that was what I did. 

The other thing it shows you is that, although there's this beautiful forest of coral, there are no fish in that picture. 

Those reefs at Discovery Bay, Jamaica were the most studied coral reefs in the world for 20 years.

We were the best and the brightest.

And the view of scientists about how coral reefs work, how they ought to be, was based on these reefs without any fish.

Then, in 1980, there was a hurricane, Hurricane Allen.

I put half the lab up in my house.

The wind blew very strong.

The waves were 25 to 50 feet high.

And the reason was because of overfishing, and the fact that a last common grazer, a sea urchin, died.

And within a few months after that sea urchin dying, the seaweed started to grow.

The coral reefs of the north coast of Jamaica have a few percent live coral cover and a lot of seaweed and slime.

And that's more or less the story of the coral reefs of the Caribbean, and increasingly, tragically, the coral reefs worldwide. 

Now, that's my little, depressing story.

All of us in our 60s and 70s have comparable depressing stories.

And the reason it keeps getting worse is that after a natural catastrophe, like a hurricane, it used to be that there was some kind of successional sequence of recovery, but what's going on now is that overfishing and pollution and climate change are all interacting in a way that prevents that.

And so I'm going to sort of go through and talk about those three kinds of things. 

We hear a lot about the collapse of cod.

It's difficult to imagine that two, or some historians would say three world wars were fought during the colonial era for the control of cod.

Cod fed most of the people of Western Europe.

It's a little hard to understand that, because you can go to a Costco in the United States and buy cheap fish.

It's one of those things.

And the average size trophy fish weighed 250 to 300 pounds, goliath grouper, and if you wanted to go out and kill something, you could pretty much count on being able to catch one of those fish.

And they tasted really good.

And people paid less in 1950 dollars to catch that than what people pay now to catch those little, tiny fish.

And that's everywhere. 

It's not just the fish, though, that are disappearing.

Industrial fishing uses big stuff, big machinery.

We use nets that are 20 miles long.

We use longlines that have one million or two million hooks.

And the habitat destruction is unbelievable.

This is a photograph, a typical photograph, of what the continental shelves of the world look like.

You can see the rows in the bottom, the way you can see the rows in a field that has just been plowed to plant corn.

What that was, was a forest of sponges and coral, which is a critical habitat for the development of fish.

We've managed to do that in the last 100 to 150 years. 

We tend to think of oil spills and mercury and we hear a lot about plastic these days.

A book was written about it.

It's a bit of an embarrassment.

It's very pretty, and it has rapidly started to overgrow the once very rich biodiversity of the northwestern Mediterranean.

But, instead of devouring the people in the shop, what it's doing is overgrowing and smothering virtually all of the bottom-dwelling life of the entire northwestern Mediterranean Sea.

Now another form of pollution that's biological pollution is what happens from excess nutrients.

The green revolution, all of this artificial nitrogen fertilizer, we use too much of it.

It's subsidized, which is one of the reasons we used too much of it.

It runs down the rivers, and it feeds the plankton, the little microscopic plant cells in the coastal water.

So, what we end up with is a microbial zoo dominated by bacteria and jellyfish, as you see on the left in front of you.

And the only fishery left -- and it is a commercial fishery -- is the jellyfish fishery you see on the right, where there used to be prawns.

Even in Newfoundland where we used to catch cod, we now have a jellyfish fishery. 

And another version of this sort of thing is what is often called red tides or toxic blooms.

That picture on the left is just staggering to me.

I have talked about it a million times, but it's unbelievable.

In the upper right of that picture on the left is almost the Mississippi Delta, and the lower left of that picture is the Texas-Mexico border.

And in the upper right you see this black sort of cloud moving ashore.

That's the same species.

And as it comes to shore and the wind blows, and little droplets of the water get into the air, the emergency rooms of all the hospitals fill up with people with acute respiratory distress.

And that's retirement homes on the west coast of Florida.

A friend and I did this thing in Hollywood we called Hollywood ocean night, and I was trying to figure out how to explain to actors what's going on.

And then this is amazing.

It was when I was on holiday last early autumn in France.

This is from the coast of Brittany, which is being enveloped in this green, algal slime.

The reason that it attracted so much attention, besides the fact that it's disgusting, is that sea birds flying over it are asphyxiated by the smell and die, and a farmer died of it, and you can imagine the scandal that happened.

I guess the iconic figure of it is the melting of the ice in the Arctic Sea.

The governments of the world are taking this really seriously.

The military of the Arctic nations is taking it really seriously.

For all the denial of climate change by government leaders, the CIA and the navies of Norway and the U.S. and Canada, whatever are busily thinking about how they will secure their territory in this inevitability from their point of view.

And, of course, Arctic communities are toast. 

And the algae give the corals sugar, and the corals give the algae nutrients and protection.

And you come home, and you discover that 80 percent of all the trees in North America and in Europe have dropped their leaves.

And then you read in the paper a few weeks later, "Oh, by the way, a quarter of those died."

Well, that's what happened in the Indian Ocean during the 1998 El Nino, an area vastly greater than the size of North America and Europe, when 80 percent of all the corals bleached and a quarter of them died. 

And the great scientific challenge for people like me in thinking about all this, is do we know how to put Humpty Dumpty back together again?

I mean, because we, at this point, we can protect it.

But what does that mean?

We really don't know. 

So what are the oceans going to be like in 20 or 50 years?

Sometimes you have a toxic bloom; sometimes you don't.

That doesn't sell. 

As the surface of the ocean gets warmer, the water is lighter when it's warmer, it becomes harder and harder to turn the ocean over.

We say it becomes more strongly stratified.

The consequence of that is that all those nutrients that fuel the great anchoveta fisheries, of the sardines of California or in Peru or whatever, those slow down and those fisheries collapse.

And, at the same time, water from the surface, which is rich in oxygen, doesn't make it down and the ocean turns into a desert. 

So the question is: How are we all going to respond to this?

And we can do all sorts of things to fix it, but in the final analysis, the thing we really need to fix is ourselves.

It's not about the fish; it's not about the pollution; it's not about the climate change.

