Maybe a sobering thought and something you all know about.

And I suspect many of you gave something to the people of Haiti this year.

That's a Haiti earthquake every eight days.

And I suspect many of you probably gave something towards that problem as well, but somehow it doesn't happen with the same intensity. 

So why is that?

Or do you believe the people who tell you that aid is not going to help, on the contrary it might hurt, it might exacerbate corruption, dependence, etc.?

Or maybe you turn to the past.

After all, we have spent billions of dollars on aid.

And, sadly, we don't know.

And worst of all, we will never know.

And the reason is that -- take Africa for example.

Africans have already got a lot of aid.

There's only one Africa. 

So what do you do?

To give the aid, and hope and pray that something comes out of it?

Immunization, that's the cheapest way to save a child's life.

And yet, every year at least 25 million children do not get the immunization they should get.

So this is what you call a "last mile problem."

So you have your million.

How do you use your million to solve this last mile problem? 

In fact, that is the leading cause of under-five mortality.

For 10 dollars, you can manufacture and ship an insecticide treated bed net and you can teach someone to use them.

And, not only do they protect the people who sleep under them, but they have these great contagion benefits.

If half of a community sleeps under a net, the other half also benefits because the contagion of the disease spread.

And yet, only a quarter of kids at risk sleep under a net.

So, what do you do?

Maybe that's the solution, maybe we should send kids to school.

So here is the thing.

I cannot answer the big question, whether aid did any good or not.

But these three questions, I can answer them.

It's not the Middle Ages anymore, it's the 21st century.

And in the 20th century, randomized, controlled trials have revolutionized medicine by allowing us to distinguish between drugs that work and drugs that don't work.

And you can do the same randomized, controlled trial for social policy.

You can put social innovation to the same rigorous, scientific tests that we use for drugs.

And in this way, you can take the guesswork out of policy-making by knowing what works, what doesn't work and why.

And I'll give you some examples with those three questions. 

The same child that is not immunized against measles, if they do get measles, parents will spend thousands of rupees to help them.

So you get these empty village subcenters and crowded hospitals.

So what is the problem?

Well, part of the problem, surely, is people do not fully understand.

But maybe there is another problem as well.

It's going from intention to action.

Imagine you are a mother in Udaipur District, Rajasthan.

You have to walk a few kilometers to get your kids immunized.

Well, if that's the problem, then that's much easier.

Because A, we can make it easy, and B, we can maybe give people a reason to act today, rather than wait till tomorrow. 

So what we did is we did a randomized, controlled trial in 134 villages in Udaipur Districts.

In the red dots, we made it easy and gave people a reason to act now.

The white dots are comparisons, nothing changed.

So we make it easy by organizing this monthly camp where people can get their kids immunized.

And then you make it easy and give a reason to act now by adding a kilo of lentils for each immunization.

Now, a kilo of lentils is tiny.

It's never going to convince anybody to do something that they don't want to do.

On the other hand, if your problem is you tend to postpone, then it might give you a reason to act today rather than later. 

So what do we find?

Well, beforehand, everything is the same.

That's full immunization.

That's not bad, that's a good improvement.

Add the lentils and you reach to 38 percent.

So here you've got your answer.

Make it easy and give a kilo of lentils, you multiply immunization rate by six.

Since you have to pay for the nurse anyway, the cost per immunization ends up being cheaper if you give incentives than if you don't. 

And the third one is: Do free bed nets discourage future purchase?

Now this is a debate that has generated a lot of emotion and angry rhetoric.

It's more ideological than practical, but it turns out it's an easy question.

We can know the answer to this question.

We can just run an experiment.

And many experiments have been run, and they all have the same results, so I'm just going to talk to you about one. 

And this one that was in Kenya, they went around and distributed to people vouchers, discount vouchers.

So people with their voucher could get the bed net in the local pharmacy.

And some people get 100 percent discount, and some people get 20 percent discounts, and some people get 50 percent discount, etc.

And now we can see what happens.

So, how about the purchasing?

Well, what you can see is that when people have to pay for their bed nets, the coverage rate really falls down a lot.

Second thing is, how about the use?

Well, the good news is, people, if they have the bed nets, will use the bed nets regardless of how they got it.

How about the long term?

So people do not get used to handouts; they get used to nets.

Maybe we need to give them a little bit more credit. 

But what politicians need is a range of options.

They need to know: Out of all the things I could do, what is the best way to achieve my goals?

So what's the best?

Well, in business, that's certainly not the way we would go about it. 

Consider for example transporting goods.

Before the canals were invented in Britain before the Industrial Revolution, goods used to go on horse carts.

And then canals were built, and with the same horseman and the same horse, you could carry ten times as much cargo.

So should they have continued to carry the goods on the horse carts, on the ground, that they would eventually get there?

Well, if that had been the case, there would have been no Industrial Revolution.

Well, with experiments, what you can do is answer a simple question.

Suppose you have 100 dollars to spend on various interventions.

How many extra years of education do you get for your hundred dollars?

Now I'm going to show you what we get with various education interventions.

So for every hundred dollars you spend doing that, you get 40 extra years of education.

So now, I started from the big problem, and I couldn't answer it.

And I cut it into smaller questions, and I have the answer to these smaller questions.

And they are good, scientific, robust answers. 

So let's go back to Haiti for a moment.

That doesn't sound like that much when you think about it.

But if we were willing to spend 10,000 dollars for every child under five who dies, that would be 90 billion per year just for that problem.

And yet it doesn't happen.

So, why is that?

Well, I think what part of the problem is that, in Haiti, although the problem is huge, somehow we understand it, it's localized.

And the problem of poverty is not like that.

So, first, it's mostly invisible; second, it's huge; and third, we don't know whether we are doing the right thing.

There's no silver bullet.

With deworming, you can get an extra year of education for three dollars.

And maybe we can get started small with things that we know are effective. 

Worms have a little bit of a problem grabbing the headlines.

They are not beautiful and don't kill anybody.

And yet, when the young global leader in Davos showed the numbers I gave you, they started Deworm the World.

And thanks to Deworm the World, and the effort of many country governments and foundations, 20 million school-aged children got dewormed in 2009.

So this evidence is powerful.

It can prompt action. 

So we should get started now.

It's not going to be easy.

It's a very slow process.

You have to keep experimenting, and sometimes ideology has to be trumped by practicality.

And sometimes what works somewhere doesn't work elsewhere.

So it's a slow process, but there is no other way.

And now, maybe, we can go back to the bigger question that I started with at the beginning.

I believe we can and I hope we will. 

Thank you. 

