If you go on the TED website, you can currently find there over a full week of TEDTalk videos, over 1.3 million words of transcripts and millions of user ratings.

And that's a huge amount of data.

And it got me wondering: If you took all this data and put it through statistical analysis, could you reverse engineer a TEDTalk?

Now, to make this more concrete, let's look at the list of top 10 words that statistically stick out in the most favorite TEDTalks and in the least favorite TEDTalks.

So if you came here to talk about how French coffee will spread happiness in our brains, that's a go.

Oh, well.

If you generalize this, the most favorite TEDTalks are those that feature topics we can connect with, both easily and deeply, such as happiness, our own body, food, emotions.

And the more technical topics, such as architecture, materials and, strangely enough, men, those are not good topics to talk about. 

How should you deliver your talk?

Now, while ... (Applause) While you're pushing the clock, there's a few rules to obey.

I found these rules out by comparing the statistics of four-word phrases that appear more often in the most favorite TEDTalks as opposed to the least favorite TEDTalks.

I'll give you three examples.

Secondly, it's imperative that you do not cite The New York Times.

(Laughter) And finally, it's okay for the speaker -- that's the good news -- to fake intellectual capacity.

If I don't understand something, I can just say, "etc., etc."

You'll all stay with me.

The most obvious visual thing on stage is the speaker.

And analysis shows if you want to be among the most favorite TED speakers, you should let your hair grow a little bit longer than average, make sure you wear your glasses and be slightly more dressed-up than the average TED speaker.

Slides are okay, though you might consider going for props.

And now the most important thing, that is the mood onstage.

Color plays a very important role.

And I call this tool the TEDPad.

(Laughter) And the TEDPad is a matrix of 100 specifically selected, highly curated sentences that you can easily piece together to get your own TEDTalk.

You only have to make one decision, and that is: Are you going to use the white version for very good TEDTalks, about creativity, human genius?

Or are you going to go with a black version, which will allow you to create really bad TEDTalks, mostly about blogs, politics and stuff?

So, download it and have fun with it. 

Now I hope you enjoy the session.

I hope you enjoy designing your own ultimate and worst possible TEDTalks.

And I hope some of you will be inspired for next year to create this, which I really want to see. 

Thank you very much. 

