All of you know about the topic that I'm supposed to talk about.

That is, you know what simplicity is, you know what complexity is.

The trouble is, I don't.

And what I'm going to do is share with you my ignorance on this subject. 

The quote is from the fabled Potter Stewart opinion on pornography.

So, what is simplicity?

It's good to start with some examples.

The handle enables you to hold it when the container is filled with hot liquid.

Why is that important?

Well, it enables you to drink coffee.

So the coffee cup, or the cup with a handle, is one of the tools used by society to maintain public health.

Simple in function, but not at all simple in how they're constructed.

And the two here are just examples.

One is the cellphone, which we use every day.

And it rests on a complexity, which has some characteristics very different from those that my friend Benoit Mandelbrot discussed, but are very interesting.

So, there are two ways of thinking about this word, I think.

Or there may be another way of doing it, which is to think about the problem in terms of what -- if you associate with moral philosophers -- is called the teapot problem.

And you then ask the question: Why is the water hot?

And that's a simple question.

It's like, what is simplicity?

And, since this is coming from a moral philosopher, the fourth would be that it's part of God's plan for the universe.

All of these are possibilities. 

What is the state of science?

We academics -- I am an academic -- we love complexity.

You're not interested in the limits of these things.

So what one is interested in has a lot to do with the rewards of the system.

We have, actually, a pretty good working definition of complexity.

It is a system, like traffic, which has components.

Anyone who tells you that we understand life, walk away. 

And that's complexity.

Or I'm going to use simple to mean reliable, predictable, repeatable.

And if you look at the list of things on the bottom, we are familiar with the Arabic numbers one to 10 and so on.

Now, if you like to represent this zero and one of binary, you need a device.

Now wall switches, we all know, fail.

So the second layer of simplicity was the transistor in the Internet.

So, since the transistor is so simple, you can put lots of them together.

And you put lots of them together and you come with something called integrated circuits.

And a current integrated circuit might have in each one of these chips something like a billion transistors, all of which have to work perfectly every time.

So that's the next layer of simplicity, and, in fact, integrated circuits are really simple in the sense that they, in general, work really well. 

With integrated circuits, you can build cellphones.

You all are accustomed to having your cellphones work the large majority of the time.

In Boston ... Boston is a little bit like Namibia in its cell phone coverage, (Laughter) so that we're not accustomed to that all the time, but some of the time.

But, in fact, if you have cell phones, you can now go to this nice lady who's somewhere like Namibia, and who is extremely happy with the fact that although she does not have an master's degree in electrical engineering from MIT, she's nonetheless able to hack her cell phone to get power in some funny way.

And from that comes the Internet.

And this is a map of bitflows across the continent.

The two blobs that are light in the middle there are the United States and Europe. 

And then back to simplicity again.

But the point is that that extraordinary simple idea rests on layers of simplicity each compounded into a complexity that is itself simple, in the sense that it is completely reliable. 

All right, let me then finish off with four general statements, an example and two aphorisms.

The characteristics, which I think are useful to think about for simple things: First, they are predictable.

Their behavior is predictable.

Now, one of the nice characteristics of simple things is you know what it's going to do, in general.

So simplicity and predictability are characteristics of simple things.

The second is, and this is a real world statement, they're cheap.

You carve them in blocks and then you pile them on top of one another, and they support weight. 

So there has to be function, the function has to be predictable and the cost has to be low.

What that means is that you have to have a high performance or value for cost.

And then I would propose as this last component that they serve, or have the potential to serve, as building blocks.

That is, you can stack them.

And stack can mean this way, or it can mean this way, or it can mean in some arbitrary n-dimensional space.

But if you have something that has a function, and it's really cheap, people will find new ways of putting it together to make new things.

Cheap, functional, reliable things unleash the creativity of people who then build stuff that you could not imagine.

There's no way of predicting the Internet based on the first transistor.

It just is not possible.

So these are the components. 

So, how does one do that?

It's a little paper chip.

It has a few things printed on it using the same technology that you use for making comic books, which was the inspiration for this particular idea.

And, since the health care worker of much of this part of the world is an 18 year-old with an AK-47, who happens to be out of work and is willing to go around and do this sort of thing, he can take a picture of it with his cellphone, send the picture back to where there is a doctor, and the doctor can look at it. 

So what you've done is to take a technology, which is available everywhere, make a device, which is extremely cheap, and make it in such a fashion that it is very, very reliable.

If we can pull this off, if we can build more function, it will be stackable.

That is to say, if we can make the basic technology of one or two things work, it will be applicable to a very, very large variety of human conditions, and hence, extendable in both vertical and horizontal directions.

Part of my interest in this, I have to say, is that I would like to -- how do I put this politely?

Let me close with my two aphorisms.

If you take too much out of something that's simple, you lose function.

You have to have low cost, but you also have to have a function.

So you can't make it too simple.

And the second is a design issue, and it's not directly relevant, but it's a nice statement. 

This is by de Saint-Exupery.

So, what I think one can begin to do with this kind of cut at the word simplicity, which doesn't cover Brancusi, it doesn't answer the question of why Mondrian is better or worse or simpler or less simpler than Van Gogh, and certainly doesn't address the question of whether Mozart is simpler than Bach. 

If we make that kind of simplicity in our technology and then give it to you guys, you can go off and do all kinds of fabulous things with it. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: Quick question.

So can you picture that a science of simplicity might get to the point where you could look out at various systems -- say a financial system or a legal system, health system -- and say, "That has got to the point of danger or dysfunctionality for the following reasons, and this is how we might simplify it"? 

CA: Have you started to do that?

I mean, with the health system, you got a sort of radical solution on the cost side, but in terms of the system itself? 

CA: So, in terms of that diagnostic technology that you've got, where is that, and when do you see that maybe getting rolled out to scale. 

CA: You've got a company set up to ... GW: A foundation, a foundation.

