Not me.

I am interested in how women are saving us.

In the midst of the daunting challenges we face as a global community, there's something about this third way raga that is making my heart sing.

When so many women and girls are beaten, raped, maimed on a daily basis in the name of all kinds of causes -- honor, religion, nationality -- what allows women to replant trees, to rebuild societies, to lead radical, non-violent movements for social change?

Is it different women who are doing the preserving and the radicalizing?

Or are they one and the same?

Much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions.

It's taken me across the globe and introduced me to some amazing people.

By 18, under the excellent tutelage of my mother, I was therefore, as you might expect, defiantly feminist.

Was a women's rights advocate invoking religion?

She is on the Taliban's hit list.

I worry about her every time she travels across that country.

She shrugs when I ask her about safety.

Being different is something the women of Lesbor in Zagreb, Croatia know all too well.

To be a lesbian, a dyke, a homosexual in most parts of the world, including right here in our country, India, is to occupy a place of immense discomfort and extreme prejudice.

In post-conflict societies like Croatia, where a hyper-nationalism and religiosity have created an environment unbearable for anyone who might be considered a social outcast.

Improbably, this LGBT singing choir has demonstrated how women are investing in tradition to create change, like alchemists turning discord into harmony.

Liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades.

They stood for weeks -- first just 10, then 20, then 50, then hundreds of women -- wearing white, singing, dancing, saying they were out for peace. 

You can see the policeman's face.

And the peace accord was signed.

And the women of Liberia then mobilized in support of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a woman who broke a few taboos herself becoming the first elected woman head of state in Africa in years.

When she made her presidential address, she acknowledged these brave women of Liberia who allowed her to win against a football star -- that's soccer for you Americans -- no less. 

Women like Sakena and Leah and Leymah have humbled me and changed me and made me realize that I should not be so quick to jump to assumptions of any kind.

And then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles, women like Sakena and Leah and Leymah -- but also women like Sonia Gandhi here in India and Michelle Bachelet in Chile and Shirin Ebadi in Iran -- are doing something else.

It is in these threads that are being woven into a resilient fabric that will sustain communities, that I find hope.

And she is definitely on her way. 

Thank you. 

