One of the things that defines a TEDster is you've taken your passion, and you've turned it into stewardship.

You actually put action to the issues you care about.

But what you're going to find eventually is you may need to actually get elected officials to help you out.

So, how do you do that? 

One of the things I should probably tell you is, I worked for the Discovery Channel early in my career, and that sort of warped my framework.

So, when you start to think about politicians, you've got to realize these are strange creatures.

These are the primary tools by which a politician can do his job.

The second one -- unlike most animals, which is survival of the species -- this is preservation of self.

Now you may think it's money, but that's actually sort of a proxy to what I can do to preserve myself. 

Now, the challenge with you moving your issue forward is these animals are getting broadcast to all the time.

So, what doesn't work, in terms of getting your issue to be important?

You can send them an email.

How about you get on the phone?

Face to face would work, but it's hard to set it up.

It's hard to get the context and actually get the communication to work.

So what actually works?

And the answer is rather strange.

It's a letter.

We live in a digital world, but we're fairly analog creatures.

Letters actually work.

Even the top dog himself takes time every day to read 10 letters that are picked out by staff.

I can tell you that every official that I've ever worked with will tell you about the letters they get and what they mean.

I know these are tough, and you may have a hard time getting your hand bent around it, (Laughter) but this is actually critical.

And it is critical that you actually handwrite your letter.

It is so novel to see this, that somebody actually picked up an analog device and has written to me.

Second of all, I'm going to recommend that you get into a proactive stance and write to your elected officials at least once a month.

Now, I'm going to give you a four paragraph format to work with.

Now, when you approach these animals, you need to understand there's a dangerous end to them, and you also need to approach them with some level of respect and a little bit of wariness.

You may not appreciate the person, you may not appreciate anything else, but maybe you appreciate the fact that they've got a tough gig.

When animals are going to make a point, they make the point.

When you do this, don't attack people; you attack tactics.

Ad hominem attacks will get you nowhere.

Paragraph number three: When animals are attacked or cornered, they will fight to the death, so you have to give them an exit.

Most of the time, if they have an exit strategy, they should take it.

"Obviously, you're intelligent.

Because this establishes the two primary criteria for the political creature: that you have influence in a large sphere, and that my preservation depends on you. 

Here is one very quick hack, especially for the feds in the audience.

Here's how you mail your letter.

First of all, you send the original to the district office.

So, you send the copy to the main office.

If they follow protocol, they'll pick up the phone and say, "Hey, do you have the original?"

(Laughter) We are harangued, lectured to, sold, marketed, but a letter is actually one of the few times that we have honest communication.

I got this letter when I was first elected, and I still carry it to every council meeting I go to.

So when you do that, here's what I can promise: You're going to be the 800 pound gorilla in the forest. 

Get writing. 

