But alluding to the country's continual attempts to build a postracial society after being ravaged for decades by apartheid, I tweeted, #ifafricawasabar South Africa would be drinking all kinds of alcohol and begging them to get along in its stomach. 

And then I waited.

And then I had that funny feeling where I wondered if I crossed the line.

But luckily, I didn't have to do that for very long.

Very soon, people were participating.

In fact, by the end of that week in July, the hashtag #ifafricawasabar would have garnered around 60,000 tweets, lit up the continent and made its way to publications all over the world. 

People were using the hashtag to do many different things.

To poke fun at their stereotypes: [#IfAfricaWasABar Nigeria would be outside explaining that he will pay the entrance fee, all he needs is the bouncer's account details.]

To criticize government spending: [#ifafricawasabar South Africa would be ordering bottles it can't pronounce running a tab it won't be able to pay] 

To make light of geopolitical tensions: [#IfAfricaWasABar South Sudan would be the new guy with serious anger management issues.]

And also to make fun of the countries that don't think that they're in Africa: [#IfAfricaWasABar Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco be like "What the hell are we doing here?!!"]

And to note the countries that had made a big turnaround: [#ifAfricawasabar Rwanda would be that girl that comes with no money and no transport but leaves drunk, happy and rich] 

But most importantly, people were using the hashtag to connect.

People were connecting over their Africanness.

So for one week in July, Twitter became a real African bar.

Now, I say I'm Pan-Africanist by birth because my parents are from two different African countries.

My father's from a country called Botswana in southern Africa.

It's only slightly bigger than Germany.

This year we celebrate our 50th year of stable democracy.

And it has some very progressive social policies.

My mother's country is the Kingdom of Swaziland.

It's a very, very small country, also in southern Africa.

It is Africa's last complete monarchy.

So it's been ruled by a king and a royal family in line with their tradition, for a very long time. 

On paper, these countries seem very different.

And when I was a kid, I could see the difference.

It rained a lot in one country, it didn't rain quite as much in the other.

But outside of that, I didn't really realize why it mattered that my parents were from two different places.

But it would go on to have a very peculiar effect on me.

You see, I was born in one country and raised in the other. 

But very soon, I would shed SiSwati.

And when I would go back to Swaziland, I would be constantly confronted by how very non-Swazi I was becoming. 

I became obsessed with the idea of a shared African identity. 

Since then, I have continued to read about politics and geography and identity and what all those things mean.

I've also held on to a deep curiosity about African philosophies.

And when I thought, at 14, that I had digested these grand ideas, I moved on to the speeches of iconic African statesmen like Burkina Faso's Thomas Sankara and Congo's Patrice Lumumba.

I read every piece of African fiction that I could get my hands on. 

So when Twitter came, I hopped on with the enthusiasm of a teenage girl whose friends are super, super bored of hearing about all this random stuff. 

So my generation, we were sending messages to each other on this platform that just needed 140 characters and a little bit of creativity.

On long commutes to work, in lectures that some of us should have been paying attention to, on our lunch breaks, we would communicate as much as we could about the everyday realities of being young and African. 

But of course, this luxury was not available to everybody.

You had to follow South Africans, Zimbabweans, Ghanaians, Nigerians.

And suddenly, your whole world opened up.

And my whole world did open up. 

But Africans were using this platform to take some kind of ownership of the tourism sectors.

And these were the same Africans that I began to meet in my own travels around the continent.

We would discuss African literature, politics, economic policy.

But almost invariably, every single time, we would end up discussing Twitter.

And that's when I realized what this was.

Because the little known truth is many Africans know a lot less about other African countries than some Westerners might know about Africa as a whole.

This is by accident, but sometimes, it's by design.

For example, in apartheid South Africa, black South Africans were constantly being bombarded with this message that any country ruled by black people was destined for failure.

And this was done to convince them that they were much better off under crushing white rule than they were living in a black and free nation.

When disaster hits, when turmoil hits, we share the consequences.

What was once a Burundian problem becomes an African problem.

So if we share the problems, why aren't we doing a better job of sharing the successes?

How can we do that?

But I think that the biggest way for Africa to share its successes is to foster something I like to call social Pan-Africanism. 

But political Pan-Africanism is usually the African unity of the political elite.

And who does that benefit?

Well, African leaders, almost exclusively.

No, what I'm talking about is the Pan-Africanism of the ordinary African.

Young Africans like me, we are bursting with creative energy, with innovative ideas.

But with bad governance and shaky institutions, all of this potential could go to waste.

And I think that thing is social Pan-Africanism. 

My dream is that young Africans stop allowing borders and circumstance to suffocate our innovation.

My dream is that when a young African comes up with something brilliant, they don't say, "Well, this wouldn't work in my country," and then give up.

My dream is that young Africans begin to realize that the entire continent is our canvas, is our home.

And this is already happening.

We now have a platform.

Before now, if you wanted to hear from the youth in Africa, you waited for the 65-year-old minister of youth -- 

to wake up in the morning, take his heartburn medication and then tell you the plans he has for your generation in 20 years time.

Before now, if you wanted to be heard by your possibly tyrannical government, you were pushed to protest, suffer the consequences and have your fingers crossed that some Western paper somewhere might make someone care.

But now we have opportunities to back each other up in ways we never could before. 

We support South African students who are marching against ridiculously high tertiary fees.

We support Zimbabwean women who are marching to parliament.

We support Angolan journalists who are being illegally detained.

For the first time ever, African pain and African aspiration has the ability to be witnessed by those who can empathize with it the most: other Africans. 

I believe that with a social Pan-Africanist thinking and using the Internet as a tool, we can begin to rescue each other, and ultimately, to rescue ourselves. 

Thank you. 

