The marshmallow has to be on top.

And so, I thought this was an interesting idea, and I incorporated it into a design workshop.

And it was a huge success.

So, normally, most people begin by orienting themselves to the task.

They spend the majority of their time assembling the sticks into ever-growing structures.

(Laughter) And it's pretty amazing.

As Peter tells us, not only do they produce the tallest structures, but they're the most interesting structures of them all. 

They don't spend time jockeying for power.

But there's another reason as well.

And then they execute on it.

Designers recognize this type of collaboration as the essence of the iterative process.

Who does the very best?

Architects and engineers, thankfully.

Because they have special skills of facilitation.

They manage the process, they understand the process.

And any team who manages and pays close attention to work will significantly improve the team's performance.

Specialized skills and facilitation skills are the combination that leads to strong success.

If you have 10 teams that typically perform, you'll get maybe six or so that have standing structures. 

And I tried something interesting.

I thought, let's up the ante, once.

So I offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team.

So what do you think happened to these design students?

What was the result?

We did the exercise again with the same students.

What do you think happened then?

So now they understand the value of prototyping.

So the same team went from being the very worst to being among the very best.

They produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time.

So there's deep lessons for us about the nature of incentives and success. 

So, you might ask: Why would anyone actually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge?

Because, frankly, every project has its own marshmallow, doesn't it?

The challenge provides a shared experience, a common language, a common stance to build the right prototype.

And so, this is the value of the experience, of this so simple exercise. 

And those of you who are interested may want to go to MarshmallowChallenge.com.

It's a blog that you can look at how to build the marshmallows.

There's step-by-step instructions on this.

There's world records that are on this as well. 

And the fundamental lesson, I believe, is that design truly is a contact sport.

It demands that we bring all of our senses to the task, and that we apply the very best of our thinking, our feeling and our doing to the challenge that we have at hand.

And sometimes, a little prototype of this experience is all that it takes to turn us from an "uh-oh" moment to a "ta-da" moment.

And that can make a big difference. 

Thank you very much. 

