Good morning.

Happy to see so many fine folks out here and so many smiling faces.

(Laughter) 

Now, how do we go about that sort of thing?

We depend on the fact that audiences, such as yourselves, will make assumptions.

Not only that you can, but that you will when they are properly suggested to you.

(Laughter) Quite empty frames. 

(Laughter) 

I'm an actor who plays a specific part.

Why would a man assume that you would believe something bizarre like this?

First question: If I want to ask them to call up -- because they do hear them through the ear.

Where is the will?

She doesn't bring any useful information to us.

We paid a lot of money for that information, be we didn't get it. 

And they take advantage of the innocent, the naive, the grieving, the needy people out there. 

It's that simple.

And that's the kind of information they're going to bring back to you?

This is what they go through. 

They always say that.

Now, Sylvia Browne is the big operator.

Now, Montel Williams is an intelligent man.

We all know who he is on television.

He just doesn't care.

Now, what does Sylvia Browne give you for that 700 dollars?

And the men were all Grecian warriors fighting with Agamemnon.

If they call back any of my friends, they're not going to... Well, you see the story. 

(Laughter) 

Very simply won.

She said that, first of all, that she didn't know how to contact me.

All the more reason to take the million dollars, wouldn't you think, Sylvia? 

They need to be stopped because this is a cruel farce.

Now, I popped some pills earlier.

I have to explain that to you.

What is homeopathy?

(Laughter) Now that is true.

Now wait a minute, we heard about a guy in Florida.

The poor man, he was on homeopathic medicine.

He died of an overdose.

Maybe these people are just independently wealthy.

Well, with Sylvia Browne I would think so.

I mean that's a fabulous amount of money.

I think that something needs to be done about this.

And we must do something about those problems.

Largely, it's the media who are to blame for this sort of thing.

We really must do something about this.

It's www.randi.org.

You will see the records that we have.

There's nothing like sitting in that library and having a family appear there and say that Mum gave away all the family fortune.

She cashed in the CDs, she gave away the stocks and the certificates.

That's really sad to hear, and it hasn't helped them one bit, hasn't solved any of their problems.

We're waiting for the psychics to come forth and snap at it.

She did accept and then backed away.

Thank you. 

