Right after I completed my Ph.D., I was lucky enough to be included with a group of scientists that was using it for the first time as a tool for ocean exploration.

It was an evening dive.

I went down to a depth of 880 feet and turned out the lights.

But I was totally unprepared for how much there was and how spectacular it was.

It was breathtaking. 

Now, usually if people are familiar with bioluminescence at all, it's these guys; it's fireflies.

In the ocean, it's the rule rather than the exception.

If I go out in the open ocean environment, virtually anywhere in the world, and I drag a net from 3,000 feet to the surface, most of the animals -- in fact, in many places, 80 to 90 percent of the animals that I bring up in that net -- make light.

This makes for some pretty spectacular light shows. 

So, mounted in front of the observation sphere, there's a a three-foot diameter hoop with a screen stretched across it.

So you turn on the camera, turn out the lights.

That sparkle you're seeing is not luminescence, that's just electronic noise on these super intensified cameras.

Now, when I was first doing this, all I was trying to do was count the numbers of sources.

I knew my forward speed, I knew the area, and so I could figure out how many hundreds of sources there were per cubic meter.

But I started to realize that I could actually identify animals by the type of flashes they produced.

And so, here, in the Gulf of Maine at 740 feet, I can name pretty much everything you're seeing there to the species level.

And we can then do the kinds of things that ecologists do on land, and do nearest neighbor distances. 

But you don't always have to go down to the depths of the ocean to see a light show like this.

You can actually see it in surface waters.

So, how does a living creature make light?

Well, that was the question that 19th century French physiologist Raphael Dubois, asked about this bioluminescent clam.

So, what is it about bioluminescence that's so important to so many animals?

This fish actually has high beams. 

And this fish, which is one of my favorites, has three headlights on each side of its head.

So it uses its red bioluminescence like a sniper's scope to be able to sneak up on animals that are blind to red light and be able to see them without being seen.

And a lot of animals will use their bioluminescence as a lure. 

This is another one of my favorite fish.

This is a viperfish, and it's got a lure on the end of a long fishing rod that it arches in front of the toothy jaw that gives the viperfish its name.

The teeth on this fish are so long that if they closed inside the mouth of the fish, it would actually impale its own brain.

So instead, it slides in grooves on the outside of the head.

And we know a little bit more about bioluminescence thanks to Pixar, and I'm very grateful to Pixar for sharing my favorite topic with so many people.

I do wish, with their budget, that they might have spent just a tiny bit more money to pay a consulting fee to some poor, starving graduate student, who could have told them that those are the eyes of a fish that's been preserved in formalin.

These are the eyes of a living anglerfish.

So, she's got a lure that she sticks out in front of this living mousetrap of needle-sharp teeth in order to attract in some unsuspecting prey.

And this one has a lure with all kinds of little interesting threads coming off it. 

Now we used to think that the different shape of the lure was to attract different types of prey, but then stomach content analyses on these fish done by scientists, or more likely their graduate students, have revealed that they all eat pretty much the same thing.

(Laughter) But he still knows a good thing when he sees it, and so he seals the relationship with an eternal kiss.

(Laughter) Well, this is a deep-sea version of Women's Lib.

So they can use it for finding food, for attracting mates.

They use it a lot for defense, many different ways.

This shrimp is actually spewing light out of its mouth like a fire breathing dragon in order to blind or distract this viperfish so that the shrimp can swim away into the darkness.

there's even fish that can do this.

And we were using a special trawling net that we were able to bring these animals up alive.

So we captured one of these, and I brought it into the lab.

But to me, what's shocking is not just the amount of light, but the fact that it's not just luciferin and luciferase.

For this fish, it's actually whole cells with nuclei and membranes.

This jellyfish, for example, has a spectacular bioluminescent display.

This is us chasing it in the submersible.

That's not luminescence, that's reflected light from the gonads.

We capture it in a very special device on the front of the submersible that allows us to bring it up in really pristine condition, bring it into the lab on the ship.

And once this display gets going, I'm not touching it anymore.

This is an unbelievable light show.

And I thought, "You know, that might actually make a pretty good lure."

The primary way that we know about what lives in the ocean is we go out and drag nets behind ships.

And I defy you to name any other branch of science that still depends on hundreds of year-old technology.

The other primary way is we go down with submersibles and remote-operated vehicles.

I've made hundreds of dives in submersibles.

So, I've wanted for a long time to figure out a different way to explore. 

You can't use infrared in the sea.

Made an intensified camera, wanted to make this electronic jellyfish.

Thing is, in science, you basically have to tell the funding agencies what you're going to discover before they'll give you the money.

And I didn't know what I was going to discover, so I couldn't get the funding for this.

And you can see just what a shoestring operation this really was, because we cast these 16 blue LEDs in epoxy and you can see in the epoxy mold that we used, the word Ziploc is still visible.

Needless to say, when it's kluged together like this, there were a lot of trials and tribulations getting this working.

But there came a moment when it all came together, and everything worked.

And, remarkably, that moment got caught on film by photographer Mark Richards, who happened to be there at the precise moment that we discovered that it all came together.

That's me on the left, my graduate student at the time, Erika Raymond, and Lee Fry, who was the engineer on the project.

So now we had a system that we could actually take to some place that was kind of like an oasis on the bottom of the ocean that might be patrolled by large predators.

And so, the place that we took it to was this place called a Brine Pool, which is in the northern part of the Gulf of Mexico.

It's a magical place.

And I had my window into the deep sea.

I, for the first time, could see what animals were doing down there when we weren't down there disturbing them in some way.

Four hours into the deployment, we had programmed the electronic jellyfish to come on for the first time.

I could not have asked for a better proof of concept. 

And based on this, I went back to the National Science Foundation and said, "This is what we will discover."

So one of these take-home messages here is, there is still a lot to explore in the oceans.

I promise, you'll love it. 

Thank you. 

