I was interested in the idea of why and how I could create a new story, a new narrative in art history and a new narrative in the world.

In 1994, when I was a curator at the Whitney Museum, I made an exhibition called Black Male.

It looked at the intersection of race and gender in contemporary American art.

It sought to express the ways in which art could provide a space for dialogue -- complicated dialogue, dialogue with many, many points of entry -- and how the museum could be the space for this contest of ideas.

What was significant about this exhibition is the way in which it engaged me in my role as a curator, as a catalyst, for this dialogue.

One of the things that happened very distinctly in the course of this exhibition is I was confronted with the idea of how powerful images can be in people's understanding of themselves and each other. 

And in the course of the exhibition -- which was contentious, controversial and ultimately, for me, life-changing in my sense of what art could be -- a woman came up to me on the gallery floor to express her concern about the nature of how powerful images could be and how we understood each other.

Harlem now, sort of explaining and thinking of itself in this part of the century, looking both backwards and forwards ...

It's always what it was and what it can be.

And, in thinking about that, then my second project, the second question I ask is: Can a museum be a catalyst in a community?

Now, what does this mean to some of you?

The Studio Museum was founded in the late 60s.

And I bring this up because it's important to locate this practice in history.

It is really in this sense of discovery that I have a new set of questions that I'm asking.

This new set of questions is: What does it mean, right now, to be African-American in America?

Really, most exciting about this is thinking about the energy and the excitement that young artists can bring.

I am continually amazed by the way in which the subject of race can take itself in many places that we don't imagine it should be.

I am always amazed by the way in which artists are willing to do that in their work.

It is why I look to art.

It's why I ask questions of art.

It is why I make exhibitions. 

Now, this exhibition, as I said, 40 young artists done over the course of eight years, and for me it's about considering the implications.

It's considering the implications of what this generation has to say to the rest of us.

Now, where, perhaps, does this end up right now?

For me, it is about re-imagining this cultural discourse in an international context.

when I look at artworks?

What do I think about when I think about art?

