First of all, I'm a geek.

I'm an organic food-eating, carbon footprint-minimizing, robotic surgery geek.

And I really want to build green, but I'm very suspicious of all of these well-meaning articles, people long on moral authority and short on data, telling me how to do these kinds of things.

And so I have to figure this out for myself.

For example: Is this evil?

The answer to this can be found in embodied energy.

Wipe it up, throw it away.

Now, if I compare that to a cotton towel that I can use a thousand times, I don't have a whole lot of embodied energy until I wash that yogurty towel.

This is now operating energy.

I wipe it up with a sponge, and I put it under the running water, and I have a lot less energy and a lot more water.

So what this says is that sometimes the things that you least expect -- the position in which you put the handle -- have a bigger effect than any of those other things that you were trying to optimize.

Now imagine someone as twisted as me trying to build a house.

(Laughter) That's what my husband and I are doing right now.

And so, we wanted to know, how green could we be?

And there's a thousand and one articles out there telling us how to make all these green trade-offs.

And they are just as suspect in telling us to optimize these little things around the edges and missing the elephant in the living room.

We wanted to know how much better we could do.

So first, we demolish it.

It takes some energy, but if you deconstruct it -- you take it all apart, you use the bits -- you can get some of that energy back.

We then dug a big hole to put in a rainwater catchment tank to take our yard water independent.

And then we poured a big foundation for passive solar.

Now, you can reduce the embodied energy by about 25 percent by using high fly ash concrete.

We then put in framing.

And so this is framing -- lumber, composite materials -- and it's kind of hard to get the embodied energy out of that, but it can be a sustainable resource if you use FSC-certified lumber. 

We then go on to the first thing that was very surprising.

If we put aluminum windows in this house, we would double the energy use right there.

Now, PVC is a little bit better, but still not as good as the wood that we chose.

We then put in plumbing, electrical and HVAC, and insulate.

We also used straw bale infill for our library, which has zero embodied energy.

When it comes time to sheetrock, if you use EcoRock it's about a quarter of the embodied energy of standard sheetrock. 

And yet, all the press is focused on that.

Except for flooring.

If you put carpeting in your house, it's about a tenth of the embodied energy of the entire house, unless you use concrete or wood for a much lower embodied energy.

So now we add in the final construction energy, we add it all up, and we've built a house for less than half of the typical embodied energy for building a house like this. 

But before we pat ourselves too much on the back, we have poured 151 megawatt hours of energy into constructing this house when there was a house there before.

And so the question is: How could we make that back?

And so if I run my new energy-efficient house forward, compared with the old, non-energy-efficient house, we make it back in about six years.

Now, if I hadn't paid attention to embodied energy, it would have taken us over 50 years to break even compared to the upgraded house.

So what does this mean?

On the scale of my portion of the house, this is equivalent to about as much as I drive in a year, it's about five times as much as if I went entirely vegetarian.

But my elephant in the living room flies.

Clearly, I need to walk home from TED.

But all the calculations for embodied energy are on the blog. 

