The truth is that we know that the images themselves don't change the world, but we're also aware that, since the beginning of photography, images have provoked reactions in people, and those reactions have caused change to happen. 

So let's begin with a group of images.

I'd be extremely surprised if you didn't recognize many or most of them.

But I think we're looking for something more.

We're looking for something more.

We're looking for images that shine an uncompromising light on crucial issues, images that transcend borders, that transcend religions, images that provoke us to step up and do something -- in other words, to act.

We had never seen our planet from this perspective before.

Many people credit a lot of the birth of the environmental movement to our seeing the planet like this for the first time -- its smallness, its fragility. 

This destructive power takes many different forms.

Well, I think what is far worse is man's destructive power over man.

Samuel Pisar, an Auschwitz survivor, said, and I'll quote him, "The Holocaust teaches us that nature, even in its cruelest moments, is benign in comparison with man, when he loses his moral compass and his reason."

There's another kind of crucifixion.

The publication of those images, as opposed to the images themselves, caused a government to change its policies.

Some would argue that it is those images that did more to fuel the insurgency in Iraq than virtually any other single act.

Furthermore, those images forever removed the so-called moral high ground of the occupying forces. 

In fact, these images became the voices of protest themselves. 

In the 1980s, the stigmatization of people with the disease was an enormous barrier to even discussing or addressing it.

She, better than most, knew the power of an image. 

Thankfully, when these photos appeared in The Guardian in 1998, they put a lot of focus and attention and, in the end, a lot of money towards the Sudan famine relief efforts.

Unfortunately, some very important images are deemed too graphic or disturbing for us to see them.

John Moore set up this photo at Arlington Cemetery.

After all the tense moments of conflict in all the conflict zones of the world, there's one photograph from a much quieter place that haunts me still, much more than the others. 

Ansel Adams said, and I'm going to disagree with him, "You don't take a photograph, you make it."

In my view, it's not the photographer who makes the photo, it's you.

We bring to each image our own values, our own belief systems, and as a result of that, the image resonates with us.

Here it is.

And thank you to all the photographers. 

