Let's pretend right here we have a machine.

And everyone in this room has to get into it.

I don't know.

I'm convinced that there's some sort of pull to nostalgia, to wishful thinking.

And I understand that. 

It's because possibilities on this planet, they don't go back, they go forward.

So I want to get in the machine, and I want to go forward.

My great-grandparents died, all of them, by the time they were 60.

My grandparents pushed that number to 70.

My parents are closing in on 80.

So there better be a nine at the beginning of my death number.

Diphtheria, rubella, polio ... does anyone even know what those things are?

Vaccines, modern medicine, our ability to feed billions of people, those are triumphs of the scientific method.

So that's the good news.

And not only that, we've used our imagination to thoroughly trash this globe.

Potable water, arable land, rainforests, oil, gas: they're going away, and they're going away soon, and unless we innovate our way out of this mess, we're going away too. 

I think it's clear that we can make food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on.

And we've also never been in a position to deploy it properly in the way that we can today.

And this took me awhile to figure out. 

About a decade ago, I wrote a story about vaccines for The New Yorker.

And soon after that, I wrote a story about genetically engineered food.

Same thing, only bigger.

People were going crazy.

I mean, I'm a journalist.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

But these stories bothered me, and I couldn't figure out why, and eventually I did.

And that's because those fanatics that were driving me crazy weren't actually fanatics at all.

They were thoughtful people, educated people, decent people.

They were exactly like the people in this room.

And it just disturbed me so much.

We talk about it ambivalently.

You can just say a few names and people will understand.

And the reason that I can say that is because we're now in an epidemic of fear like one I've never seen and hope never to see again. 

But you know what?

That is disgraceful, and we should be ashamed of ourselves.

It's horrible.

What kind of a thing happened that we could do that? 

Because, did anyone have measles here?

Has one person in this audience ever seen someone die of measles?

Doesn't happen very much.

And they can do it because they don't link causation and correlation.

This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk.

That guy in the middle, not so much.

His name is Paul Offit.

He just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a bunch of other people.

And he actually says it that way.

So, Paul's a terrorist.

When Paul speaks in a public hearing, he can't testify without armed guards.

He gets called at home because people like to tell him that they remember where his kids go to school.

I don't need to say this, but vaccines are essential.

We have measles in this country now.

A college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said she thought I was a little strident.

No one's ever said that before.

We didn't have polio in this country yesterday.

Today, I don't know, maybe a guy got on a plane in Lagos this morning, and he's flying to LAX, right now he's over Ohio.

And he doesn't know that he's infected with a paralytic disease, and we don't either because that's the way the world works.

Everyone take their vitamins this morning?

I'm totally with you.

It's cruel to millions of people.

We leap into the arms of Big Placebo.

And I have all sorts of little props here.

You end up in Thabo Mbeki South Africa.

Hundreds of thousands of needless deaths in a country that has been plagued worse than any other by this disease.

Please, don't tell me there are no consequences to these things.

It's a debate about words, about metaphors.

It's ideology, it's not science.

Every single thing we eat, every grain of rice, every sprig of parsley, every Brussels sprout has been modified by man.

We made it over the last 11,000 years.

And some of it worked, and some of it didn't.

We got rid of the stuff that didn't.

You don't want to do that?

I have to say, I don't understand it. 

We object to genetically engineered food.

Why do we do that?

We don't companies patenting life.

We don't want companies owning seeds.

This has nothing to do with science.

It's law, it's morality, it's patent stuff.

You know science isn't a company.

Cassava's something that half a billion people eat.

We can set that time machine on anything we want.

