So, this is a story about how we know what we know. 

(Audio) Natalia Rybczynski: Yeah, I had someone call me "Dr. Dead Things."

LN: And at some point, she noticed something. 

LN: And she tried to piece them together like a jigsaw puzzle.

But it was challenging. 

(Audio) NR: It's broken up into so many little tiny pieces, I'm trying to use sand and putty, and it's not looking good.

So finally, we used a 3D surface scanner. 

LN: It turns out it was way easier to do it virtually. 

(Audio) NR: It's kind of magical when it all fits together. 

LN: How certain were you that you had it right, that you had put it together in the right way?

But it couldn't have been either of those.

It was just too big. 

LN: So what animal could it be?

Having hit a wall, she showed one of the fragments to some colleagues of hers in Colorado, and they had an idea. 

LN: It smelled kind of like singed flesh.

Collagen is what gives structure to our bones.

And usually, after so many years, it breaks down.

But in this case, the Arctic had acted like a natural freezer and preserved it. 

Then a year or two later, Natalia was at a conference in Bristol, and she saw that a colleague of hers named Mike Buckley was demoing this new process that he called "collagen fingerprinting."

It turns out that the 3.5 million-year-old bone that Natalia had dug out of the High Arctic belonged to ... a camel. 

LN: So they tested a bunch of the fragments, and they got the same result for each one.

However, based on the size of the bone that they found, it meant that this camel was 30 percent larger than modern-day camels.

So this camel would have been about nine feet tall, weighed around a ton. 

Yeah.

Natalia had found a Giant Arctic camel. 

So how on earth would one of these guys end up in the High Arctic? 

They started here.

(Audio) LN: If I put them all in a lineup, would they look different? 

LN: Some had snouts, like crocodiles. 

(Audio) NR: The earliest ones.

So those ones you probably would not recognize. 

LN: Oh my God, I want a pet rabbit-camel. 

And then around the end of the last ice age, North American camels went extinct. 

Like, this is, temperature-wise, the polar opposite of the Sahara.

Now to be fair, three and a half million years ago, it was on average 22 degrees Celsius warmer than it is now.

You'd have 24 hours a day of straight darkness.

Like, how ... How?

How is it that one of these Saharan superstars could ever have survived those arctic conditions? 

Natalia and her colleagues think they have an answer.

And it's kind of brilliant.

What if the very features that we imagine make the camel so well-suited to places like the Sahara, actually evolved to help it get through the winter?

What if that hump -- which, huge news to me, does not contain water, it contains fat -- 

was there to help the camel get through that six-month-long winter, when food was scarce?

And then, only later, long after it crossed over the land bridge did it retrofit those winter features for a hot desert environment?

So it helps heat dissipate easier.

It's this crazy idea, that what seems like proof of the camel's quintessential desert nature could actually be proof of its High Arctic past. 

Now, I'm not the first person to tell this story.

So I was trained as a historian.

And I've learned that, actually, a lot of scientists are historians, too.

They make sense of the past.

They tell the history of our universe, of our planet, of life on this planet.

And as a historian, you start with an idea in your mind of how the story goes. 

Clearly, it always lived there. 

Like, in this case, this one scientist finds this one shard of what she thought was wood, and because of that, science has a totally new and totally counterintuitive theory about why this absurd Dr. Seuss-looking creature looks the way it does.

And for me, it completely upended the way I think of the camel.

But really, Azuri is here as a living reminder that the story of our world is a dynamic one.

It requires our willingness to readjust, to reimagine. 

And, really, that we're all just one shard of bone away from seeing the world anew. 

Thank you very much. 

