So, the first robot to talk about is called STriDER.

It stands for Self-excited Tripedal Dynamic Experimental Robot.

It's a robot that has three legs, which is inspired by nature.

But my robot, STriDER, does not move like this. 

So, this is an actual dynamic simulation animation.

I'm just going to show you how the robot works.

What you're doing is you really swing your leg and catch the fall, stand up again, swing your leg and catch the fall.

You're using your built-in dynamics, the physics of your body, just like a pendulum.

We call that the concept of passive dynamic locomotion.

What you're doing is, when you stand up, potential energy to kinetic energy, potential energy to kinetic energy.

It's a constantly falling process.

So, even though there is nothing in nature that looks like this, really, we were inspired by biology and applying the principles of walking to this robot.

What you see over here, this is what we want to do next.

So we have two prototypes.

So, we decided to synthesize a mechanical mechanism so we could get rid of all the motors, and with a single motor we can coordinate all the motions.

The second robot I want to talk about is called IMPASS.

It stands for Intelligent Mobility Platform with Actuated Spoke System.

So, it's a wheel-leg hybrid robot.

We are literally re-inventing the wheel here.

Let me demonstrate how it works.

So, in this video we're using an approach called the reactive approach.

And just by the tactile information, it successfully crosses over these type of terrain. 

You probably haven't seen anything like this out there.

This is a very high mobility robot that we developed called IMPASS.

Ah, isn't that cool? 

When you drive your car, when you steer your car, you use a method called Ackermann steering.

The front wheels rotate like this.

For IMPASS, we can do many, many different types of motion.

For example, in this case, even though the left and right wheel is connected with a single axle rotating at the same angle of velocity.

But the current rovers cannot get there.

So, inspired by that we wanted to build a robot that can climb a structured cliff environment. 

Once it stabilizes that, it lifts a foot, and then with the winch it can climb up these kinds of thing.

Also for search and rescue applications as well. 

Five years ago I actually worked at NASA JPL during the summer as a faculty fellow.

We developed our adaptive gait planner.

So, it tries to adapt its gait to successfully cross over these kind of things.

And also, it does some fun stuff, as can imagine.

We get so many visitors visiting our lab.

This robot is an amoeba robot.

Now, we don't have enough time to go into technical details, I'll just show you some of the experiments.

So, this is some of the early feasibility experiments.

We also have been working with some scientists and engineers from UPenn to come up with a chemically actuated version of this amoeba robot.

We do something to something And just like magic, it moves.

Robotic Air Powered Hand with Elastic Ligaments.

We wanted to go tackle this problem in a very different direction.

Instead of using electrical motors, electromechanical actuators, we're using compressed air.

The best part, it took only $200 dollars to make the first prototype. 

This is a robot that can climb structures.

This is a HyDRAS's arm.

It's a 12 degrees of freedom robotic arm.

But the cool part is the user interface.

The cable over there, that's an optical fiber.

And this student, probably the first time using it, but she can articulate it many different ways.

Now, this robot is currently our star robot.

This was in 2004; at that time, this was something really, really revolutionary.

So, this does not have any sensors.

So, it's an open loop control.

So, based on that success, the following year we did the proper mechanical design starting from kinematics.

However, still, as you can see, it has a cord, umbilical cord.

And now DARwIn II is completely autonomous.

It is not remote controlled.

Dennis Hong: So, there is actually a competition called RoboCup.

And the goal of RoboCup, the actual goal is, by the year 2050 we want to have full size, autonomous humanoid robots play soccer against the human World Cup champions and win.

So, this is last year in China.

What you see over here, this is the beautiful Louis Vuitton Cup trophy.

(Applause) Thank you. 

DARwIn also has a lot of other talents.

So, what is the secret of our success?

We have a fully autonomous vehicle that can drive into urban environments.

We also have the world's very first vehicle that can be driven by the blind.

These are just the awards that we won in 2007 fall from robotics competitions and those kinds of things. 

So, really, we have five secrets.

This is a true story, my personal story.

So, I see this, scribble everything down, draw things, and I go to bed.

Every day in the morning, the first thing I do before my first cup of coffee, before I brush my teeth, I open my notebook.

So, I need to decipher what I wrote.

I directly run to my home office, sit at my computer, I type in the ideas, I sketch things out and I keep a database of ideas.

So, when we have these calls for proposals, I try to find a match between my potential ideas and the problem.

At our lab RoMeLa, the Robotics and Mechanisms Laboratory, we have these fantastic brainstorming sessions.

So, we gather around, we discuss about problems and social problems and talk about it.

But before we start we set this golden rule.

So, once you do this, it is amazing how the students open up.

They have these wacky, cool, crazy, brilliant ideas, and the whole room is just electrified with creative energy.

And this is how we develop our ideas. 

He gave a talk about how education and school kills creativity.

Well, actually, there are two sides to the story.

So, there is only so much one can do with just ingenious ideas and creativity and good engineering intuition.

If you want to go beyond a tinkering, if you want to go beyond a hobby of robotics and really tackle the grand challenges of robotics through rigorous research we need more than that.

For us roboticists, engineers and scientists, these tools, these are the courses and classes you take in class.

These are all the tools that we need.

So, education is very important. 

Also, it's not about that, only about that.

That's really the secret of our success, we're having too much fun.

(Applause) 

