But that would sort of be jumping to the middle of the story, and I'm not going to show you that polished video.

They have a particular interest in ones that will help our soldiers.

That's the good news. 

The bad news is if they've collected this person and he or she is missing an arm or leg, part of the face, it's probably not coming back.

Either way they were going to eat it. 

I told them they're nuts.

(Laughter) They've been watching too much "Terminator."

(Laughter) They've been watching too much "Terminator."

(Laughter) Then, the surgeon says to me, "Dean, you need to know more than two dozen of these kids have come back bilateral."

Now, I cannot imagine -- I'm sorry, you may have a better imagination than I do -- I can't imagine losing my arm, and typically at 22 years old.

So, I decided we've got to do this.

And trust me, I've got a day job, I've got a lot of day jobs.

Did a little investigation, went down to Washington, told them I still think they're nuts but we're going to do it.

And I told them I'd build them an arm.

I told them it would probably take five years to get through the FDA, and probably 10 years to be reasonably functional.

Look what it takes to make things like iPods.

"Great," he said, "You got two years."

(Laughter) I said, "I'll tell you what.

(Laughter) I said, "I'll tell you what.

I went back and I started putting a team together, the best guys I could find with a passion to do this.

I then thought it would be years before we'd be able to make it really, really useful.

It turned out, as I think you could see in Aimee's capabilities and attitudes, people with a desire to do something are quite remarkable and nature is quite adaptable. 

And we took some pretty cruddy home movies.

(Laughter) I cannot do that.

(Laughter) I cannot do that.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

So, can we see that?

And just as in the spirit of FIRST, gracious professionalism, they are quite proud of this, so they decide to share a drink.

This is a non-trivial thing to do, by the way.

Imagine doing that with a wooden stick and a hook on the end of it, doing either of those.

Now Chuck is doing something quite extraordinary, at least for my limited physical skill.

But, as I've learned from Richard, the technology, the processors, the sensors, the motors, is not the story.

I'll give you some astounding things that have happened as we started this.

It doesn't matter whether the Department of Defense likes this arm."

When I told them that they weren't entirely enthusiastic, but I told them, "It really doesn't matter what their opinion is.

There is only one opinion that matters, the kids that are either going to use it or not."

And we started asking them all questions.

And we were trying to get them to all help us know what to give them.

Not only were they enthusiastic, they kept thinking they're there to help us.

You could see he was missing an arm.

He was leaning on his other arm.

So, we left.

And I was thinking, "We didn't give them support and encouragement; they gave it to us.

They're not finished giving yet."

It was astounding.

So, we went back.

And I started working harder, faster.

Then we went out to Brooke Army Medical Center.

And we saw lots of these kids, lots of them.

And it was astounding how positive they are.

So, we went back, and we've been working harder yet.

We're in clinical trials, we've got five of them on people.

We're screaming along.

And I get a call and we go back to Washington. 

And they shipped him to Germany and 24 hours later they shipped him from Germany to Walter Reed.

He's got a small residual limb on one side.

He had one good eye.

His name is Brandon Marrocco. 

(Laughter) Anyway, he was just like all the rest of them.

He doesn't really want a lot.

So, I was on my way out here.

I was asked to stop at Texas.

"You need to come."

And, as I think you get the point, there were a lot people there recovering.

Some further along than others.

I don't think anybody does it intentionally, but there were people there literally talking about, "Well, how much will they get?"

You know, this country is involved as we've all heard, in this great healthcare debate.

I don't know the answers.

There are other questions that are tough.

"Should we be there?

It is an easy answer. 

I know what these kids deserve on the healthcare side.

And I think this country ought to continue its great debate, whining and complaining, "I'm entitled."

And whining and complaining about what our foreign policy ought to be.

