This is actually a direct quote from an epidemiologist who's been in field of HIV for 15 years, worked on four continents, and you're looking at her. 

And I am now going to argue that this is only half true.

People do get HIV because they do stupid things, but most of them are doing stupid things for perfectly rational reasons.

Wonderful. 

So, let's start with what's rational for an addict.

Now, I remember speaking to an Indonesian friend of mine, Frankie.

We were having lunch and he was telling me about when he was in jail in Bali for a drug injection.

So his choice was either to accept that dirty needle or not to get high.

And if there's one place you really want to get high, it's when you're in jail. 

But I'm a scientist and I don't like to make data out of anecdotes, so let's look at some data.

And, "Do you know where you can get a clean needle at a price you can afford to avoid that?"

So no surprises then that the proportion that actually used clean needles every time they injected in the last week is just about one in 10, and the other nine in 10 are sharing. 

And while junkies think that it's a really bad idea to expose themselves to HIV, they think it's a much worse idea to spend the next year in jail where they'll probably end up in Frankie's situation and expose themselves to HIV anyway.

So, suddenly it becomes perfectly rational to share needles. 

Now, let's look at it from a policy maker's point of view.

This is a really easy problem.

For once, your incentives are aligned.

We've got what's rational for public health.

You want people to use clean needles -- and junkies want to use clean needles.

So we could make this problem go away simply by making clean needles universally available and taking away the fear of arrest.

Now, the first person to figure that out and do something about it on a national scale was that well-known, bleeding heart liberal Margaret Thatcher.

Now, places that didn't do this -- New York City for example, Moscow, Jakarta -- we're talking, at its peak, one in two injectors infected with this fatal disease.

Now, Margaret Thatcher didn't do this because she has any great love for junkies.

She did it because she ran a country that had a national health service.

So, if she didn't invest in effective prevention, she was going to have pick up the costs of treatment later on, and obviously those are much higher.

So she was making a politically rational decision.

Now, if I take out my public health nerd glasses here and look at these data, it seems like a no-brainer, doesn't it?

But in this country, where the government apparently does not feel compelled to provide health care for citizens, (Laughter) we've taken a very different approach.

So what we've been doing in the United States is reviewing the data -- endlessly reviewing the data.

So, these are reviews of hundreds of studies by all the big muckety-mucks of the scientific pantheon in the United States, and these are the studies that show needle programs are effective -- quite a lot of them.

Now, the ones that show that needle programs aren't effective -- you think that's one of these annoying dynamic slides and I'm going to press my dongle and the rest of it's going to come up, but no -- that's the whole slide. 

There is nothing on the other side.

So what we see is that voters respond very well to things like this and not quite so well to things like this. 

So it becomes quite rational to deny services to injectors.

Now let's talk about sex.

Are we any more rational about sex?

Well, I'm not even going to address the clearly irrational positions of people like the Catholic Church, who think somehow that if you give out condoms, everyone's going to run out and have sex.

(Laughter) (Applause) It's not that easy!

Here, maybe you'll have better luck. 

So, it depends on how much virus there is in your blood and in your body fluids.

So the sexual transmission of HIV is essentially determined by how many partners you have in these very short spaces of time when you have peak viremia.

Now, this makes people crazy because it means that you have to talk about some groups having more sexual partners in shorter spaces of time than other groups, and that's considered stigmatizing.

I've always been a bit curious about that because I think stigma is a bad thing, whereas lots of sex is quite a good thing, but we'll leave that be.

And that is reflected in the epidemic that we have today. 

You can see these horrifying figures from Africa.

These are all countries in southern Africa where between one in seven, and one in three of all adults, are infected with HIV.

Of course, you can't get HIV just by having unprotected sex.

You can only HIV by having unprotected sex with a positive person. 

And, again, it's because of an alignment of the incentives.

What's rational for public health is also rational for individual sex workers because it's really bad for business to have another STI.

No one wants it.

And, actually, clients don't want to go home with a drip either.

So essentially, you're able to achieve quite high rates of condom use in commercial sex. 

But in "intimate" relations it's much more difficult because, with your wife or your boyfriend or someone that you hope might turn into one of those things, we have this illusion of romance and trust and intimacy, and nothing is quite so unromantic as the, "My condom or yours, darling?"

So in the face of that, you really need quite a strong incentive to use condoms. 

This is also in Haiti and is a reminder of why you might want to be having sex, perhaps.

Now, funnily enough, this is also Joseph after six months on antiretroviral treatment.

Not for nothing do we call it the Lazarus Effect.

But it is changing the equation of what's rational in sexual decision-making.

So, what we've got -- some people say, "Oh, it doesn't matter very much because, actually, treatment is effective prevention because it lowers your viral load and therefore makes it more difficult to transmit HIV."

Well, you die, so your viral load goes to zero.

And all of this green stuff here, including the spikes -- which are because you couldn't get to the pharmacy, or you ran out of drugs, or you went on a three day party binge and forgot to take your drugs, or because you've started to get resistance, or whatever -- all of that is virus that wouldn't be out there, except for treatment. 

We need to expand antiretroviral treatment as much as we can.

But what I am doing is calling into question those people who say that more treatment is all the prevention we need.

AIDS was a disfiguring disease that killed you, and HIV is an invisible virus that makes you take a pill every day.

If we look at the data, we can see that the answer to that question is, mmm. 

So these are data from Scotland.

You see the peak in drug injectors before they started the national needle exchange program.

But in gay men, you've got quite a dramatic rise starting three or four years after treatment became widely available.

This is of new infections. 

What does that mean?

What does it mean?

It means we need to be doing more prevention the more treatment we have. 

Is that what's happening?

No, and I call it the "compassion conundrum."

It doesn't make any sense from a public health point of view. 

I want to give what's very nearly the last word to Ines.

Why does she do that job?

It varies a bit province to province.

So it's not a great job, but for a lot of people it really is quite a rational choice.

Okay, Ines. 

We've got the tools, the knowledge and the cash, and commitment to preventing HIV too. 

Ines: So why is prevalence still rising?

It's all politics.

When you get to politics, nothing makes sense. 

From the point of view of a public health nerd, junkies are doing dumb things.

The truth is that everyone has a different rationale.

There are as many different ways of being rational as there are human beings on the planet, and that's one of the glories of human existence.

But here's the thing: we are the voters.

Thank you. 

