And I'm not a trained academic.

Neither am I a veteran social worker.

I was 26 years in the corporate world, trying to make organizations profitable.

And then in 2003 I started Parikrma Humanity Foundation from my kitchen table. 

The first thing that we did was walk through the slums.

You know, by the way, there are two million people in Bangalore, who live in 800 slums.

We couldn't go to all the slums, but we tried to cover as much as we could.

We walked through these slums, identified houses where children would never go to school.

We talked to the parents, tried to convince them about sending their children to school.

We also heard that 250 billion Indian rupees was dedicated for government schooling.

Ninety percent of it was spent on teachers' salary and administrators' salary.

And yet, India has nearly the highest teacher absenteeism in the world, with one out of four teachers not going to school at all the entire academic year. 

But we dug our heels and said, "We're not in the number game.

We want to take one child at a time and take the child right through school, sent to college, and get them prepared for better living, a high value job."

So, we started Parikrma.

Indian academic year begins in June.

And all of us that were under that roof are still here together today.

Then came the second school, the third school, the fourth school and a junior college.

Now, when you talk global you have to talk English.

And so all our schools are English medium schools.

But how wrong it is. 

Girl: I like adventurous books, and some of my favorites are Alfred Hitchcock and [unclear] and Hardy Boys.

The vocabulary used in those books and the style of writing.

I mean like once I pick up one book I cannot put it down until I finish the whole book.

Even if it takes me four and a half hours, or three and half hours to finish my book, I do it. 

Boy: I did good research and I got the information [on the] world's fastest cars.

Shukla Bose: Well, that girl that you saw, her father sells flowers on the roadside.

And this little boy has been coming to school for five years.

Not only do our children cope very well, but they excel in it.

You should just come across to see how well our children do. 

That's absolute hogwash.

SB: We have 80 percent attendance for all our parents-teachers meeting.

The children have taught them.

It's amazing how much children can teach. 

We had 25 mothers who came regularly after school to study.

We want to continue with this program and extend it to all our other schools. 

Ninety-eight percent of our fathers are alcoholics.

So, you can imagine how traumatized and how dysfunctional the houses are where our children come from.

We have about three fathers who have been trained to cook.

We have taught them nutrition, hygiene.

We have helped them set up the kitchen and now they are supplying food to all our children.

More than 90 percent of our non-teaching staff are all parents and extended families.

We've started many programs just to make sure that the child comes to school.

I had very good friends there, who are from Delhi, who are from Mumbai.

Even now we are in touch through Facebook. 

Before that I feel like I wasn't like this.

I don't even mingle, or start speaking with someone so quickly.

My accent with English improved a lot.

SB: This girl was working as a maid before she came to school.

And today she wants to be a neurologist. 

Our children are doing brilliantly in sports.

They are really excelling.

We've got the best school award for three years successively.

And our children are coming back home with bags full of medals, with lots of admirers and friends.

Last year there were a couple of kids from elite schools that came to ask for admissions in our school.

We also have our very own dream team. 

Art, music are considered therapy and mediums of expression.

We also believe that it's the content that is more important.

Creating an environment of learning, of inquiry, of exploration is what is true education. 

When we started Parikrma we had no idea which direction we were taking.

We didn't hire McKinsey to do a business plan.

We have corporates that have stood behind us, and we are able to, now, open more schools.

But we began with the idea of one child at a time. 

This is five-year-old Parusharam.

We have a model by which kids can speak English and understand English in three month's time.

He can tell you stories in English of the thirsty crow, of the crocodile and of the giraffe.

And if you ask him what he likes to do he will say, "I like sleeping.

So, Parusharam comes to my office every day.

But today I have been transformed.

I have been changed with my children.

