You know for me, the interest in contemporary forms of slavery started with a leaflet that I picked up in London.

It was the early '90s, and I was at a public event.

So it can't be true."

All the rest were historical.

So, I began to do a research project of my own.

And I've got to tell you, what I found out in the world in four different continents, was depressingly familiar.

It was mind-blowing. 

This is not about lousy marriages, this is not about jobs that suck.

It's real slavery in exactly the same way that slavery would be recognized throughout all of human history. 

Now, where is it?

Well, this map in the sort of redder, yellower colors are the places with the highest densities of slavery.

But in fact that kind of bluey color are the countries where we can't find any cases of slavery.

It's a pretty harrowing linkage between what's happening to our environment and what's happening to our human rights. 

Now, how on Earth did we get to a situation like this, where we have 27 million people in slavery in the year 2010?

That's double the number that came out of Africa in the entire transatlantic slave trade.

Well, it builds up with these factors.

They are not causal, they are actually supporting factors.

But that doesn't make you a slave either.

What it takes to turn a person who is destitute and vulnerable into a slave, is the absence of the rule of law.

If the rule of law is sound, it protects the poor and it protects the vulnerable.

But if corruption creeps in and people don't have the opportunity to have that protection of the rule of law, then if you can use violence, if you can use violence with impunity, you can reach out and harvest the vulnerable into slavery. 

Well, that is precisely what has happened around the world.

Though, for a lot of people, the people who step into slavery today don't usually get kidnapped or knocked over the head.

They come into slavery because someone has asked them this question. 

Ten miles, 100 miles, 1,000 miles later, they find themselves in dirty, dangerous, demeaning work.

Even the business programs have started picking up on this.

I just want to share a little clip for you. 

Brent Lawson: Happy to be here. 

D: Good to have you with us, Brent.

Now, gentlemen ... Brent, where is your money going this year? 

We really like the human being story a lot.

If you look at a long-term chart, prices are at historical lows and yet global demand for forced labor is still real strong.

So, that's a scenario that we think we should be capitalizing on. 

Africans and Indians, as usual, South Americans, and Eastern Europeans in particular are on our buy list. 

MO: We're recommending to our clients a buy and hold strategy.

There's no need to play the market.

Though I enjoyed watching your jaws drop, drop, drop, until you got it.

Here's the reality.

The price of human beings across the last 4,000 years in today's money has averaged about 40,000 dollars.

Capital purchase items.

You can see that the lines cross when the population explodes. 

The average price of a human being today, around the world, is about 90 dollars.

They are more expensive in places like North America.

They key here is that people have ceased to be that capital purchase item and become like Styrofoam cups.

You buy them cheaply, you use them, you crumple them up, and then when you're done with them you just throw them away. 

These young boys are in Nepal.

They are basically the transport system on a quarry run by a slaveholder.

And if there is anything that makes me feel very positive about this, it's that there are also -- in addition to young men like this who are still enslaved -- there are ex-slaves who are now working to free others.

Or, we say, Frederick Douglass is in the house. 

This is not James, this is one of the kids that he works with. 

Now, everything I've been telling you, I admit, is pretty disheartening.

And likewise, the 40 billion dollars that they generate into the global economy each year is the tiniest proportion of the global economy to ever be represented by slave labor. 

Slavery, illegal in every country has been pushed to the edges of our global society.

And it can be done. 

Now, if we do that, if we put the resources and the focus to it, what does it actually cost to get people out of slavery?

Well, first, before I even tell you the cost I've got to be absolutely clear.

We do not buy people out of slavery.

Liberation, however, costs some money. 

Liberation, and more importantly all the work that comes after liberation.

It's not an event, it's a process.

A boy in Ghana rescued from fishing slavery, about 400 dollars.

But most of the people in the world in slavery live in those places where the costs are lowest.

And in fact, the global average is about what it is for Ghana. 

Intel's fourth quarter earnings: 10.8 billion. 

It's not a lot of money at the global level.

In fact, it's peanuts.

Children rescued from slavery in the fishing industry in Ghana, reunited with their parents, and then taken with their parents back to their villages to rebuild their economic well-being so that they become slave-proof -- absolutely unenslaveable. 

Now, this woman lived in a village in Nepal.

We'd been working there about a month.

If we don't take action, we just leave ourselves open to have someone else jerk the strings that tie us to slavery in the products we buy, and in our government policies.

And yet, if there's one thing that every human being can agree on, I think it's that slavery should end. 

And if there is a fundamental violation of our human dignity that we would all say is horrific, it's slavery.

