I want to talk about 4.6 billion years of history in 18 minutes.

That's 300 million years per minute.

Let's start with the first photograph NASA obtained of planet Mars.

One of the key questions in all of science, "Is there life outside of Earth?"

I believe that Mars is the most likely target for life outside the Earth.

I'm going to show you in a few minutes some amazing measurements that suggest there may be life on Mars.

But let me start with a Viking photograph.

This is a composite taken by Viking in 1976.

Viking was developed and managed at the NASA Langley Research Center.

We sent two orbiters and two landers in the summer of 1976.

We had four spacecraft, two around Mars, two on the surface -- an amazing accomplishment. 

This is the first photograph taken from the surface of any planet.

So, Mars is a pretty big place even though it's half the size.

We have obtained topographic measurements of the surface of Mars.

We know a lot about Mars.

Mars has the largest volcano in the solar system, Olympus Mons.

Mars has the Grand Canyon of the solar system, Valles Marineris.

Very, very interesting planet.

Mars has the largest impact crater in the solar system, Hellas Basin.

This is 2,000 miles across.

If you happened to be on Mars when this impactor hit, it was a really bad day on Mars.

(Laughter) This is Olympus Mons.

This is bigger than the state of Arizona. 

Volcanoes are important, because volcanoes produce atmospheres and they produce oceans.

We call this crustal magnetism.

There are regions on Mars, where, for some reason -- we don't understand why at this point -- the surface is very, very highly magnetized. 

But there is intriguing evidence that suggests that the early history of Mars there may have been rivers and fast flowing water.

Here are some recent images.

This is from Spirit and Opportunity.

Water is the key ingredient in the evolution, the origin of life on a planet. 

It has not been seen publicly.

This is European space agency Mars Express, image of a crater on Mars and in the middle of the crater we have liquid water, we have ice.

Very intriguing photograph. 

We now believe that in the early history of Mars, which is 4.6 billion years ago, 4.6 billion years ago, Mars was very Earth-like.

Mars had rivers, Mars had lakes, but more important Mars had planetary-scale oceans.

Where did the ocean's worth of water on Mars go?

Well, we have an idea.

This is a measurement we obtained a few years ago from a Mars-orbiting satellite called Odyssey.

Sixteen percent, by weight, of the interior contains frozen water, or ice.

So, there is a lot of water below the surface. 

The most intriguing and puzzling measurement, in my opinion, we've obtained of Mars, was released earlier this year in the magazine Science.

And what we're looking at is the presence of the gas methane, CH4, in the atmosphere of Mars.

And you can see there are three distinct regions of methane.

Why is methane important?

We now have evidence that methane is in the atmosphere of Mars, a gas that, on Earth, is biogenic in origin, produced by living systems.

These are the three plumes: A, B1, B2. 

In fact, the Earth and Mars are both 4.6 billion years old.

We have no geological record prior for the first billion years.

That record exists on Mars.

And this terrain that we're looking at dates back to 4.6 billion years when Earth and Mars were formed.

This is a map that shows where we've put our spacecraft on the surface of Mars.

Notice all of our rovers and all of our landers have gone to the northern hemisphere.

That's because the northern hemisphere is the region of the ancient ocean basin.

There aren't many craters.

And that's because the water protected the basin from being impacted by asteroids and meteorites.

What is the best way to unravel the mysteries on Mars that exist?

We asked this question 10 years ago.

We invited 10 of the top Mars scientists to the Langley Research Center for two days.

We addressed on the board the major questions that have not been answered.

And we spent two days deciding how to best answer this question.

And the result of our meeting was a robotic rocket-powered airplane we call ARES.

It's an Aerial Regional-scale Environmental Surveyor.

This airplane was designed at the Langley Research Center.

But, of equal importance, as we fly through the atmosphere of Mars, we transmit that journey, the first flight of an airplane outside of the Earth, we transmit those images back to Earth.

And our goal is to inspire the American public who is paying for this mission through tax dollars.

But more important we will inspire the next generation of scientists, technologists, engineers and mathematicians.

And that's a critical area of national security and economic vitality, to make sure we produce the next generation of scientists, engineers, mathematicians and technologists. 

This is what ARES looks like as it flies over Mars.

We will have instruments aboard the plane that will sample, every three minutes, the atmosphere of Mars.

We will look for methane as well as other gasses produced by living systems.

How do we get it to Mars?

And we have it in something called an aeroshell.

This is how we do it.

And we have a little video that describes the sequence. 

Joel Levine: This is a launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.

This is the spacecraft taking nine months to get to Mars.

A parachute opens up to slow it down.

The thermal tiles fall off.

The airplane is exposed to the atmosphere for the first time.

Practice makes perfect.

How do we know we can do it?

And I want to show you one of our tests.

This is a half-scale model.

This is a high-altitude helium balloon.

This is over Tilamook, Oregon.

And we've done high-altitude and low-altitude tests, just to perfect this technique. 

We're ready to go.

I'm prepared to donate my honorarium for today's talk for this mission.

There's actually no honorarium for anyone for this thing.

We are on the verge right now to make the first flight of an airplane outside the Earth's atmosphere.

We are prepared to fly this on Mars, rewrite the textbook about Mars.

If you're interested in more information, we have a website that describes this exciting and intriguing mission, and why we want to do it.

