These are people who have taken career breaks for elder care, for childcare reasons, pursuing a personal interest or a personal health issue.

This disconnect is a problem that I'm trying to help solve. 

Now, successful relaunchers are everywhere and in every field.

This is Sami Kafala.

The Singapore press recently wrote about nurses returning to work after long career breaks.

And speaking of long career breaks, this is Mimi Kahn.

She's a social worker in Orange County, California, who returned to work in a social services organization after a 25-year career break.

That's the longest career break that I'm aware of.

Tracy wrote in that she was a mom of five who loved her time at home, but she had gone through a divorce and needed to return to work, plus she really wanted to bring work back into her life because she loved working.

Tracy was doing what so many of us do when we feel like we've put in a good day in the job search.

The first thing I told Tracy was she had to get out of the house.

And that is, that people's view of you is frozen in time.

So for example, you might think of yourself as someone who looks like this.

This is me, crazy after a day of driving around in my minivan.

Or here I am in the kitchen.

But those people from the past, they don't know about any of this.

So I was afraid I'd go into an interview and start talking about a company that didn't exist anymore.

We did that already.

We have fewer spousal or partner job relocations.

We're in a more settled time of life.

We have great work experience.

We have a more mature perspective.

We're not trying to find ourselves at an employer's expense.

Plus we have an energy, an enthusiasm about returning to work precisely because we've been away from it for a while. 

On the flip side, I speak with employers, and here are two concerns that employers have about hiring relaunchers. 

The first one is, employers are worried that relaunchers are technologically obsolete.

I had done my financial analysis so long ago that I used Lotus 1-2-3.

And if they're not up to speed, then it's their responsibility to get there.

And they do. 

The second area of concern that employers have about relaunchers is they're worried that relaunchers don't know what they want to do.

That's not the employer's job.

It's the relauncher's responsibility to demonstrate to the employer where they can add the most value. 

Back in 2010 I started noticing something.

I saw Goldman Sachs and Sara Lee start corporate reentry internship programs.

I saw a returning engineer, a nontraditional reentry candidate, apply for an entry-level internship program in the military, and then get a permanent job afterward.

I saw two universities integrate internships into mid-career executive education programs. 

So I wrote a report about what I was seeing, and it became this article for Harvard Business Review called "The 40-Year-Old Intern."

And then, courtesy of Fox Business News, they called the concept "The 50-Year-Old Intern."

So five of the biggest financial services companies have reentry internship programs for returning finance professionals.

And at this point, hundreds of people have participated.

And now, seven of the biggest engineering companies are piloting reentry internship programs for returning engineers as part of an initiative with the Society of Women Engineers.

Now, why are companies embracing the reentry internship?

Because the internship allows the employer to base their hiring decision on an actual work sample instead of a series of interviews, and the employer does not have to make that permanent hiring decision until the internship period is over.

This testing out period removes the perceived risk that some managers attach to hiring relaunchers, and they are attracting excellent candidates who are turning into great hires. 

Think about how far we have come.

Before this, most employers were not interested in engaging with relaunchers at all.

But now, not only are programs being developed specifically with relaunchers in mind, but you can't even apply for these programs unless you have a gap on your résumé. 

And there's no reason why there can't be a retiree internship program.

Different pool, same concept. 

So let me tell you what happened with Tracy Shapiro.

Remember that she had to tell everyone she knew about her interest in returning to work.

But it was a temp job.

The company told her there was a possibility it could turn into something more, but no guarantees.

This was in the fall of 2011.

So even though she had a second job offer at another company for a permanent full-time role, she decided to take her chances with this internship and hope for the best.

They've paid for her to get her MBA at night.

She's even hired another relauncher to work for her.

Now, my goal is to bring the reentry internship concept to more and more employers.

But in the meantime, if you are returning to work after a career break, don't hesitate to suggest an internship or an internship-like arrangement to an employer that does not have a formal reentry internship program.

Thank you. 

