I'm going to speak today about the relationship between science and human values.

Now, it's generally understood that questions of morality -- questions of good and evil and right and wrong -- are questions about which science officially has no opinion.

It's thought that science can help us get what we value, but it can never tell us what we ought to value.

But I think this is quite clearly untrue.

Values are a certain kind of fact.

They are facts about the well-being of conscious creatures. 

Why is it that we don't have ethical obligations toward rocks?

Now, the crucial thing to notice here is that this is a factual claim: This is something that we could be right or wrong about.

And there's no notion, no version of human morality and human values that I've ever come across that is not at some point reducible to a concern about conscious experience and its possible changes.

Even if you get your values from religion, even if you think that good and evil ultimately relate to conditions after death -- either to an eternity of happiness with God or an eternity of suffering in hell -- you are still concerned about consciousness and its changes.

Now, to speak about the conditions of well-being in this life, for human beings, we know that there is a continuum of such facts.

And we know that it's possible to move along this continuum towards something quite a bit more idyllic, to a place where a conference like this is even conceivable. 

Would adding cholera to the water be a good idea?

Probably not.

There are truths to be known about how human communities flourish, whether or not we understand these truths.

And morality relates to these truths. 

So, in talking about values we are talking about facts.

Now, of course our situation in the world can be understood at many levels -- from the level of the genome on up to the level of economic systems and political arrangements.

whatever happens after death.

Even if the suicide bomber does get 72 virgins in the afterlife, in this life, his personality -- his rather unfortunate personality -- is the product of his brain.

So the contributions of culture -- if culture changes us, as indeed it does, it changes us by changing our brains.

And so therefore whatever cultural variation there is in how human beings flourish can, at least in principle, be understood in the context of a maturing science of the mind -- neuroscience, psychology, etc. 

So, what I'm arguing is that value's reduced to facts -- to facts about the conscious experience of conscious beings.

And we can therefore visualize a space of possible changes in the experience of these beings.

And one thing to notice is that perhaps there are states of human well-being that we rarely access, that few people access.

And these await our discovery.

Perhaps some of these states can be appropriately called mystical or spiritual.

Perhaps there are other states that we can't access because of how our minds are structured but other minds possibly could access them. 

And just admitting this -- just admitting that there are right and wrong answers to the question of how humans flourish -- will change the way we talk about morality, and will change our expectations of human cooperation in the future. 

And hundreds of thousands of children, incidentally, are subjected to this every year.

The locations of these enlightened districts, I think, will fail to surprise you.

We're not talking about Connecticut. 

And the rationale for this behavior is explicitly religious.

But we can ask the obvious question: Is it a good idea, generally speaking, to subject children to pain and violence and public humiliation as a way of encouraging healthy emotional development and good behavior?

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

(Laughter) Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters? 

Now, many of you might worry that the notion of well-being is truly undefined, and seemingly perpetually open to be re-construed.

And so, how therefore can there be an objective notion of well-being?

Well, consider by analogy, the concept of physical health.

The concept of physical health is undefined.

As we just heard from Michael Specter, it has changed over the years.

When this statue was carved the average life expectancy was probably 30.

It's now around 80 in the developed world.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Notice that the fact that the concept of health is open, genuinely open for revision, does not make it vacuous.

The distinction between a healthy person and a dead one is about as clear and consequential as any we make in science.

Another thing to notice is there may be many peaks on the moral landscape: There may be equivalent ways to thrive; there may be equivalent ways to organize a human society so as to maximize human flourishing. 

Now, why wouldn't this undermine an objective morality?

There is clearly a range of materials that constitute healthy food.

But there's nevertheless a clear distinction between food and poison.

So, for instance, if it's really wrong to lie, it must always be wrong to lie, and if you can find an exception, well then there's no such thing as moral truth.

Why would we think this?

Consider, by analogy, the game of chess.

Now, if you're going to play good chess, a principle like, "Don't lose your Queen," is very good to follow.

But it clearly admits some exceptions.

There are moments when losing your Queen is a brilliant thing to do.

There are moments when it is the only good thing you can do.

And yet, chess is a domain of perfect objectivity.

The fact that there are exceptions here does not change that at all. 

Now, this brings us to the sorts of moves that people are apt to make in the moral sphere.

And who are we to say, even, that they're wrong to beat them with lengths of steel cable, or throw battery acid in their faces if they decline the privilege of being smothered in this way? 

Well, who are we not to say this?

Who are we to pretend that we know so little about human well-being that we have to be non-judgmental about a practice like this?

I'm not talking about voluntary wearing of a veil -- women should be able to wear whatever they want, as far as I'm concerned.

What are the chances that represents a peak of human flourishing? 

Now, to say this is not to say that we have got the perfect solution in our own society.

For instance, this is what it's like to go to a newsstand almost anywhere in the civilized world.

Now, granted, for many men it may require a degree in philosophy to see something wrong with these images.

Now the irony, from my perspective, is that the only people who seem to generally agree with me and who think that there are right and wrong answers to moral questions are religious demagogues of one form or another. 

And of course they think they have right answers to moral questions because they got these answers from a voice in a whirlwind, not because they made an intelligent analysis of the causes and condition of human and animal well-being.

In fact, the endurance of religion as a lens through which most people view moral questions has separated most moral talk from real questions of human and animal suffering.

Now, what stands in the way of this?

When talking about morality we value differences of opinion in a way that we don't in any other area of our lives.

So, for instance the Dalai Lama gets up every morning meditating on compassion, and he thinks that helping other human beings is an integral component of human happiness.

On the other hand, we have someone like Ted Bundy; Ted Bundy was very fond of abducting and raping and torturing and killing young women. 

So, we appear to have a genuine difference of opinion about how to profitably use one's time.

On the left you have Edward Witten.

He's a string theorist.

If you ask the smartest physicists around who is the smartest physicist around, in my experience half of them will say Ed Witten.

The other half will tell you they don't like the question.

I'm the Ted Bundy of string theory.

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

(Laughter) I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member. 

But this is just the point.

Whenever we are talking about facts certain opinions must be excluded.

How have we convinced ourselves that in the moral sphere there is no such thing as moral expertise, or moral talent, or moral genius even?

How have we convinced ourselves that in the moral sphere there is no such thing as moral expertise, or moral talent, or moral genius even?

How have we convinced ourselves that every opinion has to count?

How have we convinced ourselves that every opinion has to count?

How have we convinced ourselves that every culture has a point of view on these subjects worth considering?

So, this, I think, is what the world needs now.

It needs people like ourselves to admit that there are right and wrong answers to questions of human flourishing, and morality relates to that domain of facts.

Just admitting this will transform our discourse about morality.

We live in a world in which the boundaries between nations mean less and less, and they will one day mean nothing. 

We simply must converge on the answers we give to the most important questions in human life.

And to do that, we have to admit that these questions have answers.

Chris Anderson: So, some combustible material there.

Whether in this audience or people elsewhere in the world, hearing some of this, may well be doing the screaming-with-rage thing, after as well, some of them. 

Language seems to be really important here.

I mean, can you engage in a conversation with that kind of woman without seeming kind of cultural imperialist? 

CA: A lot of people want to believe in this concept of moral progress.

But can you reconcile that?

I think I understood you to say that you could reconcile that with a world that doesn't become one dimensional, where we all have to think the same.

Paint your picture of what rolling the clock 50 years forward, 100 years forward, how you would like to think of the world, balancing moral progress with richness. 

SH: Well, I think once you admit that we are on the path toward understanding our minds at the level of the brain in some important detail, then you have to admit that we are going to understand all of the positive and negative qualities of ourselves in much greater detail.

So, we're going to understand positive social emotion like empathy and compassion, and we're going to understand the factors that encourage it -- whether they're genetic, whether they're how people talk to one another, whether they're economic systems, and insofar as we begin to shine light on that we are inevitably going to converge on that fact space. 

So, everything is not going to be up for grabs.

It's not going to be like veiling my daughter from birth is just as good as teaching her to be confident and well-educated in the context of men who do desire women.

Do people love their daughters just as much in these systems?

And I think there are clearly right answers to that. 

CA: And if the results come out that actually they do, are you prepared to shift your instinctive current judgment on some of these issues? 

SH: Well yeah, modulo one obvious fact, that you can love someone in the context of a truly delusional belief system.

So, you can say like, "Because I knew my gay son was going to go to hell if he found a boyfriend, I chopped his head off.

If you get all those parts aligned, yes I think you could probably be feeling the emotion of love.

But again, then we have to talk about well-being in a larger context.

CA: Sam, this is a conversation I would actually love to continue for hours.

