So, I was just asked to go and shoot this film called "Elizabeth."

And I could see everybody looked at me, somebody said, "Bollywood."

And the third said, "Let's find another director."

I thought I had better change.

Leicester: May I join you, my lady? 

So how many people who saw the film did not get that here was a woman in love, that she was completely innocent and saw great joy in her life, and she was youthful?

And how many of you did not get that?

Knowledge becomes a weight upon wisdom.

You know, simple words lost in the quicksand of experience.

All preparation is preparation.

I don't even know if it's honest.

I don't even know if it's truthful.

The truth of it all comes on the moment, organically, and if you get five great moments of great, organic stuff in your storytelling, in your film, your film, audiences will get it.

So I'm looking for those moments, and I'm standing there and saying, "I don't know what to say."

You're looking for something that comes and hits you.

Until that hits you, you're not going to do the first shot.

So what do you do? 

So the first thing about storytelling that I learned, and I follow all the time is: Panic.

So that's what I do. 

If it is not measurable, it does not exist.

And at night I would lie out, looking at the unpolluted sky, as Delhi used to be at that time when I was a kid, and I used to stare at the universe and say, "How far does this universe go?"

What does forever mean?

So what did I do?

At that time, at the tender age of seven, I created a story.

What was my story?

And I don't know why, but I remember the story.

But all before that there was a woodcutter.

And then when I would run out of that story, I would imagine that woodcutter's universe is one atom in the ax of another woodcutter.

So what is a story?

So that's as wide as we look at stories.

We all, everybody, has a story that they follow.

We tell ourselves stories.

We create stories to define our existence.

Now, a film.

A film tells a story.

I often wonder when I make a film -- I'm thinking of making a film of the Buddha -- and I often wonder: If Buddha had all the elements that are given to a director -- if he had music, if he had visuals, if he had a video camera -- would we get Buddhism better?

But that puts some kind of burden on me.

And I look for stories on each level.

Now, it is not necessary that these stories agree with each other.

So, the sequel to "Elizabeth," "Golden Age."

And the two divine people fought, and the gods were on the side of divinity. 

So what was I doing?

She was discovering what mortality actually means, and if she is at the depths of mortality, what really happens.

And she's recognizing the dangers of mortality and why she should break away from mortality.

So can we have that second? 

Bess: Here, my lady. 

Bess: Yes, my lady. 

Get out. 

Shekhar Kapur: So, what am I trying to do here?

Elizabeth has realized, and she's coming face-to-face with her own sense of jealousy, her own sense of mortality.

What am I doing with the architecture?

The architecture is telling a story.

So it's telling you, to me, stone is part of her destiny.

So the film is operating on many many levels in that scene.

And how we tell stories visually, with music, with actors, and at each level it's a different sense and sometimes contradictory to each other.

So how do I start all this?

What's the process of telling a story? 

And he was having a shower for 20 minutes.

And an idea started to develop.

So how does that become a story?

I suddenly realized that we are heading towards disaster. 

And now, out of the mythology of that, I'm starting to create a world.

They started to build flyovers to get from A to B faster, but they effectively went from one area of relative wealth to another area of relative wealth.

And then what they did was they created a city above the flyovers.

Now, where does this upper city and lower city come?

It says that the rich are always sitting on the shoulders and survive on the shoulders of the poor.

So, from that mythology, the upper city and lower city come.

So the design has a story. 

And now, what happens is that the people of the upper city, they suck up all the water.

So, okay my time is up.

Everything's a contradiction.

The universe is a contradiction.

But you get up at 4 a.m. That first blush of blue is where the night and day are trying to find harmony with each other.

It's the effect of looking for harmony in the contradiction that exists in a poet's mind, a contradiction that exists in a storyteller's mind.

The whole idea of contradiction, but the acceptance of contradiction is the telling of a story, not the resolution.

The problem with a lot of the storytelling in Hollywood and many films, and as [unclear] was saying in his, that we try to resolve the contradiction.

Harmony is not resolution.

