OK. We've heard a lot of people speak at this conference about the power of the human mind.

And what I'd like to do today is give you a vivid example of how that power can be unleashed when someone is in a survival situation, how the will to survive can bring that out in people.

And when it occurred, I was the only doctor on the mountain.

So I'll take you through that and we'll see what it's like when someone really summons the will to survive. 

OK, this is Mount Everest.

It was on my fourth trip to Everest that a comet passed over the mountain.

Everest is an extreme environment.

There's only one-third as much oxygen at the summit as there is at sea level.

Near the summit, temperatures can be 40 degrees below zero.

You can have winds 20 to 40 miles an hour.

It's actually a wind-chill factor which is lower than a summer day on Mars.

That gives you an idea of just how severe things are near the summit. 

OK, this is the route up Everest.

It starts at base camp, at 17,500 feet.

Camp One, 2,000 feet higher.

This is a view of base camp.

This is pitched on a glacier at 17,500 feet.

It's the highest point you can bring your yaks before you have to unload.

This was our expedition.

And, after actually two months of preparation, we built our camps all the way up the mountain. 

This is near the top of the icefall.

You want to climb through at night when the ice is frozen.

That way, it's less likely to tumble down on you.

These are some climbers reaching the top of the icefall just at sun-up.

This is me crossing a crevasse.

We cross on aluminum ladders with safety ropes attached.

That's another crevasse.

It's the first flat spot you can reach after you get up to the top of the icefall.

They're on fixed ropes here.

A fall here, if you weren't roped in, would be 5,000 feet down.

This is a view taken from camp three.

You can see the Lhotse face is in profile, it's about a 45 degree angle.

If you notice, the summit of Everest is black.

There's no ice over it.

What looks like a cloud behind the summit ridge is actually snow being blown off the summit. 

This is on the way up from Camp Three to Camp Four, moving in, up through the clouds.

And this is at Camp Four.

This is a picture of Rob Hall.

He was the leader of the New Zealand team.

This is a radio he used later to call his wife that I'll tell you about.

This is not good weather to climb in, so the climbers are just waiting, hoping that the wind's going to die down.

This looks like a good chance to go for the summit.

So here are some climbers starting out for the summit on what's called the Triangular Face.

So that's what happened.

The climbers got on the southeast ridge.

This is the view looking at the southeast ridge.

The summit would be in the foreground.

From here, it's about 1,500 feet up at a 30-degree angle to the summit.

A storm blew in that no one was anticipating.

You can see here some ferocious winds blowing snow way high off the summit.

And there were climbers on that summit ridge. 

I have an oxygen hose connected here.

You can see on this climber, we have two oxygen tanks in the backpack -- little titanium tanks, very lightweight -- and we're not carrying much else.

OK, this is a view taken on the summit ridge itself.

This is on the way toward the summit, on that 1,500-foot bridge.

So each person climbs individually.

(Laughter) But, either way, you fall for the rest of your life. 

My expedition was down in Camp Three, while these guys were up there in the storm.

It was the worst winds I've ever seen.

And the climbers up on the ridge were that much higher, 2,000 feet higher, and completely exposed to the elements.

We were in radio contact with some of them. 

This is a view taken along the summit ridge.

Rob Hall, we heard by radio, was up here, at this point in the storm with Doug Hansen.

And we heard that Rob was OK, but Doug was too weak to come down.

He was exhausted, and Rob was staying with him.

We also got some bad news in the storm that Beck Weathers, another climber, had collapsed in the snow and was dead.

We really had no idea what was going on during that storm.

We were just hunkered down in our tents at Camp Three. 

Our two strongest climbers, Todd Burleson and Pete Athans, decided to go up to try to rescue who they could even though there was a ferocious storm going.

They tried to radio a message to Rob Hall, who was a superb climber stuck, sort of, with a weak climber up near the summit.

But they did what they could to stabilize the people.

The ones that couldn't we just sort of decided to leave up at Camp Four.

So the climbers were coming down along this route. 

This is taken from Camp Three, where I was.

You can barely stand outside the tent.

It's really cold; it's 24,000 feet.

The only supplies I had at that altitude were two plastic bags with preloaded syringes of painkiller and steroids. 

So, as the climbers came by me, I sort of assessed whether or not they were in condition to continue on further down.

The ones that weren't that lucid or were not that well coordinated, I would give an injection of steroids to try to give them some period of lucidity and coordination where they could then work their way further down the mountain.

It's so awkward to work up there that sometimes I even gave the injections right through their clothes.

It was just too hard to maneuver any other way up there. 

While I was taking care of them, we got more news about Rob Hall.

There was no way we could get up high enough to rescue him.

He called in to say that he was alone now.

Apparently, Doug had died higher up on the mountain.

At that point, he asked to be paged into his wife.

He was carrying a radio.

They picked the name for their baby.

I was faced with treating a lot of critically ill patients at 24,000 feet, which was an impossibility.

So what we did was, we got the victims down to 21,000 feet, where it was easier for me to treat them.

This was my medical kit.

It's a tackle box filled with medical supplies.

This is what I carried up the mountain.

And this was scene at the lower camp. 

The survivors came in one by one.

This is some severe frostbite on the feet, severe frostbite on the nose.

This climber was snow blind. 

As I was taking care of these climbers, we got a startling experience.

(Laughter) So he was completely lucid, but he was very severely frostbitten.

You can see his hand is completely white; his face, his nose, is burned.

So, as I was taking care of Beck, he related what had been going on up there.

He said he had gotten lost in the storm, collapsed in the snow, and just laid there, unable to move.

He was in some sort of catatonic state where he could be aware of his surroundings, but couldn't even blink to indicate that he was alive.

After laying in the snow that long a time, he got up and found his way back to the camp.

I couldn't imagine anybody laying in the snow that long a time and then getting up.

He apparently reversed an irreversible hypothermia.

And I can only try to speculate on how he did it. 

So, what if we had Beck hooked up to a SPECT scan, something that could actually measure brain function?

So let's take a cut through the brain here, and imagine that Beck was hooked up to a SPECT scan.

So you have the prefrontal cortex here, lighting up in red.

This is a pretty evenly distributed scan.

Now, you go to this one and you see how much more the frontal lobes are lighting up.

This might be what Beck would be experiencing when he realizes he's in danger.

He's focusing all his attention on getting himself out of trouble.

These parts of the brain are quieting down.

He's trying to get his muscles going and get out of this.

OK, but he's losing ground here.

Beck is powering down.

He's dying. 

He's beginning to think about his family.

He's beginning to have images that are motivating him to get up.

He's developing energy in this area through thought.

And this is how he's going to turn thought back into action.

This part of the brain is called the anterior cingulate gyrus.

It's an area in which a lot of neuroscientists believe the seat of will exists.

He's going to develop enough energy in that area -- after a day, a night and a day -- to actually motivate himself to get up.

And you can see here, he's starting to get more energy into the frontal lobe.

He's beginning to focus, he can concentrate now.

He's thinking about what he's got to do to save himself.

And then, that energy is sort of spreading throughout his thought areas.

He's not thinking about his family now, and he's getting himself motivated.

His heart and lungs are going to pick up speed.

So this is what I can speculate might have been going on had we been able to do a SPECT scan on Beck during this survival epic. 

And we had a memorial service there a few days later.

These are Serphas lighting juniper branches.

They believe juniper smoke is holy.

There were five climbers lost here.

This was Scott Fischer, Rob Hall, Andy Harris, Doug Hansen and Yasuko Namba.

These are Tibetan prayer flags.

