If you think about the phone -- and Intel has tested a lot of the things I'm going to show you, over the last 10 years, in about 600 elderly households -- 300 in Ireland, and 300 in Portland -- trying to understand: How do we measure and monitor behavior in a medically meaningful way? 

And if you think about the phone, right, it's something that we can use for some incredible ways to help people actually take the right medication at the right time.

We're testing these kinds of simple sensor-network technologies in the home so that any phone that a senior is already comfortable with can help them deal with their medications.

And a lot of what they do is they pick up the phone, and it's our system whispering to them which pill they need to take, and they fake like they're having a conversation with a friend.

And they're not embarrassed by a meds caddy that's ugly, that sits on their kitchen table and says, "I'm old.

It's surreptitious technology that's helping them do a simple task of taking the right pill at the right time. 

But those subtle changes in your voice over a long period of time are hard for you or your spouse to notice until it becomes so extreme and your voice has become so quiet. 

So, sensors are looking at that kind of voice.

When you pick up the phone, how much tremor are you having, and what is that like, and what is that trend like over a period of time?

And then wow, what a radical idea, we -- except in the United States -- might be able to use this newfangled technology to actually interact with a nurse or a doctor on the other end of the line.

Wow, what a great day that will be once we're allowed to actually do those kinds of things. 

So, these are what I would call behavioral markers.

And it's the whole field that we've been trying to work on for the last 10 years at Intel.

How do you put simple disruptive technologies, and the first of five phrases that I'm going to talk about in this talk?

Behavioral markers matter.

How do we change behavior?

How do we measure changes in behavior in a meaningful way that's going to help us with prevention of disease, early onset of disease, and tracking the progression of disease over a long period of time? 

Now, why would Intel let me spend a lot of time and money, over the last 10 years, trying to understand the needs of seniors and start thinking about these kinds of behavioral markers?

This is some of the field work that we've done.

We have now lived with 1,000 elderly households in 20 countries over the last 10 years.

We study people in Rochester, New York.

We go live with them in the winter because what they do in the winter, and their access to healthcare, and how much they socialize, is very different than in the summer.

If they have a hip fracture we go with them and we study their entire discharge experience.

If they have a family member who is a key part of their care network, we fly and study them as well. 

So, we study the holistic health experience of 1,000 seniors over the last 10 years in 20 different countries.

Why is Intel willing to fund that?

It's because of the second slogan that I want to talk about.

Ten years ago, when I started trying to convince Intel to let me go start looking at disruptive technologies that could help with independent living, this is what I called it: "Y2K + 10."

You know, back in 2000, we were all so obsessed with paying attention to the aging of our computers, and whether or not they were going to survive the tick of the clock from 1999 to 2000, that we missed a moment that only demographers were paying attention to.

For the first time in human history -- and barring aliens landing or some major other pandemic, that's the expectation from demographers, going forward. 

The health reform bill is largely ignoring the realities of the age wave that's coming, and the implications for what we need to do to change not only how we pay for care, but deliver care in some radically different ways.

She was born one second after midnight in 1946.

The first boomer actually, we didn't even wait till 2011, next year.

We're already starting to see early retirement occur this year. 

So, one of the reasons it's so challenging to prepare for this Y2K problem is, I want to argue, we have what I would call mainframe poisoning. 

You know, this is the mainframe. 

This mentality of traveling to and timesharing large, expensive healthcare systems actually began in 1787.

This is the first general hospital in Vienna.

And actually the second general hospital in Vienna, in about 1850, was where we started to build out an entire curriculum for teaching med students specialties.

And it's a place in which we started developing architecture that literally divided the body, and divided care into departments and compartments.

Now, I'm not anti-hospital.

We have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcare to a personal model of healthcare. 

We are obsessed with this way of thinking.

We're not thinking about how do we shift from the mainframe to the home.

And the problem with this is the way we conceive healthcare.

This is a very reactive, crisis-driven system.

We're doing 15-minute exams with patients.

It's population-based.

And the problem is we can't afford it today, folks.

We can't afford mainframe healthcare today to include the uninsured.

And now we want to do a double-double of the age wave coming through?

Business as usual in healthcare is broken and we've got to do something different.

We've got to focus on the home. 

How do we collect vital signs and other kinds of information 24 by 7?

How do we get a personal baseline about what's going to work for you?

How do we collect not just biological data but behavioral data, psychological data, relational data, in and on and around the home?

And how do we drive compliance to be a customized care plan that uses all this great technology that's around us to change our behavior?

That's what we need to do for our personal health model. 

This is what was happening to Mimi; the family was worried about it, moved her out of her own home into an assisted living facility.

She tripped over her oxygen tank. 

I have access to senators and CEOs.

I can't stop this from happening.

What happens if you don't have money, you don't speak English or don't have the kind of access to deal with these kinds of problems that inevitably occur?

How do we actually prevent the vast majority of falls from ever occurring in the first place? 

Let me give you a quick example of work that we're doing to try to do exactly that.

I've been wearing a little technology that we call Shimmer.

There is all kinds of sort of plug-and-play kind of Legos that you can do to capture, in the wild, in the real world, things like tremor, gait, stride length and those kinds of things. 

The problem is, our understanding of falls today, like Mimi, is get a survey in the mail three months after you fell, from the State, saying, "What were you doing when you fell?"

That's sort of the state of the art.

These discoveries of behavioral markers, and behavioral changes are game changing, and like the discovery of the microscope because of our collecting data streams that we've actually never done before. 

This is an example in our TRIL Clinic in Ireland of -- actually what you're seeing is she's looking at data, in this picture, from the Magic Carpet.

So, we have a little carpet that you can look at your amount of postural sway, and look at the changes in your postural sway over many months.

Here's what some of this data might look like.

This is actually sensor firings. 

The color represents different rooms they are in the house.

Now, this doesn't mean that much to you.

But when we look at these cycles of data over a longer period of time -- and we're looking at everything from motion around different rooms in the house, to sort of micro-motions that Shimmer picks up, about gait and stride length -- these streams of data are starting to tell us things about behavioral patterns that we've never understood before. 

The problem is, Intel is still one of the largest funders in the world of independent living technology research.

I'm not bragging about how much we fund; it's how little anyone else actually pays attention to aging and funds innovation on aging, chronic disease management and independent living in the home. 

So, 10,000 households or bust.

These are just some of the households that we've done in the Intel studies. 

It doesn't matter how we finance healthcare.

We're going to figure something out for the next 10 years, and try it.

No matter who pays for it, we better start doing care in a fundamentally different way and treating the home and the patient and the family member and the caregivers as part of these coordinated care teams and using disruptive technologies that are already here to do care in some pretty fundamental different ways. 

The president needs to stand up and say, at the end of a healthcare reform debate, "Our goal as a country is to move 50 percent of care out of institutions, clinics, hospitals and nursing homes, to the home, in 10 years."

But there is no goal within this health reform.

It's just a mess today. 

So, you know, that's my last message to you.

How do we set a going-to-the-moon goal of dealing with the Y2K +10 problem that's coming?

It's not that innovation and technology is going to be the magic pill that cures all, but it's going to be part of the solution.

And if we don't create a personal health movement, something that we're all aiming towards in reform, then we're going to move nowhere.

So, I hope you'll turn this conference into that kind of movement forward.

