I'm going to talk to you today about my work on suspended animation.

So what do I mean when I say "suspended animation"?

It is the process by which animals de-animate, appear dead and then can wake up again without being harmed.

And so, what I'm going to tell you about is a way to tell a person who's in trauma -- find a way to de-animate them a bit so they're a little more immortal when they have that heart attack. 

An example of an organism or two that happens to be quite immortal would be plant seeds or bacterial spores.

Bacterial spores are thought now by scientists to exist as individual cells that are alive, but in suspended animation for as long as 250 million years.

Those of you with children, you know about them.

You go to the pet store or the toy store, and you can buy these things.

So these ideas of suspended animation are not just about cells and weird, little organisms. 

Occasionally, human beings are briefly de-animated, and the stories of people who are briefly de-animated that interest me the most are those having to do with the cold.

Seven hours later, still without a heartbeat, they brought her back to life, and she went on to be the head radiologist in the hospital that treated her. 

There was a 65-year-old woman in Duluth, Minnesota last year that was found frozen and without a pulse in her front yard one morning in the winter, and they brought her back to life.

So, these are miracles, right?

These are truly miraculous things that happen.

In the New England Journal of Medicine, there was a study published that showed that with appropriate rewarming, people who had suffered without a heartbeat for three hours could be brought back to life without any neurologic problems.

That's over 50 percent.

So what I was trying to do is think of a way that we could study suspended animation to think about a way to reproduce, maybe, what happened to the skier. 

Well, I have to tell you something very odd, and that is that being exposed to low oxygen does not always kill.

And, in fact, the animals we were working with in the lab -- these little garden worms, nematodes -- they were also dead when we exposed them to low oxygen.

And here's the thing that should freak you out.

And that is that, when we lower the oxygen concentration further by 100 times, to 10 parts per million, they were not dead, they were in suspended animation, and we could bring them back to life without any harm.

And this precise oxygen concentration, 10 parts per million, that caused suspended animation, is conserved.

We can see it in a variety of different organisms.

One of the creatures we see it in is a fish.

And we can turn its heartbeat on and off by going in and out of suspended animation like you would a light switch. 

So this was pretty shocking to me, that we could do this.

And so I was wondering, when we were trying to reproduce the work with the skier, that we noticed that, of course, she had no oxygen consumption, and so maybe she was in a similar state of suspended animation.

But, of course, she was also extremely cold.

So we wondered what would happen if we took our suspended animals and exposed them to the cold.

And so, what we found out was that, if you take animals that are animated like you and I, and you make them cold -- that is, these were the garden worms -- now they're dead.

But if you have them in suspended animation, and move them into the cold, they're all alive.

It's a really good thing. 

And so, we were thinking about that, about this relationship between these things, and thinking about whether or not that's what happened to the skier.

And so we wondered: Might there be some agent that is in us, something that we make ourselves, that we might be able to regulate our own metabolic flexibility in such a way as to be able to survive when we got extremely cold, and might otherwise pass away?

I should mention briefly here that physiology textbooks that you can read about will tell you that this is a kind of heretical thing to suggest.

We have, from the time we are slapped on the butt until we take our last dying breath -- that's when we're newborn to when we're dead -- we cannot reduce our metabolic rate below what's called a standard, or basal metabolic rate.

So I wondered: Might we be able to find some agent or trigger that might induce such a state in us? 

And so, we went looking for such things.

Well, we had a lot of them.

We tried many different chemicals and agents, and we failed over and over again.

And this particular cave was Lechuguilla, and this cave is incredibly toxic to humans.

Now, hydrogen sulfide is curiously present in us.

We make it ourselves.

The highest concentration is in our brains.

Yet, it was used as a chemical warfare agent in World War I.

It's an extraordinarily toxic thing.

In fact, in chemical accidents, hydrogen sulfide is known to -- if you breathe too much of it, you collapse to the ground, you appear dead, but if you were brought out into room air, you can be reanimated without harm, if they do that quickly. 

And so, we wanted to find out might we be able to use hydrogen sulfide in the presence of cold, and we wanted to see whether we could reproduce this skier in a mammal.

Now, mammals are warm-blooded creatures, and when we get cold, we shake and we shiver, right?

We try to keep our core temperature at 37 degrees by actually burning more oxygen.

So, it was interesting for us when we applied hydrogen sulfide to a mouse when it was also cold because what happened is the core temperature of the mouse got cold.

Its oxygen consumption rate fell by tenfold.

Now, we'd found a way to reduce its oxygen consumption to rock-bottom levels, and it was fine.

And one of the things we wondered -- I'm sure some of you out there are economists, and you know all about supply and demand.

And with money we got from DARPA, we could show just that.

If you give mice hydrogen sulfide, you can lower their demand for oxygen, and you can put them into oxygen concentrations that are as low as 5,000 feet above the top of Mt.

Well this was really cool.

We also found out that we could subject animals to otherwise lethal blood loss, and we could save them if we gave them hydrogen sulfide. 

So these proof of concept experiments led me to say "I should found a company, and we should take this out to a wider playing field."

I founded a company called Ikaria with others' help.

And this company, the first thing it did was make a liquid formulation of hydrogen sulfide an injectable form that we could put in and send it out to physician scientists all over the world who work on models of critical care medicine, and the results are incredibly positive. 

In one model of heart attack, animals given hydrogen sulfide showed a 70 percent reduction in heart damage compared to those who got the standard of care that you and I would receive if we were to have a heart attack here today.

Same is true for organ failure, when you have loss of function owing to poor perfusion of kidney, of liver, acute respiratory distress syndrome and damage suffered in cardiac-bypass surgery.

So, these are the thought leaders in trauma medicine all over the world saying this is true, so it seems that exposure to hydrogen sulfide decreases damage that you receive from being exposed to otherwise lethal-low oxygen. 

And I should say that the concentrations of hydrogen sulfide required to get this benefit are low, incredibly low.

In fact, so low that physicians will not have to lower or dim the metabolism of people much at all to see the benefit I just mentioned, which is a wonderful thing, if you're thinking about adopting this.

And this all happened really quickly because of a lot of help from a lot of people. 

One thing those people did out there was take this technology of hydrogen sulfide, which is this start-up company that's burning venture capital very quickly, and they fused it with another company that sells another toxic gas that's more toxic than hydrogen sulfide, and they give it to newborn babies who would otherwise die from a failure to be able to oxygenate their tissues properly.

So it's really incredible for me to be a part of this.

And then, after they get that care -- like the mouse, like the skier, like the 65-year-old woman -- they'll wake up.

A miracle?

