I learned it myself from Cub Scout Magic in the 1970s.

I'll do it for you, and then I'll explain it.

And then I'll explain why I explained it. 

So, here's what happens.

The knife, which you can examine; my hand, which you could examine.

I'm just going to hold the knife in my fist like this.

And the object of this is quite simple.

I'm going to open my hand, and hopefully, if all is well, my pure animal magnetism will hold the knife.

In fact it's held so tightly in place that I can shake it, and the knife does not come off.

So, this is a trick that I often teach to young children that are interested in magic, because you can learn a great deal about deception by studying this very -- even though it's a very simple trick methodologically.

Probably many of you in the room know this trick.

What happens is this.

I hold the knife in my hand.

I say I'm going to grab hold of my wrist to make sure nothing goes up or down my sleeve, that is a lie. 

The reason I'm holding onto my wrist is because that's actually the secret of the illusion.

In a moment when my hand moves from facing you to being away from you, this finger right here, my index finger is just going to shift from where it is, to a position pointing out like this.

Nice one.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Obviously it's clinging there, not by animal magnetism, but by chicanery, my index finger being there.

And then when I close my finger, same thing, as I move back, this motion kind of covers the moving back of my finger.

Now, (Laughter) what does that have to do with the placebo effect?

It turns out that if you administer a placebo in the form of a white pill, that's like aspirin shaped -- it's just a round white pill -- it has some certain measurable effect.

Even though neither one of these things has any pharmaceutical -- they're sugar pills.

(Laughter) That really flipped me out. 

(Laughter) That really flipped me out. 

(Laughter) That really flipped me out. 

Turns out though, that that's not even where it stops.

If you have capsules, they're more effective than tablets in any form.

A colored capsule, that's yellow on one end and red on the other is better than a white capsule.

Dosage has something to do with this.

But the point is ... (Laughter) ... these dosages have something to do with it.

And the form has something to do with it.

And if you want the ultimate in placebo, you've go to the needle.

It's a really, this graph, well I'll show it to you some other time when we have slides.

The point is the white pill is not as good as the blue pill is not as good as the capsule is not as good as the needle.

I wanted to see if I could take that idea and apply it to a magic trick.

And take something that is obviously a fake trick and make it seem real.

And we know from that study that when you want reality, you go to the needle. 

I'm going to pierce my skin and run this needle through to the other side. 

If you're queasy -- (Laughs) if you faint easily -- I was doing this for some friends in the hotel room last night, and some people that I didn't know, and one woman almost passed out.

So, I suggest if you get queasy easy that you look away for about the next 30 -- in fact, you know what, I'll do the first bad part behind it.

You'll get to see, you can look away too if you'd like to. 

OK, and then just through my skin a tiny bit, and then out the other side like this.

Now, essentially we're in the same position we were in with the knife trick.

I know what people think when they see this.

They go, "Well, he's certainly not dumb enough to stab himself through the skin to entertain us for a few minutes.

People in the satellite room are starting to move in now.

That's my flesh, and I can twist that around.

(Laughter) I will be seeing you several times over the next few days.

(Laughter) I will be seeing you several times over the next few days.

(Laughter) I will be seeing you several times over the next few days.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

