So, let's roll the video. 

And he got, from other data sources, information to show which houses are occupied by white people.

Well, there was too much of a correlation, he felt, between which houses were occupied by white people and which houses had water, and the judge was not impressed either.

The judge was not impressed to the tune of 10.9 million dollars.

That's the power of taking one piece of data, another piece of data, putting it together, and showing the result. 

Let's look at some data from the U.K. now.

You can burrow down by a particular type of spending, or you can go through all the different regions and compare them.

So, that's happening in the U.K. with U.K. government data. 

Yes, certainly you can do it over here.

Here's a site which allows you to look at recovery spending in California.

Take an arbitrary example, Long Beach, California, you can go and have a look at what recovery money they've been spending on different things such as energy. 

And I'm delighted to see a great competition between the U.K. in blue, and the U.S. in red. 

How can you use this stuff?

Well, for example, if you have lots of data about places you can take, from a postcode -- which is like a zip plus four -- for a specific group of houses, you can make paper, print off a paper which has got very, very specific things about the bus stops, the things specifically near you. 

On a larger scale, this is a mash-up of the data which was released about the Afghan elections.

It allows you to set your own criteria for what sort of things you want to look at.

So, that was government data. 

This is the wiki map, this is the Open Street Map.

I was not the only person editing the open street map.

Each flash on this visualization -- put together by ITO World -- shows an edit in 2009 made to the Open Street Map.

You can see Europe is ablaze with updates.

Some places, perhaps not as much as they should be. 

Here focusing in on Haiti.

Fortunately, just after the earthquake, GeoEye, a commercial company, released satellite imagery with a license, which allowed the open-source community to use it.

After the earthquake, immediately, people all over the world, mappers who wanted to help, and could, looked at that imagery, built the map, quickly building it up. 

We're focusing now on Port-au-Prince.

The light blue is refugee camps these volunteers had spotted from the [satellite images].

Witness the fact that it's here on this Garmin device being used by rescue team in Haiti. 

