And if your life isn't like that, I'd like to humbly suggest that you're wasting your life.

A life is too short to be wasted. 

So what I propose to do in the next 17 minutes -- I've used up one minute already -- is to give you a set of powerful tools which can get you started on being there.

Is that of interest to you? 

Srikumar Rao: OK. 

This is a conference on happiness, but even if it wasn't a conference on happiness, would it be right if I said that in some way, shape, fashion or form, you're devoting your entire life to being happy?

Everything you do -- your job, family, children, relationships, whatever -- is a quest for happiness.

Correct? 

Correct? 

What do you have to get in order to be happy? 

Anybody, quick? 

A number of people in the financial sector have discovered this already.

So whatever you get that can make you happy can go away.

Where does that leave you?

Not a very nice place, right? 

I have a different proposition to suggest to you.

What I have to suggest to you is that there is nothing that you have to get, do or be in order to be happy.

You cannot not be happy. 

And the answer to that is actually very simple.

And the way we learn to be unhappy is by buying into a particular mental model. 

A mental model is a notion we have that this is the way the world works.

All of us have mental models, we've got dozens of mental models.

We've got mental models on how to find a job, how to get ahead at work, how to pick a restaurant to eat at, how to have a movie to go to ... dozens of them.

The problem isn't that we have mental models.

The problem is that we don't know that we have mental models.

We think this is the way the world works.

Like, we have to get a great deal of money so we can travel to exotic places so we can be happy.

We have to be in a relationship so we can have great sex so we can be happy. 

All of this is a variation of the if-then model.

The whole notion is if this happens, then I will be happy. 

And right now, the only thing that's different between the persons in this audience is what is the particular "if" that you are focusing on?

And the only thing that's different between you now and where you were 10 years ago is what is the particular "if" that you were focusing on?

What we don't realize is the model itself is flawed.

The if-then model -- "If this happens I will be happy" -- the model itself is flawed.

But instead of recognizing that it is the model itself that's flawed, what we do is spend enormous amounts of time changing the "if."

But it's the model itself that's flawed, not what you put on the "if" side of the equation.

I can demonstrate that to you. 

Can any of you recall a time when you were confronted with a scene of such spectacular beauty that it took you outside of yourself into a place of great serenity?

Maybe a rainbow, a mountain range, a valley, the sea.

You know, we are here and we want to have something.

Alex wants to have a successful conference.

Each of those is an outcome; you would like something to happen. 

Actions are within your control.

The outcome is completely outside your control. 

Have any of you recognized that when you have a goal and you start to work towards it, some of the time you don't achieve your goal, and some of the time what you get is the exact opposite of what you wanted?

Has that happened to any of you? 

And this was his way of showing, you know, I care for you, and nice things would happen.

And when he presented the gift to his wife, her immediate reaction was, "After 20 years of marriage, you don't know my size?"

"And furthermore, don't you know I never wear this kind of thing?"

Well, we live in a world where what we think of, what we invest in, is the outcome.

That is how we live.

And the best way to describe that is a quote by John Wooden.

And you try with might and main, to do whatever you can, but you are always focusing on, "This is the outcome."

Now, focusing on the outcome is fine.

It gives you direction.

Investing in the outcome means that you make the achievement of a particular outcome dependent for your well-being.

And that is a surefire recipe for failure. 

What you can do is something else.

You can invest in the process.

And if you succeed, wonderful.

And when you do that, you will find that every day is a blast. 

Let me give you an example.

And if you have children -- raise your hands if you have children.

Have you ever seen a small child learn to walk?

What happens, and this happens typically between 11 and 13 months, is the child gets up and she sees everybody walking, she wants to walk, she gets up, she falls down, she starts crying and momma runs up and comforts her, kisses the place, makes it well.

She tries again, falls down, mommy runs up again.

And very soon, generally within 24 hours, she's walking all over the place, upsetting your living room arrangements.

How long do you think it would take her to learn to walk if you had to do that, if every three times she fell down, you had to get a counselor to counsel her and so on?

Sounds funny, doesn't it?

But that is exactly what we're doing.

As we grow up, we lose the ability to invest in the process, we start investing in the outcome.

By definition the outcome is outside of our control, and if that's where we spend all of our emotional energy, we are going to get drained as we do. 

Here's my job and here's how much it pays, this is the kind of person my boss is, the kind of people my colleagues are, and here's how my customers are, here's how much I travel, here's how big my office is, how deep the carpeting is, how many windows I have -- a bunch of parameters. 

And if you don't find a way to ignite it within you right where you are, you are not going to find it outside.

But if you do find a way to ignite it where you are, then you will find that the external world rearranges itself to accommodate the new person that you are becoming.

And as you do that, you will find that miracles happen on a regular basis.

You came here to this conference; you went on a journey.

You hang around the water cooler, talking about how terrible your place of work is; you went on a journey.

All you do is go on journeys.

And if you start doing that, you will find that your life changes.

The kind of people you meet, the things you talk about, the movies you go to, the books you read -- everything changes.

And you begin all of that by focusing on the process. 

Invest in the process, not in the outcome. 

Thank you. 

