I am a prosecutor.

I believe in law and order.

I am the adopted son of a police officer, a Marine and a hairdresser.

I believe in accountability and that we should all be safe in our communities.

I love my job and the people that do it.

I just think that it's our responsibility to do it better. 

All right. 

Now, how many of you ever spent one day in jail for any of those decisions?

How many of you sitting here today think that you're a danger to society or should be defined by those actions of youthful indiscretion? 

Point taken. 

When we talk about criminal justice reform, we often focus on a few things, and that's what I want to talk to you about today.

I had no interest in being a public servant, I had no interest in criminal law, and I definitely didn't think that I would ever be a prosecutor. 

I knew of Roxbury as an impoverished neighborhood in Boston, plagued by gun violence and drug crime.

My life and my legal career changed the first day of that internship.

And then a judge, a defense attorney and a prosecutor would make life-altering decisions about that person without their input.

They were predominately white.

My second year of law school I worked as a paralegal for a defense attorney, and in that experience I met many young men accused of murder.

Even in our "worst," I saw human stories.

They would come to us, and we would send them away without that help.

Prosecuted, adjudged and defended by people who knew nothing about them. 

The staggering inefficiency is what drove me to criminal justice work.

We complain, we tweet, we protest about the police, about sentencing laws and about prison.

We rarely, if ever, talk about the prosecutor. 

In the fall of 2009, a young man was arrested by the Boston Police Department.

He was 18 years old, he was African American and he was a senior at a local public school.

This led to his arrest and a criminal complaint of 30 felony charges.

The potential jail time he faced is what stressed Christopher out the most.

But what he had little understanding of was the impact a criminal record would have on his future. 

I was 29 years old, a brand-new prosecutor, and I had little appreciation for how the decisions I would make would impact Christopher's life.

Christopher's case was a serious one and it needed to be dealt with as such, but I didn't think branding him a felon for the rest of his life was the right answer. 

For the most part, prosecutors step onto the job with little appreciation of the impact of our decisions, regardless of our intent.

Despite our broad discretion, we learn to avoid risk at all cost, rendering our discretion basically useless.

We're judged internally and externally by our convictions and our trial wins, so prosecutors aren't really incentivized to be creative at our case dispositions, or to take risks on people we might not otherwise.

Yet most prosecutors standing in my space would have arraigned Christopher.

They have little appreciation for what we can do.

Without those protective factors in his life, Christopher would be more likely to commit further, more serious crime.

When I came out of law school, I did the same thing as everybody else.

I came out as a prosecutor expected to do justice, but I never learned what justice was in my classes -- none of us do.

None of us do. 

And yet, prosecutors are the most powerful actors in the criminal justice system.

Our power is virtually boundless.

In most cases, not the judge, not the police, not the legislature, not the mayor, not the governor, not the President can tell us how to prosecute our cases.

The decision to arraign Christopher and give him a criminal record was exclusively mine.

I would choose whether to prosecute him for 30 felonies, for one felony, for a misdemeanor, or at all.

I would choose whether to leverage Christopher into a plea deal or take the case to trial, and ultimately, I would be in a position to ask for Christopher to go to jail.

These are decisions that prosecutors make every day unfettered, and we are unaware and untrained of the grave consequences of those decisions. 

I noticed across the room, a young man waving and smiling at me and approaching me.

And I recognized him, but I couldn't place from where, and before I knew it, this young man was hugging me.

And thanking me.

See, I never arraigned Christopher.

He never faced a judge or a jail, he never had a criminal record.

I can't take credit for Christopher's journey to success, but I certainly did my part to keep him on the path. 

We need thousands of prosecutors to recognize that and to protect them.

An employed Christopher is better for public safety than a condemned one.

It's a bigger win for all of us.

As an individual caught selling a large quantity of drugs in my late teens, I knew firsthand the power of opportunity as opposed to the wrath of the criminal justice system.

Along the way, with the help and guidance of my district attorney, my supervisor and judges, I learned the power of the prosecutor to change lives instead of ruining them. 

I even helped a young man who was so afraid of the older gang kids showing up after school, that one morning instead of a lunchbox into his backpack, he put a loaded 9-millimeter.

We would spend our time that we'd normally take prepping our cases for months and months for trial down the road by coming up with real solutions to the problems as they presented. 

Which is the better way to spend our time?

How would you prefer your prosecutors to spend theirs?

Why are we spending 80 billion dollars on a prison industry that we know is failing, when we could take that money and reallocate it into education, into mental health treatment, into substance abuse treatment and to community investment so we can develop our neighborhoods? 

So why should this matter to you?

Well, one, we're spending a lot of money.

Our money.

It costs 109,000 dollars in some states to lock up a teenager for a year, with a 60 percent chance that that person will return to the very same system.

That is a terrible return on investment. 

Number two: it's the right thing to do.

If they can't answer the questions, they shouldn't be doing the job. 

Every day, thousands of times a day, prosecutors around the United States wield power so great that it can bring about catastrophe as quickly as it can bring about opportunity, intervention, support and yes, even love.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you very much. 

