I grew up on a steady diet of science fiction.

In high school, I took a bus to school an hour each way every day.

You know, I was a real science geek.

So, that seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction part of it. 

And I found that because there weren't video games and this saturation of CG movies and all of this imagery in the media landscape, I had to create these images in my head.

You know, we all did, as kids having to read a book, and through the author's description, put something on the movie screen in our heads.

I was endlessly getting busted in math class doodling behind the textbook.

That was -- the creativity had to find its outlet somehow. 

But that was a world I could really go to, right here on Earth, that was as rich and exotic as anything that I had imagined from reading these books. 

So, I decided I was going to become a scuba diver at the age of 15.

But I didn't let that daunt me.

And I didn't see the ocean, a real ocean, for another two years, until we moved to California. 

Since then, in the intervening 40 years, I've spent about 3,000 hours underwater, and 500 hours of that was in submersibles.

Nature's imagination is so boundless compared to our own meager human imagination.

I still, to this day, stand in absolute awe of what I see when I make these dives.

And my love affair with the ocean is ongoing, and just as strong as it ever was. 

But when I chose a career as an adult, it was filmmaking.

And that seemed to be the best way to reconcile this urge I had to tell stories with my urges to create images.

And I was, as a kid, constantly drawing comic books, and so on.

And with "The Abyss," I was putting together my love of underwater and diving with filmmaking.

So, you know, merging the two passions. 

You know, it's Arthur Clarke's law that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.

They were seeing something magical.

So, drawing a line through those two dots of experience came to, "This is going to be a whole new world," this was a whole new world of creativity for film artists.

And the concept of the company was that we would leapfrog past the analog processes of optical printers and so on, and we would go right to digital production.

And we actually did that and it gave us a competitive advantage for a while. 

So, I shelved it, and I made this other movie about a big ship that sinks.

Secretly, what I wanted to do was I wanted to dive to the real wreck of "Titanic."

And that's why I made the movie.

Because we actually created a reality where six months later, I find myself in a Russian submersible two and a half miles down in the north Atlantic, looking at the real Titanic through a view port.

(Applause) 

Now, that blew my mind.

But, it struck me how much this dive, these deep dives, was like a space mission.

You know, where it was highly technical, and it required enormous planning.

And so, I really got bitten by the bug of deep-ocean exploration.

And it was an experience that Hollywood couldn't give me.

And we wound up going to the Bismark, and exploring it with robotic vehicles.

We went back to the Titanic wreck.

We took little bots that we had created that spooled a fiber optic.

And I'm flying a little robotic vehicle through the corridor of the ship.

When I say, "I'm operating it," but my mind is in the vehicle.

I felt like I was physically present inside the shipwreck of Titanic.

And the set was based as an exact replica on the blueprints of the ship. 

So, it was this absolutely remarkable experience.

It was really, really quite profound.

They live in an environment of chemosynthesis.

They don't survive on sunlight-based system the way we do.

And so, you're seeing animals that are living next to a 500-degree-Centigrade water plumes.

You think they can't possibly exist. 

And this was fascinating.

But what I wound up doing was bringing space scientists with us into the deep.

So, here we were making documentary films, but actually doing science, and actually doing space science.

I'd completely closed the loop between being the science fiction fan, you know, as a kid, and doing this stuff for real.

People sort of think I went away between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and was buffing my nails someplace, sitting at the beach.

Made all these films, made all these documentary films for a very limited audience. 

Creates a bond, creates a bond of respect. 

So, when I came back to make my next movie, which was "Avatar," I tried to apply that same principle of leadership, which is that you respect your team, and you earn their respect in return.

And it really changed the dynamic.

So, here I was again with a small team, in uncharted territory, doing "Avatar," coming up with new technology that didn't exist before.

And we became a family, over a four-and-half year period.

So, what can we synthesize out of all this?

You know, what are the lessons learned?

Well, I think number one is curiosity.

It's the most powerful thing you own.

Imagination is a force that can actually manifest a reality.

And the respect of your team is more important than all the laurels in the world.

And no important endeavor that required innovation was done without risk.

You have to be willing to take those risks.

(Applause) 

