So what we're looking at right here is a typical mortality chart organized by age.

And, right away, I see there's a different pattern that emerges.

This is because, in the mid-area here, people are at their most active, and over here they're at their most frail.

If we go ahead and we filter by age -- say 40 years or less -- we see that accidents are actually the greatest cause that people have to be worried about.

And if you drill into that, it's especially the case for men. 

So you get the idea that viewing information, viewing data in this way, is a lot like swimming in a living information info-graphic.

And if we can do this for raw data, why not do it for content as well?

You can go back to your rooms and try this after my talk.

You can jump right into a specific issue.

It's in between, and we think it changes the way information can be used. 

So I want to extrapolate on this idea a bit with something that's a little bit crazy.

What we're done here is we've taken every single Wikipedia page and we reduced it down to a little summary.

So the summary consists of just a little synopsis and an icon to indicate the topical area that it comes from.

I'm only showing the top 500 most popular Wikipedia pages right here.

But even in this limited view, we can do a lot of things.

Right away, we get a sense of what are the topical domains that are most popular on Wikipedia.

I'm going to go ahead and select government.

Now, having selected government, I can now see that the Wikipedia categories that most frequently correspond to that are Time magazine People of the Year.

So this is really important because this is an insight that was not contained within any one Wikipedia page.

It's only possible to see that insight when you step back and look at all of them. 

Looking at one of these particular summaries, I can then drill into the concept of Time magazine Person of the Year, bringing up all of them.

And interestingly enough, Bono is also a TED Prize winner.

So we can go, jump, and take a look at all the TED Prize winners.

So you see, we're navigating the web for the first time as if it's actually a web, not from page-to-page, but at a higher level of abstraction. 

And so I want to show you one other thing that may catch you a little bit by surprise.

I'm just showing the New York Times website here.

So I can step back, pop right back into a specific section.

Now the reason why this is important is because, by virtue of just viewing web pages in this way, I can look at my entire browsing history in the exact same way.

And I can sort of replay some stuff that I was looking at earlier today.

So right now, in this world, we think about data as being this curse.

If we can do that, then instead of being trapped in data, we might actually extract information.

And, instead of dealing just with information, we can tease out knowledge.

And if we get the knowledge, then maybe even there's wisdom to be found. 

So with that, I thank you. 

