And may it run forever, because it gives people like me a living.

And like all good soaps, it jumps 20 years when the audience interest changes.

And that's exactly what cricket has done.

But it wasn't always like that.

And there was this game in March 1939 that started on the third of March and ended on the 14th of March.

So, the match was ended in between.

(Laughter) Another half an hour after 12 days.

(Laughter) The Mahabharata was like that as well, wasn't it?

You fought by day, then it was sunset, so everyone went back home.

And then you worked out your strategy, and you came and fought the next day, and you went back home again.

The only difference between the Mahabharata and our cricket was that in cricket, everybody was alive to come back and fight the next day.

Princes patronize the game, not because they love the game, but because it was a means of ingratiating themselves to the British rulers. 

But there is one other reason why India fell in love with cricket, which was, all you needed was a plank of wood and a rubber ball, and any number of people could play it anywhere.

(Laughter) As you can see, you can play anywhere.

But slowly the game moved on, you know, finally. 

And then an enormous accident took place.

There was more 50-over cricket than anywhere. 

But there was another big date.

So, it's a bit of a curve, that. 

And then another big accident happened in our cricket.

England invented 20 overs cricket, and said, "The world must play 20 overs cricket."

We got to the final, and then this moment, that will remain enshrined forever, for everybody, take a look. 

The Pakistani batsman trying to clear the fielder. 

What a match for a Twenty20 final.

India, the world champions.

A massive, massive success: India, the world TT champions. 

And what it also did was it led to a certain pride in the fact that India could be the best in the world.

It was at a time when investment was coming in, India was feeling a little more confident about itself.

And so there was a feeling that there was great pride in what we can do.

(Laughter) And so England invented T20 cricket, and allowed India to hijack it.

(Laughter) 

And so, we launched our own T20 league.

The other was Indian cricket.

Now, suddenly we had to support city leagues.

But was India ready for it?

(Music) 

This was an India that was adding more mobile phones per month than New Zealand's population twice over.

So, it was a different India.

And so, they were aghast when the cheerleaders arrived.

Everyone secretly watched them, but everyone claimed not to. 

(Music) 

(Laughter) 

The new owners of Indian cricket were not the old princes.

And so they started promoting cricket big time, started promoting clubs big time.

And they've started promoting them with huge money behind it.

But what they were very good at doing was making it very localized.

(Music) 

And so he said, "I've got to reach on date X."

And they said, "Fine, you play to date X, minus one."

(Laughter) Never would India have thought on this scale before.

Never would India have said, "I want a player to play one game for me, and I will use a corporate jet to send him all the way back to Kingston, Jamaica to play a game."

And I just thought to myself, "Wow, we've arrived somewhere in the world, you know?

There is cricket and the movies.

And they came together because people in the movies now started owning clubs.

And so, people started going to the cricket to watch Preity Zinta.

They started going to the cricket to watch Shah Rukh Khan.

And something very interesting happened.

We started getting song and dance in Indian cricket.

And so it started resembling the Indian movies more and more.

And of course, if you were on Preity Zinta's team -- as you will see on the clip that follows -- if you did well, you got a hug from Preity Zinta.

(Music) 

And then of course there was Shah Rukh playing the Kolkata crowd.

But take a look at this. 

(Music) 

Can you imagine?

(Laughter) 

We can play cricket together, we can be friends.

So thank you very much for coming, all of you from Pakistan. 

How do you fix a price for a player?

There it is. 

(Music) 

The best Indian players who played every test match -- every one of the internationals, the top of the line players -- standard contracts are 220,000 dollars in a whole year.

Now they were getting 500,000 for six days' work.

Could you have imagined that day would come?

One and a half million dollars for six weeks' work.

That's not bad, is it? 

So, at 2.3 billion dollars before the first ball was bowled.

What India was doing, though, was benchmarking itself against the best in the world, and it became a huge brand.

Lalit Modi was on the cover of Business Today.

Because no country works as slowly as we do till three weeks before an event, and nobody works fast as we do in the last three weeks. 

Now, this last minute before I go -- there's a couple of side effects of all this.

And, all of a sudden, India was this land of opportunity.

Right so, finally, an English game that India usurped a little bit, but T20 is going to be the next missionary in the world.

If you want to take the game around the world, it's got to be the shortest form of the game.

You can't take a timeless test to China and sit through 14 days with no result in the end, or you can't take it all over the world.

So that's what T20 is doing.

