Everybody talks about happiness these days.

There is a huge wave of interest in happiness, among researchers.

There is a lot of happiness coaching.

Everybody would like to make people happier.

But in spite of all this flood of work, there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think straight about happiness. 

And my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traps.

The first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity.

I think there is one particular meaning to which we might restrict it, but by and large, this is something that we'll have to give up and we'll have to adopt the more complicated view of what well-being is.

The second trap is a confusion between experience and memory; basically, it's between being happy in your life, and being happy about your life or happy with your life.

And those are two very different concepts, and they're both lumped in the notion of happiness.

I mean, this is a real cognitive trap.

There's just no way of getting it right. 

And then he added, really quite emotionally, it ruined the whole experience.

But it hadn't.

What it had ruined were the memories of the experience.

What this is telling us, really, is that we might be thinking of ourselves and of other people in terms of two selves.

Now, the remembering self is a storyteller.

We don't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories.

And let me begin with one example.

This is an old study.

The surprise is that Patient A had a much worse memory of the colonoscopy than Patient B.

How do we know that?

Now this is a direct conflict between the experiencing self and the remembering self.

From the point of view of the experiencing self, clearly, B had a worse time.

That will cause the patient to suffer, but just a little and much less than before.

What defines a story?

And that is true of the stories that memory delivers for us, and it's also true of the stories that we make up.

Now, the experiencing self lives its life continuously.

It has moments of experience, one after the other.

And you can ask: What happens to these moments?

Most of them are completely ignored by the remembering self.

And yet, somehow you get the sense that they should count, that what happens during these moments of experience is our life.

It's the finite resource that we're spending while we're on this earth.

That's not the way it works at all for the remembering self.

You have not changed the story.

The experiencing self has no voice in this choice.

And even when we think about the future, we don't think of our future normally as experiences.

We think of our future as anticipated memories.

I have that sense that when we go on vacations this is very frequently the case; that is, we go on vacations, to a very large extent, in the service of our remembering self.

And this is a bit hard to justify I think.

I mean, how much do we consume our memories?

That is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of the remembering self.

And I probably have consumed my memories of that three-week trip, I would say, for about 25 minutes in the last four years.

Now, if I had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it, I would have spent another hour.

Now, that is three weeks, and that is at most an hour and a half.

There seems to be a discrepancy.

So I want you to think about a thought experiment.

Why do we pick the vacations we do is a problem that confronts us with a choice between the two selves. 

Now, the two selves bring up two notions of happiness.

And they're all -- happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process.

What are the emotions that can be measured?

And, by the way, now we are capable of getting a pretty good idea of the happiness of the experiencing self over time.

If you ask for the happiness of the remembering self, it's a completely different thing.

This is not about how happily a person lives.

It is about how satisfied or pleased the person is when that person thinks about her life.

Very different notion.

So in recent years, we have begun to learn about the happiness of the two selves.

And the main lesson I think that we have learned is they are really different.

You can know how satisfied somebody is with their life, and that really doesn't teach you much about how happily they're living their life, and vice versa.

Just to give you a sense of the correlation, the correlation is about .5.

What that means is if you met somebody, and you were told, "Oh his father is six feet tall," how much would you know about his height?

Well, you would know something about his height, but there's a lot of uncertainty.

You have that much uncertainty.

If I tell you that somebody ranked their life eight on a scale of ten, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their experiencing self.

So the correlation is low. 

We know something about what controls satisfaction of the happiness self.

We know that money is very important, goals are very important.

We know that happiness is mainly being satisfied with people that we like, spending time with people that we like.

There are other pleasures, but this is dominant.

So if you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves, you are going to end up doing very different things.

The bottom line of what I've said here is that we really should not think of happiness as a substitute for well-being.

It is a completely different notion. 

Now, very quickly, another reason we cannot think straight about happiness is that we do not attend to the same things when we think about life, and we actually live.

So, if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in California, you are not going to get to the correct answer.

When you ask that question, you think people must be happier in California if, say, you live in Ohio.

But now, because the reflective self is in charge, you may end up -- some people may end up moving to California.

And it's sort of interesting to trace what is going to happen to people who move to California in the hope of getting happier.

Well, their experiencing self is not going to get happier.

Thank you. 

Thank you so much.

Now, when we were on the phone a few weeks ago, you mentioned to me that there was quite an interesting result came out of that Gallup survey.

Is that something you can share since you do have a few moments left now? 

Daniel Kahneman: Sure.

I think the most interesting result that we found in the Gallup survey is a number, which we absolutely did not expect to find.

We found that with respect to the happiness of the experiencing self.

When we looked at how feelings, vary with income.

And it turns out that, below an income of 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans -- and that's a very large sample of Americans, like 600,000, so it's a large representative sample -- below an income of 600,000 dollars a year... 

Above that, we get an absolutely flat line.

I mean I've rarely seen lines so flat.

In terms of the other self, the remembering self, you get a different story.

The more money you earn, the more satisfied you are.

That does not hold for emotions. 

CA: But Danny, the whole American endeavor is about life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness.

If people took seriously that finding, I mean, it seems to turn upside down everything we believe about, like for example, taxation policy and so forth.

Is there any chance that politicians, that the country generally, would take a finding like that seriously and run public policy based on it? 

DK: You know I think that there is recognition of the role of happiness research in public policy.

People are recognizing that they ought to be thinking of happiness when they think of public policy.

In the United States, efforts are being made to measure the experience happiness of the population.

This is going to be, I think, within the next decade or two, part of national statistics. 

CA: Well, it seems to me that this issue will -- or at least should be -- the most interesting policy discussion to track over the next few years.

