Thanks to a really boring lecture, I started caricaturing my teachers in school.

So for me, cartooning gave me a sense of identity.

I got popular, but I was scared I'd get caught again.

So what I did was I quickly put together a collage of all the teachers I had drawn, glorified my school principal, put him right on top, and gifted it to him.

He had a good laugh at the other teachers and put it up on the notice board.

(Laughter) This is a part of that.

She's the one who taught me how to draw and, more importantly, how to love.

But, to cut a long story short, I quit school to pursue a career as a cartoonist.

I must have done about 30,000 caricatures.

I would do birthday parties, weddings, divorces, anything for anyone who wanted to use my services.

When I started teaching them, I said let me start doing this professionally.

When I was 18 I started my own school.

I had to meet my Prime Minister.

I went to the place where his helicopter was about to land.

I said, "I'm here to meet the Prime Minister."

He said, "Oh, so am I."

(Applause) Thank you.

(Laughter) Anyway, the next slide I'm about to show you -- (Laughter) Should I just turn that off?

The next slide I'm about to show you, is a little more serious.

What was, for me, a very naive observation, turned out to be a disaster.

That evening, I came home to hundreds of hate mails, hundreds of people telling me how they could have lived another day without seeing this.

Anyway, what I did was I decided that I need to take a break.

I quit my job at the papers, I closed my school, and I wrapped up my pencils and my brushes and inks, and I decided to go traveling.

When I went, I saw the ghastliest thing ever.

So I said, "I am dead, so I need to be born again."

So, I tried going to the art store.

You know, there are a hundred types of brushes.

Forget it, they will confuse you even if you know how to draw.

So I decided, I'm going to learn to paint by myself.

And even bigger.

And for me it was, I had to dance while I painted.

It was so exciting.

Except, I even started painting dancers.

As much energy as I put into them while making them, they never danced.

So I decided -- I had this crazy epiphany at two in the morning.

And, all of a sudden, my paintings came alive.

And then I was fortunate enough to actually perform this in California with Velocity Circus.

The collaborative effort was fabulous.

I said, I'm going to collaborate with anybody and everybody I meet.

I started doing fashion.

This is a fashion show we held in London.

The best collaboration, of course, is with children.

(Laughter) 

Then I said, all this is good, but I want to paint like a real painter.

American education is so expensive.

I was in India, and I was walking down the streets, and I saw a billboard painter.

And I wondered how they did it from so close.

Netra and I met when she was 18.

I'm joking.

So Netra was stuck with 30 paintings of mine. 

So what we did was we rented a little van and we drove all over the east coast trying to sell it.

That's us in New York.

(Laughter) 

150 artists volunteered to help me with my wedding.

We had fashion designers, installation artists, models, we had makeup artists, jewelry designers, all kinds of people working with me to make my wedding an art installation.

And I had a special installation in tribute to my in-laws.

I had the vegetable carvers work on that for me. 

But all this excitement led to the press writing about us.

My mother fell very ill.

And I was devastated.

My life was not exuberant.

I could not live this larger than life person.

I started exploring the darker abscesses of the human mind.

I lost all my audiences.

The Bollywood stars who I would party with and buy my work disappeared.

The collectors, the friends, the press, everyone said, "Nice, but thank you."

"No thank you," was more like it.

Of course, none of them liked it. 

My works also turned autobiographical.

At this point, something else happened.

I was very upset.

(Laughter) Anyway, I don't know what my friends are going to say after this talk.

It's a secret. 

So, after this, my works turned a little violent.

I talked about this masculinity that one need not perform.

And I talked about the weakness of male sexuality.

So, I decided it was time to end and go back home.

This time I said let's try something different.

I need to be reborn again.

And I thought the best way, as most of you know who have children, the best way to have a new lease on life, is to have a child.

I decided to have a child, and before I did that, I quickly studied what can go wrong.

How can a family get dysfunctional?

And Rudra was born.

That's my little son. 

And two magical things happened after he was born.

My mother miraculously recovered after a serious operation, and this man was elected president of this country.

You know I sat at home and I watched.

I teared up and I said that's where I want to be.

So Netra and I wound up our life, closed up everything we had, and we decided to move to New York.

And this was just eight months ago. 

I moved back to New York, my work has changed.

Everything about my work has become more whimsical.

This one is called "What the Fuck Was I Thinking?"

It talks about mental incest.

(Laughter) These are just different cartoons. 

And, before I go, I want to tell you a little story.

I met Belinda when she was 16.

I was 17.

They, in fact, told me three weeks.

And she wrote a little note, she said, "Hey Rags, thank you for the magic carpet ride around the world."

For me, my art is my magic carpet ride.

