If you are a blind child in India, you will very likely have to contend with at least two big pieces of bad news.

This is a three-year-old orphan girl who had cataracts.

So, her caretakers took her to the village medicine man, and instead of suggesting to the caretakers that the girl be taken to a hospital, the person decided to burn her abdomen with red-hot iron bars to drive out the demons.

So when I heard these two things, it troubled me deeply, both because of personal reasons and scientific reasons.

So let me first start with the personal reason.

It'll sound corny, but it's sincere.

That's my son, Darius.

As a new father, I have a qualitatively different sense of just how delicate babies are, what our obligations are towards them and how much love we can feel towards a child.

So that's the personal reason. 

So I felt that I needed to do two things.

One: provide care to children who are currently being deprived of treatment.

That's the humanitarian mission.

So, to implement these twin missions, a few years ago, I launched Project Prakash.

Prakash, as many of you know, is the Sanskrit word for light, and the idea is that in bringing light into the lives of children, we also have a chance of shedding light on some of the deepest mysteries of neuroscience.

And the logo -- even though it looks extremely Irish, it's actually derived from the Indian symbol of Diya, an earthen lamp.

The Prakash, the overall effort has three components: outreach, to identify children in need of care; medical treatment; and in subsequent study.

And I want to show you a short video clip that illustrates the first two components of this work. 

This is an outreach station conducted at a school for the blind. 

Pawan Sinha: So, because this is a school for the blind, many children have permanent conditions.

That's an extreme of micropthalmos called enophthalmos.

But, every so often, we come across children who show some residual vision, and that is a very good sign that the condition might actually be treatable.

So, after that screening, we bring the children to the hospital.

That's the hospital we're working with in Delhi, the Schroff Charity Eye Hospital.

It has a very well-equipped pediatric ophthalmic center, which was made possible in part by a gift from the Ronald McDonald charity.

So, eating burgers actually helps. 

(Text: Such examinations allow us to improve eye-health in many children, and ... ... help us find children who can participate in Project Prakash.)

PS: So, as I zoom in to the eyes of this child, you will see the cause of his blindness.

The whites that you see in the middle of his pupils are congenital cataracts, so opacities of the lens.

And here's the same child three weeks post-operation, with the right eye open. 

So, even from that little clip, you can begin to get the sense that recovery is possible, and we have now provided treatment to over 200 children, and the story repeats itself.

We did a paper a few years ago about this woman that you see on the right, SRD, and she got her sight late in life, and her vision is remarkable at this age.

So, hers is just a truly inspiring story -- unknown, but inspiring story.

So when we started finding these results, as you might imagine, it created quite a bit of stir in the scientific and the popular press.

Here's an article in Nature that profiled this work, and another one in Time.

So, we were fairly convinced -- we are convinced -- that recovery is feasible, despite extended visual deprivation. 

So, the way we study that is, let's say we find a child who has light sensitivity.

We treat many more children then we actually work with.

Every child who needs treatment is treated.

After treatment, about every week, we run the child on a battery of simple visual tests in order to see how their visual skills are coming on line.

And we try to do this for as long as possible.

What might be the causal connections between the early developing skills and the later developing ones? 

So, here's what happens very soon after the onset of sight.

His visual-motor coordination is quite poor, but you get a general sense of what are the regions that he's trying to trace out.

If you show him real world images, if you show others like him real world images, they are unable to recognize most of the objects because the world to them is over-fragmented; it's made up of a collage, a patchwork, of regions of different colors and luminances.

And that's what's indicated in the green outlines.

When you ask them, "Even if you can't name the objects, just point to where the objects are," these are the regions that they point to.

So the world is this complex patchwork of regions.

Even the shadow on the ball becomes its own object.

Interestingly enough, you give them a few months, and this is what happens. 

Doctor: How many are these? 

Patient: These are two things. 

Doctor: What are their shapes? 

PS: A very dramatic transformation has come about.

And the question is: What underlies this transformation?

It's a profound question, and what's even more amazing is how simple the answer is.

The answer lies in motion and that's what I want to show you in the next clip. 

Doctor: What shape do you see here? 

Patient: I can't make it out. 

Patient: Triangle. 

Doctor: How many things are these?

Now, how many things are these? 

Patient: Two. 

Doctor: What are these things? 

Patient: A square and a circle. 

PS: And we see this pattern over and over again.

The one thing the visual system needs in order to begin parsing the world is dynamic information.

This simple idea has far reaching implications.

And that's what we're trying to do. 

I'm at MIT, at MIT you need to apply whatever basic knowledge you gain.

So we are creating Dylan, which is a computational system with an ambitious goal of taking in visual inputs of the same kind that a human child would receive, and autonomously discovering: What are the objects in this visual input?

So, don't worry about the internals of Dylan.

Here, I'm just going to talk about how we test Dylan.

The way we test Dylan is by giving it inputs, as I said, of the same kind that a baby, or a child in Project Prakash would get.

But for a long time we couldn't quite figure out: Wow can we get these kinds of video inputs?

So, I thought, could we have Darius serve as our babycam carrier, and that way get the inputs that we feed into Dylan?

So that's what we did.

(Laughter) In fact, Pam, if you're watching this, please forgive me. 

So, we modified the optics of the camera in order to mimic the baby's visual acuity.

As some of you might know, babyies are born pretty much legally blind.

Their acuity -- our acuity is 20/20; babies' acuity is like 20/800, so they are looking at the world in a very, very blurry fashion.

Here's what a baby-cam video looks like. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Thankfully, there isn't any audio to go with this.

What's amazing is that working with such highly degraded input, the baby, very quickly, is able to discover meaning in such input.

So, it's an important demonstration of the power of motion. 

The clinical implication, it comes from the domain of autism.

Visual integration has been associated with autism by several researchers.

Because, if that hypothesis were to be true, it would have massive repercussions in our understanding of what's causing the many different aspects of the autism phenotype. 

What you're going to see are video clips of two children -- one neurotypical, one with autism, playing Pong.

So, while the child is playing Pong, we are tracking where they're looking.

In red are the eye movement traces.

This is the neurotypical child, and what you see is that the child is able to make cues of the dynamic information to predict where the ball is going to go.

Even before the ball gets to a place, the child is already looking there.

Contrast this with a child with autism playing the same game.

Instead of anticipating, the child always follows where the ball has been.

The efficiency of the use of dynamic information seems to be significantly compromised in autism.

So we are pursuing this line of work and hopefully we'll have more results to report soon. 

Looking ahead, if you think of this disk as representing all of the children we've treated so far, this is the magnitude of the problem.

The red dots are the children we have not treated.

The Prakash Center will integrate health care, education and research in a way that truly creates the whole to be greater than the sum of the parts. 

Thank you very much. 

