I think I'll start out and just talk a little bit about what exactly autism is.

Autism is a very big continuum that goes from very severe -- the child remains non-verbal -- all the way up to brilliant scientists and engineers.

It's a continuum of traits.

When does a nerd turn into Asperger, which is just mild autism?

I mean, Einstein and Mozart and Tesla would all be probably diagnosed as autistic spectrum today.

You have to get away from verbal language.

Now, the thing about the autistic mind is it attends to details.

And the thing is, the normal brain ignores the details.

And one of my big concerns with a lot of policy things today is things are getting too abstract.

People are getting away from doing hands-on stuff.

This feed yard was going to tear down their whole veterinary facility; all they needed to do was move the flag.

Rapid movement, contrast.

In the early '70s when I started, I got right down in the chutes to see what cattle were seeing.

My drawings got to star in the movie too.

My mind works like Google for images.

Now, when I was a young kid I didn't know my thinking was different.

I thought everybody thought in pictures.

And then when I did my book, "Thinking In Pictures," I start interviewing people about how they think.

I see only specific pictures.

They flash up into my memory, just like Google for pictures.

And in the movie, they've got a great scene in there where the word "shoe" is said, and a whole bunch of '50s and '60s shoes pop into my imagination. 

And they just kind of come up, kind of like this.

Just really quickly, like Google for pictures.

Now, visual thinking was a tremendous asset in my work designing cattle-handling facilities.

And I've worked really hard on improving how cattle are treated at the slaughter plant.

I'm not going to go into any gucky slaughter slides.

I've got that stuff up on YouTube if you want to look at it.

But, one of the things that I was able to do in my design work is I could actually test run a piece of equipment in my mind, just like a virtual reality computer system.

And this is an aerial view of a recreation of one of my projects that was used in the movie.

That was like just so super cool.

And there were a lot of kind of Asperger types and autism types working out there on the movie set too.

(Laughter) But one of the things that really worries me is: Where's the younger version of those kids going today?

Now, one of the things I learned very early on because I wasn't that social, is I had to sell my work, and not myself.

And the way I sold livestock jobs is I showed off my drawings, I showed off pictures of things.

Another thing that helped me as a little kid is, boy, in the '50s, you were taught manners.

You were taught you can't pull the merchandise off the shelves in the store and throw it around. 

Now, I had this brain scan done several years ago, and I used to joke around about having a gigantic Internet trunk line going deep into my visual cortex.

This is tensor imaging.

And my great big internet trunk line is twice as big as the control's.

The red lines there are me, and the blue lines are the sex and age-matched control.

And there I got a gigantic one, and the control over there, the blue one, has got a really small one. 

And some of the research now is showing is that people on the spectrum actually think with primary visual cortex.

Now, the thing is, the visual thinker's just one kind of mind.

And there in the background is the pattern for folding it.

You also will see these kind of problems with kids that are dyslexic.

Now, another thing is the sensory issues.

I was really concerned about having to wear this gadget on my face.

You know, it's going to be variable. 

Think about how much information there is there on the local fire hydrant.

He knows who's been there, when they were there.

There's a ton of information on that fire hydrant.

It's all very detailed information, and, looking at these kind of details gave me a lot of insight into animals. 

Now, the animal mind, and also my mind, puts sensory-based information into categories.

Man on a horse and a man on the ground -- that is viewed as two totally different things.

You have another horse, where maybe the horseshoer beat him up and he'll be terrible for anything on the ground, with the veterinarian, but a person can ride him.

Cattle are the same way.

Man on a horse, a man on foot -- they're two different things.

You see, it's a different picture.

See, I want you to think about just how specific this is. 

Now, this ability to put information into categories, I find a lot of people are not very good at this.

In other words, categorize equipment problem from a people problem.

I find a lot of people have difficulty doing that.

Now, let's say I figure out it's an equipment problem.

Is it a minor problem, with something simple I can fix?

Or is the whole design of the system wrong?

People have a hard time figuring that out. 

Let's just look at something like, you know, solving problems with making airlines safer.

Yeah, I'm a million-mile flier.

I do lots and lots of flying, and if I was at the FAA, what would I be doing a lot of direct observation of?

It would be their airplane tails.

I take all the little pieces and I put the pieces together like a puzzle. 

Now, here is a horse that was deathly afraid of black cowboy hats.

He'd been abused by somebody with a black cowboy hat.

White cowboy hats, that was absolutely fine.

Now, the thing is, the world is going to need all of the different kinds of minds to work together.

We've got to work on developing all these different kinds of minds.

And this brings up the whole thing of my science teacher.

He was now Dr. Carlock in the movie.

And he got me challenged to figure out an optical illusion room.

This brings up the whole thing of you've got to show kids interesting stuff.

You know, one of the things that I think maybe TED ought to do is tell all the schools about all the great lectures that are on TED, and there's all kinds of great stuff on the Internet to get these kids turned on.

Because I'm seeing a lot of these geeky nerdy kids, and the teachers out in the Midwest, and the other parts of the country, when you get away from these tech areas, they don't know what to do with these kids.

And they're not going down the right path. 

And what some of the research now has shown in autism is there may by extra wiring back here, in the really brilliant mind, and we lose a few social circuits here.

It's kind of a trade-off between thinking and social.

And then you can get into the point where it's so severe you're going to have a person that's going to be non-verbal.

In the normal human mind language covers up the visual thinking we share with animals. 

This is the work of Dr. Bruce Miller.

And he studied Alzheimer's patients that had frontal temporal lobe dementia.

And the Wolfram stuff -- I was taking notes and I was writing down all the search words I could use, because I think that's going to go on in my autism lectures.

We've got to show these kids interesting stuff.

And they've taken out the autoshop class and the drafting class and the art class.

I mean art was my best subject in school. 

And let's talk about jobs.

I was taught that when I was eight years old.

You know, how to have table manners at granny's Sunday party.

I was taught that when I was very, very young.

And when I was 13, I had a job at a dressmaker's shop sewing clothes.

You know, all I wanted to do was draw pictures of horses when I was little.

Let's say the kid is fixated on Legos.

Let's get him working on building different things.

The thing about the autistic mind is it tends to be fixated.

Like if a kid loves racecars, let's use racecars for math.

Let's figure out how long it takes a racecar to go a certain distance.

It just drives me crazy. 

What can visual thinkers do when they grow up?

They can do graphic design, all kinds of stuff with computers, photography, industrial design.

Because the thing about being autistic is, I had to learn social skills like being in a play.

It's just kind of -- you just have to learn it. 

And we need to be working with these students.

And this brings up mentors.

You know, my science teacher was not an accredited teacher.

He was a NASA space scientist.

Now, some states now are getting it to where if you have a degree in biology, or a degree in chemistry, you can come into the school and teach biology or chemistry.

We need to be doing that.

Another thing that can be very, very, very successful is there is a lot of people that may have retired from working in the software industry, and they can teach your kid.

And it doesn't matter if what they teach them is old, because what you're doing is you're lighting the spark.

You're getting that kid turned on.

And you get him turned on, then he'll learn all the new stuff.

Mentors are just essential.

I cannot emphasize enough what my science teacher did for me.

And we've got to mentor them, hire them. 

Well, that's the end of my talk.

And I just want to thank everybody for coming.

It was great to be here. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you so much for that.

You know, you once wrote, I like this quote, "If by some magic, autism had been eradicated from the face of the Earth, then men would still be socializing in front of a wood fire at the entrance to a cave."

But if there is someone here who has an autistic child, or knows an autistic child and feels kind of cut off from them, what advice would you give them? 

You know, the thing is, autism comes in different degrees.

There's going to be about half the people on the spectrum that are not going to learn to talk, and they're not going to be working Silicon Valley, that would not be a reasonable thing for them to do. 

But then you get the smart, geeky kids that have a touch of autism, and that's where you've got to get them turned on with doing interesting things.

I got social interaction through shared interest.

I rode horses with other kids, I made model rockets with other kids, did electronics lab with other kids, and in the '60s, it was gluing mirrors onto a rubber membrane on a speaker to make a light show.

That was like, we considered that super cool. 

CA: Is it unrealistic for them to hope or think that that child loves them, as some might, as most, wish? 

What are you most passionate about? 

TG: I'm passionate about that the things I do are going to make the world a better place.

When I have a mother of an autistic child say, "My kid went to college because of your book, or one of your lectures," that makes me happy. 

And it's very, very simple.

CA: When we were talking on the phone, one of the things you said that really astonished me was you said one thing you were passionate about was server farms.

It's libraries.

And this is before the Internet got really big.

And server farms, or data centers are great libraries of knowledge. 

CA: Temple, can I just say it's an absolute delight to have you at TED. 

