And what I can say is, in 2016, doctors aren't going to be walking around with stethoscopes.

What has changed our society has been wireless devices.

But the future are digital medical wireless devices, OK? 

But that's just the beginning.

You check your email while you're sitting here.

This is already available today. 

This is AirStrip Technologies.

And then as we go further, today we have continuous glucose sensors.

And what about sleep?

We're going to zoom in on that a little bit.

We're supposed to spend a third of our life in sleep.

What if, on your phone, which will be available in the next few weeks, you had every minute of your sleep displayed?

And this is, of course, as you can see, the awake is the orange.

How about counting every calorie?

And this is ability, in real time, to actually take measurements of caloric intake as well as expenditure, through a Band-Aid. 

Now, what I've talked about are physiologic metrics.

So, we're not just talking about physiologic metrics -- the key measurements of vital signs, and all those things in physiology -- but also all the imaging that one could look at in your smartphone.

Twenty-four hour recording, lots of wires.

This is now a little tiny patch.

You can put it on for two weeks and send it in the mail. 

So, that's basically very simplistic technology of how this works. 

Now, I have this device on.

I didn't want to take my shirt off to show you, but I can tell you it's on.

That's the fluid status, fluid status, that's really important if you're monitoring somebody with heart failure.

And below that's temperature, and respiration, and oxygen, and then the position activity.

So, this is really striking, because this device measures seven things that are very much vital signs for monitoring someone with heart failure.

The cost of heart failure is 37 billion dollars a year, which is 80 percent related to hospitalization.

What we have is, in a way, a perfect positive storm.

This sets up consumer-driven healthcare.

That's where this is all starting.

A lot of you have gotten that Phillips Direct Life.

I didn't have one of those, but I got the Fitbit.

That looks like this.

It's like a wireless accelerometer, pedometer.

And I want to just give you the results of that testing, because I wanted to understand about the consumer movement.

But this monitors food, it monitors activity and tracks weight.

However you have to put in most of this stuff.

So, you exercise and it picks up the exercise.

But it really wants you to enter all your activity.

So, now I want to move to sleep.

This is the headband that goes with this alarm clock.

It monitors your brainwaves continuously, when you're sleeping.

And the wake time is in orange.

And this can be a problem, as I learned.

Because it not only helps you with quantifying your sleep, but also tells others you're awake.

This thing is very, very impressive. 

And this tells you, of course, how much you had in REM sleep, in deep sleep, and all this sort of thing.

This was really fascinating because this gave that quantitation about all the different phases of sleep.

So, it also then tells you how you do compared to your age group.

It's like a managed competition of sleep.

And really interesting stuff.

Now, diabetes is one of the big ones.

And you can see the red dots, in this particular patient's case, were finger sticks, which would have missed both ends. 

But by continuous monitoring, it captures all that vital information.

So, let me just give you, very quickly, 10 top targets for wireless medicine.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

And obesity we already talked about, the ways to get to that.

And sleep disorders. 

One of many different techniques using wireless sensors.

So, we can change medicine across the continuum of care, across the ages from premies or unborn children to seniors; the pharmaceutical arena changes; the full spectrum of disease -- I hope I've given you a sense of that -- across the globe. 

There are two things that can really accelerate this whole process.

San Diego is an extraordinary place for this.

There's over 650 wireless companies, 100 of which or more are working in wireless health.

It's the number one source of commerce, and interestingly it dovetails beautifully with over 500 life science companies. 

If we understand biology from genomics and omics and wireless through physiologic phenotyping, that's big.

Because what it does is allow a convergence like we've never had before.

Over 80 major diseases have been cracked at the genomic level, but this is quite extraordinary: More has been learned about the underpinnings of disease in the last two and a half years than in the history of man.

We can tell who's going to get breast cancer from the various genes.

We can also know who's likely to get atrial fibrillation. 

And finally, another example: sudden cardiac death.

Each of these has a sensor.

We lose 700,000 people a year in the U.S. from sudden cardiac death. 

So, I hope I've convinced you of this, of the impact on hospital clinic resources is profound and then the impact on diseases is equally impressive across all these different diseases and more.

Thanks for your attention. 

