I've always been interested in the relationship of formal structures and human behavior.

If you build a wide road out to the outskirts of town, people will move there.

Well, law is also a powerful driver of human behavior.

And what I'd like to discuss today is the need to overhaul and simplify the law to release the energy and passion of Americans, so that we can begin to address the challenges of our society. 

You might have noticed that law has grown progressively denser in your lives over the last decade or two.

If you run a business, it's hard to do much of anything without calling your general counsel.

Indeed, there is this phenomenon now where the general counsels are becoming the CEOs.

It's a little bit like the Invasion Of The Body Snatchers.

A couple of years ago I was hiking near Cody, Wyoming.

It was in a grizzly bear preserve, although no one told me that before we went.

And our guide was a local science teacher.

She was wholly unconcerned about the bears, but she was terrified of lawyers.

The stories started pouring out.

She'd just been involved in an episode where a parent had threatened to sue the school because she lowered the grade of the student by 10 percent when he turned the paper in late.

The principal didn't want to stand up to the parent because he didn't want to get dragged into some legal proceedings.

So, she had to go to meeting after meeting, same arguments made over and over again.

So, they provided a bus that held 60 people and drove the three of them back and forth several hours to Laramie. 

Her husband is also a science teacher, and he takes his biology class on a hike in the nearby national park.

But he was told he couldn't go on the hike this year because one of the students in the class was disabled, so the other 25 students didn't get to go on the hike either.

At the end of this day I could have filled a book just with stories about law from this one teacher. 

Now, we've been taught to believe that law is the foundation of freedom.

But somehow or another, in the last couple of decades, the land of the free has become a legal minefield.

Now for 20 years, tort reformers have been sounding the alarm that lawsuits are out of control.

The case went on for two years; I think he's still appealing the case. 

But the direct costs are really only the tip of the iceberg. 

What's happened here, again, almost without our knowing, is our culture has changed.

People no longer feel free to act on their best judgment.

So, what do we do about it?

We certainly don't want to give up the rights, when people do something wrong, to seek redress in the courts.

We need regulation to make sure people don't pollute and such.

We've been trained to think that the way to look at every dispute, every issue, is a matter of kind of individual rights.

And so we peer through a legal microscope, and look at everything.

Is it possible that there are extenuating circumstances that explain why Johnny turned his paper in late in Cody, Wyoming?

Is it possible that the doctor might have done something differently when the sick person gets sicker?

And of course the hindsight bias is perfect.

There's always a different scenario that you can sketch out where it's possible that something could have been done differently. 

And yet, we've been trained to squint into this legal microscope, hoping that we can judge any dispute against the standard of a perfect society, where everyone will agree what's fair, and where accidents will be extinct, risk will be no more.

It's not the basis of the rule of law, it's not the basis of a free society.

Absolutely vital. 

So, let's pull back from the anecdotes for a second and look at our society from high above.

Is it working?

What does the macro-data show us?

But reliable estimates range between 60 billion and 200 billion dollars per year.

That's enough to provide care to all the people in America who don't have it. 

The trial lawyers say, "Well, this legal fear makes doctors practice better medicine."

Well that's been studied too, by the Institute of Medicine and others.

Because they're not sure, and they don't want to take legal responsibility. 

Let's go to schools.

As we saw with the teacher in Cody, Wyoming, she seems to be affected by the law.

Well it turns out the schools are literally drowning in law.

Again, studies have shown it's directly attributable to the rise of due process.

Public agenda did a survey for us a couple of years ago where they found that 43 percent of the high school teachers in America say that they spend at least half of their time maintaining order in the classroom.

That means those students are getting half the learning they're supposed to, because if one child is disrupting the class no one can learn.

And what happens when the teacher tries to assert order?

It's not that they usually sue, it's not that they would win, but it's an indication of the corrosion of authority. 

And how has this system of law worked for government?

It doesn't seem to be working very well does it?

Neither in Sacramento nor in Washington.

(Laughter) That means all the boys are going to be ADD.

I mean it's just absolutely a formula for failure. 

My favorite, though, are all the warning labels.

"Caution: Contents are hot," on billions of coffee cups.

People -- for law to be the platform for freedom, people have to trust it.

Life is complicated enough without legal fear.

And so the state can come in.

It actually changes the way people think.

Pretty soon the doctor's saying, "Well, I doubt if that headache could be a tumor, but who would protect me if it were?

Then you've wasted 200 billion dollars in unnecessary tests.

If you make people self-conscious about their judgments, studies show you will make them make worse judgments.

If you tell the pianist to think about how she's hitting the notes when she's playing the piece, she can't play the piece.

So, how do you restore trust?

States with extensive tort reform still suffer all these pathologies.

So, what's needed is not just to limit claims, but actually create a dry ground of freedom.

It turns out that freedom actually has a formal structure.

And it is this: Law sets boundaries, and on one side of those boundaries are all the things you can't do or must do -- you can't steal, you've got to pay your taxes -- but those same boundaries are supposed to define and protect a dry ground of freedom. 

So, what's needed now is to rebuild these boundaries.

And it's especially important to rebuild them for lawsuits.

Because what people can sue for establishes the boundaries for everybody else's freedom.

Because no one will want to take the risk of a lawsuit.

And so here is the fourth proposition.

This is what we have, the philosophy we have to change to.

We have to migrate from all this complexity towards general principles and goals.

The constitution is only 16 pages long.

Worked pretty well for 200 years. 

If they can't internalize it, they won't trust it.

And how do you make it simple?

(Applause) We have to rehumanize the law.

To make law simple so that you feel free, the people in charge have to be free to use their judgment to interpret and apply the law in accord with reasonable social norms.

That person doesn't exist today. 

Maybe you've got a claim in small claims court for your lost pair of pants for $100, but not in a court of general jurisdiction for millions of dollars.

Case dismissed without prejudice or refiling in small claims court.

The problem is, we created a system where we eliminated the right to have good values.

It doesn't mean that people in authority can do whatever they want.

But the accountability's up the line judging the decision against the effect on everybody, not just on the disgruntled person.

(Applause) 

So, what's needed is a basic shift in philosophy.

We can pull the plug on a lot of this stuff if we shift our philosophy.

If teachers don't have authority to run the classroom, to maintain order, everybody's learning suffers.

If the judge doesn't have the authority to toss out unreasonable claims, then all of us go through the day looking over our shoulders.

If the environmental agency can't decide that the power lines are good for the environment, then there's no way to bring the power from the wind farms to the city.

What the world needs now is to restore the authority to make common choices.

(Applause) 

