And one of the first things that I started to investigate was the history of the name of technology.

And in the United States there is a State of the Union address given by every president since 1790.

And each one of those is really kind of summing up the most important things for the United States at that time.

If you search for the word "technology," it was not used until 1952.

So, technology was sort of absent from everybody's thinking until 1952, which happened to be the year of my birth.

I actually did research to find out the first use of the word "technology."

And that's the very first use of the word. 

So, what is this stuff that we're all consumed by, and bothered by?

It's not roads, or penicillin, or factory tires; it's the new stuff.

But we know that it's just not new.

So, another way to think about technology, what it means, is to imagine a world without technology.

We would die by the billions, and very quickly: The wolves would get us, we would be defenseless, we would be unable to grow enough food, or find enough food. 

Even the hunter-gatherers used some elementary tools.

And so, they had minimal technology, but they had some technology.

There are very few young infants because they die -- high mortality rate -- and there's very few old people.

And if you go there, you say, "Hey, everybody's really healthy."

Well, that's because they're all young. 

And the same thing with the hunter-gatherer tribes and early man is that you didn't live beyond the age of 30.

So, it was a world without grandparents.

And grandparents are very important, because they are the transmitter of cultural evolution and information.

Imagine a world and basically everybody was 20 to 30 years old.

How much learning can you do?

So, that's one aspect. 

Some anthropologists call that the original affluent society.

But when the scarcity came when the highs and lows and the droughts came, then people went into starvation.

And that's why they didn't live very long. 

So, long before the industrial age we've been affecting the planet on a global scale, with just a small amount of technology. 

The other thing that the early man invented was fire.

It enabled us to actually eat all kinds of things.

And if we don't have fire, we actually could not live.

And even at that time, with the introduction of agriculture, 8,000, 10,000 years ago we started to see climate change.

And so, already small amounts of technology were transforming the world.

And what this means, and where I'm going, is that technology has become the most powerful force in the world.

All the things that we see today that are changing our lives, we can always trace back to the introduction of some new technology. 

So, humanity is our greatest invention. 

But of course we're not done yet.

It's a very, very strong force.

My working definition of technology is "anything useful that a human mind makes."

It's not just hammers and gadgets, like laptops.

While this is something that comes from our mind, it also has its roots deeply into the cosmos. 

You put energy into the right kind of system and out comes wasted heat, entropy and extropy, which is order.

It's the increased order. 

We actually don't know.

One trend that we notice in all those things is that the amount of energy per gram per second that flows through this, is actually increasing.

The amount of energy is increasing through this little sequence.

And the energy density that we see in the greatest of anywhere in the universe is actually in a PC chip.

There is more energy flowing through, per gram per second, than anything that we have any other experience with. 

That's where technology is going. 

For instance, right now, three-quarters of the energy that we use is actually used to feed the technium itself.

This is a robot that wants to plug itself in to get more power.

Your cat wants more food.

And that's the thing that bothers most people, is that progress is really real, but we wonder and question: What are the environmental costs of it? 

He could buy things that King Henry, in all his wealth, could never buy.

That's what progress is about. 

So, technology is selfish; technology is generous.

We have confusion about what we should think about a new technology.

But a better way is to, what I call proactionary principle, which is: You engage with technology.

You try it out.

We fix it, but most importantly, we relocate it.

And what I mean by that is that we find a new job for it. 

Nuclear energy, fission, is really bad idea for bombs.

When we have a bad idea, the response to a bad idea is not no ideas, it's not to stop thinking.

So, better ideas is really -- always the response to technology that we don't like is basically, better technology.

So, maybe spraying DDT on crops is a really bad idea.

So, our job as humans is to parent our mind children, to find them good friends, to find them a good job.

And so, every technology is sort of a creative force looking for the right job.

That's actually my son, right here.

And we are aware of the price.

Because technology is an extension of life, it's in parallel and aligned with the same things that life wants.

So, technology is more than just the stuff in your pocket.

It's more than just gadgets; it's more than just things that people invent.

