I'm going to talk today about energy and climate.

And that might seem a bit surprising because my full-time work at the Foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds, about the things that we need to invent and deliver to help the poorest two billion live better lives.

And that leads to starvation, it leads to uncertainty, it leads to unrest.

So, the climate changes will be terrible for them. 

Also, the price of energy is very important to them.

In fact, if you could pick just one thing to lower the price of, to reduce poverty, by far you would pick energy.

Now, the price of energy has come down over time.

Really advanced civilization is based on advances in energy.

The coal revolution fueled the Industrial Revolution, and, even in the 1900s we've seen a very rapid decline in the price of electricity, and that's why we have refrigerators, air-conditioning, we can make modern materials and do so many things.

And so, we're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.

But, as we make it cheaper -- and let's go for making it twice as cheap -- we need to meet a new constraint, and that constraint has to do with CO2. 

Now, the exact amount of how you map from a certain increase of CO2 to what temperature will be and where the positive feedbacks are, there's some uncertainty there, but not very much.

And there's certainly uncertainty about how bad those effects will be, but they will be extremely bad.

Can't we just cut it in half or a quarter?

And the answer is that until we get near to zero, the temperature will continue to rise.

And so that's a big challenge.

This is something that has to get to zero. 

Now, we put out a lot of carbon dioxide every year, over 26 billion tons.

It's an average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.

And, somehow, we have to make changes that will bring that down to zero.

It's been constantly going up.

So, let's look at each one of these and see how we can get this down to zero.

Probably, one of these numbers is going to have to get pretty near to zero.

Now that's back from high school algebra, but let's take a look. 

First, we've got population.

The world today has 6.8 billion people.

That's headed up to about nine billion.

The second factor is the services we use.

This encompasses everything: the food we eat, clothing, TV, heating.

These are very good things: getting rid of poverty means providing these services to almost everyone on the planet.

And it's a great thing for this number to go up.

We have something that's not going up.

There are other services like how we make fertilizer, or how we do air transport, where the rooms for improvement are far, far less.

And so, overall here, if we're optimistic, we may get a reduction of a factor of three to even, perhaps, a factor of six.

If you burn coal, no.

If you burn natural gas, no.

Almost every way we make electricity today, except for the emerging renewables and nuclear, puts out CO2.

And so, what we're going to have to do at a global scale, is create a new system.

And so, we need energy miracles. 

The Internet and its services are a miracle.

So, the people here have participated in the creation of many miracles.

Usually, we don't have a deadline, where you have to get the miracle by a certain date.

Usually, you just kind of stand by, and some come along, some don't.

This is a case where we actually have to drive at full speed and get a miracle in a pretty tight timeline. 

Now, I thought, "How could I really capture this?

Is there some kind of natural illustration, some demonstration that would grab people's imagination here?"

I thought back to a year ago when I brought mosquitos, and somehow people enjoyed that.

(Laughter) It really got them involved in the idea of, you know, there are people who live with mosquitos.

So, with energy, all I could come up with is this.

I decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment here this year.

Now, there's all sorts of gimmicky solutions like that one, but they don't really add up to much.

I've left out tide, geothermal, fusion, biofuels.

Who's going to be sure?

Who's going to guarantee something that is literally billions of times larger than any type of waste you think of in terms of nuclear or other things?

Next would be nuclear.

And then what do you do with the waste?

And, although it's not very large, there are a lot of concerns about that.

People need to feel good about it.

So three very tough problems that might be solvable, and so, should be worked on. 

The last three of the five, I've grouped together.

These are what people often refer to as the renewable sources.

And they actually -- although it's great they don't require fuel -- they have some disadvantages.

One is that the density of energy gathered in these technologies is dramatically less than a power plant.

This is energy farming, so you're talking about many square miles, thousands of time more area than you think of as a normal energy plant.

Also, these are intermittent sources.

And so, if you depend on these sources, you have to have some way of getting the energy during those time periods that it's not available.

And, finally, this storage problem.

It's not impossible, but it's not a very easy thing.

Now, this shows up when you try to get the intermittent source to be above, say, 20 to 30 percent of what you're using.

If you're counting on it for 100 percent, you need an incredible miracle battery. 

Well, we need lots of companies working on this, hundreds.

And, I think, here in the TED group, we have many people who are already pursuing this.

Bill Gross has several companies, including one called eSolar that has some great solar thermal technologies.

Nathan Myhrvold and I actually are backing a company that, perhaps surprisingly, is actually taking the nuclear approach.

There are some innovations in nuclear: modular, liquid.

The idea of TerraPower is that, instead of burning a part of uranium -- the one percent, which is the U235 -- we decided, "Let's burn the 99 percent, the U238."

It is kind of a crazy idea.

And, because you're burning that 99 percent, you have greatly improved cost profile.

You can see it's a log there, often referred to as a traveling wave reactor.

In terms of fuel, this really solves the problem.

I've got a picture here of a place in Kentucky.

That would power the U.S. for hundreds of years.

And, simply by filtering seawater in an inexpensive process, you'd have enough fuel for the entire lifetime of the rest of the planet. 

So, you know, it's got lots of challenges ahead, but it is an example of the many hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to move forward.

So let's think: How should we measure ourselves?

What should our report card look like?

Well, let's go out to where we really need to get, and then look at the intermediate.

For 2050, you've heard many people talk about this 80 percent reduction.

That really is very important, that we get there.

So, to get to that 80 percent, the developed countries, including countries like China, will have had to switch their electricity generation altogether.

So, the other grade is: Are we deploying this zero-emission technology, have we deployed it in all the developed countries and we're in the process of getting it elsewhere?

That's super important.

That's a key element of making that report card. 

So, backing up from there, what should the 2020 report card look like?

Well, again, it should have the two elements.

But in some ways, the grade we get there, doing things that don't get us all the way to the big reductions, is only equally, or maybe even slightly less, important than the other, which is the piece of innovation on these breakthroughs. 

There's a lot of great books that have been written about this.

There's a lot that has to come together. 

So this is a wish.

It's a very concrete wish that we invent this technology.

This is the one with the greatest impact.

If we don't get this wish, the division between the people who think short term and long term will be terrible, between the U.S. and China, between poor countries and rich, and most of all the lives of those two billion will be far worse. 

So, what do we have to do?

What am I appealing to you to step forward and drive?

We need to go for more research funding.

When countries get together in places like Copenhagen, they shouldn't just discuss the CO2.

We do need the market incentives -- CO2 tax, cap and trade -- something that gets that price signal out there.

We need to get the message out.

We need to have this dialogue be a more rational, more understandable dialogue, including the steps that the government takes.

This is an important wish, but it is one I think we can achieve. 

Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you. 

(Applause) Thank you. 

Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

The tough thing is building the pilot reactor; finding the several billion, finding the regulator, the location that will actually build the first one of these.

Once you get the first one built, if it works as advertised, then it's just clear as day, because the economics, the energy density, are so different than nuclear as we know it. 

CA: And so, to understand it right, this involves building deep into the ground almost like a vertical kind of column of nuclear fuel, of this sort of spent uranium, and then the process starts at the top and kind of works down? 

CA: It's a nuclear power plant that is its own waste disposal solution. 

CA: So, in your mind, timescale and likelihood of actually taking something like this live? 

BG: Well, we need -- for one of these high-scale, electro-generation things that's very cheap, we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to deploy.

That's sort of the deadline that the environmental models have shown us that we have to meet.

And, you know, TerraPower, if things go well -- which is wishing for a lot -- could easily meet that.

And there are, fortunately now, dozens of companies -- we need it to be hundreds -- who, likewise, if their science goes well, if the funding for their pilot plants goes well, that they can compete for this.

We certainly need one to succeed. 

CA: In terms of big-scale possible game changes, is this the biggest that you're aware of out there? 

BG: An energy breakthrough is the most important thing.

In the nuclear space, there are other innovators.

CA: If this doesn't work, then what?

Do we have to start taking emergency measures to try and keep the temperature of the earth stable? 

There is a line of research on what's called geoengineering, which are various techniques that would delay the heating to buy us 20 or 30 years to get our act together.

Now, that's just an insurance policy.

You hope you don't need to do that.

Some people say you shouldn't even work on the insurance policy because it might make you lazy, that you'll keep eating because you know heart surgery will be there to save you.

I'm not sure that's wise, given the importance of the problem, but there's now the geoengineering discussion about -- should that be in the back pocket in case things happen faster, or this innovation goes a lot slower than we expect? 

CA: Climate skeptics: If you had a sentence or two to say to them, how might you persuade them that they're wrong? 

BG: Well, unfortunately, the skeptics come in different camps.

The ones who make scientific arguments are very few.

Are they saying that there's negative feedback effects that have to do with clouds that offset things?

There are very, very few things that they can even say there's a chance in a million of those things.

The main problem we have here, it's kind of like AIDS.

You make the mistake now, and you pay for it a lot later. 

The fact is it's that uncertain part that should move us towards this.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

BG: Well, the actual spending on the R&amp;D piece -- say the U.S. should spend 10 billion a year more than it is right now -- it's not that dramatic.

It shouldn't take away from other things.

I mean, all of us here could pay five times as much for our energy and not change our lifestyle.

The disaster is for that two billion. 

And even Lomborg has changed.

His shtick now is, "Why isn't the R&amp;D getting more discussed?"

He's still, because of his earlier stuff, still associated with the skeptic camp, but he's realized that's a pretty lonely camp, and so, he's making the R&amp;D point.

And so there is a thread of something that I think is appropriate.

The R&amp;D piece, it's crazy how little it's funded. 

CA: Well Bill, I suspect I speak on the behalf of most people here to say I really hope your wish comes true.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

