I'd like to share with you a discovery that I made a few months ago while writing an article for Italian Wired.

Let me read you the entry.

And, needless to say, thank God I wasn't using a thesaurus back then.

I mean, from this entry, it would seem that I was born into a world that perceived someone like me to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them, when in fact, today I'm celebrated for the opportunities and adventures my life has procured. 

Here's the updated version of this entry.

Unfortunately, it's not much better.

I find the last two words under "Near Antonyms," particularly unsettling: "whole" and "wholesome."

So, it's not just about the words.

Our language affects our thinking and how we view the world and how we view other people.

By casually doing something as simple as naming a person, a child, we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power.

Wouldn't we want to open doors for them instead? 

I loved almost everything about my time spent at this hospital, with the exception of my physical therapy sessions.

Now, of course, this was a simple ploy on Dr. P's part to get me to do the exercises I didn't want to do before the prospect of being the richest five-year-old in the second floor ward, but what he effectively did for me was reshape an awful daily occurrence into a new and promising experience for me.

This is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite the power of a child.

But, in the previous instances of those thesaurus entries, our language isn't allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want, the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable.

So, perhaps technology is revealing more clearly to us now what has always been a truth: that everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society, and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest asset. 

And I'm going to suggest that this is a good thing.

Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life.

It's part of our life.

And I tend to think of it like my shadow.

Sometimes I see a lot of it, sometimes there's very little, but it's always with me.

And, certainly, I'm not trying to diminish the impact, the weight, of a person's struggle. 

So, our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity, but preparing them to meet it well.

And we do a disservice to our kids when we make them feel that they're not equipped to adapt.

And, truthfully, the only real and consistent disability I've had to confront is the world ever thinking that I could be described by those definitions. 

By not treating the wholeness of a person, by not acknowledging their potency, we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have.

We are effectively grading someone's worth to our community.

So we need to see through the pathology and into the range of human capability.

And, most importantly, there's a partnership between those perceived deficiencies and our greatest creative ability.

So it's not about devaluing, or negating, these more trying times as something we want to avoid or sweep under the rug, but instead to find those opportunities wrapped in the adversity.

So maybe the idea I want to put out there is not so much overcoming adversity as it is opening ourselves up to it, embracing it, grappling with it, to use a wrestling term, maybe even dancing with it.

And, perhaps, if we see adversity as natural, consistent and useful, we're less burdened by the presence of it. 

From Darwin's work, amongst others, we can recognize that the human ability to survive and flourish is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict into transformation.

So, again, transformation, adaptation, is our greatest human skill.

And, perhaps, until we're tested, we don't know what we're made of.

We can re-imagine adversity as something more than just tough times.

Maybe we can see it as change.

Adversity is just change that we haven't adapted ourselves to yet. 

I think the greatest adversity that we've created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy.

Now, who's normal?

Anthropologists tell us that the one thing we as humans have always required of our community members is to be of use, to be able to contribute.

They didn't view these people as broken and useless; they were seen as rare and valuable. 

And, but of course, actually, it did click. 

And so my mother's prenatal physician had gone on vacation, so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents.

And, because I was born without the fibula bones, and had feet turned in, and a few toes in this foot and a few toes in that, he had to be the bearer -- this stranger had to be the bearer of bad news. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

And he called this part of the course the X Factor, the potential of the human will.

No prognosis can account for how powerful this could be as a determinant in the quality of someone's life.

And Dr. Kean went on to tell me, he said, "In my experience, unless repeatedly told otherwise, and even if given a modicum of support, if left to their own devices, a child will achieve."

See, Dr. Kean made that shift in thinking.

He understood that there's a difference between the medical condition and what someone might do with it.

I aspired to that kind of normalcy back then.

But if you ask me today, I'm not so sure.

And it's because of the experiences I've had with them, not in spite of the experiences I've had with them.

And perhaps this shift in me has happened because I've been exposed to more people who have opened doors for me than those who have put lids and cast shadows on me. 

See, all you really need is one person to show you the epiphany of your own power, and you're off.

You're teaching them to open doors for themselves.

In fact, the exact meaning of the word "educate" comes from the root word "educe."

It means "to bring forth what is within, to bring out potential."

So again, which potential do we want to bring out? 

It's separating students from A, B, C, D and so on.

And the "A students" get the tougher curriculum, the best teachers, etc.

A crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too.

The teachers didn't know a switch had been made.

They were simply told, "These are the 'A-students,' these are the 'D-students.'"

And that's how they went about teaching them and treating them. 

If instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty in themselves and others, to be curious and imaginative, then we are truly using our power well.

When a spirit has those qualities, we are able to create new realities and new ways of being. 

