Someone once said that politics is, of course, "showbiz for ugly people."

So, on that basis, I feel like I've really arrived.

There was even a story recently that scientists had thought about actually replacing rats in their experiments with politicians.

We have vast budget deficits.

Because there isn't going to be a lot of money to improve public services, or to improve government, or to improve so many of the things that politicians talk about.

That's the argument I want to make tonight. 

So, starting with the political philosophy.

Now I'm not saying for a minute that British Conservatives have all the answers.

Of course we don't.

The first is this: We believe that if you give people more power and control over their lives, if you give people more choice, if you put them in the driving seat, then actually, you can create a stronger and better society.

And if you marry this fact with the incredible abundance of information that we have in our world today, I think you can completely, as I've said, remake politics, remake government, remake your public services. 

The second thing we believe is we believe in going with the grain of human nature.

Politics and politicians will only succeed if they actually try and treat with people as they are, rather than as they would like them to be.

Now, why do I think now is the moment to make this argument?

Now, here is King Cnut, king a thousand years ago.

Thought he could turn back the waves; couldn't turn back the waves.

You weren't in charge of policing, justice, education, health, welfare.

You could just about go to war and that was about it.

You had to have local control because there was no nationally-available information because travel was so restricted.

So this was the pre-bureaucratic age. 

Next part of the cold history lesson, the lovely picture of the British Industrial Revolution.

Suddenly, you have the big, strong, central state.

And it was a world of, as I say, not local power, but now central power.

It had sucked all that power up from the localities.

It was able to do that itself. 

The next great stage, which all of you are so familiar with: the massive information revolution.

So we're now living in a post-bureaucratic age, where genuine people power is possible. 

So, how could this happen?

Well, I think there are three chief ways that it should make an enormous difference: in transparency, in greater choice and in accountability, in giving us that genuine people power.

If we take transparency, here is one of my favorite websites, the Missouri Accountability Portal.

Now here, on one website, one state in America, every single dollar spent by that government is searchable, is analyzable, is checkable. 

Anyone thinking, "I could do that service better, I could deliver it cheaper," it's all available there.

We have only, in government and in politics, started to scratch the surface of what people are doing in the commercial world with the information revolution.

So, complete transparency will make a huge difference.

In this country, if we win the election, we are going to make all government spending over 25,000 pounds transparent and available online, searchable for anyone to see.

And the third of these big changes: accountability.

So those three ways -- transparency, accountability and choice -- will make a huge difference. 

We're working with some of these people.

We're being advised by some of these people, as was said, to try and bring all the experience to book. 

Let me just give you one example that I think is incredibly simple, and I love.

How do you do it?

Other examples are recycling.

We all know we need to recycle more.

How do we make it happen?

All the proof from America is that actually, if you pay people to recycle, if you give them a carrot rather than a stick, you can transform their behavior. 

So what does all this add up to?

Here are my two favorite U.S. speeches of the last 50 years.

But when he made that speech, what could you do to build the stronger, better society?

