About a year and a half ago, Stephen Lawler, who also gave a talk here at TED in 2007 on Virtual Earth, brought me over to become the architect of Bing Maps, which is Microsoft's online-mapping effort.

In the past two and a half, we've been very hard at work on redefining the way maps work online.

And we really are seeing this in very different terms from the kind of mapping and direction site that one is used to. 

So, the first thing that you might notice about the mapping site is just the fluidity of the zooming and the panning, which, if you're familiar at all with Seadragon, that's where it comes from. 

So, as we zoom-in beyond a certain level this resolves into a kind of Sim City-like virtual view at 45 degrees.

This can be viewed from any of the cardinal directions to show you the 3D structure of the city, all the facades.

If you click on this, you'll see some of the ones that we've put out, just in the past couple of months since we've launched.

So, for example, a couple of days after the disaster in Haiti, we had an earthquake map that showed before and after pictures from the sky.

This wonderful one which I don't have time to show you is taking hyper-local blogs in real time and mapping those stories, those entries to the places that are referred to on the blogs.

It's wonderful. 

But I'm going to show you some more candy sort of stuff. 

So, we see the imagery, of course, not stopping at the sky.

These little green bubbles represent photosynths that users have made.

I'm not going to dive into them either, but photosynths are integrated into the map.

Everything that's cased in blue is an area where we've taken imagery on the ground as well. 

Thank you.

Thank you.

This takes Flickr, georegistered imagery and uses photosynth-like processes to connect that imagery to our imagery, so -- I'm not sure if that's the one I actually meant to pull up, but -- 

But notice -- this is, of course, a popular tourist site, and there are lots of photos around here, and these photos are all taken at different times.

So this one was taken around five.

So that's the Flickr photo, that's our imagery.

So you really see how this kind of crowd-sourced imagery is integrating, in a very deep way, into the map itself. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

There are several reasons why this is interesting and one of them, of course, is time travel.

OK, notice there's now a roof above us.

We're inside the Pike Place Market.

And from here, we're able to do the same sorts of registration, not only of still images, but also of video. 

OK. 

So, these are our friends in Pike Place Market, the lab. 

What the hell are you guys -- oh, sorry. 

We're doing two different -- OK, I'm hanging up now.

All right, let me just take a moment and thank the team.

They've done a fantastic job of pulling this together. 

I'm going to abandon them now and walk back outside.

And while I walk outside, I'll just mention that here we're using this for telepresence, but you can equally well use this on the spot, for augmented reality.

When you use it on the spot, it means that you're able to bring all of that metadata and information about the world to you.

So here, we're taking the extra step of also broadcasting it.

That was being broadcast, by the way, on a 4G network from the market. 

All right, and now there's one last TED talk that Microsoft has given in the past several years.

And that's Curtis Wong, WorldWide Telescope.

So, we're going to head over to the dumpsters, where it's traditional, after a long day at the market, to go out for a break, but also stare up at the sky.

This is the integration of WorldWide Telescope into our maps. 

I would like to kind of zoom in on the moon.

So, this is an astronomically complete representation of the sky integrated right into the Earth. 

All right now, I've overrun my time, so I've got to stop.

Thank you all very much. 

