Because there is this asymmetry, which creates, basically, failing governance.

And I think corruption, and the fight against corruption, and the impact of corruption, is probably one of the most interesting ways to illustrate what I mean with this failure of governance. 

Let me talk about my own experience.

At that time, I noticed that corruption, that grand corruption, that systematic corruption, was undermining everything we were trying to do.

Now, these suppliers were our big companies.

They were the actors of this global market, which I mentioned in the beginning.

We are not talking about 50,000 dollars here, or 100,000 dollars there, or one million dollars there.

This was the reality which I saw, and not only one project like that: I saw, I would say, over the years I worked in Africa, I saw hundreds of projects like this.

Now, why did the World Bank not let me do this work?

I found out afterwards, after I left, under a big fight, the World Bank.

In Germany, foreign bribery was allowed.

It was even tax-deductible.

No wonder that most of the most important international operators in Germany, but also in France and the UK and Scandinavia, everywhere, systematically bribed.

Not all of them, but most of them.

We will lose to the French, we will lose to the Swedes, we'll lose to the Japanese."

They needed help, and the large companies themselves have this dilemma.

Many of them didn't want to bribe.

Many of the German companies, for instance, believe that they are really producing a high-quality product at a good price, so they are very competitive.

And this is why I'm telling you this: Civil society rose to the occasion.

We had this small NGO, Transparency International.

In 1997, a convention, under the auspices of the OECD, which obliged everybody to change their laws and criminalize foreign bribery.

In the first session -- we had three sessions over the course of two years.

And President von Weizsäcker, by the way, chaired one of the sessions, the first one, to take the fear away from the entrepreneurs, who were not used to deal with non-governmental organizations.

They even applaud it.

In fact, [unclear] still says this today.

And so there are still a lot of people who are not convinced that you have to stop bribing.

But in the second session, they admitted already that they would never do this, what they are doing in these other countries, here in Germany, or in the U.K., and so on.

Cabinet ministers would admit this.

And this is, in my opinion, an example of soft power, because we were able to convince them that they had to go with us.

We had a longer-term time perspective.

We had a broader, geographically much wider, constituency we were trying to defend.

And that's why the law has changed.

In some other countries, the OECD convention is not yet properly enforced.

And, again, civil societies breathing down the neck of the establishment. 

In Germany, we are pushing the ratification of the UN convention, which is a subsequent convention.

I see my time is ticking.

Let me just try to draw some conclusions from what has happened.

I believe that what we managed to achieve in fighting corruption, one can also achieve in other areas of failing governance.

By now, the United Nations is totally on our side.

The World Bank has turned from Saulus to Paulus; under Wolfensohn, they became, I would say, the strongest anti-corruption agency in the world.

Most of the large companies are now totally convinced that they have to put in place very strong policies against bribery and so on.

And this is possible because civil society joined the companies and joined the government in the analysis of the problem, in the development of remedies, in the implementation of reforms, and then later, in the monitoring of reforms. 

Of course, if civil society organizations want to play that role, they have to grow into this responsibility.

Not all civil society organizations are good.

The Ku Klux Klan is an NGO.

So, we must be aware that civil society has to shape up itself.

We also need much more competence of civil society leaders.

But what I'm saying from my very practical experience: If civil society does it right and joins the other actors -- in particular, governments, governments and their international institutions, but also large international actors, in particular those which have committed themselves to corporate social responsibility -- then in this magical triangle between civil society, government and private sector, there is a tremendous chance for all of us to create a better world. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

