In you work there's always this kind of hybrid quality of a natural force in some sort of interplay with creative force.

Are they ever in equilibrium in the way that you see your work? 

And in proportion, what would the size of the sphere and the length, and what would the taper be to the Earth?

And so I went about and made that sculpture, turning it out of solid bronze.

And I did one that was about 35 feet long.

The sun end was about four inches in diameter, and then it tapered over about 35 feet to about a millimeter at the Earth end.

And so for me, it was really exciting just to see what it looks like if you could step outside and into a larger context, as though you were an astronaut, and see these two things as an object, because they are so intimately bound, and one is meaningless without the other. 

JH: Is there a relief in playing with these forces?

And I'm wondering how much of a sense of discovery there is in playing with these forces. 

So I got it down to just one tether to be able to support that. 

TS: Those are permanent magnets, yeah. 

JH: Because if the power went out, there would just be a big noise. 

TS: Yeah.

It's really unsatisfactory having plug-in art. 

JH: I agree. 

The sun has a tremendous field that extends way beyond the planets and the Earth's magnetic field protects us from the sun.

So there's this huge invisible shape structures that magnetism takes in the universe.

My sculptures are normally very simplified.

I try to refine them down to very simple forms.

JH: And they're non-deterministic.

So that told me right away: I need a remote control device.

But then I started dreaming of having six colors.

JH: It looks like we're loaded for bear here. 

TS: Yeah, well let's put a couple of canvases.

I'll ask a couple of my sons to set up the canvases here.

I want to just say -- so this is Jack, Nick and Louie. 

JH: Thanks guys. 

JH: All right, I'll get out of the way here. 

TS: So something like this.

JH: That's fantastic.

So the valves at the bottom of those tubes there are like radio-controlled airplane valves. 

TS: Yes, they're servos with cams that pinch these rubber tubes.

And they can pinch them very tight and stop it, or you can have them wide open.

JH: So many forces there.

You've got gravity, you've got the centrifugal force, you've got the fluid dynamics.

So the one on the right was done first, and then the one on the left was done over it.

What it's also about, just the little events, the events of the interpenetration of -- 

TS: Two things that happened -- there's an interference pattern, and then a third thing happens.

And that's something that in painting I've never seen done.

I've never seen a representation of a kind of radio interference patterns, which are so ubiquitous and such an important part of our lives. 

TS: It is the paint actually, makes it real.

It's really manifested there.

If I throw a very concentric circle, or concentric ellipse, it just dutifully makes these evenly spaced lines, which get closer and closer together, which describes how gravity works.

There's something very appealing about the exactitude of science that I really enjoy.

There are lots of things that appear.

When you look into it, it's sort of like looking at cloud patterns, but sometimes they're very modeled and highly rendered.

And then there are all these forms that we don't know what they are, but they're equally well-resolved and complex.

So I think, conceivably, those could be predictive.

Because since it has the ability to make forms that look like forms that we're familiar with in biology, it's also making other forms that we're not familiar with.

And maybe it's the kind of forms we'll discover underneath the surface of Mars, where there are probably lakes with fish swimming under the surface. 

You know, it seems at this stage in your life, you also very personally are in this state of confrontation with a sort of dissonant -- I suppose it's an electromagnetic force that somehow governs your Parkinson's and this creative force that is both the artist who is in the here and now and this sort of arc of your whole life.

Is that relevant to your work? 

And so I make these creative decisions and can execute them in a much, much simpler way.

I'm left-handed, and so I draw.

JH: So you're not a gatekeeper for these forces.

You don't think of yourself as the master of these forces.

You think of yourself as the servant. 

TS: Nature is -- well, it's a godsend.

It just has so much in it.

The universe is in our mind, and our minds are in the universe.

And we are expressions of the universe, basically.

It's a terrific studio assistant. 

