I'm a cancer doctor, and I walked out of my office and walked by the pharmacy in the hospital three or four years ago, and this was the cover of Fortune magazine sitting in the window of the pharmacy. 

And so, as a cancer doctor, you look at this, and you get a little bit downhearted.

And the point of the article was that we have gotten reductionist in our view of biology, in our view of cancer.

For the last 50 years, we have focused on treating the individual gene in understanding cancer, not in controlling cancer. 

So, this is an astounding table.

So, what I'm going to tell you today, is a little bit of why I think that's the case, and then go out of my comfort zone and tell you where I think it's going, where a new approach -- that we hope to push forward in terms of treating cancer.

Because this is wrong. 

So, what is cancer, first of all?

That is the state-of-the-art today in diagnosing cancer.

This is the state-of-the-art and how we do it. 

You know, I know very well, as a cancer doctor, I can't treat advanced cancer.

So, as an aside, I firmly believe in the field of trying to identify cancer early.

It is the only way you can start to fight cancer, is by catching it early.

We can prevent most cancers.

Because the problem is, when you have advanced cancer, we can't do that much today about it, as the statistics allude to. 

So, the thing about cancer is that it's a disease of the aged.

Why is it a disease of the aged?

Because evolution doesn't care about us after we've had our children.

See, evolution protected us during our childbearing years and then, after age 35 or 40 or 45, it said "It doesn't matter anymore, because they've had their progeny."

Why is it hard to treat?

Because it's heterogeneous, and that's the perfect substrate for evolution within the cancer.

It starts to select out for those bad, aggressive cells, what we call clonal selection.

And that's about it.

So, our dictionary for describing cancer is very, very poor.

What's exciting is that over the last two or three years, the government has spent 400 million dollars, and they've allocated another billion dollars, to what we call the Cancer Genome Atlas Project.

You know, in the mid-1850's in France, they started to describe cancer by body part.

That hasn't changed in over 150 years.

It is absolutely archaic that we call cancer by prostate, by breast, by muscle.

It makes no sense, if you think about it. 

So, obviously, the technology is here today, and, over the next several years, that will change.

You will no longer go to a breast cancer clinic.

When one is exposed to H1N1, you take Tamiflu, and you can remarkably decrease the severity of symptoms and prevent many of the manifestations of the disease.

The Cancer Genome Atlas is coming out now.

The first cancer was done, which was brain cancer.

But remember, I'm not pushing genomics, proteomics, to be a reductionist.

I'm doing it so we can identify what we're up against.

And there's a very important distinction there that we'll get to. 

In health care today, we spend most of the dollars -- in terms of treating disease -- most of the dollars in the last two years of a person's life.

So, this is the website of the National Cancer Institute.

And I'm here to tell you, it's wrong.

So, the website of the National Cancer Institute says that cancer is a genetic disease.

But, as a cancer doc, this is what I see.

This isn't a genetic disease.

You see a CT scan where cancer is in the liver.

Cancer is an interaction of a cell that no longer is under growth control with the environment.

It's not in the abstract; it's the interaction with the environment.

It's what we call a system. 

The goal of me as a cancer doctor is not to understand cancer.

And I think that's been the fundamental problem over the last five decades, is that we have strived to understand cancer.

The goal is to control cancer.

And that is a very different optimization scheme, a very different strategy for all of us. 

I got up at the American Association of Cancer Research, one of the big cancer research meetings, with 20,000 people there, and I said, "We've made a mistake.

We've all made a mistake, myself included, by focusing down, by being a reductionist.

We need to take a step back."

And, believe it or not, there were hisses in the audience.

People got upset, but this is the only way we're going to go forward. 

You know, I was very fortunate to meet Danny Hillis a few years ago.

We were pushed together, and neither one of us really wanted to meet the other.

I said, "Do I really want to meet a guy from Disney, who designed computers?"

And he was saying: Does he really want to meet another doctor?

The key is, when you look at these variables and you look at this data, you have to understand the data inputs.

But if during one of those days your temperature spiked to 102 for six hours, and you took Tylenol and got better, etc., I would totally miss it.

So, one of the problems, the fundamental problems in medicine is that you and I, and all of us, we go to our doctor once a year.

We have discrete data elements; we don't have a time function on them. 

Earlier it was referred to this direct life device.

And I didn't realize that for three hours I'm sitting at my desk, and I'm not moving at all.

And so, if you think of cancer as a system, there's an input and an output and a state in the middle.

And so, the problem is that it's not just one system, it's multiple systems on multiple scales.

It's a system of systems.

Well, the bad news is that these robust -- and robust is a key word -- emergent systems are very hard to understand in detail.

The good news is you can manipulate them.

You can try to control them without that fundamental understanding of every component. 

One of the most fundamental clinical trials in cancer came out in February in the New England Journal of Medicine, where they took women who were pre-menopausal with breast cancer.

So, about the worst kind of breast cancer you can get.

They had gotten their chemotherapy, and then they randomized them, where half got placebo, and half got a drug called Zoledronic acid that builds bone.

They looked and, in these 1,800 women, given twice a year a drug that builds bone, you reduce the recurrence of cancer by 35 percent.

Reduce occurrence of cancer by a drug that doesn't even touch the cancer.

So the notion, you change the soil, the seed doesn't grow as well.

You change that system, and you could have a marked effect on the cancer. 

It's never been shown.

If I give a woman with breast cancer a drug called Taxol every three weeks, which is the standard, about 40 percent of women with metastatic cancer have a great response to that drug.

And a response is 50 percent shrinkage.

They then recur, I give them that same drug over 96 hours by continuous infusion, another 20 or 30 percent will respond.

The wild thing about that trial also, was that it reduced new primaries, so new cancers, by 30 percent also. 

So, the problem is, yours and mine, all of our systems are changing.

They're dynamic.

Look a decade ago, look two decades ago: markedly different.

So, our systems today are dramatically different than our systems a decade or two ago.

So, this picture, although it is beautiful, is a 40-gigabyte picture of the whole proteome.

We can start to see that system.

Each of the red dots are where a protein has actually been identified.

The power of these magnets, the power of what we can do here, is that we can see an individual neutron with this technology.

So, instead of a reductionist view, we're taking a step back. 

So this is a woman, 46 years old, who had recurrent lung cancer.

It was in her brain, in her lungs, in her liver.

Six months later it's still gone.

That's about it. 

Would you want your mother, your brother, your sister to get a placebo if they had advanced lung cancer and had weeks to live?

And the answer, obviously, is not.

So, it was done on this group of patients.

Ten percent of people in the trial had this dramatic response that was shown here, and the drug went to the FDA, and the FDA said, "Without a placebo, how do I know patients actually benefited from the drug?"

So the morning the FDA was going to meet, this was the editorial in the Wall Street Journal.

(Laughter) And so, what do you know, that drug was approved. 

The amazing thing is another company did the right scientific trial, where they gave half placebo and half the drug.

And we learned something important there.

What's interesting is they did it in South America and Canada, where it's "more ethical to give placebos."

But they did that, and what they found is that 70 percent of the non-responders lived much longer and did better than people who got placebo.

If we slow the disease, we may have more of a benefit on patient survival, patient outcome, how they feel, than if we shrink the disease. 

How do I know?

Would it have been 10 centimeters, or am I giving you a drug with no benefit and significant cost?

So, it's a fundamental problem.

And, again, that's where these new technologies can come in. 

And so, the goal obviously is that you go into your doctor's office -- well, the ultimate goal is that you prevent disease, right?

The ultimate goal is that you prevent any of these things from happening.

That is the most effective, cost-effective, best way we can do things today.

But if one is unfortunate to get a disease, you'll go into your doctor's office, he or she will take a drop of blood, and we will start to know how to treat your disease.

It's taking a big picture. 

The problem with technologies like this is that if one looks at proteins in the body, there are 11 orders of magnitude difference between the high-abundant and the low-abundant proteins.

So, there's no technology in the world that can span 11 orders of magnitude.

And so, a lot of what has been done with people like Danny Hillis and others is to try to bring in engineering principles, try to bring the software.

We can start to look at different components along this spectrum. 

And so, earlier was talked about cross-discipline, about collaboration.

And I think one of the exciting things that is starting to happen now is that people from those fields are coming in.

Danny and I got 16 million dollars, they announced yesterday, to try to attach this problem.

When it hit that detector is dependent on the mass and the charge.

Electronic data elements are describing every aspect of the disease.

So, to conclude, we need to get away from reductionist thinking.

We need a radically different approach. 

You know, Andy Grove stepped down as chairman of the board at Intel -- and Andy was one of my mentors, tough individual.

Thank you very much. 

