The problem that I want to talk with you about is really the problem of: How does one supply healthcare in a world in which cost is everything?

How do you do that?

So, the program that we're involved in is something which we call Diagnostics for All, or zero-cost diagnostics.

How do you provide medically relevant information at as close as possible to zero cost?

Let me just give you two examples.

So, you see two examples here.

One is a lab that is actually a fairly high-end laboratory in Africa.

The second is basically an entrepreneur who is set up and doing who-knows-what in a table in a market.

I don't know what kind of healthcare is delivered there.

But it's not really what is probably most efficient. 

What is our approach?

And the way in which one typically approaches a problem of lowering cost, starting from the perspective of the United States, is to take our solution, and then to try to cut cost out of it.

No matter how you do that, you're not going to start with a 100,000-dollar instrument and bring it down to no-cost.

So, the approach that we took was the other way around.

To ask, "What is the cheapest possible stuff that you could make a diagnostic system out of, and get useful information, add function?"

What you see here is a prototypic device.

It's about a centimeter on the side.

It's about the size of a fingernail.

The lines around the edges are a polymer.

Put it on your shirt, it ruins the shirt.

That's what a hydrophilic surface does. 

And the combination of those two is a first order shot at a number of useful things that you want.

So, this is an example of a device made from a simple piece of paper. 

Now, how simple can you make the production?

Why do we choose paper?

There's an example of the same thing on a finger, showing you basically what it looks like.

One reason for using paper is that it's everywhere.

We have made these kinds of devices using napkins and toilet paper and wraps, and all kinds of stuff. 

So, the production capability is there.

The second is, you can put lots and lots of tests in a very small place.

I'll show you in a moment that the stack of paper there would probably hold something like 100,000 tests, something of that kind. 

And then finally, a point that you don't think of so much in developed world medicine: it eliminates sharps.

And what sharps means is needles, things that stick.

If you've taken a sample of someone's blood and the someone might have hepatitis C, you don't want to make a mistake and stick it in you.

And here you simply burn it.

So, it's a sort of a practical approach to starting on things. 

Now, you say, "If paper is a good idea, other people have surely thought of it."

And the answer is, of course, yes.

Those half of you, roughly, who are women, at some point may have had a pregnancy test.

And the most common of these is in a device that looks like the thing on the left.

It's something called a lateral flow immunoassay.

In that particular test, urine either, containing a hormone called HCG, does or does not flow across a piece of paper.

There are an awful lot of colors and things like that.

What do you actually do about that in a difficult circumstance?

And the procedure that we have is simply to start with paper.

You run it through a new kind of printer called a wax printer.

The printers cost 800 bucks now.

And there is an example of the kind of thing that you see.

That's on a piece of 8 by 12 paper.

That takes about two seconds to make.

And so I regard that as done.

There is a very important issue here, which is that because it's a printer, a color printer, it prints colors.

I'll show you in a moment, that's actually quite useful. 

And the thing which you'd most like to analyze, we're a fair distance from.

It's what's called "fever of undiagnosed origin."

There are an awful lot of things that you'd like to distinguish among.

Now even that's more complicated than you think.

(Laughter) He was telling the truth.

Now, take a look at what a typical test looks like.

You can't manipulate it very well, although I'll show something about that in a moment.

And the colors indicate "disease" or "normal."

What you do about something which requires quantitative analysis?

Turns out to work actually quite well, particularly when your color printer has printed the color bars that indicate how things work. 

And these are the things that get him through his day. 

It turns out there's an enormous amount of information already available on that subject, which is the Mars rover problem.

How do you get back an accurate view of the color on Mars if you have a really terrible bandwidth to do it with?

And the answer is not complicated but it's one which I don't want to go through here, other than to say that the communication systems for doing this are really pretty well understood. 

I don't know whether the idea of one computer, one child makes any sense.

All right now let me show you just a little bit about advanced devices.

And we'll start by posing a little problem.

But now the question is: How do you make it flow under and over in a piece of paper?

And the fluid will flow from one layer into the next.

It distributes itself, flows through further holes, distributes itself. 

And in this particular case we were just interested in the replicability of that.

Here is an example of a slightly more complicated device.

So, I think it's as low-cost as we're likely to be able to come up and make things. 

Now, I have one last, two last little stories to tell you, in finishing off this business.

This is one: One of the things that one does occasionally need to do is to separate blood cells from serum.

What happens if you don't have an electricity, and a centrifuge, and whatever?

Here is another example of something which is -- this is a little spectrophotometer.

Interesting problem. 

(Laughter) 

