When my brother called me in December of 1998, he said, "The news does not look good."

This is him on the screen.

And you go from being a healthy, robust 29-year-old male to someone that cannot breathe, cannot move, cannot speak. 

And even though Steven passed away three years ago we had an amazing journey as a family.

We did not even -- I think adversity is not even the right word.

We looked at this and we said, "We're going to do something with this in an incredibly positive way."

I want to talk about it in the context of a story. 

And those questions all have variables to them.

All of our statuses are different.

and go from this concept of walking, breathing, and then his hands, speak, and ultimately happiness and function.

Because Steven, despite the fact that he was paralyzed, as he was in that pool, he could not walk, he could not use his arms -- that's why he had the little floaty things on them, did you see those?

And we took this, and we converted it into data.

But it's not a data point at that one moment in time.

And he could still hold his wife's hand, but he couldn't do buttons on his clothes, can't feed himself.

And here he is, paralyzed completely, unable to breathe and move, over this time journey.

These stories of his life, converted to data.

So, here's Steven alone, sharing this story in the world.

We need to give to others to be successful.

There are so many other people sharing their stories.

Not stories in words, but stories in data and words.

So, this is what it looks like when you go to the website.

And I'm going to show you what Patients Like Me, the company that myself, my youngest brother and a good friend from MIT started. 

Each of them can have a different characteristic.

You can see fibromyalgia, HIV, ALS, depression.

But he is working to keep his CD4 count high and his viral level low so he can make his life better. 

But you can aggregate this and you can discover things about treatments.

I love some of these, physical exercise, prayer.

What I love about this, just sort of interesting design problems.

So, anyone want to see the 32 patients that pray for 60 minutes a day, and see if they're doing better, they probably are.

And here is data on 15,000 people's current anxiety, right now.

How they treat it, the drugs, the components of it, their side effects, all of it in a rich environment, and you can drill down and see the individuals.

I want to talk to the 58 patients down here who are taking four milligrams a day.

And I want to talk to the ones of those that have been doing it for more than two years.

So, you can see the duration.

All open, all available.

I'm going to log in. 

And this is my brother's profile.

Doesn't this remind you of a great stock program?

You can look at the interaction between how I treat my ALS.

But I want more.

Years after he's had these drugs, I learned that everything he did to manage his excess saliva, including some positive side effects that came from other drugs, were making his constipation worse.

And if anyone's ever had severe constipation, and you don't understand how much of an impact that has on your life -- yes, that was a pun. 

This is about the patients.

So, how can we take this and bring them a tool that they can go back and they can engage the medical system?

It's actually the most used feature on the website.

Doctors actually love this sheet, and they're actually really engaged.

So, we went from this story of Steven and his history to data, and then back to paper, where we went back and engaged the medical care system.

And here's another paper.

This is a journal, PNAS -- I think it's the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science of the United States of America.

You've seen multiple of these today, when everyone's bragging about the amazing things they've done.

This is a report about a drug called lithium.

Lithium, that is a drug used to treat bipolar disorder, that a group in Italy found slowed ALS down in 16 patients, and published it. 

Now, we'll skip the critiques of the paper.

But the short story is: If you're a patient, you want to be on the blue line.

So, this is what happened when PNAS published this.

Ten percent of the people in our system took lithium.

Ten percent of the patients started taking lithium based on 16 patients of data in a bad publication.

And they call the Internet irresponsible.

Here's the implication of what happens. 

This is not just graphics.

And you take those data, and we find the patients like him, and we bring their data together.

And then we say, "Well how do we line them all up?"

So, we line them all up so they go together around the meaningful points, integrated across everything we know about the patient.

Full information, the entire course of their disease.

And that's what is going to happen to Humberto, unless he does something.

And he took lithium, and he went down the line.

And it works almost every time. 

Now, the ones that it doesn't work are interesting.

So, we couldn't run a clinical trial, we couldn't figure it out.

But we could see whether it was going to work for Humberto.

But here is the answer of the mean of the patients that actually decided to take lithium.

And the ones in the middle are all of our patients from the start of lithium at time zero, going forward, and then going backward. 

So, you can see we matched them perfectly, perfectly.

Terrifyingly accurate matching.

We did that one year ahead of the time when the first clinical trial funded by the NIH for millions of dollars failed for futility last week, and announced it. 

So, remember I told you about my brother's stem cell transplant.

I never really knew whether it worked.

How did I not know?

I mean, I didn't know what was going to happen to him.

And I am thankful. 

I can't believe that these people, years after my brother had died, helped me answer the question about whether an operation I did, and spent millions of dollars on years ago, worked or not.

I've got to thank the 45,000 people that are doing this social experiment with us.

