I come from one of the most liberal, tolerant, progressive places in the United States, Seattle, Washington.

And I grew up with a family of great Seattlites.

And in point of fact, I took a route that was not exactly what my parents had in mind.

When I was 19, I dropped out of college -- dropped out, kicked out, splitting hairs. 

And I went on the road as a professional French horn player, which was my lifelong dream.

And by the end of my 20s, I wound up as a member of the Barcelona Symphony Orchestra in Spain.

What a great life. 

And you know, my parents never complained.

They supported me all the way through it.

It wasn't their dream.

They used to tell their neighbors and friends, "Our son, he's taking a gap decade."

And she was quiet, too quiet.

Now, the truth is, I wasn't really political, I was just a French horn player.

But I had a bit of an epiphany, and they had detected it, and it was causing some confusion.

It stems from a lifelong interest of mine in, believe it or not, poverty. 

See, when I was a kid growing up in Seattle, I remember the first time I saw real poverty.

We were a lower middle class family, but that's of course not real poverty.

That's not even close.

The first time I saw poverty, and poverty's face, was when I was six or seven years old, early 1970s.

And it was like a lot of you, kind of a prosaic example, kind of trite.

And he wasn't going to make it, and I knew that, and I was helpless.

From 1970 until today, the percentage of the world's population living in starvation levels, living on a dollar a day or less, obviously adjusted for inflation, that percentage has declined by 80 percent.

There's been an 80 percent decline in the world's worst poverty since I was a kid.

And I didn't even know about it.

This, my friends, that's a miracle.

That's something we ought to celebrate.

Because if you don't know why, you can't do it again.

I want the next two billion, so I've got to know why.

And I went in search of an answer.

And it wasn't a political answer, because I didn't care.

You know what, I still don't care.

I wanted the best answer from mainstream economists left, right and center. 

And here it is.

Here are the reasons.

There are five reasons that two billion of our brothers and sisters have been pulled out of poverty since I was a kid.

Now, I'm not naive.

I know that free enterprise isn't perfect, and I know that free enterprise isn't everything we need to build a better world.

But that is great.

Capitalism is not just about accumulation.

And we've got to share it with more people. 

Who said it?

It sounds like Milton Friedman or Ronald Reagan.

Wrong.

President Barack Obama said that.

Why do I know it by heart?

Because he said it to me.

Crazy.

And I said, "Hallelujah."

But more than that, I said, "What an opportunity."

You know what I was thinking?

It's common in world conflict.

It's impossible. 

How do we solve it?

There's a lot of good research on this.

A veteran of the TED stage is my friend Jonathan Haidt.

He's a psychology professor at New York University.

He does work on the ideology and values and morals of different people to see how they differ.

And he's shown, for example, that conservatives and liberals have a very different emphasis on what they think is important.

That is diversity in which lies our strength.

Remember what pulled up the poor.

It was the obsession with poverty, accompanied by the method of economic freedom spreading around the world.

It's a tricky thing, isn't it.

We need innovative thinking.

But you know what we really need?

We need a new day in flexible ideology.

We need to be less predictable.

Don't we?

Do you ever feel like your own ideology is starting to get predictable?

Kinda conventional?

Do you ever feel like you're always listening to people who agree with you?

Why is that dangerous?

But when it comes to lifting people up who are starving and need us today, those are distractions.

It's not good enough.

You know, all of us in this room, we're blessed.

When people hear us, with the kind of unpredictable ideology, then maybe people will listen.

Number two: I'm asking you and I'm asking me to be the person specifically who blurs the lines, who is ambiguous, who is hard to classify.

If we do that, we get two things.

Thank you. 

