As a researcher, every once in a while you encounter something a little disconcerting.

And this is something that changes your understanding of the world around you, and teaches you that you're very wrong about something that you really believed firmly in.

So, I hope I can really accomplish that. 

So, this incident that I'm going to describe really began with some diarrhea.

Now, we've known for a long time the cause of diarrhea.

That's why there's a glass of water up there.

They lack nutrients, and diarrhea dehydrates them.

One of the big reasons this happened was because of diarrhea.

Now, the solution turned out to be simple.

And what it was was oral rehydration salts.

Flash forward: 1960, 24 percent child mortality has dropped to 6.5 percent today. 

Still a big number, but a big drop.

It looks like the technological problem is solved.

But if you look, even today there are about 400,000 diarrhea-related deaths in India alone.

What's going on here?

Well the easy answer is, we just haven't gotten those salts to those people.

That's actually not true.

If you look in areas where these salts are completely available, the price is low or zero, these deaths still continue abated.

Maybe there's a biological answer.

But in this case we cracked it, but a big part of the problem still remains.

Nine hundred and ninety-nine miles went well, the last mile's proving incredibly stubborn. 

Now, that's for oral rehydration therapy.

Maybe this is something unique about diarrhea.

Well, it turns out -- and this is where things get really disconcerting -- it's not unique to diarrhea.

It's not even unique to poor people in India.

Here's an example from a variety of contexts.

I've put a bunch of examples up here. 

About on average, a typical person is taking it 75 percent of the time.

It's not just medicine.

We think there's an income problem, so we create new ways of farming that increase income.

Sometimes in rice we found incredible increases in yield when you mix different varieties of rice side by side.

This is the last mile.

The last mile is, everywhere, problematic. 

Alright, what's the problem?

The problem is this little three-pound machine that's behind your eyes and between your ears.

This machine is really strange, and one of the consequences is that people are weird.

They do lots of inconsistent things.

(Applause) They do lots of inconsistent things.

And the inconsistencies create, fundamentally, this last mile problem.

Let me go back to diarrhea for a second.

One Roman strategy that was very interesting was that -- and it really gave them a comparative advantage -- they made sure their soldiers didn't drink even remotely muddied waters.

Because if some of your troops get diarrhea they're not that effective on the battlefield.

So, if you think of Roman comparative advantage part of it was the breast shields, the breastplates, but part of it was drinking the right water. 

In India, 35 to 50 percent say "Reduce."

Think about what that means for a second.

I don't think that's stupid.

I think there is something very profoundly right in what these women are doing.

And that is, you don't put water into a leaky bucket. 

So, think of the mental model that goes behind reducing the intake.

Just doesn't make sense.

Now, the model is intuitively right.

It just doesn't happen to be right about the world.

But it makes a whole lot of sense at some deep level.

And that, to me, is the fundamental challenge of the last mile. 

This first challenge is what I refer to as the persuasion challenge.

And if you want to understand how it's more complex let me start with something kind of interesting. 

A bat and a ball together cost $1.10.

So, somebody out there says, "Five."

A lot of you said, "Ten."

Let's think about 10 for a second.

So, here you all are, ostensibly educated people.

Most of you look smart.

The combination of that produces something that is actually, you got this thing wrong. 

I just want you to name the color of the object.

Sendhil Mullainathan: That's pretty good.

Almost out of kindergarten.

What is all this telling us?

These models, like the leaky bucket, work well in most situations.

I suspect most of you -- I hope that's true for the rest of you -- actually do pretty well with addition and subtraction in the real world. 

I found a problem, a specific problem that actually found an error with that.

You read "blue" and you wanted to say "blue," even though you knew your task was red. 

Now, I do this stuff because it's fun.

But it's more profound than fun.

I'll give you a good example of how it actually effects persuasion.

Here's another puzzle for all of you.

If we want to encourage change of behavior, gallons per mile would have far more effectiveness.

The problem BMW faces is this car looks safe.

This car, which is my Mini, doesn't look that safe.

Here was BMW's brilliant insight, which they embodied into an ad campaign.

It harnesses something you already believe.

Now, even if I persuaded you to do something, it's hard sometimes to actually get action as a result.

This is a battle we all fight every day, along with trying to get to the gym.

So, let me now talk about the last mile problem.

So far, I've been pretty negative.

I've been trying to show you the oddities of human behavior.

And I think maybe I'm being too negative.

Maybe it's the diarrhea.

Maybe the last mile problem really should be thought of as the last mile opportunity. 

Let's go back to diabetes.

This is a typical insulin injection.

Now, carrying this thing around is complicated.

You gotta carry the bottle, you gotta carry the syringe.

Here is an innovation, a design innovation.

This is a pen, it's called an insulin pen, preloaded.

The needle is particularly sharp.

You just gotta carry this thing around.

It's much easier to use, much less painful.

Anywhere between five and 10 percent increase in adherence, just as a result of this. 

That's what I'm talking about as a last mile opportunity.

You see, we tend to think the problem is solved when we solve the technology problem.

This isn't about the biology of people; this is now about the brains, the psychology of people, and innovation needs to continue all the way through the last mile. 

Here's another example of this.

This is from a company called Positive Energy.

This is about energy efficiency.

We're spending a lot of time on fuel cells right now.

So, how do we tackle the last mile?

I think this tells us there is an opportunity.

We need to combine this with the scientific method. 

We put billions of dollars into fuel-efficient technologies.

Now, I think that we're on the verge of something big.

We're on the verge of a whole new social science.

It's a social science that recognizes -- much like science recognizes the complexity of the body, biology recognizes the complexity of the body -- we'll recognize the complexity of the human mind.

The careful testing, retesting, design, are going to open up vistas of understanding, complexities, difficult things.

Chris Anderson: Sendhil, thank you so much.

So, this whole area is so fascinating.

I mean, it sometimes feels, listening to behavioral economists that they are kind of putting into place academically, what great marketers have sort of intuitively known for a long time.

How much is your field talking to great marketers about their insights into human psychology?

Because they've seen it on the ground. 

Marketing is selling an ad to a firm.

So, in some sense, a lot of marketing is about convincing a CEO, "This is a good ad campaign."

And one of the new movements in marketing is: How do we actually measure effectiveness?

SM: So, the scientific method I alluded to is pretty important.

It's kind of the model that has worked in other contexts.

If you have biological problems we try and fix it, see if it works, and then work the scale. 

