Now open your eyes.

What about a life? 

What you see here is a premature baby.

This baby is so tiny he doesn't have enough fat on his body to stay warm.

Sadly, 20 million babies like this are born every year around the world.

Four million of these babies die annually. 

That is the primary function of an incubator.

But traditional incubators require electricity and cost up to 20 thousand dollars.

So, you're not going to find them in rural areas of developing countries.

I've seen this firsthand over and over again. 

She took her baby to the nearest village clinic, and the doctor advised her to take Rani to a city hospital so she could be placed in an incubator.

We needed something that was portable, something that could be sterilized and reused across multiple babies and something ultra-low-cost, compared to the 20,000 dollars that an incubator in the U.S. costs. 

So, this is what we came up with.

What you see here looks nothing like an incubator.

It's a wax-like substance with a melting point of human body temperature, 37 degrees Celsius.

Looks simple, but we've reiterated this dozens of times by going into the field to talk to doctors, moms and clinicians to ensure that this really meets the needs of the local communities.

Over the next five years we hope to save the lives of almost a million babies.

But the longer-term social impact is a reduction in population growth.

We hope that the Embrace infant warmer and other simple innovations like this represent a new trend for the future of technology: simple, localized, affordable solutions that have the potential to make huge social impact. 

In designing this we followed a few basic principles.

We tried to understand the root of the problem rather than being biased by what already exists.

And then we thought of the most simple solution we could to address this problem.

In doing this, I believe we can truly bring technology to the masses.

And we can save millions of lives through the simple warmth of an Embrace. 

