I'm very happy to be here in India.

What I want to talk about today is this particular cell, or grouping of cells, that is in each and every one of us.

And I want to call it the girl cell.

And it's in men as well as in women.

I want you to imagine that this particular grouping of cells is central to the evolution of our species and the continuation of the human race. 

And I want you imagine that at some point in history a group of powerful people invested in owning and controlling the world understood that the suppression of this particular cell, the oppression of these cells, the reinterpretation of these cells, the undermining of these cells, getting us to believe in the weakness of these cells and the crushing, eradicating, destroying, reducing these cells, basically began the process of killing off the girl cell, which was, by the way, patriarchy. 

I want you to imagine that the girl is a chip in the huge macrocosm of collective consciousness.

And it is essential to balance, to wisdom and to actually the future of all of us.

And then I want you to imagine that this girl cell is compassion, and it's empathy, and it's passion itself, and it's vulnerability, and it's openness, and it's intensity, and it's association, and it's relationship, and it is intuitive. 

And then let's think how compassion informs wisdom, and that vulnerability is our greatest strength, and that emotions have inherent logic, which lead to radical, appropriate, saving action.

And then let's remember that we've been taught the exact opposite by the powers that be, that compassion clouds your thinking, that it gets in the way, that vulnerability is weakness, that emotions are not to be trusted, and you're not supposed to take things personally, which is one of my favorites. 

To be a boy really means not to be a girl.

To be a man means not to be a girl.

To be a woman means not to be a girl.

To be strong means not to be a girl.

To be a leader means not to be a girl.

And I'd also like to say that the irony of course, is that denying girl, suppressing girl, suppressing emotion, refusing feeling has lead thus here.

Where we have now come to live in a world where the most extreme forms of violence, the most horrific poverty, genocide, mass rapes, the destruction of the Earth, is completely out of control.

And because we have suppressed our girl cells and suppressed our girl-ship, we do not feel what is going on. 

So, we are not being charged with the adequate response to what is happening.

I want to talk a little bit about the Democratic Republic of Congo.

For me, it was the turning point of my life.

I have spent a lot of time there in the last three years.

I feel up to that point I had seen a lot in the world, a lot of violence. 

I essentially lived in the rape mines of the world for the last 12 years.

But the Democratic Republic of Congo really was the turning point in my soul.

I went and I spent time in a place called Bukavu in a hospital called the Panzi Hospital, with a doctor who was as close to a saint as any person I've ever met.

His name is Dr. Denis Mukwege.

It is estimated that somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000 women have been raped there. 

When I spent my first weeks at Panzi hospital I sat with women who sat and lined up every day to tell me their stories.

My mind was so shattered. 

I want to say that I think the powers that be know that empire-building is actually -- that feelings get in the way of empire-building.

I remember, for example, when my father, who was very, very violent, used to beat me.

And even in the moment he didn't want to be reminded of what he was doing. 

I know that we have systematically annihilated the girl cell.

And I want to say we've annihilated it in men as well as in women.

And I think in some ways we've been much harsher to men in the annihilation of their girl cell.

(Applause) I see how boys have been brought up, and I see this across the planet: to be tough, to be hardened, to distance themselves from their tenderness, to not cry.

And I think we have taught men to be secure when they are insecure, to pretend they know things when they don't know things, or why would we be where we are?

To pretend they're not a mess when they are a mess.

And I will tell you a very funny story.

On my way here on the airplane, I was walking up and down the aisle of the plane.

And all these men, literally at least 10 men, were in their little seats watching chick flicks.

And we heard from Sunitha yesterday, and Kavita about what we do to girls.

But I just want to say that I've met girls with knife wounds and cigarette burns, who are literally being treated like ashtrays.

I've seen girls be treated like garbage cans.

I've seen girls starving themselves to death in America in institutions to look like some idealized version of themselves. 

The selling of girls is rampant across the planet.

And in many places they are worth less than goats and cows.

But I also want to talk about the fact that if one in eight people on the planet are girls between the ages of 10 to 24, they are they key, really, in the developing world, as well as in the whole world, to the future of humanity.

Girls are trained to please.

I want to change the verb.

I want us all to change the verb.

If we teach girls to change the verb we will actually enforce the girl inside us and the girl inside them. 

I know a 14-year-old girl in the Netherlands, for example, who is demanding that she take a boat and go around the entire world by herself. 

There is a teenage girl who just recently went out and knew that she needed 56 stars tattooed on the right side of her face. 

There is a girl, Julia Butterfly Hill, who lived for a year in a tree because she wanted to protect the wild oaks. 

And this girl, when she was 17 years old, wore a burqa in Afghanistan, and went into the stadiums and documented the atrocities that were going on towards women, underneath her burqa, with a video.

And that video became the video that went out all over the world after 9/11 to show what was going on in Afghanistan. 

I want to talk about Rachel Corrie who was in her teens when she stood in front of an Israeli tank to say, "End the occupation."

And she knew she risked death and she was literally gunned down and rolled over by that tank. 

And I want to talk about a girl that I just met recently in Bukavu, who was impregnated by her rapist.

And she was holding her baby.

The capacity for girls to overcome situations and to move on levels, to me, is mind-blowing.

There is a girl named Dorcas, and I just met her in Kenya.

Dorcas is 15 years old, and she was trained in self-defense.

A few months ago she was picked up on the street by three older men.

They kidnapped her, they put her in a car.

In Kenya, in August, I went to visit one of the V-Day safe houses for girls, a house we opened seven years ago with an amazing woman named Agnes Pareyio.

And it was a house where girls could run away, they could save their clitoris, they wouldn't be cut, they could go to school.

And in the years that Agnes has had the house, she has changed the situation there.

The whole community has bought in to what she's doing. 

When we were there she was doing a ritual where she reconciles girls, who have run away, with their families.

And she knew that meant she would be cut.

She knew she would have to marry that old man, and she was 14. 

She imagined her father killing her on one hand, and Mama Agnes greeting her, with the hope that she would greet her when she got to the house.

And when she got to the house she was greeted.

For me, that is the power of girls.

And that is the power of transformation.

I want to close today with a new piece from my book.

And I want to do it tonight for the girl in everybody here.

But I really want to do it for each and every person here, to value the girl in us, to value the part that cries, to value the part that's emotional, to value the part that's vulnerable, to understand that's where the future lies. 

This is called "I'm An Emotional Creature."

And it happened because I met a girl in Watts, L.A.

I love being a girl.

I am an emotional creature.

They pulse through my organs and legs and burn up my ears.

I know when a storm is coming.

I can feel the invisible stirrings in the air.

I am an emotional creature.

I love that I do not take things lightly.

Everything is intense to me, the way I walk in the street, the way my momma wakes me up, the way it's unbearable when I lose, the way I hear bad news. 

I am an emotional creature.

I rejoice that it's still in my body.

Oh, I know when the coconut's about to fall.

I know that lipstick means more than show, and boys are super insecure, and so-called terrorists are made, not born.

I am an emotional creature.

It's how the earth got made, how the wind continues to pollinate.

You don't tell the Atlantic Ocean to behave.

I am an emotional creature.

Why would you want to shut me down or turn me off?

I am your remaining memory.

I can take you back.

Nothing's been diluted.

Nothing's leaked out.

I am an emotional, I am an emotional, incondotional, devotional creature.

Can you say it with me?

