I'm going to speak to you today about architectural agency.

What I mean by that is that it's time for architecture to do things again, not just represent things.

I thought it represented the importance of the architect. 

(Laughter) Now, I think that this is a great metaphor for the state of architecture and architects today.

And we architects are cowards.

So, eventually we have found ourselves in a totally marginalized position, way over here. 

And that the incredible amount of effort to deliver those sketches for years and years and years is not only something to be derided, but we would merely write it off as merely execution.

Now I'd argue that that is as absurd as stating that 30 minutes of copulation is the creative act, and nine months of gestation, and, God forbid, 24 hours of child labor is merely execution. 

And we need to start authoring processes again instead of authoring objects.

Now, if we do this, I believe we can go back 50 years and start reinjecting agency, social engineering, back into architecture.

But I'm going to reduce this to the beginning of the process, into three very pedantic statements.

The second position is: Actually take positions.

Take joint positions with your client.

This is the moment in which you as the architect and your client can begin to inject vision and agency.

But it has to be done together.

And both owner and architect alike are empowered to critique those manifestations based on the positions that you've taken. 

Now, I believe that one really amazing thing will happen if you do this.

I'd like to call it the lost art of productively losing control.

You do not know what the end result is.

This is the modus operandi that we have today.

Well, how about instead of doing that, we roll up to the gates something they want. 

And if you do that, you do that responsibly, I believe that instead of delivering Spartans, you can deliver maidens. 

And if I could summarize that all up into one single sketch it would be this.

And this had to do with the ambitions of the leadership.

Why was this horrible little building so important to their renown and their innovation?

Because they could do whatever they wanted to to this building.

When you're on Broadway, you cannot tear the proscenium down.

This building, when an artistic director wanted to do a "Cherry Orchard" and wanted people and wanted people to come out of a well on the stage, they brought a backhoe in, and they simply dug the hole.

Well, that's exciting.

So, the first position we took was, "Hey, we as architects had better not show up and do a pristine building that doesn't engender the same freedoms that this old dilapidated shed provided the company."

The second issue is a nuance of the first.

All they needed was labor. 

So, they stopped having inexpensive labor.

And eventually they had to freeze their organization into something called a bastardized thruscenium. 

The architectural manifestation was frankly just dumb.

It was to take all the things that are known as front of house and back of house and redefine them as above house and below house. 

At first blush you think, "Hey it's crazy, what could you possibly gain?"

We created what we like to call superfly.

(Laughter) Now, superfly, the concept is you take all the freedoms you normally associate with the flytower, and you smear them across flytower and auditorium.

Suddenly the artistic director can move between different stage and audience configurations.

And because that flytower has the ability to pick up all the pristine elements, suddenly the rest of the environment can be provisional.

And that provided the artistic director suddenly the ability to define suspension of disbelief.

So, the building affords artistic directors the freedom to conceive of almost any kind of activity underneath this floating object.

Now, in order to do this we and the clients had to do something fairly remarkable.

In fact it really was the clients who had to do it.

That's a lot for a client to commit to before you actually see the fruition of the concept.

But based on the positions, they took the educated leap of faith to do so.

And effectively we created what we like to call a theater machine. 

But it also has the potential to not only provide multiform but multi-processional sequences.

Meaning: The artistic director doesn't necessarily need to go through our lobby. 

One of the things that we learned when we visited various theaters is they hate us architects, because they say the first thing they have to do, the first five minutes of any show, is they have to get our architecture out of the mind of their patron.

Well now there are potentials of this building to allow the artistic director to actually move into the building without using our architecture.

So, in fact, there is the building, there is what we call the draw.

You're going down into our lobby, go through the lobby with our own little dangly bits, whether you like them or not, up through the stair that leads you into the auditorium. 

And here is the fruition of that in actuality.

But imagine the freedoms if you could take this further, that in fact you could consider a Wagnerian entry, a first act in thrust, an intermission in Greek, a second act in arena, and you leave through our lobby with dangly bits.

Now that, I would say, is architecture performing.

It is taking the hand of the architect to actually remove the hand of the architect in favor of the hand of the artistic director. 

I'll go through the three basic configurations.

This is the flat floor configuration.

The first configuration is easy to understand.

The third configuration is a little harder to understand.

I'll do it again so you can see it.

There you see it's the side balconies for the proscenium.

And there it is in the thrust configuration. 

In order to do that, again, we needed a client who was willing to take educational risks.

Meaning, nothing that we do can we be the first ones to do it.

But they were willing for us to apply technologies from other areas that already had failsafe mechanisms to this building. 

And the solution in terms of the balconies was to use something that we all know as a scoreboard lift.

Now, if you were to take a scoreboard and drop it on dirt and whiskey, that would be bad.

If you were not able to take the scoreboard out of the arena and be able to do the Ice Capades the next night, that would also be bad.

And so this technology already had all the failsafe mechanisms and allowed the theater and our client to actually do this with confidence that they would be able to change over their configurations at will. 

The second technology that we applied was actually using things that you know from the stage side of an opera house.

In this case what we're doing is we're taking the orchestra floor, lifting it up, spinning it, changing the rake, taking it back to flat floor, changing the rake again.

Here you see the various acoustic baffles as well as the flying mechanisms and catwalks over the auditorium.

And ultimately, up in the flytower, the scene sets that allow the transformations to occur. 

But you also have the ability to allow the audience to see Dallas, to perform with Dallas as the backdrop of your performance. 

Effectively you would have something like this.

You would be able to expose the auditorium to Dallas or vice versa, Dallas to the auditorium.

You'd be able to open portions in order to change the procession, allow people to come in and out for an intermission, or to enter for the beginning or the end of a performance. 

But most convincingly when we had to confront the idea of changing costs from architecture to infrastructure, is something that is represented by this.

And again, this is not all the flexibilities of the building that is actually built, but at least suggests the ideas. 

This building has the ability, in short order, to go back to a flat floor organization such that they can rent it out.

Now, if there is anyone here from American Airlines, please consider doing your Christmas party here.

(Laughter) That allows the company to raise operational budgets without having to compete with other venues with much larger auditoriums.

That's an enormous benefit. 

Here it is in a flat floor configuration.

The theater has been going through its kind of paces. 

It was very unusual.

Here it is in a thrust configuration.

And last but not least, you see this already has the ability to create events in order to generate operational budgets to overcome the building in fact performing to allow the company to overcome their biggest problem. 

I'm going to show you a brief time lapse.

(Laughter) I promise.

So, just in conclusion, a few shots.

This is the AT&amp;T Performing Arts Center's Dee and Charles Wyly Theater.

There it is at night.

And last but not least the entire AT&amp;T Performing Arts Center.

You can see the Winspear Opera House on the right and the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater on the left. 

And to remind you that here is an example in which architecture actually did something.

