Can geographic information make you healthy?

In 2001 I got hit by a train.

My train was a heart attack.

I found myself in a hospital in an intensive-care ward, recuperating from emergency surgery.

So, what I want to do here in the few minutes I have with you is really talk about what is the formula for life and good health.

Well, I understand the genetics and lifestyle part.

And you know why I understand that?

Because my physicians constantly ask me questions about this. 

(Laughter) Do it over and over again.

We all have these.

And you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places.

You spend it at rest and you spend it at work.

And if you're like me, you're in an airplane a good portion of your time traveling some place.

Well, when I have done this on myself, I always come to the conclusion that I spend about 75 percent of my time relatively in a small number of places.

And I don't wander far from that place for a majority of my time, even though I'm an extensive global trekker. 

Now, I'm going to take you on a little journey here.

I started off in Scranton, Pennsylvania.

You know, breathing high concentrations here of sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide and methane gas, in unequal quantities -- 19 years of this.

And if you've been in that part of the country, this is what those piles of burning, smoldering coal waste look like. 

OK, so I ended up in Louisville, Kentucky.

Okay, I spent 25 years, in my middle-age lungs now, breathing various concentrations of that.

And on a clear day it always looked like this, so you never saw it.

It was insidious and it was really happening. 

Then I decided I had to get really smart, I would take this job in the West Coast.

And I moved to Redlands California.

Alright, this is what it looks like on a good day.

If you've been there, you know what I'm talking about. 

So, what's wrong with this picture?

Well, the picture is, there is a huge gap here.

The one thing that never happens in my doctor's office: They never ask me about my place history.

No doctor, can I remember, ever asking me, "Where have you lived?"

Look at the kind of data that's available.

This data's from all over the world -- countries spend billions of dollars investing in this kind of research. 

Now, I've circled the places where I've been.

So, how many people are in the white?

How many have spent it in the red places?

Oh, not so lucky.

There are thousands of these kinds of maps that are displayed in atlases all over the world.

They give us some sense of what's going to be our train wreck.

But none of that's in my medical record.

And it's not in yours either. 

And you can see he's been to a few places around the United States.

And this is where he has spent most of his time.

We can zoom in here, and we suddenly see that now we see where Paul has really spent a majority of his time.

And all of those black dots are all of the toxic release inventories that are monitored by the EPA. 

Did you know that data existed?

For every community in the United States, you could have your own personalized map of that.

This might be what we end up with. 

What I'd like to leave you for are two prescriptions.

And they're in the early stages of development.

The second thing we need to do is while we're spending billions and billions of dollars all over the world building an electronic health record, we make sure we put a place history inside that medical record.

It not only will be important for the physician; it will be important for the researchers that now will have huge samples to draw upon.

But it will also be useful for us.

Or I could negotiate with my employer to make that decision in the best interest of myself and my company. 

Just look at that for a minute.

That was what the conclusion of the Dartmouth Atlas of Healthcare was about, was saying that we can explain the geographic variations that occur in disease, in illness, in wellness, and how our healthcare system actually operates.

That was what he was talking about on that quote.

And I would say he got it right almost a decade ago.

So, I'd very much like to see us begin to really seize this as an opportunity to get this into our medical records.

So with that, I'll leave you that in my particular view of view of health: Geography always matters.

