This is actually a painting that hangs at the Countway Library at Harvard Medical School.

And it shows the first time an organ was ever transplanted.

The kidney was indeed the first organ ever to be transplanted to the human. 

Certainly many advances, many lives saved.

But we have a major shortage of organs.

In the last decade the number of patients waiting for a transplant has doubled.

While, at the same time, the actual number of transplants has remained almost entirely flat.

That really has to do with our aging population.

We're just getting older.

Medicine is doing a better job of keeping us alive.

But as we age, our organs tend to fail more. 

So, what can we do about it?

But still ways to go to get stem cells into patients, in terms of actual therapies for organs. 

Wouldn't it be great if our bodies could regenerate?

Wouldn't it be great if we could actually harness the power of our bodies, to actually heal ourselves?

This is actually a picture of a salamander.

Salamanders have this amazing capacity to regenerate.

You see the scar form.

And that scar actually grows out a new limb. 

Actually, we can regenerate.

As you age, as you get older.

Your bones regenerate every 10 years.

Your skin regenerates every two weeks.

So, your body is constantly regenerating.

The challenge occurs when there is an injury.

At the time of injury or disease, the body's first reaction is to seal itself off from the rest of the body.

It basically wants to fight off infection, and seal itself, whether it's organs inside your body, or your skin, the first reaction is for scar tissue to move in, to seal itself off from the outside. 

So, how can we harness that power?

This is the channel that connects the bladder to the outside of the body.

And you see that it is injured.

We basically found out that you can use these smart biomaterials that you can actually use as a bridge.

If you build that bridge, and you close off from the outside environment, then you can create that bridge, and cells that regenerate in your body, can then cross that bridge, and take that path. 

That's exactly what you see here.

It's actually a smart biomaterial that we used, to actually treat this patient.

This was an injured urethra on the left side.

Turns out your body can regenerate, but only for small distances.

The maximum efficient distance for regeneration is only about one centimeter.

So, we do regenerate, but for limited distances.

What do we do now, if you have injury for larger organs?

What do we do when we have injuries for structures which are much larger than one centimeter?

It disintegrates a few months later.

It's acting only as a cell delivery vehicle.

And that's what we did for this piece of muscle.

This is actually showing a piece of muscle and how we go through the structures to actually engineer the muscle.

We take the cells, we expand them, we place the cells on the scaffold, and we then place the scaffold back into the patient.

But actually, before placing the scaffold into the patient, we actually exercise it.

What about other structures?

This is actually an engineered blood vessel.

Very similar to what we just did, but a little bit more complex.

Here we take a scaffold, and we basically -- scaffold can be like a piece of paper here.

And we can then tubularize this scaffold.

And what we do is we, to make a blood vessel, same strategy.

A blood vessel is made up of two different cell types.

We take muscle cells, we paste, or coat the outside with these muscle cells, very much like baking a layer cake, if you will. 

You now have your fully seeded scaffold.

You're going to place this in an oven-like device.

It has the same conditions as a human body, 37 degrees centigrade, 95 percent oxygen.

You then exercise it, as what you saw on that tape. 

And on the right you actually see a carotid artery that was engineered.

This is actually the artery that goes from your neck to your brain.

And this is an X-ray showing you the patent, functional blood vessel.

But they are really acting mostly as conduits.

You're allowing fluid or air to go through at steady states.

They are not nearly as complex as hollow organs.

Hollow organs have a much higher degree of complexity, because you're asking these organs to act on demand. 

So, the bladder is one such organ.

We grow the cells outside the body in large quantities.

It takes about four weeks to grow these cells from the organ.

We place it back into this oven-like device.

From the time you take that piece of tissue, six to eight weeks later you can put the organ right back into the patient. 

This actually shows the scaffold.

The material is actually being coated with the cells.

When we did the first clinical trial for these patients we actually created the scaffold specifically for each patient.

We brought patients in, six to eight weeks prior to their scheduled surgery, did X-rays, and we then composed a scaffold specifically for that patient's size pelvic cavity.

So, bladders are definitely a little bit more complex than the other structures.

But there are other hollow organs that have added complexity to it.

This is actually a heart valve, which we engineered.

And the way you engineer this heart valve is the same strategy.

We exercise these prior to implantation.

Same strategy. 

And then the most complex are the solid organs.

For solid organs, they're more complex because you're using a lot more cells per centimeter.

This is actually a simple solid organ like the ear.

It's now being seeded with cartilage.

And then a few weeks later we can take out the cartilage scaffold. 

This is actually digits that we're engineering.

These are being layered, one layer at a time, first the bone, we fill in the gaps with cartilage.

We then start adding the muscle on top.

And you start layering these solid structures.

This is actually an example -- several strategies to engineer solid organs. 

And instead of using ink, we use -- you just saw an inkjet cartridge -- we just use cells.

This is actually your typical desktop printer.

And this is actually still, of course, experimental, not for use in patients. 

Another strategy that we have followed is actually to use decellularized organs.

We actually take donor organs, organs that are discarded, and we then can use very mild detergents to take all the cell elements out of these organs.

So, for example on the left panel, top panel, you see a liver.

We can use it from one patient to the next.

We then take this vascular structure and we can prove that we retain the blood vessel supply. 

You can see, actually that's a fluoroscopy.

And you can see the vascular tree that remains intact.

We then take the cells, the vascular cells, blood vessel cells, we perfuse the vascular tree with the patient's own cells.

We perfuse the outside of the liver with the patient's own liver cells.

And we can then create functional livers.

So, another strategy we're following is actually to create wafers that we stack together, like an accordion, if you will.

They are actually making urine.

One of the things that I wanted to summarize for you then is what is a strategy that we're going for in regenerative medicine. 

If at all possible, we really would like to use smart biomaterials that we can just take off the shelf and regenerate your organs.

If we cannot use smart biomaterials, then we'd rather use your very own cells. 

We can take cells from you, create the structure, put it right back into you, they will not reject.

And if possible, we'd rather use the cells from your very specific organ.

If you present with a diseased wind pipe we'd like to take cells from your windpipe.

If you present with a diseased pancreas we'd like to take cells from that organ. 

A windpipe cell already knows it's a windpipe cell.

We don't need to teach it to become another cell type.

So, we prefer organ-specific cells.

And for those we still need stem cells.

If we cannot use stem cells from your body then we'd like to use donor stem cells.

And we prefer cells that will not reject and will not form tumors. 

So, at this point, I do want to tell you that some of the major challenges we have.

Some of the work you saw today was performed by over 700 researchers at our institute across a 20-year time span. 

So, these are very tough technologies.

Once you get the formula right you can replicate it.

But it takes a lot to get there.

So, I always like to show this cartoon.

This is how to stop a runaway stage.

But actually method A is the correct approach.

And what I mean by that is that anytime we've launched one of these technologies to the clinic, we've made absolutely sure that we do everything we can in the laboratory before we ever launch these technologies to patients.

And when we launch these technologies to patients we want to make sure that we ask ourselves a very tough question.

Are you ready to place this in your own loved one, your own child, your own family member, and then we proceed.

Because our main goal, of course, is first, to do no harm. 

I'm going to show you now, a very short clip, It's a five second clip of a patient who received one of the engineered organs.

We started implanting some of these structures over 14 years ago.

So, we have patients now walking around with organs, engineered organs, for over 10 years, as well.

I'm going to show a clip of one young lady.

We are just taking five seconds.

This is a segment that Sanjay Gupta actually took care of. 

And now I can just go and go out with my friends, go do whatever I want. 

Anthony Atala: See, at the end of the day, the promise of regenerative medicine is a single promise.

