I thought it might be interesting, even for the many long-time collectors here with us at TED, local collectors, to have an outside view of 10 young Indian artists I wish everyone at TED to know. 

But originally the significance of the bindi is to symbolize the third eye between the spiritual world and the religious world.

Bharti seeks to liberate this everyday cliche, as she calls it, by exploding it into something spectacular.

She also creates life-size fiberglass sculptures, often of animals, which she then completely covers in bindis, often with potent symbolism.

She says she first got started with 10 packets of bindis, and then wondered what she could do with 10 thousand. 

Since Bala himself will be speaking at TED I won't spend too much time on him here today, except to say that he really succeeds at making the invisible visible. 

Brooklyn-based Chitra Ganesh is known for her digital collages, using Indian comic books called amar chitra kathas as her primary source material.

These comics are a fundamental way that children, especially in the diaspora, learn their religious and mythological folk tales.

I, for one, was steeped in these.

Chitra basically remixes and re-titles these iconic images to tease out some of the sexual and gender politics embedded in these deeply influential comics.

And she uses this vocabulary in her installation work as well. 

Jitish Kallat successfully practices across photography, sculpture, painting and installation.

As you can see, he's heavily influenced by graffiti and street art, and his home city of Mumbai is an ever-present element in his work.

He really captures that sense of density and energy which really characterizes modern urban Bombay.

He also creates phantasmagoric sculptures made of bones from cast resin.

Here he envisions the carcass of an autorickshaw he once witnessed burning in a riot. 

He creates these fine, delicate images which he then repeats on a massive scale.

Mumbai-based Dhruvi Acharya builds on her love of comic books and street art to comment on the roles and expectations of modern Indian women.

She too mines the rich source material of amar chitra kathas, but in a very different way than Chitra Ganesh.

In this particular work, she actually strips out the images and leaves the actual text to reveal something previously unseen, and provocative. 

He actually applies metallic industrial paints to his work using porcupine quills to get this rich detailed effect. 

I'm kind of cheating with this next artist since Raqs Media Collective are really three artists working together.

Raqs are probably the foremost practitioners of multimedia art in India today, working across photography, video and installation.

They frequently explore themes of globalization and urbanization, and their home of Delhi is a frequent element in their work.

This next artist is probably the alpha male of contemporary Indian art, Subodh Gupta.

He was first known for creating giant photo-realistic canvases, paintings of everyday objects, the stainless steel kitchen vessels and tiffin containers known to every Indian.

These are actually wires wrapped in muslin and steeped in vegetable dye.

And she arranges them so that the viewer actually has to navigate through the space, and interact with the objects.

And light and shadow are a very important part of her work.

She also explores themes of consumerism, and the environment, such as in this work, where these basket-like objects look organic and woven, and are woven, but with the strips of steel, salvaged from cars that she found in a Bangalore junkyard. 

10 artists, six minutes, I know that was a lot to take in.

