Hannah is excited to be going to college.

She couldn't wait to get out of her parents' house, to prove to them that she's an adult, and to prove to her new friends that she belongs. 

She heads to a campus party where she sees a guy that she has a crush on.

Let's call him Mike.

The next day, Hannah wakes up with a pounding headache.

She doesn't feel good about what happened, but she thinks, "Maybe this is just what sex in college is?"

One in five women and one in 13 men will be sexually assaulted at some point during their college career in the United States.

After graduation, Hannah learns that she was one of five women who Mike did the exact same thing to.

But with such low reporting rates, it's fairly unlikely that even repeat perpetrators will be reported, much less anything happen if they are. 

In fact, only six percent of assaults reported to the police end with the assailant spending a single day in prison.

Meaning, there's a 99 percent chance that they'll get away with it.

This means there's practically no deterrent to assault in the United States. 

Now, I'm an infectious disease epidemiologist by training.

I'm interested in systems and networks and where we can concentrate our resources to do the most good.

So this, to me, is a tragic but a solvable problem. 

We started by talking to college survivors.

You see, knowing that you weren't the only one changes everything.

We created a website that actually does this and we launched it [...] in August, on two college campuses. 

If a system like this had existed for Hannah and her peers, it's more likely that they would have reported, that they would have been believed, and that Mike would have been kicked off campus, gone to jail, or at least gotten the help that he needed.

And if we were able to stop repeat offenders like Mike after just their second assault following a match, survivors like Hannah would never even be assaulted in the first place.

We could prevent 59 percent of sexual assaults just by stopping repeat perpetrators earlier on.

And because we're creating a real deterrent to assault, for perhaps the first time, maybe the Mikes of the world would never even try to assault anyone. 

We don't have to live in a world where 99 percent of rapists get away with it.

We can create one where those who do wrong are held accountable, where survivors get the support and justice they deserve, where the authorities get the information they need, and where there's a real deterrent to violating the rights of another human being. 

Thank you. 

