Contagious is a good word.

Inspiration is contagious.

We've heard some remarkable stories from some remarkable speakers.

But for me, what was contagious about all of them was that they were infected by something I call the "I Can" bug. 

So, the question is, why only them?

Can we all not systematically and consciously get infected?

So, in the next eight minutes I would like to share with you my story.

And I was struck by just how wonderful it felt, and how contagious that feeling was.

I also realized I should have got infected when I was seven. 

And that directly increased student wellbeing.

Children became more competent, and less helpless.

But this was all common sense. 

So, I'd like to show you a little glimpse of what common practice looks like at Riverside.

That's them rolling.

And in two hours, after their backs were broke, they were changed.

And once that happened, they were out in the city convincing everybody that child labor just had to be abolished.

And look at Ragav, that moment when his face changes because he's been able to understand that he has shifted that man's mindset.

And that can't happen in a classroom.

So, when Ragav experienced that he went from "teacher told me," to "I am doing it."

And it is a process that can be energized and nurtured. 

So, on August 15th, Independence Day, 2007, the children of Riverside set out to infect Ahmedabad.

So, how did the city respond?

Since 2007 every other month the city closes down the busiest streets for traffic and converts it into a playground for children and childhood.

Here was a city telling its child, "You can."

A glimpse of infection in Ahmedabad.

Video: [Unclear] So, the busiest streets closed down.

We have the traffic police and municipal corporation helping us.

Atul Karwal: aProCh is an organization which has been doing things for kids earlier.

Kiran Bir Sethi: And the city will give free time.

And Ahmedabad got the first child-friendly zebra crossing in the world. 

KBS: And because of that, Ahmedabad is known as India's first child-friendly city. 

Then 30,000 children in Ahmedabad, and growing.

It was time now to infect India.

We basically gave children a very simple challenge.

We said, take one idea, anything that bothers you, choose one week, and change a billion lives. 

Children were designing solutions for a diverse range of problems.

I mean, it was incredible.

Basically again reaffirming that when adults believe in children and say, "You can," then they will.

Infection in India.

This is in Rajasthan, a rural village. 

Look at what their parents says. 

Man: This program is wonderful.

We feel so nice that our children can teach us how to read and write. 

Woman: I am so happy that my students did this campaign.

In the future, I will never doubt my students' abilities.

KBS: An inner city school in Hyderabad.

Woman: Even though they are so young, they have done such good work.

First they have cleaned the society, then it will be Hyderabad, and soon India. 

Girl: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.

KBS: So, the charter of compassion starts right here.

It was incredible.

So, how can we still stay immune?

How can we stay immune to that passion, that energy, that excitement?

I know it's obvious, but I have to end with the most powerful symbol of change, Gandhiji.

If not now, then when?

Like I said, contagious is a good word.

