In 1995, we started working on a two-year investigative research project to try and find out what was going on.

And the bear cubs were being harvested from across the country and being sold and traded.

Sadly, the family of Qalandars depended on this bear.

The couple are barely 18 years old.

And the economy of the family and their livelihood depended on those animals.

So, we had to deal with it in a very practical and sustainable manner. 

Now, when we started working deeper and digging deeper, we found that it's an illegal act.

These guys could go to jail for up to seven years if they were caught by authorities.

And what they were doing to the bears was really appalling.

It was unacceptable.

Now we had to start changing these people and converting them from using that for a livelihood, to getting something else. 

So, this is Bitu Qalandar, who was our first experiment.

And then it started, there was no turning back after that.

This is Sadua who came and surrendered his bear.

And now he runs a cattle fodder store and a grain store near Agra.

Then there was no looking back at all for us.

The women were just not allowed to come out of the community and work with mainstream society.

And they were never allowed to go to school because they were an extra earning hand at home.

Of course we also had to get the bears in.

We have a veterinary facility in our rescue centers.

So, basically in 2002 there were 1,200 dancing bears.

We rescued over 550 dancing bears.

We've been able to ensure better futures for the people and the bears. 

The big news that I want to announce today is that next month we will be bringing in the very last bear of India, into our rescue center.

(Applause) And India will no longer have to witness this cruel barbaric practice which has been here for centuries.

And the people can hold their heads up high.

And the Qalandar people will rise above all this cruel barbaric past that they've lived all their lives.

And the beautiful bears can of course live in the wild again.

And there will be no more removing of these bears.

