Something called the Danish Twin Study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives, within certain biological limits, is dictated by our genes.

The other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle.

So the premise of Blue Zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity. 

But if you ask the average American what the optimal formula of longevity is, they probably couldn't tell you.

They've probably heard of the South Beach Diet, or the Atkins Diet.

The fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better.

Should you be running marathons or doing yoga?

When it comes to supplements, should you be taking them?

How about these hormones or resveratrol?

And then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do, to distill down the cross-cultural distillation. 

And at the end of this I'm going to tell you what that distillation is.

But first I'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity.

And the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100.

False.

The problem is, only about one out of 5,000 people in America live to be 100.

Your chances are very low.

Even though it's the fastest growing demographic in America, it's hard to reach 100.

The problem is that we're not programmed for longevity.

We are programmed for something called procreative success.

I love that word.

It reminds me of my college days. 

Biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation, the age when your children have children.

After that the effect of evolution completely dissipates.

If you're a mammal, if you're a rat or an elephant, or a human, in between, it's the same story.

So to make it to age 100, you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle, you also have to have won the genetic lottery. 

The second myth is, there are treatments that can help slow, reverse, or even stop aging.

False.

When you think of it, there is 99 things that can age us.

Deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes, those brain cells die, they never come back.

There is just too many things to go wrong. 

Our bodies have 35 trillion cells, trillion with a "T." We're talking national debt numbers here.

(Laughter) Those cells turn themselves over once every eight years.

And it builds up exponentially.

It's a little bit like the days when we all had Beatles albums or Eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape, and let our friends copy that cassette tape, and pretty soon, with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage.

Well, the same things happen to our cells.

That's why a 65-year-old person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12-year-old person. 

So, if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging, what am I doing here?

But life expectancy in this country is only 78.

So somewhere along the line, we're leaving about 12 good years on the table.

These are years that we could get.

And research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. 

We think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them, areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are, areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years, the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country. 

We found our first Blue Zone about 125 miles off the coast of Italy, on the island of Sardinia.

And not the entire island, the island is about 1.4 million people, but only up in the highlands, an area called the Nuoro province.

And this is a place where people not only reach age 100, they do so with extraordinary vigor.

Their history actually goes back to about the time of Christ.

It's actually a Bronze Age culture that's been isolated.

Because the land is so infertile, they largely are shepherds, which occasions regular, low-intensity physical activity.

Their diet is mostly plant-based, accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields.

It's called Cannonau. 

But the real secret I think lies more in the way that they organize their society.

And one of the most salient elements of the Sardinian society is how they treat older people.

You ever notice here in America, social equity seems to peak at about age 24?

Just look at the advertisements.

You go into the bars in Sardinia, instead of seeing the Sports Illustrated swimsuit calendar, you see the centenarian of the month calendar. 

That's called the grandmother effect. 

Okinawa is actually 161 small islands.

And in the northern part of the main island, this is ground zero for world longevity.

This is a place where the oldest living female population is found.

It's a place where people have the longest disability-free life expectancy in the world.

They have what we want.

They live about seven good years longer than the average American.

Five times as many centenarians as we have in America.

One fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer, big killers here in America.

And one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease.

And the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us.

What do they do?

Once again, a plant-based diet, full of vegetables with lots of color in them.

And they eat about eight times as much tofu as Americans do. 

More significant than what they eat is how they eat it.

Instead of serving family style, where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking, they serve at the counter, put the food away, and then bring it to the table. 

It's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full.

It takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain.

And by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing. 

But, like Sardinia, Okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity.

We know that isolation kills.

This particular Moai, these five ladies have been together for 97 years.

Their average age is 102. 

Typically in America we've divided our adult life up into two sections.

And typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair, or going down to Arizona to play golf.

In the Okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement.

For this 102-year-old karate master, his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art.

And one of the questions, they were very culturally astute, the people who put the questionnaire.

My editor at Geographic wanted me to find America's Blue Zone.

But that's because all the young people left.

(Laughter) So, we turned to the data again.

And we found America's longest-lived population among the Seventh-Day Adventists concentrated in and around Loma Linda, California.

Adventists are conservative Methodists.

They celebrate their Sabbath from sunset on Friday till sunset on Saturday.

A "24-hour sanctuary in time," they call it.

In America here, life expectancy for the average woman is 80.

But for an Adventist woman, their life expectancy is 89.

Now, this is a study that followed about 70,000 people for 30 years.

This is a heterogeneous community.

It's white, black, Hispanic, Asian.

They take their diet directly from the Bible.

Genesis: Chapter one, Verse [29], where God talks about legumes and seeds, and on one more stanza about green plants, ostensibly missing is meat.

They take this sanctuary in time very serious. 

Adventists also tend to hang out with other Adventists.

But they influence each other in profound and measurable ways. 

This is a culture that has yielded Ellsworth Whareham.

Ellsworth Whareham is 97 years old.

He's a multimillionaire, yet when a contractor wanted 6,000 dollars to build a privacy fence, he said, "For that kind of money I'll do it myself."

So for the next three days he was out shoveling cement, and hauling poles around.

And predictably, perhaps, on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room.

But not as the guy on the table; the guy doing open-heart surgery.

At 97 he still does 20 open-heart surgeries every month. 

And on weekends he likes to put on the boards, throw up rooster tails. 

Her grandson actually lives in the Twin Cities here.

She starts her day with lifting weights.

She rides her bicycle.

And then she gets in her root-beer colored 1994 Cadillac Seville, and tears down the San Bernardino freeway, where she still volunteers for seven different organizations.

I've been on 19 hardcore expeditions.

So, what are the common denominators in these three cultures?

What are the things that they all do?

And we managed to boil it down to nine.

In fact we've done two more Blue Zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true.

Instead, they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity.

These 100-year-old Okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground, they sit on the floor, 30 or 40 times a day. 

Sardinians live in vertical houses, up and down the stairs.

Every trip to the store, or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk.

They don't have any conveniences.

There is not a button to push to do yard work or house work.

If they want to mix up a cake, they're doing it by hand.

That's physical activity.

That burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does.

They know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook. 

The Okinawans have this ancestor veneration.

When you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more anti-inflammatory state. 

They have vocabulary for sense of purpose, ikigai, like the Okinawans.

There's no longevity diet.

Instead, these people drink a little bit every day, not a hard sell to the American population.

(Laughter) They tend to eat a plant-based diet.

Doesn't mean they don't eat meat, but lots of beans and nuts.

And then the foundation of all this is how they connect.

They put their families first, take care of their children and their aging parents.

And the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe.

They were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people. 

We know from the Framingham studies, that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight.

Exercise programs usually start in January; they're usually done by October.

When it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else.

