So, 120 years ago, Dr. Röntgen X-rayed his wife's hand.

That image was the start of the X-ray technology.

And I'm still fundamentally using the same principles today.

I'm interpreting it in a more contemporary manner. 

The first shot I ever did was of a soda can, which was to promote a brand that we all know, so I'm not going to do them any favors by showing you it.

But the second shot I did was my shoes I was wearing on the day.

It was just one of those pot-luck things where you get it right first time. 

Moving on to something a bit larger, this is an X-ray of a bus.

And back in the '60s, they used to teach student radiographers to take X-rays, thankfully not on you and I, but on dead people.

But everyone on that bus is Frieda.

And the bus is taken with a cargo-scanning X-ray, which is the sort of machine you have on borders, which checks for contraband and drugs and bombs and things. 

Fairly obvious what that is.

Again though, to make it come alive you need, somehow, to add the human element.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Quite a difficult brief, make a pair of men's pants look beautiful.

But I think the process, in itself, shows how exquisite they are.

Fashion -- now, I'm sort of anti-fashion because I don't show the surface, I show what's within.

(Laughter) We all look the same inside, believe me.

The creases in the material and the sort of nuances.

And I show things for really what they are, what they're made of.

I peel back the layers and expose it.

And if it's well made I show it, if it's badly made I show it. 

And I'm sure Ross can associate that with design.

The design comes from within.

And what's really interesting is, if you look at the legs, you'll notice that the bones haven't fused.

And should that pig have grown, unfortunately it was dead, it would have certainly been dead after I X-rayed it, with the amount of radiation I used anyway.

(Laughter) But once the bones had fused together it would have been healthy. 

(Laughter) But once the bones had fused together it would have been healthy. 

So, that's an empty parka jacket.

But I quite love the way it's posed.

Nature is my greatest inspiration.

And to carry on with a theme that we've already touched with is how nature is related to architecture.

If you look at the roof of the Eden Project, or the British library, it's all this honeycomb structure.

And I'm sure those architects are inspired, as I am, by what surrounds us, by nature.

This, in fact, is a Victoria water lily leaf that floats on the top of a pond.

This is my new, purpose-built, X-ray shed.

And the door to my X-ray room is made of lead and steel.

It weighs 1,250 kilograms and the only exercise I get is opening and closing it.

(Laughter) The walls are 700 millimeters thick of solid dense concrete.

So, I'm using quite a lot of radiation.

What's interesting really about X-ray really is, if you think about it, is that that technology is used for looking for cancer or looking for drugs, or looking for contraband or whatever.

And I use that sort of technology to create things that are quite beautiful. 

So, still working with film, I'm afraid.

Technology in X-ray where it's life-size processed, apart from these large cargo-scanning machines, hasn't moved on enough for the quality of the image and the resolution to be good enough for what I want to do with it, which is show my pictures big.

They scan each individual X-ray.

And this shows how I do my process of same-size X-rays.

So, this is, again, my daughter's dress.

Still has the tag in it from me buying it, so I can take it back to the shop if she didn't like it.

But there are four X-ray plates.

You can see them overlapping. 

In fact, that is three months solid X-raying.

There is over 500 separate components.

Boeing sent me a 747 in containers.

And I sent them back an X-ray.

(Laughter) I kid you not. 

(Laughter) I kid you not. 

Okay, so Frieda is my dead skeleton.

This, unfortunately, is basically two pictures.

One on the extreme right is a photograph of an American footballer.

The one on the left is an x-ray.

But this time I had to use a real body.

So, here I had to use a recently deceased body.

And getting a hold of that was extremely difficult and laborious.

But people do donate their bodies to art and science.

And when they do, I'm in the queue.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

The coloring, so coloring adds another level to the X-rays.

It makes it more organic, more natural.

It's whatever takes my fancy, really.

But I just like it in bright orange.

It makes a two dimensional image look more three dimensional. 

The most difficult things to X-ray, the most technically challenging things to X-ray are the lightest things, the most delicate things.

I'm now going to show you a short film, I'll step to the side. 

Video: (Music) The thing in there is very dangerous.

It's cumulative. 

(Music) It has human connotations.

And it's just a bit spooky. 

He's got headphones on, reading the newspaper, got a hat on, glasses, got a bag.

So, these little details help to make it work, make it real. 

(Music) The problem with using living people is that to take an X-ray, if I X-ray you, you get exposed to radiation.

(Music) I have very high-tech equipment of gloves, scissors and a bucket. 

(Music) I have very high-tech equipment of gloves, scissors and a bucket. 

(Music) I have very high-tech equipment of gloves, scissors and a bucket. 

(Music) I have very high-tech equipment of gloves, scissors and a bucket. 

Because it transfers food from its roots to its leaves.

Look at this monster. 

It's just happening.

And the X-ray shows how beautiful nature can be.

So the X-ray will show the overlaps in these little corners.

The thicker the object, the more radiation it needs, and the more time it needs.

The lighter the object, the less radiation.

Sometimes you keep the time up, because the time gives you detail.

The longer the exposure goes on for, the more detail you get. 

(Music) If you look at this, just the tube, it is quite bright.

But I could get a bit darker in the tube, but everything else would suffer.

So, these leaves at the edge would start to disappear.

Yeah, I'm quite pleased with it. 

And that's the sort of thing I've been doing.

I've got the opportunity now to show you what I'm going to be doing in the future.

This is a commercial application of my most recent work.

And I know what they're going to look like in X-ray and I'm not far off. 

And I'm going to take that idea and apply it to other sort of iconic things from my life.

And I think that would look quite neat as an X-ray.

I'm also looking to take my work from the two-dimensional form to a more three-dimensional form.

And this is quite a good way of doing it.

I'm also working now with X-ray video.

