Just think about this problem for a second.

But it can contemplate the vastness of interstellar space.

And this is truly the most amazing thing in the world.

Well, the brain, as you know, is made up of neurons.

We're looking at neurons here.

There are 100 billion neurons in the adult human brain.

And each neuron makes something like 1,000 to 10,000 contacts with other neurons in the brain.

And based on this, people have calculated that the number of permutations and combinations of brain activity exceeds the number of elementary particles in the universe. 

So, how do you go about studying the brain?

One approach is to look at patients who had lesions in different part of the brain, and study changes in their behavior.

This is what I spoke about in the last TED.

Sort of eavesdrop on the activity of nerve cells in the brain. 

Now, one recent discovery that has been made by researchers in Italy, in Parma, by Giacomo Rizzolatti and his colleagues, is a group of neurons called mirror neurons, which are on the front of the brain in the frontal lobes.

For example, if I do that, and reach and grab an apple, a motor command neuron in the front of my brain will fire.

If I reach out and pull an object, another neuron will fire, commanding me to pull that object.

These are called motor command neurons that have been known for a long time. 

But what Rizzolatti found was a subset of these neurons, maybe about 20 percent of them, will also fire when I'm looking at somebody else performing the same action.

So, here is a neuron that fires when I reach and grab something, but it also fires when I watch Joe reaching and grabbing something.

And this is truly astonishing.

Because it's as though this neuron is adopting the other person's point of view.

It's almost as though it's performing a virtual reality simulation of the other person's action. 

Now, what is the significance of these mirror neurons?

For one thing they must be involved in things like imitation and emulation.

Well, why is that important?

Now, let's look at culture, the phenomenon of human culture.

If you go back in time about [75,000] to 100,000 years ago, let's look at human evolution, it turns out that something very important happened around 75,000 years ago.

All of that happened relatively quickly. 

Even though the human brain had achieved its present size almost three or four hundred thousand years ago, 100,000 years ago all of this happened very, very quickly.

And I claim that what happened was the sudden emergence of a sophisticated mirror neuron system, which allowed you to emulate and imitate other people's actions.

So that when there was a sudden accidental discovery by one member of the group, say the use of fire, or a particular type of tool, instead of dying out, this spread rapidly, horizontally across the population, or was transmitted vertically, down the generations. 

Darwinian evolution is slow; it takes hundreds of thousands of years.

A polar bear, to evolve a coat, will take thousands of generations, maybe 100,000 years.

And then once it's learned this it spreads in geometric proportion across a population. 

Now there is another kind of mirror neuron, which is involved in something quite different.

And that is, there are mirror neurons, just as there are mirror neurons for action, there are mirror neurons for touch.

In other words, if somebody touches me, my hand, neuron in the somatosensory cortex in the sensory region of the brain fires.

But the same neuron, in some cases, will fire when I simply watch another person being touched.

So, it's empathizing the other person being touched. 

But a subset of them will fire even when I watch somebody else being touched in the same location.

So, here again you have neurons which are enrolled in empathy.

Now, the question then arises: If I simply watch another person being touched, why do I not get confused and literally feel that touch sensation merely by watching somebody being touched?

I mean, I empathize with that person but I don't literally feel the touch.

In other words, you have dissolved the barrier between you and other human beings.

And this is not in some abstract metaphorical sense.

All that's separating you from him, from the other person, is your skin.

Remove the skin, you experience that person's touch in your mind.

You've dissolved the barrier between you and other human beings.

You are, in fact, connected not just via Facebook and Internet, you're actually quite literally connected by your neurons.

And there is whole chains of neurons around this room, talking to each other.

And there is no real distinctiveness of your consciousness from somebody else's consciousness. 

And this is not mumbo-jumbo philosophy.

So, here you have my last slide.

