So, you see that on the other side of ice you have the unknown, you have the non-obvious, you have the non-seen, for the people who don't dare to go through the ice. 

There are so many people who prefer to suffer in the ice they know instead of taking the risk of going through the ice to see what there is on the other side.

And I think that's one of the main problems of our society.

We learn, maybe not the famous TED audience, but so many other people learn, that the unknown, the doubts, the question marks are dangerous.

Well, the unknown is part of life. 

And in that sense, ballooning is a beautiful metaphor.

Because in the balloon, like in life, we go very well in unforeseen directions.

We want to go in a direction, but the winds push us in another direction, like in life.

And as long as we fight horizontally, against life, against the winds, against what's happening to us, life is a nightmare. 

How do we steer a balloon?

By understanding that the atmosphere is made out of several different layers of wind which all have different direction.

So, then, we understand that if we want to change our trajectory, in life, or in the balloon, we have to change altitude.

Changing altitude, in life, that means raising to another psychological, philosophical, spiritual level.

But how do we do that? 

Sand, water, all the equipment we don't need anymore.

And I think in life it should be exactly like this. 

You know, when people speak about pioneering spirit, very often they believe that pioneers are the ones who have new ideas.

It's not true.

We just close our eyes for a minute we all come back with a lot of new ideas.

No, the pioneer is the one who allows himself to throw overboard a lot of ballast.

Habits, certainties, convictions, exclamation marks, paradigms, dogmas.

And when we are able to do that, what happens?

Life is not anymore just one line going in one direction in one dimension.

Life is going to be made out of all the possible lines that go in all the possible directions in three dimensions. 

And pioneering spirit will be each time we allow ourselves to explore this vertical axis.

Of course not just like the atmosphere in the balloon, but in life itself.

This is very practical.

Well, these basically are things I believed in such a long time.

But actually I had to go around the world in a balloon to be invited to talk about it.

Well, in balloons we need weather men, the one who calculate the direction of each layer of wind, at which altitude, in order to help the balloonist.

But sometimes it's very paradoxical. 

When Brian Jones and I were flying around the world, the weather man asked us, one day, to fly quite low, and very slow.

And this is why you need weathermen.

This is why you need people with long-term vision.

And this is precisely what fails in the political visions we have now, in the political governments.

That's the moment when you have to wake up from the automatic way of thinking.

That's the moment when you have to motivate your inner potential, your creativity.

That's when you throw out all the ballast, all the certainties, in order to adapt to the new situation. 

And after 20 days we landed successfully in Egypt.

But if I show you this picture it's not to tell you how happy we were.

It's to show you how much gas was left in the last bottles.

When I saw that, I made a promise to myself.

I made a promise that the next time I would fly around the world, it would be with no fuel, independent from fossil energies, in order to be safe, not to be threatened by the fuel gauge.

I had no idea how it was possible.

I just thought it's a dream and I want to do it. 

So how can we perpetuate this pioneering spirit with something that will be independent from fossil energy?

And this is when the project Solar Impulse really started to turn in my head.

And I think it's a nice metaphor also for the 21st century.

Pioneering spirit should continue, but on another level.

Not to conquer the planet or space, not anymore, it has been done, but rather to improve the quality of life.

How can we go through the ice of certainty in order to make the most incredible a possible thing?

What is today completely impossible -- get rid of our dependency on fossil energy. 

If you tell to people, we want to be independent from fossil energy in our world, people will laugh at you, except here, where crazy people are invited to speak.

Well, solar power airplanes are not new.

They have flown in the past, but without saving capabilities, without batteries.

Which means that they have more proven the limits of renewable energies than the potential of it.

If we want to show the potential, we have to fly day and night.

But it stays an anecdote because the public couldn't identify to it.

For that, unfortunately, four meters wingspan is not enough.

You need 64 meter wingspan.

We launched the project with my colleague Andre Borschberg six years ago.

That has been achieved after two years of work.

It's not designed by an artist, but it could be.

This is the complete structure of the airplane.

And what's the goal now?

The same time we load the batteries, we run the engines, and when we get at the maximum height, we arrive at the beginning of the night.

And this is exactly the symbol of our world.

If our airplane is too heavy, if the pilot wastes energy, we'll never make it through the night.

And in our world, if we keep on spoiling, wasting our energy resources, if we keep on building things that consume so much energy that most of the companies now go bankrupt, it's clear that we'll never give the planet to the next generation without a major problem. 

So, you see that this airplane is more a symbol.

I don't think it will transport 200 people in the next years.

So, we have to start, and show the example.

It's a pipe, and it's written, "This is not a pipe."

This is not an airplane.

This is a symbol of what we can achieve when we believe in the impossible, when we have a team, when we have pioneering spirit, and especially when we understand that all the certainties we have should be thrown overboard. 

It leaves 25 or 30 percent for oil, gas, coal, nuclear, or whatever.

This is acceptable. 

This is why all the people who believe in this type of spirit are welcome to be on that team.

You can just go on SolarImpulse.com, subscribe to just be informed of what we're doing.

But much more, to get advices, to give your comments, to spread the word that if it's possible in the air, of course it's possible in the ground. 

And each time we have some ice in the future, we have to know that life will be great, and the success will be brilliant if we dare to overcome our fear of the ice, to go through the obstacle, to go through the problem, in order to see what there is on the other side.

So, you see, this is what we're doing on our side.

Everyone has his goal, has his dreams, has his visions. 

The question I leave you with now is which is the ballast you would like to throw overboard?

Which will be the altitude at which you would like to fly in your life, to get to the success that you wish to have, to get to the point that really belongs to you, with the potential you have, and the one you can really fulfill?

Because the most renewable energy we have is our own potential, and our own passion.

