We've known about fusion since 1920, when Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington and the British Association for the Advancement of Science conjectured that that's why the sun shines. 

I've always been very worried about resource.

I don't know about you, but when my mother gave me food, I always sorted the ones I disliked from the ones I liked.

And I ate the disliked ones first, because the ones you like, you want to save.

And as a child you're always worried about resource.

And once it was sort of explained to me how fast we were using up the world's resources, I got very upset, about as upset as I did when I realized that the Earth will only last about five billion years before it's swallowed by the sun.

(Laughter) 

Energy, at the moment, is dominated by resource.

The countries that make a lot of money out of energy have something underneath them.

Coal-powered industrial revolution in this country -- oil, gas, sorry.

(Laughter) Gas, I'm probably the only person who really enjoys it when Mister Putin turns off the gas tap, because my budget goes up. 

We're really dominated now by those things that we're using up faster and faster and faster.

And as we try to lift billions of people out of poverty in the Third World, in the developing world, we're using energy faster and faster.

And those resources are going away.

And the way we'll make energy in the future is not from resource, it's really from knowledge.

But we have a lot of knowledge to gain before we can make solar the base load energy supply for the world.

Because they know that that is one sure way to do carbon-free energy. 

Fusion is very hard to do.

We've been trying for 50 years. 

And sorry about that, but this is what turns me on.

(Laughter) I was a strange child.

Nuclear energy comes for a simple reason.

The most stable nucleus is iron, right in the middle of the periodic table.

It's a medium-sized nucleus.

And you want to go towards iron if you want to get energy.

So, uranium, which is very big, wants to split.

And you can get energy out this way.

And indeed that's exactly what stars do.

These two nuclei, when they're far apart, are charged.

And you push them together and they repel.

But when you get them close enough, something called the strong force starts to act and pulls them together.

So, most of the time they repel.

You get them closer and closer and closer and then at some point the strong force grips them together.

Helium splits out, and a neutron comes out and lots of energy comes out.

If you can get something to about 150 million degrees, things will be rattling around so fast that every time they collide in just the right configuration, this will happen, and it will release energy.

And that energy is what powers fusion.

And it's this reaction that we want to do. 

There is one trickiness about this reaction.

It's pretty hot.

The trickiness about the reaction is that tritium doesn't exist in nature.

And that's the way you make your tritium.

But fortunately, if you can do this fusion reaction, you've got a neutron, so you can make that happen. 

Now, why the hell would we bother to do this?

This is basically why we would bother to do it.

And as you go across there you will see that we've got a few tens of years, and perhaps 100 years of fossil fuels left.

And then we get to uranium.

This is a bit shocking, because in fact our government is relying on that for us to meet Kyoto, and do all those kind of things. 

Is it cost-competitive?

We make estimates of what we think it would cost to actually make a fusion power plant.

And we get within about the same price as current electricity. 

So, how would we make it?

We have to hold something at 150 million degrees.

And, in fact, we've done this.

We hold it with a magnetic field.

And inside it, right in the middle of this toroidal shape, doughnut shape, right in the middle is 150 million degrees.

It boils away in the middle at 150 million degrees.

And in fact we can make fusion happen.

And just down the road, this is JET.

It's the only machine in the world that's actually done fusion. 

We've got to take that, we've got to make that into a fusion reactor.

Because we want 30 million years worth of fusion power for the Earth.

This is the device we're building now. 

It gets very expensive to do this research.

But that's not electricity yet.

We have to get to this.

We have to get to a power plant.

We have to start putting electricity on the grid in this very complex technology.

And I'd really like it to happen a lot faster than it is.

But at the moment, all we can imagine is sometime in the 2030s. 

We're going to have a problem with power in the next five years in this country.

So 2030 looks like an infinity away.

I wish we had more money, I wish we had more resources.

