you get started maybe a little slowly, but you get enough done in the first week that, with some heavier days later on, everything gets done, things stay civil. 

And I would want to do that like that.

That would be the plan.

And that would happen every single paper. 

And I knew for a paper like that, my normal work flow was not an option.

It was way too big a project.

So I planned things out, and I decided I kind of had to go something like this.

This is how the year would go.

How hard could it be to walk up the stairs?

No big deal, right? 

But then, the funniest thing happened.

And then two months turned into one month, which turned into two weeks.

And they say, "We need to talk about your thesis."

That did not happen. 

It was a very, very bad thesis. 

I just wanted to enjoy that one moment when all of you thought, "This guy is amazing!"

No, no, it was very, very bad.

Anyway, today I'm a writer-blogger guy.

I write the blog Wait But Why.

And a couple of years ago, I decided to write about procrastination.

And to test this, I found an MRI lab that actually let me scan both my brain and the brain of a proven non-procrastinator, so I could compare them.

I actually brought them here to show you today.

Now ... here's my brain. 

There is a difference.

Both brains have a Rational Decision-Maker in them, but the procrastinator's brain also has an Instant Gratification Monkey.

Now, what does this mean for the procrastinator?

Well, it means everything's fine until this happens. 

Now, what is going on here?

The Instant Gratification Monkey does not seem like a guy you want behind the wheel.

He lives entirely in the present moment.

He has no memory of the past, no knowledge of the future, and he only cares about two things: easy and fun. 

Now, in the animal world, that works fine.

If you're a dog and you spend your whole life doing nothing other than easy and fun things, you're a huge success! 

And to the Monkey, humans are just another animal species.

But, if you haven't noticed, now we're not in tribal times.

We're in an advanced civilization, and the Monkey does not know what that is.

That's why there's an overlap.

Sometimes they agree.

And that's when we have a conflict.

I call it the Dark Playground. 

It's where leisure activities happen at times when leisure activities are not supposed to be happening.

Now, the Panic Monster is dormant most of the time, but he suddenly wakes up anytime a deadline gets too close or there's danger of public embarrassment, a career disaster or some other scary consequence.

And importantly, he's the only thing the Monkey is terrified of.

Now, of course, I said yes.

It's always been a dream of mine to have done a TED Talk in the past. 

So that's what we did that day. 

As six months turned into four and then two and then one, the people of TED decided to release the speakers.

And I opened up the website, and there was my face staring right back at me.

And guess who woke up? 

And the Monkey -- remember, he's terrified of the Panic Monster -- boom, he's up the tree!

And finally, finally, the Rational Decision-Maker can take the wheel and I can start working on the talk. 

It's not pretty, but in the end, it works.

This is what I decided to write about on the blog a couple of years ago. 

When I did, I was amazed by the response.

Literally thousands of emails came in, from all different kinds of people from all over the world, doing all different kinds of things.

These are people who were nurses, bankers, painters, engineers and lots and lots of PhD students. 

Why are all of these people in such a dark place? 

Well, it turns out that there's two kinds of procrastination.

And it's this long-term kind of procrastination that's much less visible and much less talked about than the funnier, short-term deadline-based kind.

It's not that they're cramming for some project.

It's that long-term procrastination has made them feel like a spectator, at times, in their own lives.

The frustration is not that they couldn't achieve their dreams; it's that they weren't even able to start chasing them. 

Now, you might not all be a mess, like some of us, 

and some of you may have a healthy relationship with deadlines, but remember: the Monkey's sneakiest trick is when the deadlines aren't there. 

Now, I want to show you one last thing.

I call this a Life Calendar.

That's one box for every week of a 90-year life.

So I think we need to all take a long, hard look at that calendar.

We need to stay aware of the Instant Gratification Monkey.

That's a job for all of us.

And because there's not that many boxes on there, it's a job that should probably start today. 

Thank you. 

