Actually, I come from Britain, but I've been living in Maldives for 26 years now.

So, that's home really.

Capital, Malé, where I live.

Actually, sitting here today in Mysore, we're closer to Malé than we are to Delhi, for example. 

And it has been my home these years.

For those of you who've been there, fantastic coral reefs, fantastic diving, fantastic snorkeling.

I spend as much of my time as possible investigating the marine life.

I study fish, also the bigger things, whales and dolphins. 

And, in fact, we're very lucky in this region.

One of the best places in the world to see blue whales is here in this region.

In Sri Lanka, if you go down to the south coast of Sri Lanka, during the northeast monsoon season, you can see blue whales very, very easily.

It's probably the best place in the world to see them. 

I need to explain a little bit about monsoons.

Now, monsoon, the root of the word "monsoon" comes from the word "season."

And in the summer India heats up, gets very hot.

Hot air rises, and air is drawn in off the sea to replace it.

And the way it works is, it comes from the southwest.

And then in the winter things cool down.

Keep that in mind.

This is a very beautiful species, it's called the Oriental Scarlet. 

And one thing you need to know about dragonflies, one important thing, is that they lay their eggs in fresh water.

They need fresh water to breed.

So, they're very important.

And typically, there is a lot of variation, but if you have a dragonfly with, say, a one year life cycle, which is quite typical, the larva, living in the fresh water, lives for 10 or 11 months.

And then the adult, which comes after, lives for one or two months.

So it's essentially a freshwater animal.

It really does need fresh water. 

A few kilometers, maybe, is quite typical.

They are very good fliers, but they don't go too far.

But this guy is an exception.

And this is called the Globe Skimmer, or Wandering Glider.

And, as the name might suggest, it is found pretty much around the world.

It lives throughout the tropics, the Americas, Africa, Asia, Australia, into the Pacific.

But it really hasn't been studied very much. 

It's a rather mediocre looking dragonfly.

But if you take that attitude, you're actually missing something rather special.

Because this dragonfly has a rather amazing story to tell.

And I feel very privileged to have stumbled across it living in the Maldives. 

And I was a bit slow, I didn't really take too much notice.

But I asked some Maldivian friends and colleagues, and yes they come every year.

And again I didn't think too much of it.

Because dragonflies need fresh water to breed.

And the Maldives, and I'm sure some of you have been there -- so here is home.

So, Maldives, beautiful place.

(Laughter) It's built entirely of coral reefs.

And on top of the coral reefs are sand banks.

Average height, about that much above sea level.

So, global warming, sea level rise, it's a real serious issue.

But I'm not going to talk about that.

So, it stays under the soil.

But dragonflies -- a bit tricky.

There is no surface fresh water.

There are no ponds, streams, rivers, lakes, nothing like that.

Those of you who are Indian or spent your childhood here, let me have a show of hands, who of you -- not yet, not yet!

And I got a bit curious about it. 

But wind is, invariably, every time, is from the west.

It's going towards India, not from India.

So, are these things, how are these things getting here?

Are they coming from India against the wind?

Seemed a bit unlikely. 

So, next thing I did is I got on the phone.

I got on the phone and emailed to friends and colleagues.

When do you see the dragonflies appear?

And pretty soon, a picture started emerging.

In Bangalore, a colleague there sent me information for three years, average, 24th of September, so late September.

It's pretty obvious, they're coming from India.

But they are coming 400 miles across the ocean, against the wind.

How on Earth are they doing that?

I didn't know. 

The next thing I did was I started counting dragonflies.

So, I started a very rigorous scientific process.

I had a rigorous scientific transect.

I got on my bicycle, and I cycled around the island of Malé.

That's not the southwest season.

That's the inter-monsoon, the time when the monsoon changes. 

Now, what I said was, you get the southwest monsoon going one way, and then it changes and you get the northeast monsoon going the other way.

And that sort of gives the impression you've got one air mass going up and down, up and down.

These little insects, it's the same ones we see out here [in India], two inches long, five centimeters long, flying in their millions, 400 miles across the ocean, at 2,000 meters up.

What on Earth are they doing?

Well, to cut a long story short, they're actually flying right across the ocean.

They're making it all the way across to East Africa. 

They're up, and they're off. 

And they are breeding in the rains of Africa.

What's happening is they are breeding in the monsoon rains here.

And the dragonflies you can see today outside here, on the campus, are the young of this generation.

The wind will swoosh them out across here.

The rain occurs, these are summer rains.

So, the little fellow that hatches out here, he gets up into the air, he is automatically carried to where the rain is falling.

So, in four generations, one, two, three, four and then back. 

A complete circuit of the Indian Ocean.

This is a circuit of about 16,000 kilometers.

Those of you from North America will be familiar with the Monarch butterfly.

Which, up until now has had the longest known insect migration.

It's only half the length of this one.

And this crossing here, of the ocean, is the only truly regular transoceanic crossing of any insect.

A quite incredible feat.

But dragonflies are not the only creatures that make the crossing.

But it's also called the Amur Falcon.

And it's called the Amur Falcon because it breeds in Amurland.

So, Siberia, Manchuria.

And that's where it breeds.

And if you're a falcon it's quite a nice place to be in the summer.

But it's a pretty miserable place to be in the winter.

It's, well, you can imagine.

But then the being sensible stopped.

So, now they don't stop here, or even down here.

And they are not the only one that makes the crossing.

Those of you from northern India will be familiar with this.

It comes with the monsoons.

This time of year they cross back to Africa.

They make use of exactly the same winds.

They travel at exactly the same time with the same winds to make the crossing.

Flying at night over the Indian Ocean 2,424 meters.

Same height as the dragonflies go.

So, they are using the same winds.

It's a Blue-cheeked Bee-eater.

