The National Portrait Gallery is the place dedicated to presenting great American lives, amazing people.

And that's what it's about.

We use portraiture as a way to deliver those lives, but that's it.

And so I'm not going to talk about the painted portrait today.

So, how do we do that?

And so I came up with the idea of the living self-portrait series.

And the living self-portrait series was the idea of basically my being a brush in the hand of amazing people who would come and I would interview. 

And so what I'm going to do is, not so much give you the great hits of that program, as to give you this whole notion of how you encounter people in that kind of situation, what you try to find out about them, and when people deliver and when they don't and why. 

Now, I had two preconditions.

One was that they be American.

Sixties, seventies, eighties and nineties.

For obvious reasons, it doesn't seem that old anymore to me. 

And why did I do that?

But the second part of it -- and the older I get, the more convinced I am that that's true.

It's amazing what people will say when they know how the story turned out.

That's the one advantage that older people have.

All of those accidents that wound up creating the life narrative that we inherited. 

There are the journalist interviews, which are the interrogation that is expected.

This is somewhat against resistance and caginess on the part of the interviewee.

That's Barbara Walters and others like that, and we like that.

That's Frost-Nixon, where Frost seems to be as important as Nixon in that process.

Fair enough. 

But I wanted interviews that were different.

By the way, this was always done in public.

This was not an oral history program.

This was all about 300 people sitting at the feet of this individual, and having me be the brush in their self-portrait. 

Now, it turns out that I was pretty good at that.

I didn't know it coming into it.

And he had never appeared in public since that point.

This was not a devastating stroke, but it did affect his speaking and so forth.

But then I began to think of other things.

Who makes a great interview in this context?

It had nothing to do with their intellect, the quality of their intellect.

Some of them were very brilliant, some of them were, you know, ordinary people who would never claim to be intellectuals, but it was never about that.

It was about their energy.

It's energy that creates extraordinary interviews and extraordinary lives.

I'm convinced of it.

And it had nothing to do with the energy of being young.

These were people through their 90s. 

And so he filled the room, and we had an extraordinary conversation.

He was supposed to be the toughest interview that anybody would ever do because he was famous for being silent, for never ever saying anything except maybe a word or two.

And, in fact, he did wind up opening up -- by the way, his energy is evidenced in other ways.

And she said, "I'm his old girlfriend, Maureen Stapleton, and I could never do it."

And then she made me go up with the tape of it and prove that George Abbott actually could talk. 

The worst interviews that you can ever have are with people who are modest.

Never ever get up on a stage with somebody who's modest, because all of these people have been assembled to listen to them, and they sit there and they say, "Aw, shucks, it was an accident."

There's nothing that ever happens that justifies people taking good hours of the day to be with them. 

The worst interview I ever did: William L. Shirer.

The journalist who did "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich."

This guy had met Hitler and Gandhi within six months, and every time I'd ask him about it, he'd say, "Oh, I just happened to be there.

Awful.

I never would ever agree to interview a modest person.

They have to think that they did something and that they want to share it with you. 

But it comes down, in the end, to how do you get through all the barriers we have.

I was trying to get them to say what they probably wanted to say, to break out of their own cocoon of the public self, and the more public they had been, the more entrenched that person, that outer person was.

She did an extraordinary play called "The Women."

And, incidentally, I call her the Eleanor Roosevelt of the Right.

She was sort of adored on the Right the way Eleanor Roosevelt was on the Left.

And, in fact, when we did the interview -- I did the living self-portrait with her -- there were three former directors of the CIA basically sitting at her feet, just enjoying her presence. 

And I thought, this is going to be a piece of cake, because I always have preliminary talks with these people for just maybe 10 or 15 minutes.

We never talk before that because if you talk before, you don't get it on the stage.

So she and I had a delightful conversation. 

We were on the stage and then -- by the way, spectacular.

It was for a charity in Connecticut when I was a congresswoman, and I got up there," and she went on and on, "And then I got on the stage."

And she looked at me, and it was like the successful arm-wrestle, and then, after that, she delivered an extraordinary account of what her life really was like. 

Again, a remarkable person.

I'm not politically attracted to her, but through her life force, I'm attracted to her.

And the way she died -- she had, toward the end, a brain tumor.

The usual sort of thing.

Then at a certain moment, the door opened and she walked out perfectly dressed, completely composed.

She wanted the control of her final moment, and she did it amazingly. 

And he looked at me, you know, as if to say, "This is how you're going to start this thing, right off?"

And then he turned to me, not stupidly, and he said, "What was your childhood like?"

And he looked at me, and then we heard the big sad story.

So the question is: What is the key that's going to allow this to proceed? 

And I'll just give you two examples of this because of the time constraints. 

One was an interview I did with one of the great American biographers.

Again, some of you will know him, most of you won't, Dumas Malone.

Dumas Malone was from Mississippi originally.

And he said, "Now, John Adams was too honest."

She was the New Englander and abrasive, and he was this courtly fellow. 

This was to Agnes de Mille.

Agnes de Mille is one of the great choreographers in our history.

She basically created the dances in "Oklahoma," transforming the American theater.

An amazing woman. 

She wasn't about to make up for this occasion. 

She said, "I keep this will by my bed, memento mori, and I change it all the time just because I want to."

And she was loving the prospect of death as much as she had loved life.

I thought, this is somebody I've got to get in this series. 

Half of her body was stricken, the other half not.

She was, of course, done up for the occasion, but this was a woman in great physical distress.

I said, "Was it a problem for you in your life that you were not beautiful?"

But she was thrilled to get that out as a real, real fact in her life. 

It was an amazing privilege to do this series.

There were other moments like that, very few moments of silence.

Just be that way with your friends and particularly the older members of your family. 

Thank you very much. 

