For the last 20 years I've been designing puzzles.

I've designed puzzles for books, printed things.

I'm the puzzle columnist for Discover Magazine.

I've been doing that for about 10 years.

So, what else could it be?

I read Martin Gardner's columns in Scientific American.

Went on, and eventually decided to devote myself, full time, to that. 

A puzzle is a problem that is fun to solve and has a right answer.

Who designed this?

It's like, you know, life is not a very well-written story so we have to hire writers to make movies. 

But as opposed to a couple other forms of play, toys and games -- by toy I mean, something you play with that doesn't have a particular goal.

You can create one out of Legos.

You know, you can do anything you want.

Or competitive games like chess where, well, you're not trying to solve ... You can make a chess puzzle, but the goal really is to beat another player. 

It's a very small form, like a joke, a poem, a magic trick or a song, very compact form.

At worst, they're throwaways, they're for amusement.

But at best they can reach for something more and create a memorable impression.

The progression of my career that you'll see is looking for creating puzzles that have a memorable impact. 

So, it's two profiles in black, or a white vase in the middle.

Here we have "Day and Night."

Here is what I did with figure and ground.

So, here we have "figure" in black.

Here we have "figure" in white.

And it's all part of the same design.

The background to one is the other.

And that turns into the title of my first book, "Inversions."

Each letter here is one of these digits.

Not strictly an ambigram in the conventional sense.

I like pushing on what an ambigram can mean. 

It's the same this way.

So here we have Penn and Teller, same upside-down.

This appears in my puzzle calendar.

Okay, let's go back to the slides.

Thank you very much. 

Now, those are fun to look at.

Now how would you do it interactively?

For a while I was an interface designer.

And so I think a lot about interaction.

Well, let's first of all simplify the vases illusion, make the thing on the right.

Now, if you could pick up the black vase, it would look like the figure on top.

If you could pick up the white area, it would look like the figure on the bottom.

Well, you can't do that physically, but on a computer you can do it.

And here it is, figure-ground.

The goal here is to take the pieces on the left and make them so they look like the shape on the right.

And this follows the rules I just said: any black area that is surrounded by white can be picked up.

But that is also true of any white area.

So, here we got the white area in the middle, and you can pick it up.

I'll just go one step further.

So, here is -- here is a couple pieces.

You can really get inside somebody's perception and have them experience something.

It's like the old maxim of "you can tell somebody something and show them, but if they do it they really learn it."

Here is another thing you can do.

There is a game called Rush Hour.

This is one of the true masterpieces in puzzle design besides Rubik's cube.

Now we'll make it harder, a little harder.

The first move is going to be what?

You're going to move the blue one up in order to get the lavender one to the right.

And you can make puzzles like this one that aren't solvable at all.

Those four are locked in a pinwheel; you can't get them apart. 

In the other game the cars can only move forward and back.

Created a whole bunch of levels for it.

Now I'm making it available to schools.

And it includes exercises that show you not just how to solve these puzzles, but how to extract the principles that will let you solve mathematical puzzles or problems in science, other areas. 

So, I'm really interested in you learning how to make your own puzzles as well as just me creating them.

Garry Trudeau calls himself an investigative cartoonist.

You know, he does a lot of research before he writes a cartoon.

In Discover Magazine, I'm an investigative puzzle maker.

So, here is what I created for Discover Magazine.

And it has to be solvable in a magazine.

But it takes some persistence.

So, that's the form of the puzzle coming out of the content, rather than the other way around. 

Which way will these fall?

One of these weighs 50 pounds, 30 pounds and 10 pounds.

And depending on which one weighs which amount, they'll fall different directions.

And here is a puzzle based on color mixing.

Which separations were mixed up to make those pictures?

Gets you thinking about color. 

She could easily be up here giving a talk about her work.

This is what's going on in the games industry right now.

First of all, you know, for a long time computer games meant things like "Doom," where you're going around shooting things, very violent games, very fast, aimed at teenage boys.

And the main players are over 35, and are female.

Then recently "Rock Band" has been a big hit.

This is what's becoming the dominant form of electronic gaming. 

Now, within that there is some interesting things happening.

Turns out doing crossword puzzles can stave off some of the effects of Alzheimer's.

So, we got games like "Brain Age" coming out for the Nintendo DS, huge hit.

And then there is social media, and what's happening on the Internet.

Everybody now considers themselves a creator, and not just a viewer.

And what does this add up to?

Here is what we see coming.

And we decided to combine our skills. 

And we have 24 seconds each.

Where is that?

I'll play as fast as I can.

That's the corner of the whole thing.

And we have people all over the world doing that now. 

