For emotions, we should not move quickly to the desert.

So, welcome to the Golden Desert, Indian desert.

It receives the least rainfall in the country, lowest rainfall.

If you are well-versed with inches, nine inches, centimeters, 16 [centimeters].

So, you can't install hand pumps or dig wells, though there is no electricity in most of the villages.

But suppose you use the green technology, solar pumps -- they are of no use in this area. 

So, welcome to the Golden Desert.

There are a number of techniques to harvest rain.

This is a new work, it's a new program.

But for the desert society this is no program; this is their life.

And they harvest rain in many ways.

So, this is the first device they use in harvesting rain.

It's called kunds; somewhere it is called [unclear]. 

And you can notice they have created a kind of false catchment.

The desert is there, sand dunes, some small field.

And this is all big raised platform.

It's two houses.

We often use a term called bylaws.

Because we are used to get written things.

But here it is unwritten by law.

And people made their house, and the water storage tanks.

These raised up platforms just like this stage.

In fact they go 15 feet deep, and collect rain water from roof, there is a small pipe, and from their courtyard.

It can also harvest something like 25,000 in a good monsoon. 

And it can collect six million gallons of rainwater in one season.

The age is 400 years.

So, since 400 years it has been giving you almost six million gallons of water per season.

You can calculate the price of that water.

It draws water from 15 kilometers of canals. 

But this 400 year old canal, which draws water, it is maintained for so many generations.

(Laughter) And we request them.

You can see person coming up with two canisters of water.

And the water level -- these are not empty canisters -- water level is right up to this.

It can envy many municipalities, the color, the taste, the purity of this water.

We stop for a quick commercial break, and then we come back to the traditional systems.

The government thought that this is a very backward area and we should bring a multi-million dollar project to bring water from the Himalayas.

That's why I said that this is a commercial break.

(Laughter) But we will come back, once again, to the traditional thing.

So, water from 300, 400 kilometers away, soon it become like this.

In many portions, water hyacinth covered these big canals like anything. 

But the tail end, the Jaisalmer area, you will notice in Bikaner things like this: where the water hyacinth couldn't grow, the sand is flowing in these canals.

(Laughter) 

We had full-page advertisements, some 30 years, 25 years ago when this canal came.

Because soon the water was not able to reach these areas.

And people started renovating their own structures. 

But you can see that no woman is standing on those.

(Laughter) And they are plaiting hair.

(Applause) Jaisalmer.

This town was established 800 years ago.

I'm not sure by that time Bombay was there, or Delhi was there, or Chennai was there, or Bangalore was there. 

So, this was the terminal point for silk route.

Well connected, 800 years ago, through Europe.

None of us were able to go to Europe, but Jaisalmer was well connected to it.

And this is the 16 centimeter area.

Such a limited rainfall, and highest colorful life flourished in these areas.

You won't find water in this slide.

But it is invisible.

Somewhere a stream or a rivulet is running through here.

So, estate, public and private entrepreneurs work together to build this beautiful water body.

Whether water level goes up or down, the beauty is there throughout. 

These statues, marvelous statues, gives you an idea of water table.

This was for mass communication.

Everybody in the town will know that this elephant has drowned, so water will be there for seven months or nine months, or 12 months.

And then they will come and worship this pond, pay respect, their gratitude. 

Another small water body, called the [unclear].

The reputation in desert of this small water body is that it never dries up.

In severe drought periods nobody has seen this water body getting dried up.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

It squeeze the moisture hidden in the sand.

And they have dubbed this water as the third one called [unclear].

And there is a gypsum belt running below it.

And it was deposited by the great mother Earth, some three million years ago.

And where we have this gypsum strip they can harvest this water. 

This is the same dry water body.

But when the water goes down they will be able to draw water from those structures throughout the year.

This year they have received only six centimeters.

(Laughter) 

How they maintain them?

There are three things: concept, planning, making the actual thing, and also maintaining them.

Your own thing, not personal property, my property, every time. 

So, these stone pillars will remind you that you are entering into a water body area.

Don't spit, don't do anything wrong, so that the clean water can be collected.

Another pillar, stone pillar on your right side.

If you climb these three, six steps you will find something very nice.

This was done in 11th century.

And you have to go further down.

If the water table goes down, you will find new stairs.

If it comes up, some of them will be submerged.

So, throughout the year this beautiful system will give you some pleasure.

Excuse me, who built these structures?

They are in front of you.

The best civil engineers we had, the best planners, the best architects.

We can say that because of them, because of their forefathers, India could get the first engineering college in 1847.

There were no English medium schools at that time, even no Hindi schools, [unclear] schools.

The last point, we all know in our primary schools that that camel is a ship of desert.

So, you can find through your Jeep, a camel, and a cart.

This tire comes from the airplane.

So, look at the beauty from the desert society who can harvest rainwater, and also create something through a tire from a jet plane, and used in a camel cart. 

They were using it on their body.

Tattoo was, at one time, a kind of a blacklisted or con thing, but now it is in thing.

(Laughter) The center of life is water.

So, this is the message of desert.

Chris Anderson: So, first of all, I wish I had your eloquence, truly, in any language.

(Applause) These artifacts and designs are inspiring.

Do you believe that they can be used elsewhere, that the world can learn from this?

Or is this just right for this place? 

Anupam Mishra: No, the basic idea is to utilize water that falls on our area.

And these [unclear], which stored water, there are two type of things.

One recharge, and one stores.

So, it depends on the terrain.

But kund, which uses the gypsum belt, for that you have to go back to your calendar, three million years ago.

If it is there it can be done right now.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

