As an Indian, and now as a politician and a government minister, I've become rather concerned about the hype we're hearing about our own country, all this talk about India becoming a world leader, even the next superpower.

In fact, the American publishers of my book, "The Elephant, The Tiger and the Cell Phone," added a gratuitous subtitle saying, "India: The next 21st-century power."

And I just don't think that's what India's all about, or should be all about. 

Indeed, what worries me is the entire notion of world leadership seems to me terribly archaic.

It's redolent of James Bond movies and Kipling ballads.

After all, what constitutes a world leader?

If it's population, we're on course to top the charts.

The Americans have even recognized it, in an agreement.

But, somehow, none of that adds up to me, to what I think India really can aim to contribute in the world, in this part of the 21st century.

Soft power is a concept invented by a Harvard academic, Joseph Nye, a friend of mine.

But, the fact is, in fact, that probably Hollywood and MTV and McDonalds have done more for American soft power around the world than any specifically government activity. 

So soft power is something that really emerges partly because of governments, but partly despite governments.

Now, in this age, again, countries with access to multiple channels of communication and information have a particular advantage.

And of course they have more influence, sometimes, about how they're seen.

But, the fact still is that it's not just that.

In order to have soft power, you have to be connected.

One might argue that India has become an astonishingly connected country.

I think you've already heard the figures.

We've been selling 15 million cellphones a month.

Currently there are 509 million cellphones in Indian hands, in India.

And that makes us larger than the U.S. as a telephone market.

In fact, those 15 million cellphones are the most connections that any country, including the U.S. and China, has ever established in the history of telecommunications. 

But, what perhaps some of you don't realize is how far we've come to get there.

You know, when I grew up in India, telephones were a rarity.

In fact, they were so rare that elected members of Parliament had the right to allocate 15 telephone lines as a favor to those they deemed worthy.

If you were lucky enough to be a wealthy businessman or an influential journalist, or a doctor or something, you might have a telephone.

But sometimes it just sat there. 

I went to high school in Calcutta.

And we would look at this instrument sitting in the front foyer.

If there was a dial tone and you dialed a number, the odds were two in three you wouldn't get the number you were intending to reach.

In fact the words "wrong number" were more popular than the word "Hello."

(Laughter) If you then wanted to connect to another city, let's say from Calcutta you wanted to call Delhi, you'd have to book something called a trunk call, and then sit by the phone all day, waiting for it to come through.

Or you could pay eight times the going rate for something called a lightning call.

But, lightning struck rather slowly in our country in those days, so, it was like about a half an hour for a lightning call to come through. 

In fact, so woeful was our telephone service that a Member of Parliament stood up in 1984 and complained about this.

And the Then-Communications Minister replied in a lordly manner that in a developing country communications are a luxury, not a right, that the government had no obligation to provide better service, and if the honorable Member wasn't satisfied with his telephone, could he please return it, since there was an eight-year-long waiting list for telephones in India. 

Now, fast-forward to today and this is what you see: the 15 million cell phones a month.

But what is most striking is who is carrying those cell phones.

And it was a hot day and he said, "Hey, would you like some fresh coconut water?"

And he whipped out his cellphone, dialed the number, and a voice said, "I'm up here."

And right on top of the nearest coconut tree, with a hatchet in one hand and a cell phone in the other, was a local toddy tapper, who proceeded to bring down the coconuts for us to drink. 

Fishermen are going out to sea and carrying their cell phones.

When they catch the fish they call all the market towns along the coast to find out where they get the best possible prices.

Farmers now, who used to have to spend half a day of backbreaking labor to find out if the market town was open, if the market was on, whether the product they'd harvested could be sold, what price they'd fetch.

They'd often send an eight year old boy all the way on this trudge to the market town to get that information and come back, then they'd load the cart.

Today they're saving half a day's labor with a two minute phone call. 

So this empowerment of the underclass is the real result of India being connected.

And that transformation is part of where India is heading today.

And the first goat, chewing away, says, "You know, this film is not bad."

(Laughter) 

I usually tend to think that the book is usually better, but, having said that, the fact is that Bollywood is now taking a certain aspect of Indian-ness and Indian culture around the globe, not just in the Indian diaspora in the U.S. and the U.K., but to the screens of Arabs and Africans, of Senegalese and Syrians.

I've met a young man in New York whose illiterate mother in a village in Senegal takes a bus once a month to the capital city of Dakar, just to watch a Bollywood movie.

She can't understand the dialogue.

She's illiterate, so she can't read the French subtitles.

And this is happening more and more.

Afghanistan, we know what a serious security problem Afghanistan is for so many of us in the world.

India doesn't have a military mission there.

You know what was India's biggest asset in Afghanistan in the last seven years?

And it was the most popular television show in Afghan history.

Every Afghan family wanted to watch it.

They had to suspend functions at 8:30.

(Laughter) 

But, today in Britain, for example, Indian restaurants in Britain employ more people than the coal mining, ship building and iron and steel industries combined.

But, with this increasing awareness of India, with you and with I, and so on, with tales like Afghanistan, comes something vital in the information era, the sense that in today's world it's not the side of the bigger army that wins, it's the country that tells a better story that prevails.

And India is, and must remain, in my view, the land of the better story.

(Laughter) 

We've gone from the image of India as land of fakirs lying on beds of nails, and snake charmers with the Indian rope trick, to the image of India as a land of mathematical geniuses, computer wizards, software gurus.

But that too is transforming the Indian story around the world.

But, there is something more substantive to that.

The story rests on a fundamental platform of political pluralism.

It's a civilizational story to begin with.

Because India has been an open society for millennia.

India gave refuge to the Jews, fleeing the destruction of the first temple by the Babylonians, and said thereafter by the Romans. 

In fact, legend has is that when Doubting Thomas, the Apostle, Saint Thomas, landed on the shores of Kerala, my home state, somewhere around 52 A.D., he was welcomed on shore by a flute-playing Jewish girl.

And to this day remains the only Jewish diaspora in the history of the Jewish people, which has never encountered a single incident of anti-semitism.

(Applause) That's the Indian story.

Islam came peacefully to the south, slightly more differently complicated history in the north.

But all of these religions have found a place and a welcome home in India. 

You know, we just celebrated, this year, our general elections, the biggest exercise in democratic franchise in human history.

And the next one will be even bigger, because our voting population keeps growing by 20 million a year.

This is India, and of course it's all the more striking because it was four years later that we all applauded the U.S., the oldest democracy in the modern world, more than 220 years of free and fair elections, which took till last year to elect a president or a vice president who wasn't white, male or Christian.

So, maybe -- oh sorry, he is Christian, I beg your pardon -- and he is male, but he isn't white.

All the others have been all those three.

(Laughter) 

But, the issue is that when I talked about that example, it's not just about talking about India, it's not propaganda.

Because ultimately, that electoral outcome had nothing to do with the rest of the world.

It was essentially India being itself.

And ultimately, it seems to me, that always works better than propaganda.

Governments aren't very good at telling stories.

But people see a society for what it is, and that, it seems to me, is what ultimately will make a difference in today's information era, in today's TED age. 

We have 23 official languages that are recognized in our Constitution.

And those of you who cashed your money here might be surprised to see how many scripts there are on the rupee note, spelling out the denominations.

We've got all of that.

But, the whole point is that India is the nationalism of an idea.

That is a 21st-century story as well as an ancient one.

The great success story of India, a country that so many learned scholars and journalists assumed would disintegrate, in the '50s and '60s, is that it managed to maintain consensus on how to survive without consensus. 

Now, that is the India that is emerging into the 21st century.

And I do want to make the point that if there is anything worth celebrating about India, it isn't military muscle, economic power.

All of that is necessary, but we still have huge amounts of problems to overcome.

Somebody said we are super poor, and we are also super power.

We can't really be both of those.

But, it's all taking place in an open society, in a rich and diverse and plural civilization, in one that is determined to liberate and fulfill the creative energies of its people.

That's why India belongs at TED, and that's why TED belongs in India.

