One day a one-eyed monkey came into the forest.

The one-eyed monkey recognized the woman, a Sekhri.

She was the wife of an even more famous Brahmin.

To watch her better, the one-eyed monkey climbed onto the tree.

Indra saw the woman, a Sekhri.

And the woman's husband, the Brahmin, appeared.

He realized at once what had happened.

So, the god Vishnu arrived. 

"Just a one-eyed monkey," said the Brahmin. 

Now, the one-eyed monkey really wanted for the woman, a Sekhri, to get justice, so she retold events exactly as they had happened.

Vishnu gave his judgment. 

So, Indra arrived, and performed the sacrifice of the horse.

In India there is a rape every three minutes.

In India, only 25 percent of rapes come to a police station, and of these 25 percent that come to a police station, convictions are only in four percent of the cases.

That's a lot of women who don't get justice. 

And it's not only about women.

Look around you, look at your own countries.

There is a certain pattern in who gets charged with crimes.

If you're in Australia, it's mostly aboriginals who are in jail.

If you're in India, it's either Muslims or Adivasis, our tribals, the Naxalites.

If you're in the U.S., it's mostly the blacks.

There is a trend here.

And the Brahmins and the gods, like in my story, always get to tell their truth as The Truth.

So, have we all become one-eyed -- two-eyed instead of one-eyed -- monkeys?

Have we stopped seeing injustice? 

Good morning.

Now, if I were to go into the same crowd and say, "I want to lecture you about justice and injustice," they would say, "Thank you very much, we have other things to do."

And that is the astonishing power of art. 

And it reaches somewhere where other things don't.

And in a world where attitudes are so difficult to change, we need a language that reaches through. 

Hitler knew it; he used Wagner to make all the Nazis feel wonderful and Aryan.

And Mr. Berlusconi knows it, as he sits atop this huge empire of media and television and so on and so forth.

And all of the wonderful creative minds who are in all the advertising agencies, and who help corporate sell us things we absolutely don't require, they also know the power of the arts. 

For me it came very early.

When I was a young child, my mother, who was a choreographer, came upon a phenomenon that worried her.

Many years later, when I was working with the director Peter Brook in "The Mahabharata" playing this feisty feminine feminist called Draupadi, I had similar experiences.

And that's because there is no clean water to drink, or in countries like India, people don't know that they need to soap their hands before defecation.

So, what do they do?

They drink the water they know is dirty, they get cholera, they get diarrhea, they get jaundice and they die.

And the MNCs give them machines that they cannot afford.

So, why aren't governments blaring this on television?

Why isn't it on every poster across the third world?

But it still needs to get to people.

And here is one of the ways we get it to people. 

Woman: What solution? 

(Applause) 

I think it's safe to say that all of us here are deeply concerned about the escalating violence in our daily lives.

So, why are we not doing something to actually attend that problem on a day to day basis? 

Well, here is one such way. 

(Video) (Laughs) You are peaceful people.

Your parents were peaceful people.

Your grandparents were peaceful people.

So much peace in one place?

How could it be otherwise? 

It's what made you smack your baby brother, stamp on a cockroach, scratch your mother.

Cause you're either a victim, or on top, like me. 

(Applause) 

Mainstream art, cinema, has been used across the world to talk about social issues.

A few years ago we had a film called Rang De Basanti, which suddenly spawned thousands of young people wanting to volunteer for social change.

In Venezuela, one of the most popular soap operas has a heroine called Crystal.

And when, onscreen, Crystal got breast cancer, 75,000 more young women went to have mammographies done.

And of course, "The Vagina Monologues" we know about.

And there are stand-up comics who are talking about racial issues, about ethnic issues. 

So, why is it, that if we think that we all agree that we need a better world, we need a more just world, why is it that we are not using the one language that has consistently showed us that we can break down barriers, that we can reach people?

And unless this is actually internalized, it won't happen. 

We need to break down our vision of what planners are, of what the correct way of a path is.

Can I have my last audio track please? 

Once there was a princess who whistled beautifully.

(Whistling) 

(Whistling) 

The years went by and the princess grew up into a beautiful young woman, who whistled even more beautifully.

But the king had an idea.

He announced a Swayamvara.

He invited all the princes to come and defeat his daughter at whistling.

But nobody could defeat the princess. 

(Whistling) 

(Whistling) 

(Applause) 

