As a culture, we tell ourselves lots of stories about the future, and where we might move forward from this point.

But I want to tell you a different story here today.

Like all stories, it has a beginning.

I lived in Ireland, built the first straw-bale houses in Ireland, and some cob buildings and all this kind of thing.

And then I came into contact with a way of looking at things which actually changed that profoundly. 

If you could help me with that it would be fantastic.

(Laughter) This is a liter of oil. 

It gives us an energy return that's unimaginable, historically.

We've based the design of our settlements, our business models, our transport plans, even the idea of economic growth, some would argue, on the assumption that we will have this in perpetuity. 

Yet, when we take a step back, and look over the span of history, at what we might call the petroleum interval, it's a short period in history where we've discovered this extraordinary material, and then based a whole way of life around it.

And it's increasingly clear that we aren't going to be able to rely on the fact that we're going to have this at our disposal forever.

For every four barrels of oil that we consume, we only discover one.

And that gap continues to widen.

There is also the fact that the amount of energy that we get back from the oil that we discover is falling.

And that's why, now, the new breakthroughs, the new frontiers in terms of oil extraction are scrambling about in Alberta, or at the bottom of the oceans. 

There are 98 oil-producing nations in the world.

But of those, 65 have already passed their peak.

The moment when the world on average passes this peak, people wonder when that's going to happen.

And there is an emerging case that maybe that was what happened last July when the oil prices were so high. 

But are we to assume that the same brilliance and creativity and adaptability that got us up to the top of that energy mountain in the first place is somehow mysteriously going to evaporate when we have to design a creative way back down the other side?

So the IPCC said that we might see significant breakup of the arctic ice in 2100, in their worst case scenario.

Actually, if current trends continue, it could all be gone in five or 10 years' time.

If just three percent of the carbon locked up in the arctic permafrost is released as the world warms, it would offset all the savings that we need to make, in carbon, over the next 40 years to avoid runaway climate change.

We have no choice other than deep and urgent decarbonization. 

Otherwise you'd flood your entire town with warm porridge. 

There is the story of "The Elves and the Shoemaker."

The people who make shoes go to sleep, wake up in the morning, and all the shoes are magically made for them.

It's something that was unimaginable to people then. 

And we have the elves in the form of China.

But we don't appreciate what an astonishing thing that has been. 

But as we've seen over the last year, I think that's an idea that is increasingly coming into question.

And in terms of climate change, is something that is not actually feasible. 

There is the idea of hitting the wall, that actually somehow everything is so fragile that it might just all unravel and collapse.

This is a popular story in some places.

And as we sit, exchanging free ideas with each other, there are still people mining coal in order to power the servers, extracting the minerals to make all of those things.

We can be astonishingly inventive and creative.

But we also live in a world with very real constraints and demands.

Energy and technology are not the same thing.

What I'm involved with is the transition response.

It's something which has spread incredibly fast.

And it is something which has several characteristics. 

It's sensitive to place and to scale. 

Transitional is completely different.

Transition groups in Chile, transition groups in the U.S., transition groups here, what they're doing looks very different in every place that you go to.

And it's a process which is really joyful.

People have a huge amount of fun doing this, reconnecting with other people as they do it.

One of the things that underpins it is this idea of resilience. 

And I think, in many ways, the idea of resilience is a more useful concept than the idea of sustainability.

The idea of resilience comes from the study of ecology.

And it's really about how systems, settlements, withstand shock from the outside.

When they encounter shock from the outside that they don't just unravel and fall to pieces.

And I think it's a more useful concept than sustainability, as I said. 

When our supermarkets have only two or three days' worth of food in them at any one time, often sustainability tends to focus on the energy efficiency of the freezers and on the packaging that the lettuces are wrapped up in.

This is a photograph of the Bristol and District Market Gardeners Association, in 1897.

There was a degree of resilience, if you like, at that time, which we can now only look back on with envy. 

So how does this transition idea work?

So basically, you have a group of people who are excited by the idea.

They pick up some of the tools that we've developed.

They start to run an awareness-raising program looking at how this might actually work in the town.

They show films, they give talks, and so on.

So it started out with some work I was involved in in Ireland, where I was teaching, and has since spread.

There are now over 200 formal transition projects.

And there are thousands of others who are at what we call the mulling stage.

They are mulling whether they're going to take it further.

And actually a lot of them are doing huge amounts of stuff.

Well, I think it's really important to make the point that actually you know, this isn't something which is going to do everything on its own.

A lot of places are working with their local schools.

Newent in the Forest of Dean: big polytunnel they built for the school; the kids are learning how to grow food.

Promoting recycling, things like garden-share, that matches up people who don't have a garden who would like to grow food, with people who have gardens they aren't using anymore.

You take it anywhere else, it's not worth anything.

But actually within the town you start to create these economic cycles much more effectively. 

As a friend of mine says, "Life is a series of things you're not quite ready for."

Which he did -- (Laughter) (Applause) -- and has since become a great advocate of the whole idea. 

As we see the spread of it, we see national hubs emerging. 

And we see it all over the place as well now.

But the key to transition is thinking not that we have to change everything now, but that things are already inevitably changing, and what we need to do is to work creatively with that, based on asking the right questions. 

I think I'd like to just return at the end to the idea of stories.

Because I think stories are vital here.

And actually the stories that we tell ourselves, we have a huge dearth of stories about how to move forward creatively from here.

And one of the key things that transition does is to pull those stories out of what people are doing.

Stories about the community that's produced its own 21 pound note, for example, the school that's turned its car park into a food garden, the community that's founded its own energy company.

And for me, one of the great stories recently was the Obamas digging up the south lawn of the White House to create a vegetable garden.

Personally, I feel enormously grateful to have lived through the age of cheap oil.

I've been astonishingly lucky, we've been astonishingly lucky.

But let us honor what it has bought us, and move forward from this point.

Because if we cling to it, and continue to assume that it can underpin our choices, the future that it presents to us is one which is really unmanageable.

And by loving and leaving all that oil has done for us, and that the Oil Age has done for us, we are able to then begin the creation of a world which is more resilient, more nourishing, and in which, we find ourselves fitter, more skilled and more connected to each other.

