Once upon a time, at the age of 24, I was a student at St. John's Medical College in Bangalore.

I was a guest student during one month of a public health course.

And that changed my mindset forever.

The course was good, but it was not the course content in itself that changed the mindset.

It was the brutal realization, the first morning, that the Indian students were better than me. 

(Laughter) 

I loved statistics from a young age.

And I studied very much in Sweden.

And the fact was that Indian students studied harder than we did in Sweden.

And that, to me, that personal experience was the first time in my life that the mindset I grew up with was changed.

And I realized that perhaps the Western world will not continue to dominate the world forever.

And I think many of you have the same sort of personal experience.

It's that realization of someone you meet that really made you change your ideas about the world.

It's not the statistics, although I tried to make it funny. 

And I will now, here, onstage, try to predict when that will happen -- that Asia will regain its dominant position as the leading part of the world, as it used to be, over thousands of years.

And I will do that by trying to predict precisely at what year the average income per person in India, in China, will reach that of the West.

But I want to see when will the average pay, the money for each person, per month, in India and China, when will that have reached that of U.K. and the United States? 

I will start at 1858.

1858 was a year of great technological advancement in the West.

That was the year when Queen Victoria was able, for the first time, to communicate with President Buchanan, through the Transatlantic Telegraphic Cable.

And they were the first to "Twitter" transatlantically.

(Laughter) (Applause) And I've been able, through this wonderful Google and Internet, to find the text of the telegram sent back from President Buchanan to Queen Victoria.

And it ends like this: "This telegraph is a fantastic instrument to diffuse religion, civilization, liberty and law throughout the world."

1858 in China was the victory in the Opium War by the British forces.

And that meant that foreigners, as it said in the treaty, were allowed to trade freely in China.

It meant paying with opium for Chinese goods. 

But, Japan, in contrast to India and China, maintained its national sovereignty. 

The size of the bubble here is the population.

And I also bring an innovation here.

I have transformed the laser beam into an ecological, recyclable version here, in green India. 

(Applause) 

And I will start the world like this.

India was not always like this level.

Actually if we go back into the historical record, there was a time hundreds of years ago when the income per person in India and China was even above that of Europe.

And they were also, by the end of the century, getting healthy, and Japan was starting to catch up.

India was trying down here.

Can you see how it starts to move there?

But really, really natural sovereignty was good for Japan.

And Japan is trying to move up there. 

But careful now -- we are approaching the First World War.

And the First World War, you know, we'll see a lot of deaths and economical problems here.

And then after the First World War, they continue up.

Still under foreign domination, and without sovereignty, India and China are down in the corner.

Not much has happened.

They have grown their population but not much more.

In the 1930's now, you can see that Japan is going to a period of war, with lower life expectancy.

And the Second World War was really a terrible event, also economically for Japan.

But they did recover quite fast afterwards.

And we are moving into the new world.

In 1947 India finally gained its independence.

And they could raise the Indian flag and become a sovereign nation, but in very big difficulties down there. 

(Applause) 

In 1949 we saw the emergence of the modern China in a way which surprised the world.

And what happened?

What happens in the after independence?

You can see that the health started to improve.

This is the Great Leap Forward, when China fell down.

And they were catching up indeed.

And both countries had the better health, but still a very low economy. 

And we came to 1978, and Mao Tse Tung died, and a new guy turned up from the left.

And it was Deng Xiaoping coming out here.

And he said, "Doesn't matter if a cat is white or black, as long as it catches mice."

Because catching mice is what the two cats wanted to do.

And they decided to go not only for health and education, but also starting to grow their economy.

And the market reformer was successful there.

In '92 India follows with a market reform.

And they go quite closely together, and you can see that the similarity with India and China, in many ways, are greater than the differences with them. 

This is the big question today.

There they are today. 

Shanghai is already there.

And it's healthier than the United States.

But on the other hand, Guizhou, one of the poorest inland provinces of China, is there.

And if I split Guizhou into urban and rural, the rural part of Guizhou goes down there.

You see this enormous inequity in China, in the midst of fast economic growth. 

And if I would also look at India, you have another type of inequity, actually, in India.

The geographical, macro-geographical difference is not so big.

Uttar Pradesh, the biggest of the states here, is poorer and has a lower health than the rest of India.

Kerala is flying on top there, matching United States in health, but not in economy.

And here, Maharashtra, with Mumbai, is forging forward.

Now in India, the big inequities are within the state, rather than between the states.

And that is not a bad thing, in itself.

If you have a lot inequity, macro-geographical inequities can be more difficult in the long term to deal with, than if it is in the same area where you have a growth center relatively close to where poor people are living. 

(Laughter) Oh, they broke my frame.

Washington, D.C. went out here.

It's quite interesting, isn't it?

(Applause) I can see a business opportunity for Kerala, helping fix the health system in the United States. 

(Laughter) 

(Applause) 

And when you see the two giant cats here, pushing forward, you see that in between them and ahead of them, is the whole emerging economies of the world, which Thomas Friedman so correctly called the "flat world."

You can see that in health and education, a large part of the world population is putting forward, but in Africa, and other parts, as in rural Guizhou in China, there is still people with low health and very low economy.

We have an enormous disparity in the world.

But most of the world in the middle are pushing forwards very fast. 

And we shall see what will happen with these countries.

You see, China under foreign domination actually lowered their income and came down to the Indian level here.

Whereas U.K. and United States is getting richer and richer.

And after Second World War, United States is richer than U.K.

But independence is coming here.

Growth is starting, economic reform.

Growth is faster, and with projection from IMF you can see where you expect them to be in 2014. 

Now, the question is, "When will the catch up take place?"

Look at, look at the United States.

Can you see the bubble?

You see it came down there.

And it seems this is another rock coming down there, you know.

So they doesn't seem to go this way, these countries.

They seem to go in a more humble growth way, you know.

And people interested in growth are turning their eyes towards Asia. 

You see, Japan did it like that.

Can you see here what Japan did?

(Laughter) 

I think I'm in a difficult position here.

So, social investments in health, education and infrastructure, and electricity is really what is needed in India and China. 

And I consider India and China the best partners in the world in a good global climate policy.

But they ain't going to pay for what others, who have more money, have largely created, and I can agree on that. 

But what I'm really worried about is war.

And will Asia be able to handle that new position of being in charge of being the most mighty, and the governors of the world?

Now if these inequalities, climate and war can be avoided, get ready for a world in equity, because this is what seems to be happening. 

And that vision that I got as a young student, 1972, that Indians can be much better than Swedes, is just about to happen.

And it will happen precisely the year 2048 in the later part of the summer, in July, more precisely, the 27th of July.

(Applause) The 27th of July, 2048 is my 100th birthday.

(Laughter) And I expect to speak in the first session of the 39th TED India.

(Applause) 

