As technology progresses, and as it advances, many of us assume that these advances make us more intelligent, make us smarter and more connected to the world.

And to really illustrate this point, what I'd like to do is to show you how technology has dealt with a very simple, a very common, an everyday question.

If you glance at your iPhone, it's so simple to tell the time.

But, I'd like to ask you, how would you tell the time if you didn't have an iPhone?

How would you tell the time, say, 600 years ago?

How would you do it? 

Well, the way you would do it is by using a device that's called an astrolabe.

It was the world's first popular computer.

And it was a device that, in fact, is a model of the sky.

So, the different parts of the astrolabe, in this particular type, the rete corresponds to the positions of the stars.

If you were an educated child, you would know how to not only use the astrolabe, you would also know how to make an astrolabe.

And we know this because the first treatise on the astrolabe, the first technical manual in the English language, was written by Geoffrey Chaucer.

Yes, that Geoffrey Chaucer, in 1391, to his little Lewis, his 11-year-old son.

And in this book, little Lewis would know the big idea. 

And the central idea that makes this computer work is this thing called stereographic projection.

And basically, the concept is, how do you represent the three-dimensional image of the night sky that surrounds us onto a flat, portable, two-dimensional surface.

Each point on the surface of the sphere is mapped through the bottom pole, onto a flat surface, where it is then recorded. 

So the North Star corresponds to the center of the device.

The ecliptic, which is the path of the sun, moon, and planets correspond to an offset circle.

The bright stars correspond to little daggers on the rete.

And the altitude corresponds to the plate system.

Now, the real genius of the astrolabe is not just the projection.

The real genius is that it brings together two coordinate systems so they fit perfectly.

So how would you use this device?

And so, this astrolabe is on loan from us from the Oxford School of -- Museum of History.

And you can see the different components.

That's the movable part of the sky.

And in the back you can see a spider web pattern.

And that spider web pattern corresponds to the local coordinates in the sky.

You know, I've always wanted one of these.

For my thesis I actually built one of these out of paper.

And this one, this is a replica from a 15th-century device.

And it's worth probably about three MacBook Pros.

But a real one would cost about as much as my house, and the house next to it, and actually every house on the block, on both sides of the street, maybe a school thrown in, and some -- you know, a church.

They are just incredibly expensive. 

But let me show you how to work this device.

So, step two, I hold the device up, and then I sight its altitude there so I can see it clearly now.

Step four is I then move the rete, move the sky, so the altitude of the star corresponds to the scale on the back.

Okay, so when that happens everything lines up.

So, it is, in a sense, holding a model of the universe in my hands.

as you glance at your iPod to just check out the time.

But there is a difference between the two, because with your iPod you can tell -- or your iPhone, you can tell exactly what the time is, with precision.

The way little Lewis would tell the time is by a picture of the sky.

He would know where things would fit in the sky.

He would not only know what time it was, he would also know where the sun would rise, and how it would move across the sky.

He would know what time the sun would rise, and what time it would set.

And he would know that for essentially every celestial object in the heavens. 

So, in computer graphics and computer user interface design, there is a term called affordances.

So, affordances are the qualities of an object that allow us to perform an action with it.

In fact, there is a text, and that has over a thousand uses of this first computer. 

It can be used for calculating mathematical equations of all different types.

And it would take a full university course to illustrate it.

The concept of stereographic projection originated in 330 B.C. 

And I think what is common to all astrolabes is that they are beautiful works of art.

There is a quality of craftsmanship and precision that is just astonishing and remarkable. 

Astrolabes, like every technology, do evolve over time.

This is one from Oxford.

And I find this one really extraordinary because the rete pattern is completely symmetrical, and it accurately maps a completely asymmetrical, or random sky.

Well, I think the first thing is that it reminds us just how resourceful people were, our forebears were, years and years ago.

It's just an incredible device. 

Every technology advances.

Every technology is transformed and moved by others.

And what we gain with a new technology, of course, is precision and accuracy.

Well, primarily that there is a subtle knowledge that we can connect with the world.

And astrolabes return us to this subtle sense of how things all fit together, and also how we connect to the world.

