The two brothers one day decided to go on a race, three times around the world.

Kartikeya leapt on his peacock and flew around the continents and the mountains and the oceans.

He went around once, he went around twice, he went around thrice.

If you understand the difference between 'the world' and 'my world,' you understand the difference between logos and mythos.

'The world' is objective, logical, universal, factual, scientific.

'My world' is subjective.

It's perceptions, thoughts, feelings, dreams.

It is the belief system that we carry.

It's the myth that we live in. 

'The world' tells us how the world functions, how the sun rises, how we are born.

'My world' tells us why the sun rises, why we were born.

And so, when you study it, you realize that different people of the world have a different understanding of the world.

Yours is faith.

Yours is illogical.

This is the root of the clash of civilizations.

It took place, once, in 326 B.C.

on the banks of a river called the Indus, now in Pakistan.

This river lends itself to India's name.

We don't know who he was.

Perhaps he was a Jain monk, like Bahubali over here, the Gomateshwara Bahubali whose image is not far from Mysore.

To understand this difference in viewpoints, we have to understand the subjective truth of Alexander -- his myth, and the mythology that constructed it.

Alexander's mother, his parents, his teacher Aristotle told him the story of Homer's "Iliad."

Because, you see, the Greeks believed you live only once, and when you die, you have to cross the River Styx.

But these are not the stories that the gymnosophist heard.

He heard a very different story.

Bharat also conquered the world.

And then he went to the top-most peak of the greatest mountain of the center of the world called Meru.

And he wanted to hoist his flag to say, "I was here first."

This was the mythology of the gymnosophist. 

But they were not two characters on two different adventures.

They were two lifetimes of the same hero.

When the Ramayana ends the Mahabharata begins.

When Ram dies, Krishna is born.

When Krishna dies, eventually he will be back as Ram. 

You see, the Indians also had a river that separates the land of the living from the land of the dead.

But you don't cross it once.

You go to and fro endlessly.

It was called the Vaitarani.

You go again and again and again.

Because, you see, nothing lasts forever in India, not even death.

You dunk it in the river.

Because it has to end.

And next year, she will come back.

You see, the gods have to come back again and again and again as Ram, as Krishna.

And so, the denominator of Alexander's life was one.

So, the value of his life was the sum total of his achievements.

The denominator of the gymnosophist's life was infinity.

So, no matter what he did, it was always zero.

And I believe it is this mythological paradigm that inspired Indian mathematicians to discover the number zero.

Who knows? 

And that brings us to the mythology of business.

If Alexander's belief influenced his behavior, if the gymnosophist's belief influences his behavior, then it was bound to influence the business they were in.

You see, what is business but the result of how the market behaves and how the organization behaves?

And if you look at cultures around the world, all you have to do is understand the mythology and you will see how they behave and how they do business. 

And if you comply, you will go to heaven. 

But in India there is no "the" promised land.

It's always about taste.

It's always about my taste. 

You see, Indian music, for example, does not have the concept of harmony.

There is no orchestra conductor.

There is one performer standing there, and everybody follows.

And you can never replicate that performance twice.

It is not about documentation and contract.

So, it's rapidly changing, highly diverse, chaotic, ambiguous, unpredictable.

And people are okay with it.

And then globalization is taking place.

The demands of modern institutional thinking is coming in.

Which is rooted in one-life culture.

And a clash is going to take place, like on the banks of the Indus.

It is bound to happen. 

And I worked in the healthcare industry.

And I worked as a marketing guy, and a sales guy, and a knowledge guy, and a content guy, and a training guy.

I even was a business consultant, doing strategies and tactics.

And I would see the exasperation between my American and European colleagues, when they were dealing with India. 

I would give my viewpoints to people.

You see, he has established the largest retail chain, called Big Bazaar.

And there are more than 200 formats, across 50 cities and towns of India.

And he was dealing with diverse and dynamic markets.

He had an intuitive understanding of the mythic structure of India. 

So, he had asked me to be the Chief Belief Officer, and said, "All I want to do is align belief."

Sounds so simple.

So, how do you construct belief?

How do you enhance the sensitivity of people to Indian-ness.

Even if you are Indian, it is not very explicit, it is not very obvious. 

So, I tried to work on the standard model of culture, which is, develop stories, symbols and rituals.

And I will share one of the rituals with you.

So, there is nothing right or wrong in what you do in life.

So, you're not really sure how you stand in front of God.

So, when you go to the temple, all you seek is an audience with God.

And based on this, we created a ritual for leaders.

After a leader completes his training and is about to take over the store, we blindfold him, we surround him with the stakeholders, the customer, his family, his team, his boss.

You read out his KRA, his KPI, you give him the keys, and then you remove the blindfold.

The customer is happy, because the customer is God. 

And it has.

So, I will not answer the question.

They are cultural creations, not natural phenomena.

You will discover that within infinite myths lies the eternal truth.

Who sees it all?

