There we were, souls and bodies packed into a Texas church on the last night of our lives.

A room like this, nonetheless.

With the same great feelings of suspense, the same deep hopes for salvation, the same sweat in the palms and the same people in the back not paying attention. 

This was December 31, 1999, the night of the Second Coming of Christ, and the end of the world as I knew it.

I had turned 12 that year and had reached the age of accountability.

And once I stopped complaining about how unfair it was that Jesus would return as soon as I had to be accountable for all that I had done, I figured I had better get my house in order very quickly. 

So I went to church as often as I could.

All I had to do was avoid taking the mark of the beast, fight off demons, plagues and the Antichrist himself.

It would be hard -- 

but I knew I could do it. 

But planning time was over now.

It was 11:50pm.

took first position in front of the altar.

You see, in America, even the Second Coming of Christ has a VIP section. 

Yes, these men and women were the stars of the show for me.

And the organ rolled on in to add the dirge.

And the heat came on to add to the sweat.

And my hand gripped firmer, so I wouldn't be the one left in the field.

My eyes clenched tighter so I wouldn't see the wheat being separated from the chaff.

And then a voice rang out above us: "Amen."

It was over.

But I was upset on their behalf.

I had prayed their prayers, I had yielded not to temptation as best I could.

I had dipped my head not once, but twice in that snot-inducing baptism pool.

I had believed.

Now what? 

It struck me that it would have been strange anyway, for Jesus to come back again and again based on the different time zones. 

And this made me feel even more ridiculous -- hurt, really.

But there on that night, I did not stop believing.

It was possible the answers I had were wrong, that the questions themselves were wrong.

And I held out my hand, reaching for something to believe in. 

I held on when I showed up at Lehman Brothers as an intern in 2008. 

that I called home to inform my family that we'd never be poor again. 

But as I witnessed this temple of finance come crashing down before my eyes, I knew that even the best job couldn't save me. 

But as the Congress ground to a halt and the country ripped at the seams and hope and change began to feel like a cruel joke, I knew that even the political second coming could not save me. 

But over and over again, midnight struck, and I opened my eyes to see that all of these gods were dead. 

We didn't know where'd we go or how we'd get there, but we knew we had to do it.

Because all our lives we yearned, as Jack Kerouac wrote, to "sneak out into the night and disappear somewhere," and go find out what everybody was doing all over the country.

So even though there were other voices who said that the risk was too great and the proof too thin, we went on anyhow. 

And having been trained at the West Point of capitalism, this struck us as a revolutionary idea. 

It spread because we found a great hunger in our generation for purpose, for meaning.

It spread because we found countless entrepreneurs in the nooks and crannies of America who were creating jobs and changing lives and who needed a little help. 

But if I'm being honest, it also spread because I fought to spread it.

It began one evening almost a year ago at the Museum of Natural History in New York City, at a gala for alumni of Harvard Business School.

We looked over all that we had made, and it was good. 

All of them lived below the poverty line.

Some of them came to Tony's program, called Harlem Grown, to get the only meal they had each day.

He told me that he didn't give himself a salary, because despite success, the program struggled for resources.

He told me that he would take any help that he could get.

And I was there as that help. 

But as I left Tony, I felt the sting and salt of tears welling up in my eyes.

No, I was disturbed because I had finally realized that I was the dialysis for a country that needed a kidney transplant.

I had been duped, hoodwinked, bamboozled.

But this time, the false savior was me. 

Yes, I've come so far that I'm right back where I started. 

Some of us may believe in the prophecy of Brené Brown or Tony Robbins.

We may believe in the bible of The New Yorker or the Harvard Business Review.

But if you are disturbed by the unconscionable things that we have come to accept, then it must be questioning time.

So I have not a gospel of disruption or innovation or a triple bottom line.

I do not have a gospel of faith to share with you today, in fact.

I have and I offer a gospel of doubt.

Because it raises the question, "Why?"

With all the power that we hold in our hands, why are people still suffering so bad? 

This doubt leads me to share that we are putting my organization, MBAs Across America, out of business.

Thank you. 

