I'm going to talk about some of my discoveries around the world through my work.

These are not discoveries of planets or new technologies or science.

They're discoveries of people and the way people are, and new leadership. 

This is Benki.

Benki is a leader of the Ashaninka Nation.

His people live in Brazil and in Peru.

We wanted to share our stories with each other. 

The Ashaninka people are known throughout South America for their dignity, their spirit and their resistance, starting with the Incas and continuing through the 19th century with the rubber tappers.

Benki knew this.

His grandfather died when he was only 10.

And at that young age, 10 years old, Benki became the paje of his community.

Now, in the Ashaninka tradition and culture, the paje is the most important person in the community.

This is the person who contains within him all the knowledge, all the wisdom of centuries and centuries of life, and not just about his people, but about everything that his people's survival depended on: the trees, the birds, the water, the soil, the forest.

So when he was only 10 and he became the paje, he began to lead his people.

He began to talk to them about the forest that they needed to protect, the way of life they needed to nurture.

He explained to them that it was not a question of survival of the fittest; it was a question of understanding what they needed to survive and to protect that. 

Eight years later, when he was a young man of 18, Benki left the forest for the first time.

He went 3,000 miles on an odyssey to Rio to the Earth Summit to tell the world what was happening in his tiny, little corner.

But if you can imagine this young man with his headdress and his flowing robe, learning a new language, Portuguese, not to mention English, going to Rio, building a bridge to reach out to people he'd never met before -- a pretty hostile world.

But he wasn't dismayed. 

He's built schools to teach children to care for the forest.

Together, he's led the reforestation of over 25 percent of the land that had been destroyed by the loggers.

He's created a cooperative to help people diversify their livelihoods.

And he's brought the internet and satellite technology to the forest -- both so that people themselves could monitor the deforestation, but also that he could speak from the forest to the rest of the world.

For me, the world is veering towards a future we don't much want when we really think about it deep inside.

We know we are running out of what we need.

We're running out of land.

We know climate change is going to affect all of us.

We don't know how, but we know it will.

We are running out of what we need.

Egos, systems of government -- figuring it out -- massive change.

But you know all that.

You know more than Benki knew when he left his forest and went 3,000 miles.

I started life as a banker.

Now I don't admit to that to anybody but my very close friends.

But for the past eight years, I've done something completely different.

This is Sanghamitra.

Sanghamitra comes from Bangalore.

But she realized that she was much too detached from the world doing that.

She loved it, but she was too detached.

Today there are still three million HIV-positive people in India.

That's the second largest population in the world. 

Even that wasn't enough.

She wanted to change policy at the government level.

10 of their programs that she pioneered are now government policy and funded by the government.

They take care of 20,000-odd people today in over 1,000 villages around Karnataka. 

She works with people like Murali Krishna.

Murali Krishna comes from one of those villages.

He lost his wife to AIDS a couple of years ago, and he's HIV-positive.

He's a Leaders' Quest fellow, and that helps him with his work.

They've pioneered a different approach to villages.

Instead of handing out information in pamphlets, as is so often the case, they bring theater troupes, songs, music, dance.

And they sit around, and they talk about dreams. 

Sanghamitra told me just last week -- she had just come back from two weeks in the villages, and she had a real breakthrough.

They were sitting in a circle, talking about the dreams for the village.

He's been a soldier, a teacher, a politician, a vice-mayor and a business man.

Now, just think of the early 1960's in China.

Why did he do all this?

Because he thought a nation should never repeat the mistakes of the past. 

But it's not just Chinese heroes he cares about.

But he doesn't want his nation ever to forget. 

They looked outside, and then they changed what was on the inside.

They didn't go to business school.

They didn't read a manual, "How to Be a Good Leader in 10 Easy Steps."

But they have qualities we'd all recognize.

They have drive, passion, commitment.

They've gone away from what they did before, and they've gone to something they didn't know.

They've tried to connect worlds they didn't know existed before.

They've built bridges, and they've walked across them.

They have a sense of the great arc of time and their tiny place in it.

They know people have come before them and will follow them.

And they have humility.

It just happens. 

So I think we need succession planning on a global basis.

We can't wait for the next generation, the new joiners, to come in and learn how to be the good leaders we need.

I think it has to start with us.

And we know, just like they knew, how hard it is.

We can look at what they've done, if we look.

We can learn from what they've learned.

We can change the way we see ourselves in the world.

And if we're lucky, we can change the way our great-grandchildren will answer Benki's question. 

Thank you. 

