Basically the homunculus is the visualization of a human being where each part of the body is proportional to the surface it takes in the brain.

It's our invisible reality.

This visualization could explain, for example, why newborns, or smokers, put, instinctively, their fingers in the mouth.

Unfortunately it doesn't explain why so many designers remain mainly interested in designing chairs. 

So anyway, even if I do not understand science entirely, for my design I essentially refer to it.

And it really helps me to understand how we see, how we hear, how we breathe, how our brain can inform or mislead us.

It's a great tool for me to understand what could be our real needs. 

Marketing creates user groups.

And scientists, amidst complexity, amidst fluctuation and uniqueness.

What could be our real needs?

Maybe the silence.

In our daily life we are continuously disturbed by aggressive sounds.

And you know all those kind of sound puts us in a kind of stressful state, and prevent us from being quiet and focused.

So I wanted to create a kind of sound filter, able to preserve ourselves from noise pollution.

But I didn't want it to make it by isolating people, without any earmuffs or those kind of things.

Or neither with including complex technology.

I just wanted to, using the complexity and the technology of the brain, of the human brain. 

So I worked with white noise.

This is white noise.

The white noise is the sum of all frequencies that are audible by the human being, brought to the same intensity.

And this noise is like a "shhhhhhhhhhhhh," like that.

And this noise is the most neutral.

It is the perfect sound for our ears and our brain.

So when you hear this sound you feel like a kind of shelter, preserved from noise pollution.

And in mine, I hope. 

(Laughter) It works.

You feel the effect of the white noise?

It's too in silence.

If you make some noise you can feel the effect. 

And I don't want to make a very smart object.

I don't want to create a perfect object like a perfect robot.

I want to create an object like you and me.

And turning around you is "shhhhhhh," like that.

(Laughter) 

So this object is supposed to be displayed on your desk, or on your piano, where you are supposed to spend most of your time in the day.

And this object will be able to know exactly the quantity of light you receive during the day, and able to give you the quantity of light you need.

This object is completely covered by fiber opticals.

And the idea of those fiber opticals is to inform the object, for sure, but creates the idea of an eye sensibility of the object.

I want, by this design feel, when you see it, you see, instinctively, this object seems to be very sensitive, very reactive.

And this object knows, better than you and probably before you, what you really need.

You have to know that the lack of daylight can provoke some problem of energy, or problem of libido.

(Laughter) 

So there can be some biologists, psychiatrists, mathematicians, and so on.

And together we improve the original concept.

And we build the project to the end.

And this kind of relationship between designer and scientist started when I was at school. 

Indeed in my studies I was a guinea pig for a pharmaceutical industry.

And the irony for me was of course, I didn't do that for the sake of science progress.

I just do that to make money.

Anyway, this project, or this experience, make me start a new project on the design of medicine.

You have to know that today, roughly one or two every drug pills is not taken correctly.

So even if the active constituents in pharmaceuticals made constant progress in terms of chemistry, target of stability, the behavior of the patients goes more and more unstable.

So I turned traditional pills into this.

I'm going to give you some example.

This one is an antibiotic.

And its purpose is to help patient to go to the end of the treatment.

And the concept is to create a kind of onion, a kind of structure in layers.

So, you start with the darkest one.

And you are helped to visualize the duration of the treatment.

And you are helped to visualize the decrease of the infection.

So the first day, this is the big one.

And you have to peel and eat one layer a day.

And your antibiotic goes smaller and clearer.

And you're waiting for recovery as you were waiting for the Christmas day.

And you follow the treatment like that, to the end of the treatment.

And here you can get the white core.

I designed it to help kids to follow the treatment.

So the idea of this one is to create a relationship between the patient of the treatment but a relationship of dependency.

But in this case it is not the medication that is dependent on the patient.

This is, the kids will feel the therapeutic object needs him.

So the idea is, all night long the elastic skin of the third lung will slowly inflate itself, including air and molecules, for sure.

So by this way, the kid, to take care of himself, is to take care of this living object.

(Applause) 

We could talk about a kind of soul, of a ghost accompanying them.

And almost a kind of poltergeist effect.

So when a passive object like this one seems to be alive, because it is -- woosh -- starting to move. 

And I remember an exhibition design I made for John Maeda, and for the Fondation Cartier in Paris.

And John Maeda was supposed to show several graphic animations in this exhibition.

And my idea for this exhibition design was to create a real pong game, like this one.

And the idea was to create some self-moving benches in the main exhibition room.

I remember the day of the opening.

I was a little bit late.

And he told me, after a long silence, "I wonder, Mathieu, if people won't be more fascinated by your benches than by my videos."

So, huge tragedy. 

Because it is a kind of object with a conscience, able to be modified by its surroundings, and able to modify it as well.

The other great influence is the mine's canary.

So this canary was a living alarm, and a very efficient one.

A very natural technology, in order to say to the miners, "The air is too bad.

So it's, for me, a great product. 

And I tried to design a kind of canary.

Andrea is one.

Andrea is a living air filter that absorbs toxic gasses from air, contaminated indoor air.

So it uses some plants to do this job, selected for their gas-filtering ability.

It's the same for me with the carpet.

And this is exactly the same at home.

Because all the product we get constantly give away the volatile component of which they're made of. 

So let's have a look at your home.

This is the reason why I created, with David Edward, a scientist of Harvard University, an object able to absorb the toxic elements using those kind of plants.

Bill Wolverton from NASA analyzed it cleverly in the '70s.

So the idea is to create an object able to force the air, and to be in contact at the right speed at the right place, in all the effective parts of the plant.

So this is the final object.

(Applause) 

This one is kind of the same approach because I include, in a product like Andrea, some plants.

And in this one, plants are used for the water filtration ability.

And it includes some fishes as well.

But here, unlike Andrea, here are supposed to be eaten.

Indeed, this object is a domestic farm, for fishes and green.

So the idea of this object is to be able to get at home very local food.

The locavores used to get food taken in a radius of 100 miles.

Local River is able to provide you food directly in your living room.

So the principle of this object is to create an ecosystem called aquaponics.

After that you have two options.

Or you sit down in front of it like you would do in front your TV set.

Amazing channel.

Or you start fishing.

Because you can grow some potatoes.

No, not potatoes, but tomatoes, aromatic plants and so on. 

So now we can breathe safely.

Now we can eat local food.

Now we can be treated by smart medicine.

Now we can be well-balanced in our biorhythm with daylight.

But it was important to create a perfect place, so I tried to, in order to work and create.

So I designed, for an American scientist based in Paris, a very stimulative, brain-stimulative office.

I wanted to create a perfect place where you can work and play, and where your body and your brain can work together. 

So, in this office, you do not work anymore at your desk, like a politician.

Your seat, your sleep and your play on a big geodesic island made of leather.

See, like this one?

So you, like that, can make some sport during your work.

In this office you do not need to go out in order to be in contact with nature.

You include, directly, the nature in the floor of the office.

You can see it there. 

This is an inspiration image to lead this project of the office.

(Laughter) Just for my workshop.

I guess it may be the revenge of the guinea pig I was.

But it's maybe the conviction as monkey and homunculus we are.

All of us need to be considered according to our real nature.

(Applause) 

