We grew up interacting with the physical objects around us.

It comes as a part of our everyday learning. 

Rather than using a keyboard and mouse, why can I not use my computer in the same way that I interact in the physical world? 

Rather than using it for my computer, I actually opened it.

Interestingly, what I did with these rollers is, basically, I took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line.

It had some strings and pulleys and some springs.

Because I was interested in integrating these two worlds, I thought of sticky notes.

I thought, "Why can I not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world?"

In another exploration, I thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions.

So, these were some of the earlier explorations I did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly.

What we are interested in is information.

We want to know about things.

We want to know about dynamic things going around. 

Later, we moved to a much better, consumer-oriented pendant version of that, that many of you now know as the SixthSense device. 

But the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go.

You can start using any surface, any wall around you, as an interface.

So, technically, it's a little bit complex, but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use, in some sense. 

And, of course, if you don't have any surface, you can start using your palm for simple operations.

Once it has that information, it finds out more reviews about that, or maybe New York Times has a sound overview on that, so you can actually hear, on a physical book, a review as sound. 

So now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly I'm touching the paper.

But the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving. 

(Car engine) 

Paper world is interesting to play with.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Chris Anderson: So, Pranav, first of all, you're a genius.

We will provide all the open source software for them, maybe starting next month. 

CA: Are you going to come back to India with some of this, at some point? 

All of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in India.

Or maybe even the $2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $5,000?

I showed that, at a conference, to President Abdul Kalam, at that time, and then he said, "OK, we should use this in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre for some use of that."

So I'm excited about how I can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment. 

That's fantastic. 

