I'd like to talk to you today about the scale of the scientific effort that goes into making the headlines you see in the paper.

They are both two branches of the same field of atmospheric science. 

Recently the headlines looked like this when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or IPCC, put out their report on the state of understanding of the atmospheric system.

That report was written by 620 scientists from 40 countries.

They wrote almost a thousand pages on the topic.

And all of those pages were reviewed by another 400-plus scientists and reviewers, from 113 countries.

Over 15,000 scientists go to San Francisco every year for that.

And every one of those scientists is in a research group, and every research group studies a wide variety of topics.

For us at Cambridge, it's as varied as the El Niño oscillation, which affects weather and climate, to the assimilation of satellite data, to emissions from crops that produce biofuels, which is what I happen to study. 

The weight of a paper clip is approximately equal to 900 zeta-illion -- 10 to the 21st -- molecules of isoprene. 

And because it's so much stuff, it's really important for the atmospheric system. 

Because it's important to the atmospheric system, we go to all lengths to study this thing.

Atmospheric explosions, or full combustion, takes about 15,000 times longer than what happens in your car.

But still, we look at the pieces. 

Our models have hundreds of thousands of grid boxes calculating hundreds of variables each, on minute timescales.

And on part of that field campaign we even brought an aircraft with us.

And this plane, the model, BA146, which was run by FAAM, normally flies 120 to 130 people.

We have to get special flight clearance.

And as you come around the banks in these valleys, the forces can get up to two Gs.

And the scientists have to be completely harnessed in in order to make measurements while they're on board.

So, as you can imagine, the inside of this aircraft doesn't look like any plane you would take on vacation.

It's a flying laboratory that we took to make measurements in the region of this molecule. 

We do all of this to understand the chemistry of one molecule.

And when one student like me has some sort of inclination or understanding about that molecule, they write one scientific paper on the subject.

And out of that field campaign we'll probably get a few dozen papers on a few dozen processes or molecules. 

And as a body of knowledge builds up, it will form one subsection, or one sub-subsection of an assessment like the IPCC, although we have others.

And each one of the 11 chapters of the IPCC has six to ten subsections.

So you can imagine the scale of the effort.

And we hand that summary to journalists and policy makers, in order to make headlines like these.

