And what do I mean by that?

The pictures that you're seeing behind me are people that I visited in the last few months.

And I asked them to come along with the person they communicate with most.

And somebody brought a boyfriend, somebody a father.

One young woman brought her grandfather.

And an average user, said Cameron Marlow, from Facebook, has about 120 friends.

Academic research on instant messaging also shows 100 people on buddy lists, but fundamentally people chat with two, three, four -- anyway, less than five.

A lot of sociologists actually are quite disappointed.

I mean, I've been a bit disappointed sometimes when I saw this data and all this deployment, just for five people.

And some sociologists actually feel that it's a closure, it's a cocooning, that we're disengaging from the public.

There are three stories that I think are quite good examples.

The first gentleman, he's a baker.

And so he starts working every morning at four o'clock in the morning.

And around eight o'clock he sort of sneaks away from his oven, cleans his hands from the flour and calls his wife.

He just wants to wish her a good day, because that's the start of her day.

And I've heard this story a number of times.

Or a mother who, at four o'clock, suddenly manages to find a corner in the toilet to check that her children are safely home.

Then there is another couple, there is a Brazilian couple.

They've lived in Italy for a number of years.

They Skype with their families a few times a week.

And I heard this story the first time a couple of years ago from a very modest family of immigrants from Kosovo in Switzerland.

They had set up a big screen in their living room, and every morning they had breakfast with their grandmother.

They chat to each other every day, a few times a day actually.

And finally, finally, they've managed to put instant messaging on their computers at work.

And now, obviously, they have it open.

Whenever they have a moment they chat to each other.

And this is exactly what we've been seeing with teenagers and kids doing it in school, under the table, and texting under the table to their friends.

So, none of these cases are unique.

I mean, I could tell you hundreds of them.

But what is really exceptional is the setting.

So, think of the three settings I've talked to you about: factory, migration, office.

But it could be in a school, it could be an administration, it could be a hospital.

Three settings that, if we just step back 15 years, if you just think back 15 years, when you clocked in, when you clocked in to an office, when you clocked in to a factory, there was no contact for the whole duration of the time, there was no contact with your private sphere.

If you were lucky there was a public phone hanging in the corridor or somewhere.

If you were in management, oh, that was a different story.

Maybe you had a direct line.

If you were not, you maybe had to go through an operator.

But basically, when you walked into those buildings, the private sphere was left behind you.

And this has become such a norm of our professional lives, such a norm and such an expectation.

That was where the focus had to be.

And this has become such a cultural norm that we actually school our children for them to be capable to do this cleavage.

If you think nursery, kindergarten, first years of school are just dedicated to take away the children, to make them used to staying long hours away from their family.

And of course, the major thing: learn to pay attention, to concentrate and focus your attention.

This only started about 150 years ago.

And when with modern bureaucracy there was a very rational approach, where there was a clear distinction between the private sphere and the public sphere.

So, until then, basically people were living on top of their trades.

They were living on top of the land they were laboring.

They were living on top of the workshops where they were working.

And if you think, it's permeated our whole culture, even our cities.

If you think of medieval cities, medieval cities the boroughs all have the names of the guilds and professions that lived there.

Now we have sprawling residential suburbias that are well distinct from production areas and commercial areas.

And actually, over these 150 years, there has been a very clear class system that also has emerged.

So the lower the status of the job and of the person carrying out, the more removed he would be from his personal sphere.

People have taken this amazing possibility of actually being in contact all through the day or in all types of situations.

And they are doing it massively.

The Pew Institute, which produces good data on a regular basis on, for instance, in the States, says that -- and I think that this number is conservative -- 50 percent of anybody with email access at work is actually doing private email from his office.

I really think that the number is conservative.

In my own research, we saw that the peak for private email is actually 11 o'clock in the morning, whatever the country.

75 percent of people admit doing private conversations from work on their mobile phones.

100 percent are using text.

The point is that this re-appropriation of the personal sphere is not terribly successful with all institutions.

I'm always surprised the U.S. Army sociologists are discussing of the impact for instance, of soldiers in Iraq having daily contact with their families.

But there are many institutions that are actually blocking this access.

Companies blocking access to IM or to Facebook.

