And three years ago, one of the things I learned how to do was to become invisible.

I became one of the working homeless.

I quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in February of that same year, and decided to travel.

His death hit me pretty hard.

And there were a lot of things that I wanted to feel and deal with while I was doing that. 

One: that society equates living in a permanent structure, even a shack, with having value as a person.

Two: I failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality, if we let it.

Three: I failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude, not a lifestyle. 

And I had time to relax and to grieve.

What had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer.

And I sweated.

Nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees Fahrenheit, making it difficult or impossible to sleep.

I couldn't afford to find an apartment, or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the Rottweiler and the cat.

And when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night, I used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet. 

And I faced a whole new set of challenges.

I parked a different place every night so I would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police.

I didn't always succeed. 

But I felt out of control of my life.

My talent, my integrity, my values, everything about me remained the same.

But I had changed somehow.

I spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression. 

I was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line.

A reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal.

A friend told me, shortly after that, that she had heard that Tim Russert, a nationally renowned journalist, had been talking about me on national T.V.

And I cried.

Because I was a writer.

I was a writer.

Shortly after that I moved back to Tennessee.

I alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends.

And I started writing again.

I was no longer homeless.

And I was no longer invisible. 

So the homeless, the working homeless, primarily remain invisible.

But if you ever meet one, engage them, encourage them, and offer them hope.

The human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope.

And I'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless.

I'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet.

