All buildings today have something in common.

They're made using Victorian technologies.

This involves blueprints, industrial manufacturing and construction using teams of workers.

All of this effort results in an inert object.

And that means that there is a one-way transfer of energy from our environment into our homes and cities.

This is not sustainable.

Now, in order to do this, we need the right kind of language.

Living systems are in constant conversation with the natural world, through sets of chemical reactions called metabolism.

And this is the conversion of one group of substances into another, either through the production or the absorption of energy.

And this is the way in which living materials make the most of their local resources in a sustainable way.

So, I'm interested in the use of metabolic materials for the practice of architecture.

That means we're generating them from scratch.

One of our collaborators is chemist Martin Hanczyc, and he's really interested in the transition from inert to living matter.

Now, that's exactly the kind of process that I'm interested in, when we're thinking about sustainable materials. 

So, Martin, he works with a system called the protocell.

And it has no DNA.

This little bag is able to conduct itself in a way that can only be described as living.

Now, this looks like a chemical kind of birth.

This is a violent process. 

Here, we've got a protocell to extract carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and turn it into carbonate.

That can't be energetically sensible. 

So, bottom-up materials actually exist today.

They've been in use, in architecture, since ancient times.

And if you look even closer, you'll see, in that limestone, there are little shells and little skeletons that are piled upon each other.

And then they are fossilized over millions of years. 

Now a block of limestone, in itself, isn't particularly that interesting.

It looks beautiful.

Maybe they could extract carbon dioxide.

It might be able to self-repair, and even respond to dramatic changes in the immediate environment. 

So, one of these examples would of course be the historic city of Venice.

So we've devised a way by which it may be possible for the protocell technology that we're working with to sustainably reclaim Venice.

And architect Christian Kerrigan has come up with a series of designs that show us how it may be possible to actually grow a limestone reef underneath the city. 

So, here is the technology we have today.

We're looking at crystal lattices to see the bonding process in this.

Now, this is the very interesting part.

We don't just want limestone dumped everywhere in all the pretty canals.

What we need it to do is to be creatively crafted around the wooden piles. 

So, you can see from these diagrams that the protocell is actually moving away from the light, toward the dark foundations.

We've observed this in the laboratory.

So that these don't just exist as one entity, we kind of chemically engineer them.

And so here the protocells are depositing their limestone very specifically, around the foundations of Venice, effectively petrifying it. 

But gradually, as the buildings are repaired, we will see the accretion of a limestone reef beneath the city.

An accretion itself is a huge sink of carbon dioxide.

Also it will attract the local marine ecology, who will find their own ecological niches within this architecture. 

So, in summary, I'm generating metabolic materials as a counterpoise to Victorian technologies, and building architectures from a bottom-up approach. 

Secondly, these metabolic materials have some of the properties of living systems, which means they can perform in similar ways.

They can expect to have a lot of forms and functions within the practice of architecture.

And finally, an observer in the future marveling at a beautiful structure in the environment may find it almost impossible to tell whether this structure has been created by a natural process or an artificial one.

