I'm sure that, throughout the hundred-thousand-odd years of our species' existence, and even before, our ancestors looked up at the night sky, and wondered what stars are.

Wondering, therefore, how to explain what they saw in terms of things unseen. 

Okay, so, most people only wondered that occasionally, like today, in breaks from whatever normally preoccupied them.

But what normally preoccupied them also involved yearning to know.

I bet those prehistoric cave artists would have loved to know how to draw better. 

In every aspect of their lives, they wished for progress, just as we do.

But they failed, almost completely, to make any.

They didn't know how to.

Discoveries like fire happened so rarely, that from an individual's point of view, the world never improved.

Nothing new was learned. 

The first clue to the origin of starlight happened as recently as 1899: radioactivity.

Within 40 years, physicists discovered the whole explanation, expressed, as usual, in elegant symbols.

But never mind the symbols.

Think how many discoveries they represent.

That all that, discovered in 40 years, had not been in the previous hundred thousand, was not for lack of thinking about stars, and all those other urgent problems they had.

The tragedy of that protracted stagnation isn't sufficiently recognized, I think.

These were people with brains of essentially the same design that eventually did discover all those things.

But that ability to make progress remained almost unused, until the event that revolutionized the human condition and changed the universe. 

Or so we should hope.

Because that event was the Scientific Revolution, ever since which our knowledge of the physical world, and of how to adapt it to our wishes, has been growing relentlessly.

Now, what had changed?

What were people now doing for the first time that made that difference between stagnation and rapid, open-ended discovery?

How to make that difference is surely the most important universal truth that it is possible to know.

Worryingly, there is no consensus about what it is.

So, I'll tell you.

But I'll have to backtrack a little first. 

So they believed that knowledge came from authorities that actually knew very little.

And therefore progress depended on learning how to reject the authority of learned men, priests, traditions and rulers.

Which is why the Scientific Revolution had to have a wider context. 

But that can't be what made the difference.

Authorities had been rejected before, many times.

And that rarely, if ever, caused anything like the Scientific Revolution.

It did help by promoting observation and experiment.

But, from the outset, it was obvious that there was something horribly wrong with it. 

If you did, it would be because people had carved them.

By the way, why don't we do that?

(Laughter) 

Empiricism is inadequate because, well, scientific theories explain the seen in terms of the unseen.

And the unseen, you have to admit, doesn't come to us through the senses.

We don't see those nuclear reactions in stars.

We don't see the origin of species.

We don't see the curvature of space-time, and other universes.

But we know about those things.

How? 

Well, the classic empiricist answer is induction.

What we see, in all these cases, bears no resemblance to the reality that we conclude is responsible -- only a long chain of theoretical reasoning and interpretation connects them. 

And they don't perceive even those as what they really are, namely electrical crackles.

So we perceive nothing as what it really is. 

Our connection to reality is never just perception.

It's always, as Karl Popper put it, theory-laden.

Any crank claiming the sun will go out next Tuesday has got a testable prediction. 

Consider the ancient Greek myth explaining seasons.

Hades, God of the Underworld, kidnaps Persephone, the Goddess of Spring, and negotiates a forced marriage contract, requiring her to return regularly, and lets her go.

That myth is testable.

If winter is caused by Demeter's sadness, then it must happen everywhere on Earth simultaneously.

So if the ancient Greeks had only known that Australia is at its warmest when Demeter is at her saddest, they'd have known that their theory is false. 

I think there is one thing you have to care about.

And that implies testability, the scientific method, the Enlightenment, and everything.

And here is the crucial thing.

Because the explanatory role of Persephone's marriage contract could be played equally well by infinitely many other ad hoc entities.

She cools his domain with Spring air, venting heat up to the surface, creating summer.

That accounts for the same phenomena as the original myth.

It's equally testable.

Yet what it asserts about reality is, in many ways, the opposite.

And that is possible because the details of the original myth are unrelated to seasons, except via the myth itself. 

So, for the essence of what makes the difference to enable progress, seek good explanations, the ones that can't be easily varied, while still explaining the phenomena. 

Now, our current explanation of seasons is that the Earth's axis is tilted like that, so each hemisphere tilts toward the sun for half the year, and away for the other half.

Better put that up.

If they'd been observed in phase, the theory would have been refuted.

But now, the fact that it's also a good explanation, hard to vary, makes the crucial difference. 

If the ancient Greeks had found out about seasons in Australia, they could have easily varied their myth to predict that.

For instance, when Demeter is upset, she banishes heat from her vicinity, into the other hemisphere, where it makes summer.

So, being proved wrong by observation, and changing their theory accordingly, still wouldn't have got the ancient Greeks one jot closer to understanding seasons, because their explanation was bad: easy to vary.

And it's only when an explanation is good that it even matters whether it's testable.

If the axis-tilt theory had been refuted, its defenders would have had nowhere to go.

No easily implemented change could make that tilt cause the same seasons in both hemispheres. 

The search for hard-to-vary explanations is the origin of all progress.

It's the basic regulating principle of the Enlightenment.

But the more important one is explanationless theories.

Whenever you're told that some existing statistical trend will continue, but you aren't given a hard-to-vary account of what causes that trend, you're being told a wizard did it. 

When you are told that carrots have human rights because they share half our genes -- but not how gene percentages confer rights -- wizard.

That the truth consists of hard to vary assertions about reality is the most important fact about the physical world.

