The future, as we know it, is very unpredictable.

With institutions established to think about the future, the IMF, the BIS, the Financial Stability Forum, couldn't see what was coming.

Over 20,000 economists whose job it is, competitive entry to get there, couldn't see what was happening. 

Globalization is getting more complex.

And this change is getting more rapid.

The future will be more unpredictable.

The last 40 years have been extraordinary times.

Income has gone up for a majority of the world's population, despite the population going up by about two billion people over this period.

And illiteracy has gone down, from a half to about a quarter of the people on Earth.

A huge opportunity, unleashing of new potential for innovation, for development. 

But there is an underbelly.

There are two Achilles' heels of globalization.

What happens in one place very quickly affects everything else.

It will become virulent and it's something we have to build resilience against. 

That's what the experience of the last 20 years has been.

It will continue.

Our computers, our systems will be as primitive as the Apollo's are for today.

Our mobile phones are more powerful than the total Apollo space engine.

Our mobile phones are more powerful than some of the strongest computers of 20 years ago.

So what will this do?

This is a dust mite on a nanoreplica. 

This sort of ability to do everything in new ways unleashes potential, not least in the area of medicine.

This is a stem cell that we've developed here in Oxford, from an embryonic stem cell.

We can develop any part of the body.

I don't think there will be a Special Olympics long after 2030, because of this capacity to regenerate parts of the body.

But the question is, "Who will have it?"

The other major development is going to be in the area of what can happen in genetics.

The capacity to create, as this mouse has been genetically modified, something which goes three times faster, lasts for three times longer, we could produce, as this mouse can, to the age of our equivalent of 80 years, using about the same amount of food.

The most dramatic changes will be the skyscraper type of new pyramids that will take place in China and in many other countries.

Of course, migration will become even more important.

The war on talent, the need to attract people at all skill ranges, to push us around in our wheelchairs, but also to drive our economies.

The employment in the rich countries will go down from about 800 to about 700 million of these people.

This would imply a massive leap in migration.

So the concerns, the xenophobic concerns of today, of migration, will be turned on their head, as we search for people to help us sort out our pensions and our economies in the future.

And then, the systemic risks.

We understand that these will become much more virulent, that what we see today is this interweaving of societies, of systems, fastened by technologies and hastened by just-in-time management systems.

Small levels of stock push resilience into other people's responsibility. 

The collapse in biodiversity, climate change, pandemics, financial crises: these will be the currency that we will think about.

And so a new awareness will have to arise, of how we deal with these, how we mobilize ourselves, in a new way, and come together as a community to manage systemic risk.

It's going to require innovation.

It's going to require an understanding that the glory of globalization could also be its downfall.

This could be our best century ever because of the achievements, or it could be our worst.

An individual, for the first time in the history of humanity, will have the capacity, by 2030, to destroy the planet, to wreck everything, through the creation, for example, of a biopathogen.

How do we begin to weave these tapestries together?

How do we think about complex systems in new ways?

We need to understand that the governance structure in the world is fossilized.

It cannot begin to cope with the challenges that this will bring.

We have to develop a new way of managing the planet, collectively, through collective wisdom. 

We know, and I know from my own experience, that amazing things can happen, when individuals and societies come together to change their future.

It is vital that the ideas that are nurtured in TED, that the ideas that we think about look forward, and make sure that this will be the most glorious century, and not one of eco-disaster and eco-collapse.

