Twenty-five-and-a-quarter years ago I read a newspaper article which said that one day syringes would be one of the major causes of the spread of AIDS, the transmission of AIDS.

The reuse of syringes now exceeds that and kills 1.3 million people a year.

This young girl and her friend that I met in an orphanage in Delhi were HIV positive from a syringe.

And what was so sad about this particular story was that once their parents had found out -- and don't forget, their parents took them to the doctor -- the parents threw them out on the street.

And hence they ended up in an orphanage. 

And it comes from situations like this where you have either skilled or unskilled practitioners, blindly giving an injection to someone.

And you can understand, obviously, the transmission problem between people in high-virus areas. 

This video we took undercover, which shows you, over a half an hour period, a tray of medicines of 42 vials, which are being delivered with only 2 syringes in a public hospital in India.

And over the course of half an hour, not one syringe was filmed being unwrapped.

They started with two and they ended with two.

So you can imagine the scale of this problem.

And in fact in India alone, 62 percent of all injections given are unsafe. 

In China, recycling is a major issue.

And they are collected en mass -- you can see the scale of it here -- and sorted out, by hand, back into the right sizes, and then put back out on the street.

So recycling and reuse are the major issues here.

But there was one interesting anecdote that I found in Indonesia.

In all schools in Indonesia, there is usually a toy seller in the playground.

And they are having great fun.

And they squirt the water into their mouths.

And these are used with traces of blood visible. 

And I think, if I can just borrow this camera, I was going to show you my invention, which I came up with.

You give the injection and then put it down.

(Applause) And it costs the same as a normal syringe.

And in comparison, a Coca-Cola is 10 times the price.

And that will stop reusing a syringe 20 or 30 times. 

And I have an information charity which has done huge scale amount of work in India.

Thank you very much.

