One of the biggest challenges in computer graphics has been being able to create a photo-real, digital human face.

And one of the reasons it is so difficult is that, unlike aliens and dinosaurs, we look at human faces every day.

They are very important to how we communicate with each other.

As a result, we're tuned in to the subtlest things that could possibly be wrong with a computer rendering, in order to believe whether these things are realistic. 

And that's actually a completely computer-generated rendering of her face.

By the end of the talk, we're going to see it move. 

The way that we did this is we tried to start with Emily herself, who was gracious enough to come to our laboratory in Marina Del Rey, and sit for a session in Light Stage 5.

And the lighting that we use these days looks something like this.

We shoot all of these photographs in about three seconds. 

If you take the difference between these two images here, you can get an image lit from the entire sphere of light of just the shine off of Emily's skin. 

I don't think any photograph like this had ever been taken before we had done this.

It doesn't get underneath the translucent layers of the skin and blur out.

And, as a result, it's a very good cue to the detailed shape of the skin-pore structure and all of the fine wrinkles that all of us have, the things that actually make us look like real humans. 

So, if we use information that comes off of this specular reflection, we can go from a traditional face scan that might have the gross contours of the face and the basic shape, and augment it with information that puts in all of that skin pore structure and fine wrinkles.

And, even more importantly, since this is a photometric process that only takes three seconds to capture, we can shoot Emily in just part of an afternoon, in many different facial poses and facial expressions. 

So, here you can see her moving her eyes around, moving her mouth around.

And these we're actually going to use to create a photo-real digital character.

Her muscles bulging in her forehead when she winces like that. 

In addition to this kind of high-resolution geometry, since it's all captured with cameras, we've got a great texture map to use for the face.

Then, instead of looking like a plaster mannequin, it actually looks like it's made out of living human flesh. 

And this is what we used to give to the company Image Metrics to create a rigged, digital version of Emily.

And, in addition to the coarse-scale geometry, they also used all of that detail to create a set of what are called "displacement maps" that animate as well.

These are the displacement maps here.

And you can see those different wrinkles actually show up as she animates. 

So the next process was then to animate her.

We actually used one of her own performances to provide the source data.

So, by analyzing this video with computer vision techniques, they were able to drive the facial rig with the computer-generated performance.

So what you're going to see now, after this, is a completely photo-real digital face.

We can turn the volume up a little bit if that's available. 

Emily: Image Metrics is a markerless, performance-driven animation company.

We specialize in high-quality facial animation for video games and films.

Paul Debevec: So, if we break that down into layers, here's that diffuse component we saw in the first slide.

And there is the underlying wireframe mesh.

And that is Emily herself. 

And let's take a look at a computer-generated version of Bruce, running in a new environment.

