Thirteen trillion dollars in wealth has evaporated over the course of the last two years.

We've looked at our government oversight.

So, to understand this -- and I'm going to stress this -- it's not about the consumer being in retreat.

The consumer is empowered.

In order to understand this, we're going to step back and look a little bit at what's happened over the course of the last year and a half.

Commodity prices are like this. 

You put them all together, you mix them up in a bouillabaisse, and you have consumer confidence that's basically a ticking time-bomb. 

This is something I call the 50-20 paradox.

All these things together basically created a factor where the consumer sort of drove us headlong into the crisis that we face today.

The personal debt-to-income ratio basically went from 65 percent to 135 percent in the span of about 15 years.

So consumers got overleveraged.

And of course our banks did as well, as did our federal government. 

This is an absolutely staggering chart.

It shows leverage, trended out from 1919 to 2009.

And what you end up seeing is the whole phenomenon of the fact that we are actually stepping forth and basically leveraging future education, future children in our households. 

But if you stack it up, you just see this amazing, staggering amount of dollars that have been put into the system to fund and bail us out.

So this is the first 315 billion.

However, consumers have moved.

They are taking responsibility.

What we're seeing is an uptake in the savings rate.

In fact, 11 straight months of savings have happened since the beginning of the crisis.

We are working our way back up to that 10 percent.

Visa now reports that more people are using debit cards than they're using credit cards.

So we're starting to pay for things with money that we have.

And we're starting to be much more careful about how we save and how we invest.

But that's not really the whole story.

Because this has also been a dramatic time of transformation.

And you've got to admit, over the course of the last year and a half, consumers have been doing some pretty weird things.

It's been pretty staggering, what we've lived through.

If you take into account 80 percent of all Americans were born after World War II, this is essentially our Depression. 

And so there is an increase in people having to have their fillings replaced.

Guns, gun sales, according to the FBI, who does background checks, are up almost 25 percent since January.

Vasectomies are up 48 percent, according to the Cornell institute.

And lastly, but a very good point, hopefully not related to the former point I just made, which is that shark attacks are at their lowest level from 2003.

Does anybody know why?

But seriously, what we see happening, and the reason I want to stress that the consumer is not in retreat, is that this is a tremendous opportunity for the consumer who drove us into this recession to lead us right back out.

And what I mean by that is that we can move from mindless consumption to mindful consumption.

If you think about the last three decades, the consumer has moved from savvy about marketing in the '90s, to gathering all these amazing social and search tools in this decade, but the one thing that has been holding them back is the ability to discriminate.

By restricting their demand, consumers can actually align their values with their spending, and drive capitalism and business to not just be about more, but be about better. 

The first cultural value shift that we see is this tendency toward something we call liquid life.

As a result, déclassé consumption is in.

Déclassé consumption is the whole idea that spending money frivolously makes you look a little bit anti-fashion.

The management principle is dollars and cents. 

So let's look at some examples of this déclassé consumption that falls out of this value.

First things is we see something must be happening when P. Diddy vows to tone down his bling.

(Laughter) But seriously, we also have this phenomenon on Madison Avenue and in other places, where people are actually walking out of luxury boutiques with ordinary, sort of generic paper bags to hide the brand purchases.

We also see just a relaxing of ego, and sort of a dismantling of artifice. 

This is a story on the yacht club that's all basically blue collar.

Agritourism, going to vineyards and going to farms. 

And then we also see this movement forward from dollars and cents.

What businesses can do to connect with these new mindsets is really interesting.

A couple things that are kind of cool.

One is that Frito-Lay figured out this liquidity thing with their consumer.

Larger packs at the beginning of the month, smaller packaging at the end of the month. 

Really interestingly, too, was the San Francisco Giants.

They've just instituted dynamic pricing.

So it takes into account everything from the pitcher match-ups, to the weather, to the team records, in setting prices for the consumer.

Another quick example of these types of movements is the rise of Zynga.

Zynga has risen on the consumer's desire to not want to be locked in to fixed-cost.

Again, this theme is about variable cost, variable living.

So micropayments have become huge.

And lastly, some people are using Hulu actually as a device to get rid of their cable bill.

So, really clever ideas there that are kind of being taken ahold and marketers are starting to understand. 

The second of the four values is this movement toward ethics and fair play.

We see that play itself out with empathy and respect.

The consumer is demanding it.

And, as a result, businesses must provide not only value, but values.

Increasingly, consumers are looking at the culture of the company, looking for their conduct in the marketplace.

So, what we see with empathy and respect, lots of really hopeful things that have come out of this recession.

And I'll give you a few examples. 

One is the rise toward communities and neighborhoods, and increased emphasis on your neighbors as your support system.

So, from a value and values standpoint, what companies can do is connect in lots of different ways.

Also a really interesting company is Gore-Tex.

Gore-Tex is all about personal accountability of their management and their employees, to the point where they really kind of shun the idea of bosses.

But they also talk about the fact that their executives, all of their expense reports are put onto their company intranet for everyone to see.

Complete transparency.

Think twice before you have that bottle of wine. 

The third of the four laws of post-crisis consumerism is about durable living.

We also see the fact that libraries have become a huge resource for America.

Did you know that 68 percent of Americans now carry a library card?

The highest percentage ever in our nation's history. 

So what you see in this trend is also the accumulation of knowledge.

Continuing education is up.

Everything is focused on betterment, and training, and development and moving forward.

We also see a big DIY movement.

They want these skills. 

So, what brands can do, and companies, is pay dividends to consumers, be a brand that lasts, offer transparency, promise you're going to be there beyond today's sale.

Perfect example of that is Patagonia.

Patagonia's Footprint Chronicles basically goes through and tracks every product that they make, and gives you social responsibility, and helps you understand the ethics that are behind the product that they make. 

Another great example is Fidelity.

Rather than instant cash-back rewards on your credit or debit purchases, this is about 529 rewards for your student education.

So, it's a consumer driven co-op. 

So, the fourth sort of post-crisis consumerism that we see is this movement about return to the fold.

It's incredibly important right now.

Trust is not parceled out, as we all know.

It's now about connecting to your communities, connecting to your social networks.

In my book I talked about the fact that 72 percent of people trust what other people say about a brand or a company, versus 15 percent on advertising.

So, in that respect, cooperative consumerism has really taken off.

This is about consumers working together to get what they want out of the marketplace.

Let's look at a couple of quick examples. 

The artisanal movement is huge.

So, this rise of this sort of local currency is another really interesting phenomenon.

And then they did a recent report I thought was fascinating.

They actually started, in certain communities in the United States, start to publish people's electricity usage.

And what they found out is when that was available for public record, the people's electricity usage in those communities dropped. 

And then there is this other really interesting movement that's happened in California, which is about carrot mobs.

And then we look at what companies can do.

This is all the opportunity about being a community organizer.

You have to realize that you can't fight and control this.

And there is lots of really interesting examples here that we see.

So that becomes a very powerful force for them to make their brand more elastic. 

Or you look at Johnson &amp; Johnson's Momversations.

A phenomenal blog that's been built up.

Where J&amp;J basically is tapping into the power of mommy bloggers, allowing them to basically create a forum where they can communicate and they can connect.

And it's also become a very, very valuable sort of advertising revenue for J&amp;J as well.

So, when we look at this and we step back, what I believe is that the crisis that exists today is definitely real.

It's been tremendously powerful for consumers.

But, at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity.

And the Chinese character for crisis is actually the same side of the same coin.

Crisis equals opportunity.

What we're seeing with consumers right now is the ability for them to actually lead us forward out of this recession. 

So, we believe that values-driven spending will force capitalism to be better.

It will give us the opportunity to connect with companies that share the values that we share.

So, when we look back and step out at this and see the beginning of these trends that we're seeing in our data, we see a very hopeful picture for the future of America.

