Over the next five minutes, my intention is to transform your relationship with sound.

Well, this habit of suppressing sound has meant that our relationship with sound has become largely unconscious. 

Sounds are affecting your hormone secretions all the time, but also your breathing, your heart rate -- which I just also did -- and your brainwaves. 

There is a deep resonance with being at rest.

We also associate it with being stress-free and on holiday. 

The second way in which sound affects you is psychological.

Music is not the only kind of sound, however, which affects your emotions. 

Natural sound can do that too.

It's when they stop you need to be worried. 

The third way in which sound affects you is cognitively.

You can't understand two people talking at once ("If you're listening to this version of") ("me you're on the wrong track.")

If you have to work in an open-plan office like this, your productivity is greatly reduced.

And whatever number you're thinking of, it probably isn't as bad as this.

Put them on and your productivity goes back up to triple what it would be. 

The fourth way in which sound affects us is behaviorally.

With all that other stuff going on, it would be amazing if our behavior didn't change.

At the simplest, you move away from unpleasant sound and towards pleasant sounds.

For people who can't get away from noise like that, it's extremely damaging for their health. 

And that's not the only thing that bad sound damages.

Or start at the bottom, and say what outcomes do we want, and then design a soundscape to have a desired effect.

At last we've got some science we can apply.

And we're in the business of designing soundscapes. 

I'm glad to say that is starting to happen now.

1.8 billion times a day, that tune is played.

And it cost Nokia absolutely nothing. 

That increases impact by over 1,100 percent.

If your sound is pointing the opposite direction, incongruent, you reduce impact by 86 percent.

That's an order of magnitude, up or down.

This is important.

Don't just bombard them with stuff.

So I hope this talk has raised sound in your consciousness.

