I bet a lot of you all must have heard about it.

Which means that there are a lot of family events.

So as a child, my parents used to drag me to these family events. 

But the one thing that I always looked forward to was playing around with my cousins.

And there was always this one uncle who used to be there, always ready, jumping around with us, having games for us, making us kids have the time of our lives.

This man was extremely successful: he was confident and powerful.

But then I saw this hale and hearty person deteriorate in health.

He was diagnosed with Parkinson's. 

So this person, who used to be the center of attention in every family gathering, was suddenly hiding behind people.

He was hiding from the pitiful look in people's eyes. 

And he's not the only one in the world.

As designers, we dream that our designs solve these multifaceted problems, one solution that solves it all, but it need not always be like that.

You can also target simple problems and create small solutions for them and eventually make a big impact.

So my aim here was to not cure Parkinson's, but to make their everyday tasks much more simple, and then make an impact. 

Well, the first thing I targeted was tremors, right?

It works just purely on its form.

But the key here is that it is not tagged as a Parkinson's patient product.

So, well, one problem solved, many more to go. 

But I really needed to dig deeper to get a new perspective.

And then, when I was actually observing him walking to his dining table, it struck me, this man who finds it so difficult to walk on flat land, how does he climb a staircase?

Because in India we do not have a fancy rail that takes you up a staircase like in the developed countries.

One actually has to climb the stairs.

And the turns, he took them so easily. 

So -- shocked?

Well, I was too.

So this person who could not walk on flat land was suddenly a pro at climbing stairs. 

On researching this, I realized that it's because it's a continuous motion.

So the key for me was to translate this feeling of walking on a staircase back to flat land.

And a lot of ideas were tested and tried on him, but the one that finally worked was this one.

He walked faster, right? 

You know, technology is not always it.

What we need are human-centered solutions.

This print could be taken into hospitals to make them feel much more welcome. 

What I wish to do is make every Parkinson's patient feel like my uncle felt that day.

He told me that I made him feel like his old self again. 

But why can't smart be something that's simple and yet effective?

All we need is a little bit of empathy and some curiosity, to go out there, observe.

Test these solutions, fail if needed, but with newer insights to make it better.

Imagine what we all could do if we all came up with simple solutions.

What would the world be like if we combined all our simple solutions?

Let's make a smarter world, but with simplicity. 

Thank you. 

