And by that, I mean that I develop robots that are characters, but also robots that will eventually come to empathize with you.

So we're starting with a variety of technologies that have converged into these conversational character robots that can see faces, make eye contact with you, make a full range of facial expressions, understand speech and begin to model how you're feeling and who you are, and build a relationship with you. 

I developed a series of technologies that allowed the robots to make more realistic facial expressions than previously achieved, on lower power, which enabled the walking biped robots, the first androids.

So, it's a full range of facial expressions simulating all the major muscles in the human face, running on very small batteries, extremely lightweight. 

One is hierarchical pores, and the other is a macro-molecular nanoscale porosity in the material. 

There he's starting to walk.

We're working with the Machine Perception Laboratory at the U.C.

They have this really remarkable facial expression technology that recognizes facial expressions, what facial expressions you're making.

It also recognizes where you're looking, your head orientation.

We're emulating all the major facial expressions, and then controlling it with the software that we call the Character Engine.

And here is a little bit of the technology that's involved in that. 

And this is really heavily backlit.

Machines are becoming devastatingly capable of things like killing.

Those machines have no place for empathy.

And there is billions of dollars being spent on that.

Character robotics could plant the seed for robots that actually have empathy.

So, if they achieve human level intelligence or, quite possibly, greater than human levels of intelligence, this could be the seeds of hope for our future. 

This is one of our robots that we showed at Wired NextFest a couple of years ago.

And it sees multiple people in a scene, remembers where individual people are, and looks from person to person, remembering people. 

So, we're involving two things.

You start to believe that it's alive and aware. 

And this is one of the most exciting projects that we're developing, which is a little character that's a spokesbot for friendly artificial intelligence, friendly machine intelligence.

And we're getting this mass-manufactured.

We specked it out to actually be doable with a very, very low-cost bill of materials, so that it can become a childhood companion for kids.

