We're trying to discover what Henry Hudson would have seen on the afternoon of September 12th, 1609, when he sailed into New York harbor.

And from these early experiences as a child I learned to love landscapes.

And so when it became time for me to do my graduate studies, I studied this emerging field of landscape ecology.

Landscape ecology concerns itself with how the stream and the meadow and the forest and the cliffs make habitats for plants and animals.

This experience and this training lead me to get a wonderful job with the Wildlife Conservation Society, which works to save wildlife and wild places all over the world.

And over the last decade, I traveled to over 40 countries to see jaguars and bears and elephants and tigers and rhinos. 

But every time I would return from my trips I'd return back to New York City.

I started reading about the history and the geography in New York City.

I read that New York City was the first mega-city, a city of 10 million people or more, in 1950.

I started seeing paintings like this.

For those of you who are from New York, this is 125th street under the West Side Highway.

Or this painting, from the 1740s, from Greenwich Village.

Those are two students at King's College -- later Columbia University -- sitting on a hill, overlooking a valley.

(Laughter) 

So, it was in the course of these investigations that I ran into a map.

And it's this map you see here.

It's held in a geographic information system which allows me to zoom in.

And it's 10 feet long and three and a half feet wide. 

And this is City Hall Park.

So the city basically extended to City Hall Park.

This map was made for military reasons.

They're mapping the roads, the buildings, these fortifications that they built.

But they're also mapping things of ecological interest, also military interest: the hills, the marshes, the streams.

This is Richmond Hill, and Minetta Water, which used to run its way through Greenwich Village.

But I had another idea about this map.

If we take away the streets, and if we take away the buildings, and if we take away the open spaces, then we could take this map.

Then, if we added maps like the geology, the bedrock geology, and the surface geology, what the glaciers leave, if we make the soil map, with the 17 soil classes, that are defined by the National Conservation Service, if we make a digital elevation model of the topography that tells us how high the hills were, then we can calculate the slopes.

We can calculate the aspect.

We can calculate the winter wind exposure -- so, which way the winter winds blow across the landscape.

The white areas on this map are the places protected from the winter winds. 

We compiled all the information about where the Native Americans were, the Lenape.

And we built a probability map of where they might have been.

But, in fact, they're grassland habitats for grassland birds and plants.

And they have become successional shrub lands, and these then mix in to a map of all the ecological communities.

And it turns out that Manhattan had 55 different ecosystem types.

You can think of these as neighborhoods, as distinctive as TriBeCa and the Upper East Side and Inwood -- that these are the forest and the wetlands and the marine communities, the beaches. 

It was really an extraordinary landscape that was capable of supporting an extraordinary biodiversity. 

Where do they get their reproductive resources?

To an ecologist, the intersection of these is habitat, but to most people, the intersection of these is their home.

So, we would read in field guides, the standard field guides that maybe you have on your shelves, you know, what beavers need is, "A slowly meandering stream with aspen trees and alders and willows, near the water."

As if these were the maps that we would need to predict where you would find the beaver.

Moreover, we realized that you can start out as being a beaver specialist, but you can look up what an aspen needs.

An aspen needs fire and dry soils.

And you can look at what a wet meadow needs.

And it need beavers to create the wetlands, and maybe some other things.

Each point is a different species or a different stream or a different soil type.

And those little gray lines are the connections that connect them together.

They are the connections that actually make nature resilient.

And the structure of this is what makes nature work, seen with all its parts.

We call these Muir Webs after the Scottish-American naturalist John Muir, who said, "When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find that it's bound fast by a thousand invisible cords that cannot be broken, to everything in the universe."

So then we took the Muir webs and we took them back to the maps.

So if we wanted to go between 85th and 86th, and Lex and Third, maybe there was a stream in that block.

And then we took this data. 

You can see this for yourself on our website.

You can zoom into any block on Manhattan, and see what might have been there 400 years ago.

And we used it to try and reveal a landscape here in Act III.

We used the tools they use in Hollywood to make these fantastic landscapes that we all see in the movies. 

And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue.

We would lay on top of that the map of the ecological communities.

And feed into that the map of the species.

So that we would actually take a photograph, flying above Times Square, looking toward the Hudson River, waiting for Hudson to come.

Using this technology, we can make these fantastic georeferenced views.

We can basically take a picture out of any window on Manhattan and see what that landscape looked like 400 years ago. 

We can see the fields that the Native Americans made.

And we can see this in the geography of the city today.

So when you're watching "Law and Order," and the lawyers walk up the steps they could have walked back down those steps of the New York Court House, right into the Collect Pond, 400 years ago. 

And even though I've only had a brief time to speak, I hope you appreciate that Mannahatta was a very special place.

The place that you see here on the left side was interconnected.

It had this resilience that is what we need in our modern world. 

We can compare these two and hold them in our minds at the same time, that they really are the same place, that there is no way that cities can escape from nature.

And I think this is what we're learning about building cities in the future. 

This is the particular additional habitat requirement of humanity.

So, how can we envision the city of the future?

Well, what if we go to Madison Square Park, and we imagine it without all the cars, and bicycles instead and large forests, and streams instead of sewers and storm drains?

What if we imagined the Upper East Side with green roofs, and streams winding through the city, and windmills supplying the power we need?

Or if we imagine the New York City metropolitan area, currently home to 12 million people, but 12 million people in the future, perhaps living at the density of Manhattan, in only 36 percent of the area, with the areas in between covered by farmland, covered by wetlands, covered by the marshes we need. 

This is the kind of future I think we need, is a future that has the same diversity and abundance and dynamism of Manhattan, but that learns from the sustainability of the past, of the ecology, the original ecology, of nature with all its parts.

