As I was building this space, I thought to myself, "Surely I'm not the only guy to have to have carved out a space for his own."

So I did some research.

And I found that there was an historic precedence.

Hemingway had his writing space.

Elvis had two or three manspaces, which is pretty unique because he lived with both his wife and his mother in Graceland.

On the outside it looks like a very typical garage, a nice garage.

But on the inside, it's anything but.

And this, to me, is a pretty classic manspace.

I soon realized that manspaces didn't have to be only inside.

This guy built a bowling alley in his backyard, out of landscaping timbers, astroturf.

And he found the scoreboard in the trash. 

This a 1923 wooden tugboat, made completely out of Douglas fir.

The guy did it all himself.

And there is about 1,000 square feet of hanging-out space inside. 

There were definitely hang-out spots.

Most of all, I was just surprised with what I was finding. 

Take this place for example.

On the outside it looks like a typical northeastern garage.

This is in Long Island, New York.

The only thing that might tip you off is the round window.

On the inside it's a recreation of a 16th century Japanese tea house.

The man imported all the materials from Japan, and he hired a Japanese carpenter to build it in the traditional style.

It has no nails or screws.

All the joints are hand-carved and hand-scribed. 

But you open one of the garage doors and there is a professional-size boxing ring inside.

(Laughter) And so there is a good reason for this.

So, while this space represents someone's profession, this one certainly represents a passion.

It's made to look like the inside of an English sailing ship.

It's a collection of nautical antiques from the 1700s and 1800s.

Museum quality. 

So, as I came to the end of my journey, I found over 50 spaces.

And they were unexpected and they were surprising.

But they were also -- I was really impressed by how personalized they were, and how much work went into them.

And I realized that's because the guys that I met were all very passionate about what they did.

And they really loved their professions.

And they were very passionate about their collections and their hobbies.

And so they created these spaces to reflect what they love to do, and who they were. 

So if you don't have a space of your own, I highly recommend finding one, and getting into it.

