What we're really here to talk about is the "how."

Now, I want to tell you a quick story.

It was February 3rd, 2008.

Anyone remember what happened, February 3rd, 2008?

And the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues, John King and Halee Fischer-Wright, and I noticed as we began to debrief various Super Bowl parties, is that it seemed to us that across the United States, if you will, tribal councils had convened.

And they had discussed things of great national importance.

Like, "Do we like the Budweiser commercial?"

But they also talked about which candidate they were going to support. 

We said, "The tribes that we're in are saying it's going to be Obama."

Now, the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes, studying these naturally occurring groups. 

All of you are members of tribes.

In walking around at the break, many of you had met members of your tribe.

And many of you were doing what great, if you will, tribal leaders do, which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe, and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe, and make introductions.

That is in fact what great tribal leaders do. 

So here is the bottom line.

And from a distance it appears that it's a single group.

But here's the rub.

Now here is the net out of this.

You're all a member of tribes.

If you can find a way to take the tribes that you're in and nudge them forward, along these tribal stages to what we call Stage Five, which is the top of the mountain.

But we're going to start with what we call Stage One.

Stage One produces people who do horrible things.

This is the kid who shot up Virginia Tech.

Stage One is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes, and then pool together with people who think like they do.

Stage One is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons.

Now, again, we don't often deal with Stage One.

And I want to make the point that as members of society, we need to.

It's not enough to simply write people off. 

But let's move on to Stage Two.

Now, Stage One, you'll notice, says, in effect, "Life Sucks."

Well, if people see the world in such a way that life sucks, then their behavior will follow automatically from that.

It will be despairing hostility.

(Laughter) 

Now, am I saying that there are dumb people working here?

Actually, no, I'm not.

But I'm saying the culture makes people dumb.

So in a Stage Two culture -- and we find these in all sorts of different places -- you find them, in fact, in the best organizations in the world.

You find them in all places in society.

The amount of world-changing behavior that would happen?

In fact it would be basically nil. 

A whole group of people communicating that way, talking that way. 

But, in this case, three doctors walk into an elevator.

That is a meeting of a Stage Three tribe.

Now, we find these in places where really smart, successful people show up.

(Laughter) 

Here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation.

It is moving from Stage Three to Stage Four.

Let's take a look at a quick video snippet.

This is from a company called Zappos, located outside Las Vegas.

And my question on the other side is just going to be, "What do you think they value?"

This is their lobby.

Employees volunteer time in the advice booth.

Notice it looks like something out of a Peanuts cartoon. 

But you'll notice the level of excitement.

Notice, again, how they decorate their office.

One of their stated values is, "Be a little bit weird."

And you'll notice they are a little bit weird. 

Stage Four tribes can do remarkable things.

But you'll notice we're not at the top of the mountain yet.

There is, in fact, another stage. 

Now, some of you may not recognize the scene that's up here.

And people came together focused only on those two values: truth and reconciliation.

And in this atmosphere, where the only guidance was people's values and their noble cause, what this group accomplished was historic.

And people, at the time, feared that South Africa would end up going the way that Rwanda has gone, descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end.

In fact, South Africa has not gone down that road.

So, people hear this and they conclude the following, as did we in doing the study. 

Saying, "We're great" -- that sounds pretty good.

Well, in fact, there are three somewhat counter-intuitive findings that come out of all this.

In fact, most of the document is written at Stage Two.

(Laughter) 

What about Martin Luther King?

I mean, surely these were just people who preached, "Life is great," right?

Just one little bit of happiness and joy after another.

In fact, Martin Luther King's most famous line was at Stage Three.

Only two percent, only two percent of tribes get to Stage Five.

And those are the ones that change the world. 

Tribes can only hear one level above and below where they are.

So we have to have the ability to talk all the levels, to go to where they are.

Now here is what happened to this person who eventually became Mayor of San Francisco.

In fact, that's progress.

So, what about moving from Stage Three to Stage Four?

I want to argue that we're doing that right here.

If you want this experience to live on as something historic, then at the reception tonight I'd like to encourage you to do something beyond what people normally do and call networking.

That's called a triadic relationship. 

See, people who build world-changing tribes do that.

Pretty much everybody else who does polls.

Incidentally, they did pull it off.

And they released the first-ever world poll. 

But the question on the table is this: What kind of an impact are the tribes that you are in making?

You're hearing one presentation after another, often representing a group of people, a tribe, about how they have changed the world.

You remember to talk all five culture stages.

Because we've got people in all five, around us.

