How do you feed a city?

And increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either.

As more of us move into cities, more of us are eating meat, so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals.

And given that it takes three times as much grain -- actually ten times as much grain -- to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first, that's not a very efficient way of feeding us. 

And it's an escalating problem too.

By 2050, it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities.

And it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed.

So meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand.

And that's going to pose an enormous problem.

Nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land.

Although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion.

We're very hungry for fossil fuels too.

It takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the West.

And even though there is food that we are producing at great cost, we don't actually value it.

Half the food produced in the USA is currently thrown away.

And to end all of this, at the end of this long process, we're not even managing to feed the planet properly.

A billion of us are obese, while a further billion starve.

None of it makes very much sense. 

So how did we get here?

And more importantly, what are we going to do about it?

And it was also fertile.

Because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements.

And if we look at what those settlements were like, we see they were compact.

Because it was the temples that organized the harvest, gathered in the grain, offered it to the gods, and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people.

And in fact, that's true of every ancient city.

But of course not all of them were that small.

Famously, Rome had about a million citizens by the first century A.D.

So how did a city like this feed itself?

The answer is what I call "ancient food miles."

This is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world, because it was very difficult to transport food over roads, which were rough.

And the food obviously went off very quickly.

And, in fact, you could say that the expansion of the Empire was really sort of one long, drawn out militarized shopping spree, really.

(Laughter) In fact -- I love the fact, I just have to mention this: Rome in fact used to import oysters from London, at one stage.

So Rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite.

But the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the pre-industrial world.

So the grain markets were to the south of the city.

And the roads leading up from them to Cheapside, which was the main market, were also grain markets. 

And if you look at the name of one of those streets, Bread Street, you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago.

Everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port. 

This is another thing about food in cities: Once its roots into the city are established, they very rarely move.

So much of London's meat was coming from the northwest, from Scotland and Wales.

And, in fact, if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age, you can trace food coming in to it.

You can actually see how it was physically shaped by food, both by reading the names of the streets, which give you a lot of clues.

Friday Street, in a previous life, is where you went to buy your fish on a Friday.

But also you have to imagine it full of food.

Because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold. 

And if we look at an image of Smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from.

And then 10 years later everything changed. 

This is an image of the Great Western in 1840.

And as you can see, some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep.

So all of a sudden, these animals are no longer walking into market.

And they're coming into the city by rail.

And this changes everything.

To start off with, it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities, really any size and shape, in any place.

All of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography. 

It's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all. 

And this really is the moment when our relationship, both with food and cities, changes completely. 

Here we have food -- that used to be the center, the social core of the city -- at the periphery.

It used to be a social event, buying and selling food.

Now it's anonymous.

We used to cook; now we just add water, or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something.

We don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat.

So instead of trusting it, we fear it.

And instead of valuing it, we throw it away. 

One of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder.

So what are we going to do about that?

It's not a new question.

500 years ago it's what Thomas More was asking himself.

This is the frontispiece of his book "Utopia."

And again, food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision.

It even got built, but nothing to do with this vision that Howard had.

And that is the problem with these Utopian ideas, that they are Utopian. 

And I think, as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling, that makes it not much use.

I believe we already live in Sitopia.

So if we were to do that, what might Sitopia look like?

This is where food should be in our society. 

But you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this.

By the way, these can be men as well.

It's part of the social life of the city.

It's a greenhouse, where kids get told all about food and growing their own food.

So Sitopia, for me, is really a way of seeing.

It's basically recognizing that Sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere.

The trick is to join them up, to use food as a way of seeing.

And if we do that, we're going to stop seeing cities as big, metropolitan, unproductive blobs, like this.

And I think the message of this is very clear.

If the city looks after the country, the country will look after the city.

And I want us to ask now, what would Ambrogio Lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today?

What would an allegory of good government look like today?

We know we are what we eat.

We need to realize that the world is also what we eat.

But if we take that idea, we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better.

