For years I've been feeling frustrated, because as a religious historian, I've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths.

Every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the Golden Rule.

And it brings you into the presence of what's been called God, Nirvana, Rama, Tao.

Something that goes beyond what we know in our ego-bound existence. 

I sometimes see when I'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead.

And that of course defeats the object of the exercise. 

Now why was I so grateful to TED?

If we don't manage to implement the Golden Rule globally, so that we treat all peoples, wherever and whoever they may be, as though they were as important as ourselves, I doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation. 

And the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem.

And of course it's not just religious people who believe in the Golden Rule.

And the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate.

And we need to revive that spirit.

In Malaysia, there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people, young people, and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art.

Throughout Europe, the Muslim communities are holding events and discussions, are discussing the centrality of compassion in Islam and in all faiths. 

Religious teaching must always lead to action.

And I intend to work on this till my dying day.

You also have to do it. 

The same applies to educators.

I'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism, the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle.

Because we can change the world, we have the ability. 

I would never have thought of putting the Charter online.

I was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement.

And TED introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas.

Because that is what is so wonderful about TED.

In this room, all this expertise, if we joined it all together, we could change the world.

And of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable. 

But I'd just like to quote, finish at the end with a reference to a British author, an Oxford author whom I don't quote very often, C.S.

But he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since I read it when I was a schoolgirl.

It's in his book "The Four Loves."

We don't have to fall in love with each other, but we can become friends.

And I am convinced.

I felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at Vevey, that when people of all different persuasions come together, working side by side for a common goal, differences melt away.

