I'd like to talk a little bit this morning about what happens if we move from design to design thinking.

It's a woodworking machine, or at least a piece of one, and my task was to make this thing a little bit more modern, a little bit easier to use.

I thought, at the time, I did a pretty good job.

Unfortunately, not very long afterwards the company went out of business. 

And now, of course, the whole technology is obsolete.

By focusing on a design, maybe just a single product, I was being incremental and not having much of an impact. 

But I think this small view of design is a relatively recent phenomenon, and in fact really emerged in the latter half of the 20th century as design became a tool of consumerism.

So when we talk about design today, and particularly when we read about it in the popular press, we're often talking about products like these.

But this wasn't always the way.

And I'd like to suggest that if we take a different view of design, and focus less on the object and more on design thinking as an approach, that we actually might see the result in a bigger impact.

Now, this was back in the 19th century.

So somehow, we went from this to this.

Systems thinkers who were reinventing the world, to a priesthood of folks in black turtlenecks and designer glasses working on small things.

I'm a fully paid-up member of that priesthood, and somewhere in here I have my designer glasses.

There we go.

But I do think that perhaps design is getting big again.

And that's happening through the application of design thinking to new kinds of problems -- to global warming, to education, healthcare, security, clean water, whatever. 

The first of those is that design is human-centered.

So when a team was working on a new vision screening program in India, they wanted to understand what the aspirations and motivations were of these school children to understand how they might play a role in screening their parents.

Conversion Sound has developed a high quality, ultra-low-cost digital hearing aid for the developing world.

So it took a team working in India with patients and community health workers to understand how a PDA and an application on a PDA might replace those technicians in a fitting and diagnostic service. 

Instead of starting with technology, the team started with people and culture.

So if human need is the place to start, then design thinking rapidly moves on to learning by making.

Instead of thinking about what to build, building in order to think.

Now, much has been said and written about the Aravind Eye Institute in Madurai, India.

They do an incredible job of serving very poor patients by taking the revenues from those who can afford to pay to cross-subsidize those who cannot.

These are the lenses that replace those that are damaged by cataracts.

Instead of seeing its primary objective as consumption, design thinking is beginning to explore the potential of participation -- the shift from a passive relationship between consumer and producer to the active engagement of everyone in experiences that are meaningful, productive and profitable. 

So William Beveridge, when he wrote the first of his famous reports in 1942, created what became Britain's welfare state in which he hoped that every citizen would be an active participant in their own social well-being.

By the time he wrote his third report, he confessed that he had failed and instead had created a society of welfare consumers. 

We can take this idea of participation perhaps to its logical conclusion and say that design may have its greatest impact when it's taken out of the hands of designers and put into the hands of everyone.

They went from retreating to the nurse's station to discuss the various states and needs of patients, to developing a system that happened on the ward in front of patients, using a simple software tool.

By doing this they brought the time that they were away from patients down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes, on average.

They increased patient confidence and nurse happiness.

When you multiply that by all the nurses in all the wards in 40 hospitals in the system, it resulted, actually, in a pretty big impact. 

And this is just one of thousands of opportunities in healthcare alone.

So these are just some of the kind of basic ideas around design thinking and some of the new kinds of projects that they're being applied to.

But I'd like to go back to Brunel here, and suggest a connection that might explain why this is happening now, and maybe why design thinking is a useful tool.

And that connection is change.

In times of change we need new alternatives, new ideas. 

Now, Brunel worked at the height of the Industrial Revolution, when all of life and our economy was being reinvented.

So why design thinking?

So these are some that we've been asked to think about recently.

And one in particular, is one that we're working on with the Acumen Fund, in a project that's been funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

How might we improve access to safe drinking water for the world's poorest people, and at the same time stimulate innovation amongst local water providers? 

So instead of having a bunch of American designers come up with new ideas that may or may not have been appropriate, we took a sort of more open, collaborative and participative approach.

And then IDEO and Acumen spent several weeks working with them to help design new social marketing campaigns, community outreach strategies, business models, new water vessels for storing water and carts for delivering water.

So for me, this project shows kind of how far we can go from some of those sort of small things that I was working on at the beginning of my career.

That by focusing on the needs of humans and by using prototypes to move ideas along quickly, by getting the process out of the hands of designers, and by getting the active participation of the community, we can tackle bigger and more interesting questions.

And just like Brunel, by focusing on systems, we can have a bigger impact.

So that's one thing that we've been working on. 

I'm actually really quite interested, and perhaps more interested to know what this community thinks we could work on.

What kinds of questions do we think design thinking could be used to tackle?

And if you've got any ideas then feel free, you can post them to Twitter.

There is a hash tag there that you can use, #CBDQ.

So I'd like to believe that design thinking actually can make a difference, that it can help create new ideas and new innovations, beyond the latest High Street products.

To do that I think we have to take a more expansive view of design, more like Brunel, less a domain of a professional priesthood.

And the first step is to start asking the right questions.

