Do we live in a borderless world?

Before you answer that, have a look at this map.

Contemporary political map shows that we have over 200 countries in the world today.

That's probably more than at any time in centuries.

Now, many of you will object.

For you this would be a more appropriate map.

You could call it TEDistan.

But let's talk about the 90 percent of the world population that will never leave the place in which they were born.

For them, nations, countries, boundaries, borders still matter a great deal, and often violently.

Now here at TED, we're solving some of the great riddles of science and mysteries of the universe.

How do we distribute ourselves around the world? 

Now this is important, because border conflicts justify so much of the world's military-industrial complex.

Border conflicts can derail so much of the progress that we hope to achieve here.

So I think we need a deeper understanding of how people, money, power, religion, culture, technology interact to change the map of the world.

And we can try to anticipate those changes, and shape them in a more constructive direction. 

So we're going to look at some maps of the past, the present and some maps you haven't seen in order to get a sense of where things are going.

Let's start with the world of 1945.

1945 there were just 100 countries in the world.

You can see that Africa has been fragmented.

Does that mean that someone's gain has to be someone else's loss?

As you can see on this map, Russia is still the largest country in the world.

And as you know, China is the most populous.

And they share a lengthy land border. 

What you don't see on this map is that most of Russia's 150 million people are concentrated in its western provinces and areas that are close to Europe.

And only 30 million people are in its eastern areas.

In fact, the World Bank predicts that Russia's population is declining towards about 120 million people 

But as oil prices rose, Russian governments have invested in infrastructure to unite the country, east and west.

As a result, in the Russian far east today, which is twice the size of India, you have exactly six million Russians. 

So let's get a sense of what is happening in this part of the world.

We can start with Mongolia, or as some call it, Mine-golia.

Why do they call it that?

Because in Mine-golia, Chinese firms operate and own most of the mines -- copper, zinc, gold -- and they truck the resources south and east into mainland China.

So let's apply this principle to Siberia.

Siberia most of you probably think of as a cold, desolate, unlivable place.

But in fact, with global warming and rising temperatures, all of a sudden you have vast wheat fields and agribusiness, and grain being produced in Siberia.

But who is it going to feed?

Well, just on the other side of the Amo River, in the Heilongjiang and Harbin provinces of China, you have over 100 million people.

That's larger than the entire population of Russia. 

Every single year, for at least a decade or more, [60,000] of them have been voting with their feet, crossing, moving north and inhabiting this desolate terrain.

They set up their own bazaars and medical clinics.

They've taken over the timber industry and been shipping the lumber east, back into China.

Again, like Mongolia, China isn't conquering Russia.

That's what I call globalization Chinese style. 

So history doesn't necessarily repeat itself, but it does rhyme. 

This is just to give you a taste of what's happening in this part of the world.

Well it's China's turn again.

So let's look at how China is re-establishing that hierarchy in the far East.

It starts with the global hubs.

Remember the 40 dots on the nighttime map that show the hubs of the global economy?

East Asia today has more of those global hubs than any other region in the world.

Tokyo, Seoul, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore and Sidney.

These are the filters and funnels of global capital.

Then there is trade.

These vectors and arrows represent ever stronger trade relationships that China has with every country in the region.

Australia, for example, is heavily dependent on exporting iron ore and natural gas to China.

And now many of you have been reading in the news how people are looking to China to lead the rebound, the economic rebound, not just in Asia, but potentially for the world.

The Asian free trade zone, almost free trade zone, that's emerging now has a greater trade volume than trade across the Pacific.

So China is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region. 

Another pillar of this strategy is diplomacy.

Another pillar of the strategy, like Russia, is demographic.

China exports business people, nannies, students, teachers to teach Chinese around the region, to intermarry and to occupy ever greater commanding heights of the economies.

Already ethnic Chinese people in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia are the real key factors and drivers in the economies there.

Chinese pride is resurgent in the region as a result.

If you add it all up what do you get?

Well, if you remember before World War II, Japan had a vision for a greater Japanese co-prosperity sphere.

What's emerging today is what you might call a greater Chinese co-prosperity sphere.

So no matter what the lines on the map tell you in terms of nations and borders, what you really have emerging in the far east are national cultures, but in a much more fluid, imperial zone.

All of this is happening without firing a shot. 

So what can we do to think about borders differently in this part of the world?

What lines on the map should we focus on?

What I want to present to you is what I call state building, day by day. 

Let's start with Iraq.

Six years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, the country still exists more on a map than it does in reality.

Oil used to be one of the forces holding Iraq together; now it is the most significant cause of the country's disintegration.

The reason is Kurdistan.

And today, if you go to Kurdistan, you'll see that Kurdish Peshmerga guerillas are squaring off against the Sunni Iraqi army.

But what are they guarding?

If the Kurds can control their pipelines, they can set the terms of their own statehood.

Now should we be upset about this, about the potential disintegration of Iraq?

I don't believe we should.

Iraq will still be the second largest oil producer in the world, behind Saudi Arabia.

And we'll have a chance to solve a 3,000 year old dispute.

Now remember Kurdistan is landlocked.

It has no choice but to behave.

And therefore it has to have amicable relations with them. 

Today donors are spending billions of dollars on this.

These two arrows are an arc, an arc of commuter railroads and other infrastructure that link the West Bank and Gaza. 

If Gaza can have a functioning port and be linked to the West Bank, you can have a viable Palestinian state, Palestinian economy.

That, I believe, is going to bring peace to this particular conflict.

The lesson from Kurdistan and from Palestine is that independence alone, without infrastructure, is futile. 

Now what might this entire region look like if in fact we focus on other lines on the map besides borders, when the insecurities might abate?

The last time that was the case was actually a century ago, during the Ottoman Empire.

This is the Hejaz Railway.

The Hejaz Railway ran from Istanbul to Medina via Damascus.

But today the Hejaz Railway lies in tatters, ruins.

If we were to focus on reconstructing these curvy lines on the map, infrastructure, that cross the straight lines, the borders, I believe the Middle East would be a far more peaceful region. 

Now let's look at another part of the world, the former Soviet Republics of Central Asia, the 'stans.

These countries' borders originate from Stalin's decrees.

He purposely did not want these countries to make sense.

He wanted ethnicities to mingle in ways that would allow him to divide and rule.

Fortunately for them, most of their oil and gas resources were discovered after the Soviet Union collapsed. 

Now I know some of you may be thinking, "Oil, oil, oil.

And I assure you it's every bit as important to them as it might have been to colonizers and imperialists.

Here are just some of the pipeline projections and possibilities and scenarios and routes that are being mapped out for the next several decades.

A great deal of them. 

For a number of countries in this part of the world, having pipelines is the ticket to becoming part of the global economy and for having some meaning besides the borders that they are not loyal to themselves.

Then there is Turkmenistan, which most people think of as a frozen basket case.

But now it's contributing gas across the Caspian Sea to provide for Europe, and even a potentially Turkmen- Afghan-Pakistan-India pipeline as well. 

Then there is Kazakhstan, which didn't even have a name before.

It was more considered South Siberia during the Soviet Union.

Today most people recognize Kazakhstan as an emerging geopolitical player.

Because it has shrewdly designed pipelines to flow across the Caspian, north through Russia, and even east to China.

More pipelines means more silk roads, instead of the Great Game.

The more pipelines we have, the more silk roads we'll have, and the less of a dominant Great Game competition we'll have in the 21st century. 

Now let's look at the only part of the world that really has brought down its borders, and how that has enhanced its strength.

And that is, of course, Europe.

In fact most of that happened on just one day.

In 2004, 15 new countries joined the E.U.

and now you have what most people consider a zone of peace spanning 27 countries and 450 million people. 

But you can get on a German ICE train and make it almost to Albania.

In Bosnia you use the Euro currency already, and that's the only currency they're probably ever going to have. 

So in other words, I believe that President Sarkozy of France is right when he talks about a Mediterranean union. 

Now let's look at Turkey and the Caucasus.

So does Turkey really have to be a member of the European Union?

Well, South Central Asia, South West Asia is a very good place to start.

Eight years after the U.S. invaded Afghanistan there is still a tremendous amount of instability.

Pakistan and Afghanistan are still so fragile that neither of them have dealt constructively with the problem of Pashtun nationalism.

This is the flag that flies in the minds of 20 million Pashtuns who live on both sides of the Afghan and Pakistan border. 

Of course, we can't forget Africa.

53 countries, and by far the most number of suspiciously straight lines on the map.

If we were to look at all of Africa we could most certainly acknowledge far more, tribal divisions and so forth.

But let's just look at Sudan, the second-largest country in Africa.

South Sudan is going to be having a referendum in 2011 in which it is very likely to vote itself independence. 

Now let's go up to the Arctic Circle.

Actually Greenland.

Several weeks ago Greenland's [60,000] people voted themselves self-governance rights from Denmark.

So Denmark is about to get a whole lot smaller. 

What is the lesson from all of this?

Geopolitics is a very unsentimental discipline.

And like our relationship with the ecosystem we're always searching for equilibrium in how we divide ourselves across the planet.

Now we fear changes on the map.

We fear civil wars, death tolls, having to learn the names of new countries.

But I believe that the inertia of the existing borders that we have today is far worse and far more violent. 

The question is how do we change those borders, and what lines do we focus on?

