Clearly, we're living in a moment of crisis.

And no matter what country you live or work in, you've also seen the extraordinary things that individuals are capable of, even in their most ordinariness. 

Today there is a raging debate as to how best we lift people out of poverty, how best we release their energies.

And on the other we have people who say the problem is that we need more aid.

And what I want to talk about is something that compliments both systems.

We call it patient capital. 

They use Mobutu as metaphor.

And their policy prescription is to make government more accountable, focus on the capital markets, invest, don't give anything away. 

On the other side, as I said, there are those who say the problem is that we need more money.

And the problem is that neither side is listening to the other.

Even more problematic, they're not listening to poor people themselves. 

After 25 years of working on issues of poverty and innovation, it's true that there are probably no more market-oriented individuals on the planet than low-income people.

And so we need both the market and we need aid. 

Patient capital works between, and tries to take the best of both.

It's money that's invested in entrepreneurs who know their communities and are building solutions to healthcare, water, housing, alternative energy, thinking of low income people not as passive recipients of charity, but as individual customers, consumers, clients, people who want to make decisions in their own lives. 

Patient capital requires that we have incredible tolerance for risk, a long time horizon in terms of allowing those entrepreneurs time to experiment, to use the market as the best listening device that we have, and the expectation of below-market returns, but outsized social impact.

Now, entrepreneurs need patient capital for three reasons.

First, they tend to work in markets where people make one, two, three dollars a day and they are making all of their decisions within that income level.

Third, they are often creating markets. 

Even if you're bringing clean water for the first time into rural villages, it is something new.

And so many low-income people have seen so many failed promises broken and seen so many quacks and sporadic medicines offered to them that building trust takes a lot of time, takes a lot of patience.

It also requires being connected to a lot of management assistance.

Not only to build the systems, the business models that allow us to reach low income people in a sustainable way, but to connect those business to other markets, to governments, to corporations -- real partnerships if we want to get to scale. 

I want to share one story about an innovation called drip irrigation.

They were creating subsidies either for large farms, or they were giving inputs to the farmers that they thought they should use, rather than that the farmers wanted to use. 

At the same time Amitabha was obsessed with this drip irrigation technology that had been invented in Israel.

The average small village farmer works on two acres or less. 

And he used three fundamental principles. 

The first one was miniaturization.

Second, it had to be extremely affordable.

And third, it had to be what Amitabha calls infinitely expandable.

What I mean is with the profits from the first quarter acre, the farmers could buy a second and a third and a fourth. 

In fact, when you go back to the beginning, there were no private investors who would be willing to take a risk on building a new technology for a market class that made under a dollar a day, that were known to be some of the most risk-averse people on the planet and that were working in one of the riskiest sectors, agriculture. 

And when he had a prototype and had a better understanding of how to market to farmers, that's when patient capital could come in.

And we helped him build a company, for profit, that would build on IDE's knowledge, and start looking at sales and exports, and be able to tap into other kinds of capital. 

Secondarily, we wanted to see if we could export this drip irrigation and bring it into other countries.

And so we met Dr. Sono Khangharani in Pakistan.

And though that company has just started, our assumption is that there too we'll see the impact on millions. 

But drip irrigation isn't the only innovation.

We're starting to see these happening all around the world.

And they produce 20 million lifesaving bednets for Africans around the world. 

So that in the terrorist attacks of November they were the first responder, and are now beginning to scale, because of partnership.

They've just won four government contracts to build off their 100 ambulances, and are one of the largest and most effective ambulance companies in India. 

This idea of scale is critical.

But that's obviously not enough.

And it's where the idea of partnership becomes so important.

Whether it's by finding those innovations that can access the capital markets, government itself, or partner with major corporations, there is unbelievable opportunity for innovation. 

President Obama understands that.

He recently authorized the creation of a Social Innovation Fund to focus on what works in this country, and look at how we can scale it.

And I would submit that it's time to consider a global innovation fund that would find these entrepreneurs around the world who really have innovations, not only for their country, but ones that we can use in the developed world as well.

Invest financial assistance, but also management assistance.

And then measure the returns, both from a financial perspective and from a social impact perspective. 

When we think about new approaches to aid, it's impossible not to talk about Pakistan.

We've had a rocky relationship with that country and, in all fairness, the United States has not always been a very reliable partner.

But again I would say that this is our moment for extraordinary things to happen.

And if we take that notion of a global innovation fund, we could use this time to invest not directly in government, though we would have government's blessing, nor in international experts, but in the many existing entrepreneurs and civil society leaders who already are building wonderful innovations that are reaching people all across the country. 

It's not hyperbole to say that these civil society institutions and these social entrepreneurs are building real alternatives to the Taliban. 

President Kennedy said that those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.

I would say that the converse is true.

That these social leaders who really are looking at innovation and extending opportunity to the 70 percent of Pakistanis who make less than two dollars a day, provide real pathways to hope.

And as we think about how we construct aid for Pakistan, while we need to strengthen the judiciary, build greater stability, we also need to think about lifting those leaders who can be role models for the rest of the world. 

On one of my last visits to Pakistan, I asked Dr. Sono if he would take me to see some of the drip irrigation in the Thar Desert.

And we left Karachi one morning before dawn.

It was about 115 degrees.

And finally, at the end of the journey, I could see this thin little yellow line across the horizon.

And as we got closer, its significance became apparent.

That there in the desert was a field of sunflowers growing seven feet tall.

Because one of the poorest farmers on Earth had gotten access to a technology that had allowed him to change his own life.

And he said it was the first dry season in his entire life that he hadn't taken his 12 children and 50 grandchildren on a two day journey across the desert to work as day laborers at a commercial farm for about 50 cents a day.

Because he was building these crops.

And with the money he earned he could stay this year.

And for the first time ever in three generations, his children would go to school. 

Because at the end of the day, dignity is more important to the human spirit than wealth.

And what's exciting is to see so many entrepreneurs across sectors who are building innovations that recognize that what people want is freedom and choice and opportunity.

Because that is where dignity really starts. 

But I think our generation also might be the first to have the courage to embrace both love and power.

For that is what we'll need, as we move forward to dream and imagine what it will really take to build a global economy that includes all of us, and to finally extend that fundamental proposition that all men are created equal to every human being on the planet. 

The time for us to begin innovating and looking for new solutions, a cross sector, is now.

I can only talk from my own experience, but in eight years of running Acumen fund, I've seen the power of patient capital.

But I know that many other kinds of innovation also work. 

Rather than what we think that they might need.

It will take embracing the world with both arms.

And it will take living with the spirit of generosity and accountability, with a sense of integrity and perseverance.

And yet these are the very qualities for which men and women have been honored throughout the generations.

And there is so much good that we can do.

Just think of all those sunflowers in the desert.

