And it read -- I'm just going to read a key sentence: "Especially during these violent times, I personally believe that the magical spell cast upon guests who visit our theme parks is particularly important to protect and helps to provide them with an important fantasy they can escape to."

Photography threatens fantasy.

I'm going to run through some of the photographs in this series.

In this context I'll just show you a few.

A human standing in front of an unprotected capsule would die instantly.

And a big part of the work that is sort of absent in this context is text.

So I create these two poles.

Every image is accompanied with a very detailed factual text.

And what I'm most interested in is the invisible space between a text and its accompanying image, and how the image is transformed by the text and the text by the image.

So, at best, the image is meant to float away into abstraction and multiple truths and fantasy.

And then the text functions as this cruel anchor that kind of nails it to the ground.

But in this context I'm just going to read an abridged version of those texts. 

This process costs 60,000 dollars. 

There is a pig's head and African cane rats.

And part of my photographic work is I'm not just documenting what's there.

I do take certain liberties and intervene.

And the CIA has had a long history with both covert and public cultural diplomacy efforts.

And it's speculated that some of their interest in the arts was designed to counter Soviet communism and promote what it considered to be pro-American thoughts and aesthetics.

And one of the art forms that elicited the interest of the agency, and had thus come under question, is abstract expressionism. 

And in this particular photograph the body of a young boy has been used to reenact a crime scene. 

This is the only federally funded site where it is legal to cultivate cannabis for scientific research in the United States.

It's a research crop marijuana grow room. 

And part of the work that I hope for is that there is a sort of disorienting entropy where you can't find any discernible formula in how these things -- they sort of awkwardly jump from government to science to religion to security -- and you can't completely understand how information is being distributed. 

But stuff did feel like it could have been taken 30 or 40 years ago, like it was locked in the Cold War era and hadn't necessarily progressed. 

This is a Braille edition of Playboy magazine.

And Playboy is always in the top few.

(Laughter) 

This film shows the testing of a new explosive fill on a warhead.

And the film was shot on 72 millimeter, government-issue film.

And that red dot is a marking on the government-issue film. 

Meaning white fur, ice blue eyes, a pink nose.

And the majority of these white tigers are not born in a salable state and are killed at birth.

It's a very violent process that is little known.

This, on a lighter note, is at George Lucas' personal archive.

This is the Death Star.

(Laughter) 

This is at Fort Campbell in Kentucky.

It's a Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain site.

It's called the World Church of God.

It's supposed to be a generic site of worship.

And after I took this photograph, they constructed a wall around the World Church of God to mimic the set-up of mosques in Afghanistan or Iraq.

And I put them into my photograph. 

It runs 24 hours a day, commercial free.

However, it's illegal to broadcast Alhurra within the United States.

Now I'm going to move on to another project I did.

It's titled "The Innocents."

And for the men in these photographs, photography had been used to create a fantasy.

I traveled across the United States photographing men and women who had been wrongfully convicted of crimes they did not commit, violent crimes. 

For the men in these photographs, the primary cause of their wrongful conviction was mistaken identification.

I'll give you an example from a case.

A woman was raped and presented with a series of photographs from which to identify her attacker.

Frederick Daye, who is photographed at his alibi location, where 13 witnesses placed him at the time of the crime.

He was convicted by an all-white jury of rape, kidnapping and vehicle theft.

And he served 10 years of a life sentence.

Charles Fain was convicted of kidnapping, rape and murder of a young girl walking to school.

He served 18 years of a death sentence.

I photographed him at the scene of the crime at the Snake River in Idaho.

The scene of arrest, the scene of misidentification, the alibi location.

And here, the scene of the crime, it's this place to which he's never been, but changed his life forever.

So photographing there, I was hoping to highlight the tenuous relationship between truth and fiction, in both his life and in photography. 

He ended up serving 18 and a half years of an 80 year sentence for rape and robbery.

He is photographed at his alibi location. 

And the state's key witness in Ron's case was, in the end, the actual perpetrator. 

Ronald Jones served eight years of a death sentence for rape and murder of a 28-year-old woman.

I photographed him at the scene of arrest in Chicago. 

He had been misidentified by an 11-year-old victim. 

Troy Webb is photographed here at the scene of the crime in Virginia.

He was convicted of rape, kidnapping and robbery, and served seven years of a 47 year sentence.

Troy's picture was in a photo array that the victim tentatively had some draw toward, but said he looked too old.

The police went and found a photograph of Troy Webb from four years earlier, which they entered into a photo array days later, and he was positively identified. 

Now I'm going to leave you with a self portrait.

