So that's why I've always been fascinated with how technology could actually reshape and open up authoritarian societies like ours. 

However, to my surprise, I discovered that dictatorships do not crumble so easily.

In fact, some of them actually survived the Internet challenge, and some got even more repressive. 

That is, promote democracy in difficult places where everything else has already been tried and failed.

However, there is an underlying argument about logistics, which has driven so much of this debate.

So if you look at it close enough, you'll actually see that much of this is about economics.

To put it very simply, the assumption so far has been that if you give people enough connectivity, if you give them enough devices, democracy will inevitably follow. 

And again, I think this is kind of false. 

(Laughter) But this is rarely a good sign.

So, the bigger problem with this logic is that it confuses the intended versus the actual uses of technology.

And they are building what I call the Spinternet.

The combination of spin, on the one hand, and the Internet on the other.

So governments from Russia to China to Iran are actually hiring, training and paying bloggers in order to leave ideological comments and create a lot of ideological blog posts to comment on sensitive political issues.

So you may wonder, why on Earth are they doing it?

Why are they engaging with cyberspace?

Well my theory is that it's happening because censorship actually is less effective than you think it is in many of those places.

The moment you put something critical in a blog, even if you manage to ban it immediately, it will still spread around thousands and thousands of other blogs.

So the more you block it, the more it emboldens people to actually avoid the censorship and thus win in this cat-and-mouse game.

And, again, this is happening quite often.

Just to give you an example of how it works in China, for example.

So they immediately began posting a lot of critical comments.

In fact, QQ.com, which is a popular Chinese website, had 35,000 comments on this issue within hours.

But then authorities did something very smart.

People would keep talking about it for weeks. 

And this actually fits with another interesting theory about what's happening in authoritarian states and in their cyberspace.

We tend to think that somehow this is going to harm these dictatorships, but in many cases it only strengthens them.

And you may wonder why.

I'll just give you a very short list of reasons why authoritarian deliberation may actually help the dictators. 

And first it's quite simple.

Most of them operate in a complete information vacuum.

They don't really have the data they need in order to identify emerging threats facing the regime.

So from this perspective, having blogs and wikis produce knowledge has been great. 

And finally, the purpose of any authoritarian deliberation efforts is usually to increase the legitimacy of the regimes, both at home and abroad.

So inviting people to all sorts of public forums, having them participate in decision making, it's actually great.

Because what happens is that then you can actually point to this initiative and say, "Well, we are having a democracy.

I mean, anyone who has been to Russia would know that there was no planning in Russia for the next month.

And it's great simply because they can gather open source intelligence. 

In the past it would take you weeks, if not months, to identify how Iranian activists connect to each other.

Now you actually know how they connect to each other by looking at their Facebook page.

I mean KGB, and not just KGB, used to torture in order to actually get this data.

But I think the biggest conceptual pitfall that cybertopians made is when it comes to digital natives, people who have grown up online.

That's not an option being considered too strongly. 

So for every digital renegade that is revolting in the streets of Tehran, there may as well be two digital captives who are actually rebelling only in the World of Warcraft.

If you look at some of the surveys on how the young people actually benefit from the Internet, you'll see that the number of teenagers in China, for example, for whom the Internet actually broadens their sex life, is three times more than in the United States.

So it does play a social role, however it may not necessarily lead to political engagement. 

But the point here is that when we get the remote Russian village online, what will get people to the Internet is not going to be the reports from Human Rights Watch.

It's going to be pornography, "Sex and the City," or maybe watching funny videos of cats.

So this is something you have to recognize. 

So what should we do about it?

Because even what has been happening up 'til now with the Spinternet and authoritarian deliberation, there is a great chance that those voices will not be heard.

So I think we should shatter some of our utopian assumptions and actually start doing something about it.

