And seeing with the brain is often called imagination.

They don't seem to be of our creation.

They don't seem to be under our control.

They seem to come from the outside, and to mimic perception. 

A few months ago, I got a phone call from a nursing home where I work.

And so they asked me if I would come and see Rosalie, the old lady.

I went in to see her.

And she told me -- the nurses hadn't mentioned this -- that she was blind, that she had been completely blind from macular degeneration for five years.

But now, for the last few days, she'd been seeing things. 

A man who turns towards me and smiles.

But he has huge teeth on one side of his mouth.

I see this horse with a harness, dragging the snow away.

They come to a certain point and then stop.

They wear bright colors, rose and blue, like Eastern dress."

Sometimes, she said, before the people come on, she may hallucinate pink and blue squares on the floor, which seem to go up to the ceiling.

(Laughter) 

And she has a sense of humor.

She had no control over them.

She said she didn't recognize any of the people or places in the hallucinations.

And none of the people or the animals, well, they all seemed oblivious of her.

And she didn't know what was going on.

She wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind. 

Well, I examined her carefully.

She wasn't on any medications which could produce hallucinations.

But she was blind.

And I then said to her, "I think I know what you have."

Now this, for me, is a common situation.

About 10 percent of the hearing impaired people get musical hallucinations.

And about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations.

You don't have to be completely blind, only sufficiently impaired. 

Now with the original description in the 18th century, Charles Bonnet did not have them.

His grandfather had these hallucinations.

His grandfather was a magistrate, an elderly man.

He'd had cataract surgery.

His vision was pretty poor.

And in 1759, he described to his grandson various things he was seeing. 

The first thing he said was he saw a handkerchief in midair.

It was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles.

And he knew it was a hallucination.

You don't have handkerchiefs in midair.

And then he saw a big wheel in midair.

And then the handsome young men disappeared.

It's typical of these hallucinations that they may come in a flash and disappear in a flash.

They don't usually fade in and out.

They are rather sudden, and they change suddenly. 

Charles Lullin, the grandfather, saw hundreds of different figures, different landscapes of all sorts.

On one occasion, he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe, and realized it was himself.

That was the only figure he recognized.

This repetition of perception is sometimes called palinopsia. 

The things you see can be very complicated indeed. 

With another patient of mine, who, also had some vision, the vision she had could be disturbing.

On one occasion, she said she saw a man in a striped shirt in a restaurant.

She had very mobile hallucinations as well.

And then when they came to a stop, the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff, 100 foot in the air, and then disappear. 

Another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination.

And, above all, she would see cartoons.

These cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field, like a screen.

And especially she saw cartoons of Kermit the Frog.

She didn't mind the cartoons too much.

And these frightened her.

Well, what is going on with these people?

Something like 10 percent, as I said, of visually impaired people get these.

And if they do mention them to their own doctors they may be misdiagnosed. 

They jeer at you.

You interact with them.

And you're waiting for your girl.

And it's that Tuesday evening back in 1982.

And the temporal lobe hallucinations are all-sense hallucinations, full of feeling, full of familiarity, located in space and time, coherent, dramatic.

The Charles Bonnet ones are quite different. 

So in the Charles Bonnet hallucinations, you have all sorts of levels, from the geometrical hallucinations -- the pink and blue squares the woman had -- up to quite elaborate hallucinations with figures and especially faces.

Faces, and sometimes deformed faces, are the single commonest thing in these hallucinations.

And one of the second commonest is cartoons. 

So, what is going on?

Fascinatingly, in the last few years, it's been possible to do functional brain imagery, to do fMRI on people as they are hallucinating.

And in fact, to find that different parts of the visual brain are activated as they are hallucinating.

When people have these simple geometrical hallucinations, the primary visual cortex is activated.

This is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns.

You don't form images with your primary visual cortex. 

When images are formed, a higher part of the visual cortex is involved in the temporal lobe.

And in particular, one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus.

And it's known that if people have damage in the fusiform gyrus, they maybe lose the ability to recognize faces.

There is an area in the anterior part of this gyrus where teeth and eyes are represented, and that part of the gyrus is activated when people get the deformed hallucinations. 

There is another part of the brain which is especially activated when one sees cartoons.

It's activated when one recognizes cartoons, when one draws cartoons, and when one hallucinates them.

It's very interesting that that should be specific.

There are other parts of the brain which are specifically involved with the recognition and hallucination of buildings and landscapes. 

Around 1970, it was found that there were not only parts of the brain, but particular cells.

"Face cells" were discovered around 1970.

And now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells, which can be very, very specific.

I had to bring it in.

(Laughter) 

Now, at this level, in what's called the inferotemporal cortex, there are only visual images, or figments or fragments.

It's only at higher levels that the other senses join in and there are connections with memory and emotion.

And in the Charles Bonnet syndrome, you don't go to those higher levels.

You're in these levels of inferior visual cortex where you have thousands and tens of thousands and millions of images, or figments, or fragmentary figments, all neurally encoded in particular cells or small clusters of cells. 

It is only if one is visually impaired or blind that the process is interrupted.

Suddenly this, and suddenly that.

When these were first described, it was thought that they could be interpreted like dreams.

You don't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams. 

Well, I've more or less said what I wanted.

I think I just want to recapitulate and say this is common.

Think of the number of blind people.

There must be hundreds of thousands of blind people who have these hallucinations, but are too scared to mention them.

So this sort of thing needs to be brought into notice, for patients, for doctors, for the public.

Finally, I think they are infinitely interesting and valuable, for giving one some insight as to how the brain works. 

Charles Bonnet said, 250 years ago -- he wondered how, thinking these hallucinations, how, as he put it, the theater of the mind could be generated by the machinery of the brain.

Now, 250 years later, I think we're beginning to glimpse how this is done.

Thanks very much. 

Thanks very much. 

You speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients.

Have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about? 

And actually I'm a little visually impaired myself.

I'm blind in one eye, and not terribly good in the other.

And I see the geometrical hallucinations.

But they stop there. 

CA: And they don't disturb you?

Because you understand what's doing it, it doesn't make you worried? 

I've gone and had an fMRI myself, to see how my visual cortex is taking over.

And when I see all these hexagons and complex things, which I also have, in visual migraine, I wonder whether everyone sees things like this, and whether things like cave art or ornamental art may have been derived from them a bit. 

