And so, I would like to cheer you up with one of the great, albeit largely unknown, commercial success stories of the past 20 years.

Comparable, in its own very peculiar way, to the achievements of Microsoft or Google.

And it's an industry which has bucked the current recession with equanimity.

I refer to organized crime. 

Now it's time for full disclosure.

This event meant a great deal to me personally.

I had started smuggling books across the Iron Curtain to Democratic opposition groups in Eastern Europe, like Solidarity in Poland, when I was in my teens.

It wasn't long, for example, before ethnic nationalism reared its bloody head in Yugoslavia.

And amongst the chaos, amidst the euphoria, it took me a little while to understand that some of the people who had wielded power before 1989, in Eastern Europe, continued to do so after the revolutions there.

Obviously there were characters like this.

It may come as a surprise, but they played a critical role in the emergence of the market economy in Eastern Europe.

Or as I like to call them, they are the midwives of capitalism.

Here are some of those same weightlifters after their 1989 makeover. 

So what was a business man in the brave new world of East European capitalism going to do to make sure that his contracts would be honored?

Well, he would turn to people who were called, rather prosaically by sociologists, privatized law enforcement agencies.

We prefer to know them as the mafia.

Now, when your state is collapsing, your economy is heading south at a rate of knots, the last people you want coming on to the labor market are 14,000 men and women whose chief skills are surveillance, are smuggling, building underground networks and killing people.

But that's what happened all over Eastern Europe.

Now, when I was working in the 1990s, I spent most of the time covering the appalling conflict in Yugoslavia. 

And I couldn't help notice that the people who were perpetrating the appalling atrocities, the paramilitary organizations, were actually the same people running the organized criminal syndicates.

And I came to think that behind the violence lay a sinister criminal enterprise.

But above all else, by talking to the gangsters themselves. 

Now, organized crime in a globalizing world operates in the same way as any other business.

Take Mexico, for example.

Six thousand people killed there in the last 18 months as a direct consequence of the cocaine trade.

But what about the Democratic Republic of Congo?

Since 1998, five million people have died there.

It's not a conflict you read about much in the newspapers, but it's the biggest conflict on this planet since the Second World War.

In the year 2000, 80 percent of the world's coltan was sourced to the killing fields of the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.

Now, coltan you will find in almost every mobile phone, in almost every laptop and games console.

Now, let me show you some of my friends in action, caught conveniently on film by the Italian police, and smuggling duty-not-paid cigarettes.

Now, cigarettes out the factory gate are very cheap.

The European Union then imposes the highest taxes on them in the world.

This boat is worth one million Euros when it's new.

And it's the fastest thing on European waters.

From 1994, for seven years, 20 of these boats made the trip across the Adriatic, from Montenegro to Italy, every single night.

And as a consequence of this trade, Britain alone lost eight billion dollars in revenue.

And instead that money went to underwrite the wars in Yugoslavia and line the pockets of unscrupulous individuals. 

Now Italian police, when this trade started, had just two boats which could go at the same speed.

And this is very important, because the only way you can catch these guys is if they run out of gas.

So I have shown you this to demonstrate how many boats, how many vessels it takes to catch one of these guys.

And the answer is six vessels.

And remember, 20 of these speed boats were coming across the Adriatic every single night.

So what were these guys doing with all the money they were making? 

And boy, did that make it easy for the money launderers.

The last two decades have been the champagne era for dirty lucre. 

And a lot of licit banks were also happy to accept deposits from very dubious sources without questions being asked. 

On a positive note, we at last have someone in the White House who has consistently spoken out against these corrosive entities. 

Bernie Madoff stole 65 billion dollars.

So how many other Madoffs are there on Wall Street or in the city of London, fleecing ordinary folk and money laundering?

Well I can tell you, it's quite a few of them. 

This one, however, is in central British Columbia where I photographed it.

It's one of the tens of thousands of mom-and-pop grow-ops in B.C.

which ensure that over five percent of the province's GDP is accounted for by this trade. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Now, even by the police's admission, this makes not a dent in the profits, really, of the major exporters.

Since the beginning of globalization, the global narcotics market has expanded enormously.

There has, however, been no concomitant increase in the resources available to police forces. 

The United Nations recognized earlier this -- it was last month actually -- that Canada has become a key area of distribution and production of ecstasy and other synthetic drugs. 

When that happens, it is a trend which is set to overwhelm our policing capacity in the West.

The drugs policy which we've had in place for 40 years is long overdue for a very serious rethink, in my opinion. 

Not surprising, the most opportunistic industry in the whole world.

And it has no rules to its regulatory system.

What they've done is they've shifted their operations.

People don't smoke as much dope, or visit prostitutes quite so frequently during a recession.

And it's been terribly successful.

I would like to introduce you to Mr. Pringle.

Or perhaps I should say, more accurately, Señor Pringle. 

I was introduced to this bit of kit by a Brazilian cybercriminal.

We sat in a car on the Avenue Paulista in São Paulo, together.

It's really not that difficult.

The key to cybercrime is what we call social engineering.

Now, she harbored all sorts of sentiments and emotions towards me at the time, but love was not amongst them.

(Laughter) And so as soon as I saw this drop into my inbox, I dispatched it hastily to the recycle bin and spared myself a very nasty infection. 

So, cybercrime, do watch out for it.

One thing that we do know that the Internet is doing is the Internet is assisting these guys.

But over the past year or so, researchers in Cambodia have discovered that what's happening is the malarial parasite is developing a resistance.

And they fear that the reason why it's developing a resistance is because Cambodians can't afford the drugs on the commercial market, and so they buy it from the Internet.

And these pills contain only low doses of the active ingredient.

Which is why the parasite is beginning to develop a resistance. 

You don't have to sleep with prostitutes or take drugs in order to have a relationship with organized crime.

They even affect the food that we eat and our governments. 

This is a mighty industry, and it creates instability and violence wherever it goes.

It's been a privilege talking to you.

