But what is it? 

Other places, GMO is saving the world.

Maybe GMO is the problem?

And I find the current climate of this discussion incredibly disempowering.

So how do we bring that to something that we understand? 

How is this apple food crisis?

How is it that none of you knew this?

Why didn't I know this?

Ninety percent of the quality of that apple -- all of the antioxidants -- are gone by the time we get it.

It's basically a little ball of sugar.

I think what's missing is a platform.

The most productive areas in green, the least productive in red.

What if each country had its own productive climate?

What would that change about how we live?

What would that change about quality of life and nutrition? 

The last generation's problem was, we need more food and we need it cheap.

Welcome to your global farm.

It's a miracle that we feed seven billion people with just a few of us involved in the production of food. 

Going through some of these quotes, you know, they inspire me to do what I do. 

Two percent of the American population is involved in farming.

What good answer comes from two percent of any population?

Eighty percent don't want to be farmers.

Farming is hard.

The life of a small-shareholder farmer is miserable.

They go into the city.

It's uncomfortable to talk about.

No young people, and everyone's headed in.

So how do we build this platform that inspires the youth? 

Welcome to the new tractor.

This is my combine.

Is this a new retail experience?

Is this a new grocery store?

We get our salad in bags; there's nothing wrong with that.

But what happens when you have an image-based processing expert, a data scientist, a roboticist, ripping roots off and thinking, "Huh.

But what happens when you have an image-based processing expert, a data scientist, a roboticist, ripping roots off and thinking, "Huh.

This lettuce that day was hyper sweet.

Technologists falling backwards into plant physiology. 

Those beautiful eyes are not being passed down. 

These are eyes in the cloud of a farmer.

These are all the broccoli in my lab that day, by IP address. 

We have IP-addressable broccoli. 

So if that's not weird enough, you can click one and you get a plant profile.

So this is my lab now.

It's a little bit more systematized, my background is designing data centers in hospitals of all things, so I know a little bit about creating a controlled environment. 

And so -- inside of this environment, we're experimenting with all kinds of things.

This process, aeroponics, was developed by NASA for Mir Space Station for reducing the amount of water they send into space.

It's like the plant has two hearts.

And because it has two hearts, it grows four or five times faster.

It's a perfect world.

Do you know that we have rare and ancient seed banks?

They have germplasm alive and things that you've never eaten.

I am the only person in this room that's eaten that kind of tomato.

But we've done things with protein -- we've grown all kinds of things.

We've grown humans -- 

Well maybe you could, but we didn't. 

But what we realized is, the tool was too big, it was too expensive.

I was starting to put them around the world and they were about 100,000 dollars.

Finding somebody with 100 grand in their back pocket isn't easy, so we wanted to make a small one. 

This project was actually one of my student's -- mechanical engineering undergraduate, Camille.

So Camille and I and my team, we iterated all summer, how to make it cheaper, how to make it work better, how to make it so other people can make it.

So I went into this school and I said, "Set it to 65 percent humidity."

We've created an interface for this that's much like a game.

They have different parts of the bots -- the physical, the sensors.

They select recipes that have been created by other kids anywhere in the world.

Harvest plant, and you've created a new digital recipe. 

But more importantly, it was the first time that this kid ever thought he could be a farmer -- or that he would want to be a farmer. 

But we got a little too big. 

This is my new facility that I'm just starting.

This warehouse could be anywhere.

That's why I chose it.

And inside of this warehouse we're going to build something kind of like this.

These exist, too.

One grows greens, one grows Ebola vaccine.

Pretty amazing that plants and this DARPA Grand Challenge winner is one of the reasons we're getting ahead of Ebola.

When we ask for more, cheaper food, we're now asking for better, environmentally friendly food.

What does this look like in a world?

We start sending information about food, rather than sending food.

Food computers, food servers, soon-to-be food data centers, connecting people together to share information. 

