Today I'm going to talk to you about the problem of other minds.

And the problem I'm going to talk about is not the familiar one from philosophy, which is, "How can we know whether other people have minds?"

That is, maybe you have a mind, and everyone else is just a really convincing robot.

Or perhaps, more relevantly, "Why is it so hard to change what somebody else wants or believes?"

I think novelists put this best.

And put another way, the crux of the problem is the machine that we use for thinking about other minds, our brain, is made up of pieces, brain cells, that we share with all other animals, with monkeys and mice and even sea slugs.

And yet, you put them together in a particular network, and what you get is the capacity to write Romeo and Juliet.

So I'm going to tell you three things about this today.

Obviously the whole project here is huge.

And you don't use it for solving any other kinds of logical problems.

The second thing I want to say about this brain system is that although we human adults are really good at understanding other minds, we weren't always that way.

It takes children a long time to break into the system.

I'm going to show you a little bit of that long, extended process.

Child: So, that one is his. 

Child: And then his went on the ground. 

RS: That's exactly right. 

Child: So he won't know which one is his. 

Child: I think he is going to take that one. 

So that's a five-year-old who clearly understands that other people can have false beliefs and what the consequences are for their actions.

Now I'm going to show you a three-year-old who got the same puzzle. 

Child: His was on the grass. 

So the three-year-old does two things differently.

First, he predicts Ivan will take the sandwich that's really his.

So that's why he's taking the other sandwich.

RS: Should Ivan get in trouble for taking Joshua's sandwich? 

RS: Was Ivan being mean and naughty for taking Joshua's sandwich? 

RS: Should Ivan get in trouble for taking Joshua's sandwich? 

Child: No, because the wind should get in trouble. 

And now what we've started to do in my lab is to put children into the brain scanner and ask what's going on in their brain as they develop this ability to think about other people's thoughts.

So the first thing is that in children we see this same brain region, the Right TPJ, being used while children are thinking about other people.

But it's not quite like the adult brain. 

And Grace's friend asks for some sugar in her coffee.

Grace goes to make the coffee and finds by the coffee a pot containing a white powder, which is sugar.

And she puts it in her friend's coffee.

And her friend drinks the coffee, and is fine. 

And we can compare that to another case, where everything in the real world is the same.

The powder is still sugar, but what's different is what Grace thinks.

Now she thinks the powder is sugar.

And perhaps unsurprisingly, if Grace thinks the powder is sugar and puts it in her friend's coffee, people say she deserves no blame at all.

Whereas if she thinks the powder was poison, even though it's really sugar, now people say she deserves a lot of blame, even though what happened in the real world was exactly the same. 

And in fact, they say she deserves more blame in this case, the failed attempt to harm, than in another case, which we call an accident.

Where Grace thought the powder was sugar, because it was labeled "sugar" and by the coffee machine, but actually the powder was poison.

So even though when the powder was poison, the friend drank the coffee and died, people say Grace deserves less blame in that case, when she innocently thought it was sugar, than in the other case, where she thought it was poison and no harm occurred. 

People, though, disagree a little bit about exactly how much blame Grace should get in the accident case.

Some people think she should deserve more blame, and other people less.

And we do have such a tool.

It's called Trans-Cranial Magnetic Stimulation, or TMS.

This is a tool that lets us pass a magnetic pulse through somebody's skull, into a small region of their brain, and temporarily disorganize the function of the neurons in that region. 

So I'm going to show you a demo of this.

So there is no physical force, just a magnetic pulse. 

Okay, so it causes a small involuntary contraction in my hand by putting a magnetic pulse in my brain.

And we can use that same pulse, now applied to the RTPJ, to ask if we can change people's moral judgments.

So these are the judgments I showed you before, people's normal moral judgments.

And then we can apply TMS to the RTPJ and ask how people's judgments change.

And the first thing is, people can still do this task overall. 

We have a special brain system that lets us think about what other people are thinking.

RS: I'm not.

CA: They really are calling?

So then seriously, you must lie awake at night sometimes wondering where this work leads.

RS: Yeah, we worry about this.

So, there's a couple of things to say about TMS.

It's quite hard, actually, to get those very small changes.

And so, I think of what I'm doing not so much as studying the defendant in a criminal trial, but studying the jury. 

RS: That's one of the idealistic hopes.

The whole research program here of studying the distinctive parts of the human brain is brand new.

We knew how brains see, and how they control the body and how they hear and sense.

And we don't know yet what the implications will be of understanding it. 

The notion that you can understand why a brain works, perhaps.

But why does anyone have to feel anything?

Why does it seem to require these beings who sense things for us to operate?

You're a brilliant young neuroscientist.

I mean, what chances do you think there are that at some time in your career, someone, you or someone else, is going to come up with some paradigm shift in understanding what seems an impossible problem? 

CA: Why? 

