And perhaps the best place to start is with my late father.

He was a great storyteller.

He could tell a story about an event, and so you felt you were absolutely there at the moment.

And one of the stories he told me so often when I was a young boy was of the first British atomic bomb test.

He had been there and watched it go off. 

And he said that the explosion was so loud and the light was so intense, that he actually had to put his hands in front of his face to protect his eyes.

And I know that watching that atomic bomb going off had a very, very big impact on my late father.

Every holiday I had as a young boy was in a national park.

What he was trying to do with me was to inspire me to protect the world, and show me just how fragile the world is. 

And so ever since I think I was just six years old, I dreamed of going to the polar regions.

I really, really wanted to go to the Arctic.

There was something about that place which drew me to it.

And, well, sometimes it takes a long time for a dream to come true.

I love the place. 

But I have seen that place change beyond all description, just in that short period of time.

I have seen polar bears walking across very, very thin ice in search of food.

I have swum in front of glaciers which have retreated so much.

And I have also, every year, seen less and less sea ice.

And I wanted the world to know what was happening up there. 

In the two years before my swim, 23 percent of the arctic sea ice cover just melted away.

And I wanted to really shake the lapels of world leaders to get them to understand what is happening.

The passengers who fell off the Titanic fell into water of just five degrees centigrade.

Fresh water freezes at zero.

And the water at the North Pole is minus 1.7.

It's fucking freezing.

(Laughter) 

It couldn't be further from the truth for me.

And I then went and did a huge amount of training, swimming in icy water, backwards and forwards. 

But the most important thing was to train my mind to prepare myself for what was going to happen.

And I had to visualize the swim.

And then, after a year of training, I felt ready.

I felt confident that I could actually do this swim.

I was going to try and do a 20-minute swim, for one kilometer across the North Pole.

And this dream which I had had ever since I was a young boy with my father, was just going out the window.

And all I could think of was, if that happened to Ran after three minutes, and I can't feel my hands after five minutes, what on earth is going to happen if I try 20 minutes?

And I just, I got so much confidence from him saying that, because he knew me so well.

So we carried on sailing and we arrived at the North Pole.

And we stopped the ship, and it was just as the scientists had predicted.

There were open patches of sea everywhere.

And I went down into my cabin and I put on my swimming costume.

And I remember looking into the ice, and there were big chunks of white ice in there, and the water was completely black.

I had never seen black water before.

LP: How on earth did we do that? 

(Laughter) 

And I say to them, I think we need to do three things.

The first thing we need to do is we need to break this problem down into manageable chunks.

The second thing we need to do is we need to just look back at how far we have come in such a short period of time.

And that is, "What type of world do we want to live in, and what decision are we going to make today to ensure that we all live in a sustainable world?"

