Most of the time, art and science stare at each other across a gulf of mutual incomprehension.

There is great confusion when the two look at each other.

Art, of course, looks at the world through the psyche, the emotions -- the unconscious at times -- and of course the aesthetic.

Science tends to look at the world through the rational, the quantitative -- things that can be measured and described -- but it gives art a terrific context of understanding. 

Specifically, I as a person who's been a professional nature photographer my whole adult life, am firmly of the belief that photography, video, film have tremendous powers for helping us understand and shape the way we think about nature and about ourselves in relationship to nature. 

In this project, we're specifically interested, of course, in ice.

I'm fascinated by the beauty of it, the mutability of it, the malleability of it, and the fabulous shapes in which it can carve itself.

These first images are from Greenland.

But ice has another meaning.

Ice is the canary in the global coal mine.

It's the place where we can see and touch and hear and feel climate change in action. 

Climate change is a really abstract thing in most of the world.

95 percent of the glaciers in the world are retreating or shrinking.

And the great irony and tragedy of our time is that a lot of the general public thinks that science is still arguing about that.

Science is not arguing about that.

And that led me to this project.

Initially, I was working on a National Geographic assignment -- conventional, single frame, still photography.

Well, within about three weeks, I incautiously turned that idea of a couple of time-lapse cameras into 25 time-lapse cameras.

And these cameras are positioned on rocks on the sides of the glaciers, and they look in on the glacier from permanent, bedrock positions, and they watch the evolution of the landscape.

We just had a number of cameras out on the Greenland Ice Sheet.

We actually drilled holes into the ice, way deep down below the thawing level, and had some cameras out there for the past month and a half or so.

Actually, there's still a camera out there right now.

Here's a time lapse of one of the time-lapse units being made.

(Laughter) I personally obsessed about every nut, bolt and washer in these crazy things.

I spent half my life at our local hardware store during the months when we built these units originally. 

We're working in most of the major glaciated regions of the northern hemisphere.

There's a lot of people working on this right now.

We've got 33 cameras out this moment.

We've been out for two and a half years, and we've got about another two and a half years yet to go. 

That's only half our job.

The other half of our job is to tell the story to the global public.

You know, scientists have collected this kind of information off and on over the years, but a lot of it stays within the science community.

Now, one bit of science before we get into the visuals.

Everything else you hear is just propaganda and confusion.

Key issues: this is a 400,000 year record.

This exact same pattern is seen going back now almost a million years before our current time.

And several things are important. 

Number one: temperature and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere go up and down basically in sync.

You can see that from the orange line and the blue line.

Nature naturally has allowed carbon dioxide to go up to 280 parts per million.

That's the natural cycle.

Right now, if you look at the top right part of that graph, we're at 385 parts per million.

We are way, way outside the normal, natural variability.

Earth is having a fever.

At the rate of about two and a half parts per million per year.

It's been a remorseless, steady increase. 

But anyway, off to the world of ice. 

We're now at the Columbia Glacier in Alaska.

This is a view of what's called the calving face.

If you look in the middle background, you can see the calving face bobbing up and down like a yo-yo.

That means that glacier's floating and it's unstable, and you're about to see the consequences of that floating.

So there's a wall of ice a couple thousand feet deep going down to bedrock if the glacier's grounded on bedrock, and floating if it isn't. 

This was an aerial picture I did one day in June three years ago.

This is an aerial picture we did this year.

That's the retreat of this glacier.

The main stem, the main flow of the glacier is coming from the right and it's going very rapidly up that stem.

But, in any case, the deflation of this glacier since 1984 has been higher than the Eiffel Tower, higher than the Empire State Building. 

A tremendous amount of ice has been let out of these valleys as it's retreated and deflated, gone back up valley.

These changes in the alpine world are accelerating.

It's not static.

But in any case, there are big, big changes happening as we speak. 

So, here's another time-lapse shot of Columbia.

And you see where it ended in these various spring days, June, May, then October.

Now we turn on our time lapse.

This camera was shooting every hour.

Geologic process in action here.

Finally catches up to itself, it advances. 

We've been talking about "seeing is believing " and seeing the unseen at TED Global.

That's what you see with these cameras.

The images make the invisible visible.

These huge crevasses open up.

This has been the springtime this year -- a huge collapse.

So that's where we started three years ago, way out on the left, and that's where we were a few months ago, the last time we went into Columbia.

If you line up 295 of those nose to tail, that's about how far back that was.

It's a long way. 

On up to Iceland.

One of my favorite glaciers, the Sólheimajökull.

You can stand up there your whole life and you would never see this, but the camera records it. 

So we wind time backwards now.

We go back a couple years in time.

That's where it started.

That's where it ended a few months ago. 

And on up to Greenland.

The smaller the ice mass, the faster it responds to climate.

Greenland took a little while to start reacting to the warming climate of the past century, but it really started galloping along about 20 years ago.

And there's been a tremendous increase in the temperature up there. 

We have some cameras on the south edge of the Ilulissat, watching the calving face as it goes through this dramatic retreat.

Here's a two-year record of what that looks like.

Helicopter in front of the calving face for scale, quickly dwarfed.

The calving face is four and a half miles across, and in this shot, as we pull back, you're only seeing about a mile and a half.

So, imagine how big this is and how much ice is charging out.

The interior of Greenland is to the right.

It's flowing out to the Atlantic Ocean on the left.

Icebergs, many, many, many, many times the size of this building, are roaring out to sea. 

I'll show you one of those in a second. 

This glacier has doubled its flow speed in the past 15 years.

It now goes at 125 feet a day, dumping all this ice into the ocean.

It tends to go in these pulses, about every three days, but on average, 125 feet a day, twice the rate it did 20 years ago. 

We had nine cameras going.

This is what a couple of the cameras saw.

A 400-foot-tall calving face breaking off.

So an illustration again, gives you a feeling for scale.

The block was three-fifths of a mile deep, and if you compare the expanse of the calving face to the Tower Bridge in London, about 20 bridges wide.

75 minutes. 

The policy and the economics and the technology are serious enough issues, but we actually can deal with them.

I'm certain that we can.

Fortunately, a lot of the political leaders in the major countries of the world are an elite audience that for the most part gets it now.

But we still need to bring a lot of people along with us.

And that's where I think organizations like TED, like the Extreme Ice Survey can have a terrific impact on human perception and bring us along.

Because I believe we have an opportunity right now. 

We are nearly on the edge of a crisis, but we still have an opportunity to face the greatest challenge of our generation and, in fact, of our century.

I hope that we have the wisdom to let the angels of our better nature rise to the occasion and do what needs to be done.

