I'm extremely excited to be given the opportunity to come and speak to you today about what I consider to be the biggest stunt on Earth.

Or perhaps not quite on Earth.

A parachute jump from the very edge of space.

More about that a bit later on. 

During that time, health and safety has become everything about my job.

But it wasn't always that way. 

They had no safety, no real technology.

What safety they had was very scant.

You can see from the slide, very very strong.

She really paved the way at a time when nobody was doing stunts, let alone women. 

My favorite and a real hero of mine is Yakima Canutt.

Yakima Canutt really formed the stunt fight.

He worked with John Wayne and most of those old punch-ups you see in the Westerns.

There is no safety, no back support, no pads, no crash mats, no sand pits in the ground.

That's one of the most dangerous horse stunts, certainly. 

Talking of dangerous stunts and bringing things slightly up to date, some of the most dangerous stunts we do as stunt people are fire stunts.

We couldn't do them without technology.

Highly dangerous, but also you'll notice it doesn't look as though I'm wearing anything underneath the suit.

Here's a bit more.

There's a guy with a flame thrower there, giving me what for. 

One of the things that a stuntman often does, and you'll see it every time in the big movies, is be blown through the air.

I could, quite literally, fire myself into the gallery.

Which I'm sure you wouldn't want.

Not today. 

Car stunts are another area where technology and engineering advances have made life easier for us, and safer.

We can do bigger car stunts than ever before now.

Being run over is never easy.

That's an old-fashioned, hard, gritty, physical stunt.

The picture in the bottom right-hand corner there is of some crash test dummy work that I was doing.

Showing how stunts work in different areas, really.

The car on the left drove into the steel pillar.

And you can't see it from there, but the engine was in the driver's lap.

They did it by remote control.

I drove the other one at 60 miles an hour, exactly the same speed, and clearly walked away from it. 

But now we have a compressed nitrogen cannon.

You can just see, underneath the car, there is a black rod on the floor by the wheel of the other car.

That's the piston that was fired out of the floor.

Only one person had ever done it before.

High falls, they're old fashioned stunts.

Just basically though, it is a basic piece of equipment.

It's a bouncy castle with slats in the side to allow the air to escape.

What's interesting is we still use cardboard boxes.

They used to use cardboard boxes years ago and we still use them.

And on the other side of the fence, that physical art, the physical performance of the stuntman, has interfaced with the very highest technology in I.T.

Not the cardboard box, but the green screen.

This is a shot of "Terminator," the movie.

This is a parachutist with another parachutist doing exactly the same thing.

Completely in the safety of a studio, and yet with the green screen we can have some moving image that a skydiver took, and put in the sky moving and the clouds whizzing by. 

Decelerator rigs and wires, we use them a lot.

We fly people on wires, like this.

And this is a Guinness World Record attempt.

They asked me to open their 50th anniversary show in 2004.

And that's Centre Point in London.

We brought Oxford Street and Tottenham Court Road to a standstill. 

Which brings us quite nicely to why I'm really here today: Project Space Jump. 

In 1960, Joseph Kittenger of the United States Air Force did the most spectacular thing.

Project Excelsior, it was called.

There were three jumps.

They first dropped some dummies.

So that's the balloon, big gas balloon.

It's that shape because the helium has to expand.

You can clearly see the curvature of the Earth at that kind of altitude.

So it's an extremely hostile place to be. 

I spoke with him on the phone a few months ago.

He's a very humble and wonderful human being.

This is him in a pressure suit. 

Above 30,000 feet up to nearly 50,000 feet, you need pressure breathing, which is where you're wearing a G suit.

You need a pressure suit.

Above 50,000 feet you need a space suit, a pressure suit.

Certainly at 100,000 feet no aircraft will fly.

It took me a while; it took me years to find the right balloon team to build the balloon that would do this job.

I've found that team in America now.

And it's made of polyethylene, so it's very thin.

They're just so, so delicate. 

And this is the camera that he had on him as he tumbled before his drogue chute opened to stabilize him.

A drogue chute is just a smaller chute which helps to keep your face down.

I did quite a lot of research.

And you'll see in a second there, he comes back down to the floor. 

That's in New Mexico.

My gondola will be more simple than that.

It's a three sided box, basically. 

So I've had to do quite a lot of training.

This is what the view is going to be like at 90,000 feet for me.

Now you may think this is just a thrill-seeking trip, a pleasure ride, just the world's biggest stunt.

Well there's a little bit more to it than that. 

That suit would cost me about a million and a half dollars.

And it weighs 300 pounds and you can't skydive in it.

It was made by a Russian that's designed most of the suits of the past 18 years for the Soviets.

He left the company because he saw, as some other people in the space suit industry, an emerging market for space suits for space tourists. 

You know if you are in an aircraft at 30,000 feet and the cabin depressurizes, you can have oxygen.

And so we expect -- it's not much fun.

And then if the cabin depressurizes while the aircraft is coming back down, in whatever emergency measures, everyone is okay. 

And it doesn't look far different when it's inflated, as you can see from the picture down there. 

Ladies and gentlemen, that's just about it from me.

I'm confident that we'll find one.

I think it's a great challenge.

