One of my driving passions is this idea of exploring nature, and trying to find hidden data within nature.

It seems to me that there is this latent potential everywhere, all around us.

Through my work, I've been trying to find ways to harness and unveil this.

And so this basically led me to a subject called cymatics.

Moving on from this, the next person to explore this field was a gentleman called Hans Jenny in the 1970s.

He actually coined the term cymatics.

Then bringing us into the present day is a fellow collaborator of mine and cymatics expert, John Stewart Reed.

He's kindly recreated for us the Chladni experiment.

What we can see here is the metal sheet, this time connected to a sound driver and being fed by a frequency generator.

As the frequencies increase, so do the complexities of the patterns that appear on the plate.

So, what excites me about cymatics?

Well, for me cymatics is an almost magical tool.

It's like a looking glass into a hidden world.

Through the numerous ways that we can apply cymatics, we can actually start to unveil the substance of things not seen.

Devices like the cymascope, which you can see here, have been used to scientifically observe cymatic patterns.

And the list of scientific applications is growing every day. 

For example, in oceanography, a lexicon of dolphin language is actually being created by basically visualizing the sonar beams that the dolphins emit.

And hopefully in the future we'll be able to gain some deeper understanding of how they communicate.

We can also use cymatics for healing and education.

We can also use cymatics as a beautiful natural art form. 

This image here is created from a snippet of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony playing through a cymatic device.

So it kind of flips things on its head a little bit.

We can also use cymatics as a looking glass into nature.

And we can actually recreate the archetypal forms of nature.

So, for example, here on the left we can see a snowflake as it would appear in nature.

Then on the right we can see a cymatically created snowflake.

And here is a starfish and a cymatic starfish.

And there is thousands of these. 

So what does this all mean?

But consider for a moment that sound does have form.

We've seen that it can affect matter and cause form within matter.

And if we kind of ponder on that, then perhaps cymatics had an influence on the formation of the universe itself. 

I want to urge everybody here to apply your passion, your knowledge and your skills to areas like cymatics.

I think collectively we can build a global community.

We can inspire each other.

