It's hard to believe that it's less than a year since the extraordinary moment when the finance, the credit, which drives our economies froze.

A massive cardiac arrest.

And it's only a few months since governments injected enormous sums of money to try and keep the whole system afloat.

And we're now in a very strange sort of twilight zone, where no one quite knows what's worked, or what doesn't.

We don't have any very clear maps, any compass to guide us.

We don't know which experts to believe anymore. 

I want to start just by saying a bit about where I'm coming from.

I've got a very confused background which perhaps makes me appropriate for confused times.

I've been a civil servant, and I've been in charge of policy for this guy as well. 

But what I want to talk about begins when I was at this city, this university, as a student.

And then as now, it was a beautiful place of balls and punts, beautiful people, many of whom took to heart Ronald Reagan's comment that, "even if they say hard work doesn't do you any harm, why risk it?"

And I spent quite a lot of time with them rather than in punts.

And they were people who were not short of wit, or grace or energy, but they had no hope, no jobs, no prospects.

And when people aren't allowed to be useful, they soon think that they're useless.

Rates of depression carried on up, right across the Western world.

And it became ever clearer that economic growth doesn't automatically translate into social growth or human growth. 

And I think one of the lessons of history is that even the deepest crises can be moments of opportunity.

They bring ideas from the margins into the mainstream.

They often lead to the acceleration of much-needed reforms.

And you saw that in the '30s, when the Great Depression paved the way for Bretton Woods, welfare states and so on.

And I think you can see around us now, some of the green shoots of a very different kind of economy and capitalism which could grow.

You can see it in daily life.

And I'm a very small part of this.

There's a similar story, I think, for governments.

But now, a few months on, however good politicians are at swallowing frogs without pulling a face, as someone once put it, they can't hide their uncertainty.

Because it's already clear how much of the enormous amount of money they put into the economy, really went into fixing the past, bailing out the banks, the car companies, not preparing us for the future.

How much of the money is going into concrete and boosting consumption, not into solving the really profound problems we have to solve. 

And everywhere, as people think about the unprecedented sums which are being spent of our money and our children's money, now, in the depth of this crisis, they're asking: Surely, we should be using this with a longer-term vision to accelerate the shift to a green economy, to prepare for aging, to deal with some of the inequalities which scar countries like this and the United States rather than just giving the money to the incumbents?

And I think more and more people are also asking: Why boost consumption, rather than change what we consume?

Like the mayor of São Paulo who's banned advertising billboards, or the many cities like San Francisco putting in infrastructures for electric cars.

You can see a bit of the same thing happening in the business world.

Some, I think some of the bankers who have appear to have learned nothing and forgotten nothing.

But ask yourselves: What will be the biggest sectors of the economy in 10, 20, 30 years time?

Elder care, child care, already much bigger employers than cars.

Education: six, seven, eight percent of the economy and growing.

Environmental services, energy services, the myriad of green jobs, they're all pointing to a very different kind of economy which isn't just about products, but is using distributed networks, and it's founded above all on care, on relationships, on what people do to other people, often one to one, rather than simply selling them a product. 

And I think that what connects the challenge for civil society, the challenge for governments and the challenge for business now is, in a way, a very simple one, but quite a difficult one.

We know our societies have to radically change.

We know we can't go back to where we were before the crisis.

And here's the problem.

In science, we do experiments systematically.

Our societies now spend two, three, four percent of GDP to invest systematically in new discovery, in science, in technology, to fuel the pipeline of brilliant inventions which illuminate gatherings like this.

And he ended his life selling companies to venture capitalists. 

And his life was a systematic experiment to find better social answers, not from a theory, but from experiment, and experiment involving the people with the best intelligence on social needs, which were usually the people living with those needs.

And he believed we live with others, we share the world with others and therefore our innovation must be done with others too, not doing things at people, for them, and so on. 

Now, what he did didn't used to have a name, but I think it's rapidly becoming quite mainstream.

It's what we do in the organization named after him where we try and invent, create, launch new ventures, whether it's schools, web companies, health organizations and so on.

And we find ourselves part of a very rapidly growing global movement of institutions working on social innovation, using ideas from design or technology or community organizing to develop the germs of a future world, but through practice and through demonstration and not through theory.

And they're spreading from Korea to Brazil to India to the USA and across Europe.

And they've been given new momentum by the crisis, by the need for better answers to joblessness, community breakdown and so on. 

Some of the ideas are strange.

These are complaints choirs.

People come together to sing about the things that really bug them.

Now, the idea that all of this represents, I think, is rapidly becoming a common sense and part of how we respond to the crisis, recognizing the need to invest in innovation for social progress as well as technological progress.

There were big health innovation funds launched earlier this year in this country, as well as a public service innovation lab.

Across northern Europe, many governments now have innovation laboratories within them.

And just a few months ago, President Obama launched the Office of Social Innovation in the White House. 

And what people are beginning to ask is: Surely, just as we invest in R and D, two, three, four percent, of our GDP, of our economy, what if we put, let's say, one percent of public spending into social innovation, into elder care, new kinds of education, new ways of helping the disabled?

Perhaps we'd achieve similar productivity gains in society to those we've had in the economy and in technology. 

And if, a generation or two ago, the big challenges were ones like getting a man on the moon, perhaps the challenges we need to set ourselves now are ones like eliminating child malnutrition, stopping trafficking, or one, I think closer to home for America or Europe, why don't we set ourselves the goal of achieving a billion extra years of life for today's citizens.

Now those are all goals which could be achieved within a decade, but only with radical and systematic experiment, not just with technologies, but also with lifestyles and culture and policies and institutions too. 

Now, I want to end by saying a little bit about what I think this means for capitalism.

I think what this is all about, this whole movement which is growing from the margins, remains quite small.

Nothing like the resources of a CERN or a DARPA or an IBM or a Dupont.

What it's telling us is that capitalism is going to become more social.

It's already immersed in social networks.

But interestingly too, it implies a future where society learns a few tricks from capitalism about how you embed the DNA of restless continual innovation into society, trying things out and then growing and scaling the ones that work. 

Now, I think this future will be quite surprising to many people.

In recent years, a lot of intelligent people thought that capitalism had basically won.

History was over and society would inevitably have to take second place to economy.

But I've been struck with a parallel in how people often talk about capitalism today and how they talked about the monarchy 200 years ago, just after the French Revolution and the restoration of the monarchy in France. 

Just as today, the enthusiasts of unrestrained capitalism say it's rooted in human nature, only now it's individualism, inquisitiveness, and so on.

And whereas then monarchies, palaces and forts dominated every city skyline and looked permanent and confident, today it's the gleaming towers of the banks which dominate every big city. 

It depends on other systems, on ecology, on family, on community, and if these aren't replenished, capitalism suffers too.

Because of the depth of the crisis, I think we are at a moment of choice. 

Thank you. 

