And he said, "This genetic resource," -- and I'll never forget the words -- "stands between us and catastrophic starvation on a scale we cannot imagine."

So, I looked a little further, and what I figured out was that he wasn't a nutcase.

He was the most respected scientist in the field.

What he understood was that biological diversity -- crop diversity -- is the biological foundation of agriculture.

It's the raw material, the stuff, of evolution in our agricultural crops.

Not a trivial matter.

And that this mass extinction was taking place with very few people noticing and even fewer caring. 

You don't see it in the newspaper every day.

And when you go into the supermarket, you certainly don't see a lot of choices there.

You see apples that are red, yellow, and green and that's about it. 

So, let me show you a picture of one form of diversity.

But there are 35 to 40,000 different varieties of beans.

We have about 200,000 different varieties of wheat, and we have about 2 to 400,000 different varieties of rice, but it's being lost.

And I want to give you an example of that.

Today, 6,800 of those are extinct, no longer to be seen again. 

I wouldn't tell them what it was, but it was in alphabetical order, and I would tell them to look for their names, their family names, their mother's maiden name.

This book was published in 1904.

It's called "The Apples of New York" and this is the second volume.

See, we used to have a lot of apples.

And there are a couple of answers to that question.

One thing is that there is no such thing as a best one.

Today's best variety is tomorrow's lunch for insects or pests or disease.

The other thing is that maybe that Fowler apple or maybe a variety of wheat that's not economical right now has disease or pest resistance or some quality that we're going to need for climate change that the others don't.

It's just necessary or interesting that it might have one good, unique trait.

Think of diversity as giving us options.

And options, of course, are exactly what we need in an era of climate change. 

The coldest growing seasons of the future, hotter than the hottest of the past.

If agriculture hasn't experienced that, how could it be adapted? 

Now, the highest concentration of poor and hungry people in the world, and the place where climate change, ironically, is going to be the worst is in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.

So I've picked two examples here, and I want to show you.

And you can see that there's some difference between one growing season and another.

Some are colder, some are hotter and it's a bell shaped curve.

The tallest bar is the average temperature for the most number of growing seasons.

The agricultural system and, more importantly, the crops in the field in India have never experienced this before. 

But the most interesting thing about South Africa is we don't have to wait for 2070 for there to be trouble.

We will watch children starve to death on TV.

We have two rolls of the dice to get this right.

We have to get climate-ready crops in the field, and we have to do that rather quickly. 

Now, the good news is that we have conserved.

And I'm not talking about losing diversity in the same way that you lose your car keys.

So we needed a really safe place, and we went quite far north to find it.

That's at 78 degrees north.

It's otherworldly, beautiful.

This is more than just an artist's dream, it's now a reality.

And this next picture shows it in context, in Svalbard.

And here's the front door of this facility.

If you were to walk into one of these rooms, you would see this.

It's not very exciting, but if you know what's there, it's pretty emotional.

We have now about 425,000 samples of unique crop varieties.

There's 70,000 samples of different varieties of rice in this facility right now.

About a year from now, we'll have over half a million samples.

It operates like a safety deposit box.

Norway owns the mountain and the facility, but the depositors own the seed.

And if anything happens, then they can come back and get it.

I can't think of anything else that's happened in my lifetime that way. 

I can't look you in the eyes and tell you that I have a solution for climate change, for the water crisis.

Agriculture takes 70 percent of fresh water supplies on earth.

I can't look you in the eyes and tell you that there is such a solution for those things, or the energy crisis, or world hunger, or peace in conflict.

Because, quite literally, if agriculture doesn't adapt to climate change, neither will we.

And if crops don't adapt to climate change, neither will agriculture, neither will we. 

But it's a necessary thing to do.

So, in a very real sense, I believe that we, as an international community, should get organized to complete the task.

We need to collect the remaining diversity that's out there.

And we need to support it financially. 

My big idea would be that while we think of it as commonplace to endow an art museum or endow a chair at a university, we really ought to be thinking about endowing wheat.

30 million dollars in an endowment would take care of preserving all the diversity in wheat forever.

So we need to be thinking a little bit in those terms. 

And my final thought is that we, of course, by conserving wheat, rice, potatoes, and the other crops, we may, quite simply, end up saving ourselves. 

Thank you. 

