I'm going to talk about your mindset.

Does your mindset correspond to my dataset?

(Laughter) If not, one or the other needs upgrading, isn't it? 

When I talk to my students about global issues, and I listen to them in the coffee break, they always talk about "we" and "them."

And here you have the dataset.

And really this is about the bedroom.

And we had one set of countries up there which was the western world.

They had small families and long life. 

And you are going to see here the amazing thing that has happened in the world during my lifetime.

And partly to USA who help to provide technical advice and investment.

And you see all the world moves over to a two child family, and a life with 60 to 70 years. 

But some countries remain back in this area here.

So we have countries living there.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

And we, in fact, when we have played this over the world.

Look here when I move them forward.

It's on par with United States in these two social dimensions.

There was less than five percent of the specialists in Global Health that was aware of this.

And we will then see a completely different picture.

And when I now finally got it right, I can go back 200 years in history.

And now I have income per person on this axis.

And United States only had some, one, two thousand dollars at that time.

And what has happened in the world, I will show now.

(Laughter) You can see how the brown bubbles, which is west Europe, and the yellow one, which is the United States, they get richer and richer and also start to get healthier and healthier.

That's why we are so scared about flu, isn't it?

Did you note there, that we have Mexico up there?

And my youngest son, who studied Chinese in Beijing.

So they come in with the two perspectives I have, you know?

And my son, youngest son who studied in Beijing, in China, he got a long-term perspective.

But this was 1963.

And Asia could have social development before they got the economic development.

So to me, as a public health professor, it's not strange that all these countries grow so fast now. 

So, how could we make better sense about this?

Well, one way of trying is to see whether we could look at income distribution.

These people go to bed hungry.

And this is the number of people.

And this is how the world changed.

And it goes over here?

And here we have the low income countries where entrepreneurs are.

And here we have the countries in collapse and war, like Afghanistan, Somalia, parts of Congo, Darfur.

We have all this at the same time. 

That's why it's so problematic to describe what has happened in the developing world.

Because it's so different, what has happened there.

And that's why I suggest a slightly different approach of what you would call it.

And you have huge differences within countries also.

I heard that your departments here were by regions.

Here you have Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, East Asia, Arab states, East Europe, Latin America, and OECD.

And on this axis, GDP.

But when I split it, when I split it into country bubbles, the size of the bubbles here is the population.

Then you see Sierra Leone and Mauritius, completely different.

We cannot put it into two parts. 

It's Lincoln here, advancing them.

(Laughter) 

And it is my task, on behalf of the rest of the world, to convey a thanks to the U.S. taxpayers, for Demographic Health Survey.

Many are not aware of -- no, this is not a joke.

This is very serious.

It is due to USA's continuous sponsoring during 25 years of the very good methodology for measuring child mortality that we have a grasp of what's happening in the world.

Quite the opposite of the World Bank, who compiled data with government money, tax money, and then they sell it to add a little profit, in a very inefficient, Gutenberg way.

(Applause) But the people doing that at the World Bank are among the best in the world.

And they are highly skilled professionals.

It's just that we would like to upgrade our international agencies to deal with the world in the modern way, as we do.

And when it comes to free data and transparency, United States of America is one of the best.

(Laughter) And I'm not paid to come here, no. 

With income down there and child mortality.

And what has happened in the world?

Since 1950, during the last 50 years we have had a fall in child mortality.

And it is the DHS that makes it possible to know this.

And we had an increase in income.

And how fast has this happened?

Well, MDG 4.

The United States has not been so eager to use MDG 4.

And we used to say that it should fall four percent per year.

Let's see what Sweden has done.

We used to boast about fast social progress.

That's where we were, 1900.

1900, Sweden was there.

I run Sweden the same 16 year period. 

They get safe water, they get food for the poor, and they get malaria eradicated.

This means that the world is converging.

The middle income countries, the emerging economy, they are catching up.

They are moving to cities, where they also get better assistance for that. 

Well the Swedish students protest at this point.

Singapore had twice the child mortality of Sweden.

They got a magnificent health system that beat both the U.S. and Sweden.

All these green countries are achieving millennium development goals.

These yellow are just about to be doing this.

These red are the countries that doesn't do it, and the policy has to be improved.

Not simplistic extrapolation.

We have to respect the middle income countries on what they are doing.

And we have to fact-base the whole way we look at the world. 

The blue is Africa.

The size of the bubbles is how many are HIV affected.

You see the tragedy in South Africa there.

About 20 percent of the adult population are infected.

And in spite of them having quite a high income, they have a huge number of HIV infected.

There's a number, five to 10 countries in Africa that has the same level as Sweden and United States.

And there are others who are extremely high. 

If I split Tanzania in its income, the richer 20 percent in Tanzania has more HIV than the poorest one.

So to just end up, there are things of suffering in the one billion poorest, which we don't know.

Those who live beyond the cellphone, those who have yet to see a computer, those who have no electricity at home. 

This is the disease, Konzo, I spent 20 years elucidating in Africa.

It's caused by fast processing of toxic cassava root in famine situation.

It's similar to the pellagra epidemic in Mississippi in the '30s.

It's similar to other nutritional diseases.

It will never affect a rich person. 

You never heard about the disease.

And over the last two years, 2,000 people has been crippled in the southern tip of Bandundu region.

That used to be the illegal diamond trade, from the UNITA-dominated area in Angola.

And one week ago, for the first time, there were four lines on the Internet. 

