I ran for Congress. 

The sitting congresswoman had been in my district since 1992.

She had never lost a race, and no one had really even run against her in a Democratic primary.

But in my mind, this was my way to make a difference, to disrupt the status quo.

The polls, however, told a very different story.

My pollsters told me that I was crazy to run, that there was no way that I could win. 

But I ran anyway, and in 2012, I became an upstart in a New York City congressional race.

I swore I was going to win.

I had the endorsement from the New York Daily News, the Wall Street Journal snapped pictures of me on election day, and CNBC called it one of the hottest races in the country.

Don't do the math.

It was humiliating. 

Now, before you get the wrong idea, this is not a talk about the importance of failure.

Nor is it about leaning in.

Most girls are taught to avoid risk and failure.

We're taught to smile pretty, play it safe, get all A's.

Boys, on the other hand, are taught to play rough, swing high, crawl to the top of the monkey bars and then just jump off headfirst.

And by the time they're adults, whether they're negotiating a raise or even asking someone out on a date, they're habituated to take risk after risk.

They're rewarded for it.

In other words, we're raising our girls to be perfect, and we're raising our boys to be brave. 

Some people worry about our federal deficit, but I, I worry about our bravery deficit.

The bravery deficit is why women are underrepresented in STEM, in C-suites, in boardrooms, in Congress, and pretty much everywhere you look. 

In the 1980s, psychologist Carol Dweck looked at how bright fifth graders handled an assignment that was too difficult for them.

She found that bright girls were quick to give up.

The higher the IQ, the more likely they were to give up.

They found it energizing.

They were more likely to redouble their efforts. 

What's going on?

The difference is in how boys and girls approach a challenge.

And it doesn't just end in fifth grade.

100 percent.

This study is usually invoked as evidence that, well, women need a little more confidence.

But I think it's evidence that women have been socialized to aspire to perfection, and they're overly cautious. 

(Applause) 

And even when we're ambitious, even when we're leaning in, that socialization of perfection has caused us to take less risks in our careers.

(Applause) 

It requires perseverance.

It requires imperfection. 

Every Girls Who Code teacher tells me the same story.

If she didn't know any better, she'd think that her student spent the past 20 minutes just staring at the screen.

But if she presses undo a few times, she'll see that her student wrote code and then deleted it.

She tried, she came close, but she didn't get it exactly right.

It turns out that our girls are really good at coding, but it's not enough just to teach them to code. 

Because trying harder is not going to fix a broken system.

I can't tell you how many women tell me, 

And those dreams have never been more important for our country.

For the American economy, for any economy to grow, to truly innovate, we cannot leave behind half our population.

We cannot wait for them to learn how to be brave like I did when I was 33 years old.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) Thank you. 

Tell me how it's going.

How many girls are involved now in your program? 

This year we'll teach 40,000 in all 50 states. 

(Applause) 

CA: And you have some stories back from some of those companies that when you mix in more gender balance in the engineering teams, good things happen. 

RS: Great things happen.

We own the Internet, and we should be building the companies of tomorrow.

And I think when companies have diverse teams, and they have incredible women that are part of their engineering teams, they build awesome things, and we see it every day. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

RS: Thank you. 

(Applause) 

