Early visions of wireless power actually were thought of by Nikola Tesla basically about 100 years ago.

The thought that you wouldn't want to transfer electric power wirelessly, no one ever thought of that.

They thought, "Who would use it if you didn't?"

But the one thing that did come out of electricity is that we love this stuff so much.

I mean, think about how much we love this.

The other thing is, we love batteries.

So I thought I'd better look it up first.

So definition number six is the North American definition of the word "suck."

The other thing is, batteries suck too.

And they really, really do.

Do you ever wonder what happens to this stuff?

What happened back a few years ago was a group of theoretical physicists at MIT actually came up with this concept of transferring power over distance.

Basically they were able to light a 60 watt light bulb at a distance of about two meters.

It got about 50 percent of the efficiency -- by the way, that's still a couple thousand times more efficient than a battery would be, to do the same thing.

The light bulb was a fairly simple task, from their standpoint. 

But inside a standard transformer are two coils of wire.

And those two coils of wire are really, really close to each other, and actually do transfer power magnetically and wirelessly, only over a very short distance. 

It's a resonant phenomenon for which he actually received a MacArthur Fellowship Award, which is nicknamed the Genius Award, last September, for his discovery. 

And if you can bring another device close enough to the source, that will only work at exactly that frequency, you can actually get them to do what's called strongly couple, and transfer magnetic energy between them.

The first thing is this is not a "radiative" technology.

It stays within either what we call the source, or within the device.

And actually, the magnetic fields we're using are basically about the same as the Earth's magnetic field.

We live in a magnetic field. 

Then finally we have governmental bodies everywhere that will regulate everything we do.

They've pretty much set field exposure limits, which all of the things in the stuff I'll show you today sort of sit underneath those guidelines. 

But who is going to want to plug them in?

Credit cards, robot vacuum cleaners. 

So what I'd like to do is take a couple minutes and show you, actually, how it works.

And what I'm going to do is to show you pretty much what's here.

There's lots of electronics and secret sauce and all kinds of intellectual property that go into it.

And if the demo gods are willing, in about 10 seconds or so we should see it.

Imagine if you can get rid of it. 

And I'll do it again, just for safety's sake.

Almost immediately, though, people ask, "How small can you make this?

Because remember Dr. Soljacic's original idea was his wife's cellphone beeping. 

So, I wanted to show you something.

We're an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing.

This a Google G1.

And I know some of you are Apple aficionados.

So, you know they don't make it easy at Apple to get inside their phones.

And Nokia as well.

You'll see that what we did there is put a little thing in the back, to do that, and it probably beeps, actually, as it goes on as well.

But they typically use it to light up the screen.

So that when you walk in or you come in from home, if you carry a purse, it works in your purse.

You never have to worry about plugging these things in again.

And think of what that would do for you. 

So I think in closing, sort of in the immortal visions of The New Yorker magazine, I thought I'd put up one more slide.

And for those of you who can't read it, it says, "It does appear to be some kind of wireless technology."

