I just want to say my name is Emmanuel Jal.

And I come from a long way.

I've been telling a story that has been so painful for me.

And also, the easiest one was when I was doing it in form of a music. 

So I have branded myself as a war child.

I'm doing this because of an old lady in my village now, who have lost her children.

There is no newspaper to cover her pain, and what she wants to change in this society.

And I'm doing it for a young man who want to create a change and has no way to project his voice because he can't write.

Or there is no Internet, like Facebook, MySpace, YouTube, for them to talk. 

My brothers and sisters were scattered.

And up to now, me and my father were detached and I still have issues with him.

And that made me call myself a war child. 

I didn't know what was the war for.

But one thing I knew was an image that I saw that stuck in my head.

I wanted to revenge for my village. 

What was actually killing us wasn't the Muslims, wasn't the Arabs.

So realizing the truth gave me a position to choose: should I continue to hate, or let it go? 

I even had a movie out called "War Child," funded by Muslim people.

So that pain has gone out.

I talk about my story.

So I hope you're going to hear this. 

Voices in my brain, of friends that was slain. 

Friends like Lual who died by my side, 

he gave me comfort. 

anything we could eat. 

And therefore I was forced to sin, forced to sin to make a living, 

Run, duck, play dead and hide. 

But I've never seen a dead body, 

at least one that I've killed. 

Words I can't forget I still remember. 

I saw sergeant command raising his hand, 

no retreat, no surrender. 

Yet as I wage this new war I'm not alone in this drama. 

No sit or stop, as I reach for the top 

I'm fully dedicated like a patriotic cop. 

I'm on a fight, day and night. 

Sometime I do wrong in order to make things right. 

It's like I'm living a dream. 

First time I'm feeling like a human being. 

Left home.

Don't even know the day I'll ever return. 

So many people die that I don't even cry no more. 

And why are my people poor. 

I was learning how to fight. 

I was ready to eat. 

That's my story shared in the form of a lesson. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

So the music had been my therapy for me.

You know, if you fall in love with a frog, that's it. 

But I don't know why I don't hate their music.

So we party and dance to their music.

And one thing that shocked me is one day they brought an Arab musician to come and entertain the soldiers.

And I almost broke my leg dancing to his music.

And I've done a campaign called Lose to Win.

Where I'm losing so that I could win the battle that I'm fighting now.

So my breakfast, my lunch, I donate it to a charity that I founded because we want to build a school in Sudan. 

(Laughter) 

So it's taken me 232 days.

And I said, "No stop until we get it."

And like it's been done on Facebook, MySpace.

The people are giving three dollars.

The lowest amount we ever got was 20 cents.

Somebody donated 20 cents online.

I don't know how they did it.

(Laughter) But that moved me. 

Education enlighten your brain, give you so many chances, and you're able to survive.

As a nation we have been crippled.

For so many years we have fed on aid.

You see a 20-years-old, 30-years-old families in a refugee camps.

They only get the food that drops from the sky, from the U.N. 

So these people, you're killing a whole generation if you just give them aid.

(Applause) Invest in education.

But if you invest in education then we'll be able to change Africa.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Well now, my time is going, so I want to sing a song.

But I'll ask you guys to stand up so we celebrate the life of a British aid worker called Emma McCune that made it possible for me to be here.

I'm gonna sing this song, just to inspire you how this woman has made a difference.

She came to my country and saw the importance of education. 

And she rescued over 150 child soldiers.

One of them happened to be me now.

And so at this moment I want to ask to celebrate Emma with me.

Are you guys ready to celebrate Emma? 

Emmanuel Jal: All right. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

