And that is that we live in a competent universe, that we are part of a brilliant planet, and that we are surrounded by genius. 

This is what I would tell you to remember if you ever forget this again.

Remember this.

This is what happens every year.

This is what keeps its promise.

Imagine designing spring.

This happens every year.

And one time he came up to me -- he was about seven or eight years old -- he came up to me.

He would come every day with something to show me.

And like, knock like a woodpecker on my door until I opened it up.

How did he not know -- it's what we've all forgotten -- that we're not the first ones to build.

We're not the first ones to build houses for our young. 

But in fact they are doing them in a way that have allowed them to live gracefully on this planet for billions of years.

So these people, biomimics, are nature's apprentices.

And they're focusing on function.

What I'd like to do is show you a few of the things that they're learning.

They have asked themselves, "What if, every time I started to invent something, I asked, 'How would nature solve this?'"

And here is what they're learning.

This is an amazing picture from a Czech photographer named Jack Hedley.

This is a story about an engineer at J.R. West.

They're the people who make the bullet train.

Made it go 10 percent faster on 15 percent less electricity. 

How does nature repel bacteria?

We're not the first ones to have to protect ourselves from some bacteria.

So how does it keep its body free of bacteria build-up?

It doesn't do it with a chemical.

but it's a particular kind of pattern.

And that pattern, the architecture of that pattern on its skin denticles keep bacteria from being able to land and adhere.

This is a little critter that's in the Namibian desert.

And it goes down the sides and goes into the critter's mouth.

There is actually a scientist here at Oxford who studied this, Andrew Parker.

And now kinetic and architectural firms like Grimshaw are starting to look at this as a way of coating buildings so that they gather water from the fog.

10 times better than our fog-catching nets. 

CO2 as a building block.

Organisms don't think of CO2 as a poison.

Plants and organisms that make shells, coral, think of it as a building block.

There is now a cement manufacturing company starting in the United States called Calera.

They've borrowed the recipe from the coral reef, and they're using CO2 as a building block in cement, in concrete.

Instead of -- cement usually emits a ton of CO2 for every ton of cement.

None of these are using the organisms.

They're really only using the blueprints or the recipes from the organisms.

How does nature gather the sun's energy?

This is a new kind of solar cell that's based on how a leaf works.

It's extremely inexpensive and rechargeable every five years.

It's actually a company a company that I'm involved in called OneSun, with Paul Hawken. 

There are many many ways that nature filters water that takes salt out of water.

We take water and push it against a membrane.

And then we wonder why the membrane clogs and why it takes so much electricity.

Nature does something much more elegant.

And it's in every cell.

Every red blood cell of your body right now has these hourglass-shaped pores called aquaporins.

They actually export water molecules through.

A company called Aquaporin is starting to make desalination membranes mimicking this technology. 

Trees and bones are constantly reforming themselves along lines of stress.

This beetle, unlike this chip bag here, this beetle uses one material, chitin.

And it finds many many ways to put many functions into it.

Whereas that chip bag has about seven layers to do all of those things.

One of our major inventions that we need to be able to do to come even close to what these organisms can do is to find a way to minimize the amount of material, the kind of material we use, and to add design to it.

We use five polymers in the natural world to do everything that you see.

In our world we use about 350 polymers to make all this. 

Nature is nano.

Nature has been doing that for a long time.

Embedding nanoparticles in a material for instance, always.

In fact, sulfur-reducing bacteria, as part of their synthesis, they will emit, as a byproduct, nanoparticles into the water.

And one of the largest fields right now, in the world of energy grids, you hear about the smart grid.

They are looking at how ants and bees find their food and their flowers in the most effective way as a whole hive.

And they're having appliances in your home talk to one another through that algorithm, and determine how to minimize peak power use. 

And they're creating -- you can think of it as a kind of wallpaper.

They're thinking about putting it on the insides of buildings to move water up without pumps. 

Even more interesting to me is that 600 volts doesn't fry it.

These organisms, how are they insulating against their own electric charge?

These are some questions that we've yet to ask. 

Here's a wind turbine manufacturer that went to a whale.

These wind turbines can rotate in incredibly slow windspeeds, as a result. 

MIT just has a new radio chip that uses far less power than our chips.

And it's based on the cochlear of your ear, able to pick up internet, wireless, television signals and radio signals, in the same chip.

Finally, on an ecosystem scale. 

At Biomimicry Guild, which is my consulting company, we work with HOK Architects.

So we're creating something called Ecological Performance Standards that hold cities to this higher bar. 

And inside those balls life, over 3.8 billion years, has made a lush, livable place for us. 

Now in order to do this, the design challenge of our century, I think, we need a way to remind ourselves of those geniuses, and to somehow meet them again. 

It's called AskNature.org.

And what we're trying to do, in a TEDesque way, is to organize all biological information by design and engineering function. 

And hopefully, any inventor, anywhere in the world, will be able, in the moment of creation, to type in, "How does nature remove salt from water?"

And up will come mangroves, and sea turtles and your own kidneys. 

