Now, I haven't met these particular students, but I've met students like them. 

Let's just pick one -- for example, the one in the green shirt.

Let's give him a name, too: Nelson.

I'll bet Nelson has a cellphone.

So here is the puzzle.

Why is it that Nelson has access to a cutting-edge technology, like the cellphone, but doesn't have access to a 100-year-old technology for generating electric light in the home? 

Now, in a word, the answer is "rules."

What kinds of rules?

So it has neither the resources, nor the incentives, to hook up many other users. 

The president wanted to change this rule.

That's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that Nelson purchases his telephony from operates under.

The president has seen how those rules worked well.

So he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the win-win solution help his country.

And Nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights. 

The real challenge then, is to try to figure out how we can change rules.

Are there some rules we can develop for changing rules?

Because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader, a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity, takes away a choice that people in the economy want.

They want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power.

So if you give just to one side or the other, you'll have tension or friction.

But if we can find ways to give more choices to both, that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps. 

Now, Nelson also has access to the Internet.

And he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules, the ways that rules can keep people in the dark, look at the pictures from NASA of the earth at night.

In particular check out Asia.

When they separated, they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules.

What Haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak.

It's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive, as in North Korea.

Back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart, China was the world's high-technology leader.

Chinese had pioneered technologies like steel, printing, gunpowder.

And they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut China off from the rest of the world.

So as other countries in the world innovated, in the sense both of developing newer technologies, but also developing newer rules, the Chinese were cut off from those advances.

This next chart looks at more recent data.

It plots income, average income in China as a percentage of average income in the United States.

In the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent.

But then in the late '70s something changed.

The brightest spot in China, which you can see on the edge of the outline here, is Hong Kong.

In the 1950s, Hong Kong was a place where millions of people could go, from the mainland, to start in jobs like sewing shirts, making toys.

But, to get on a process of increasing income, increasing skills led to very rapid growth there.

But Deng Xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people.

One of the zones next to Hong Kong has a city called Shenzhen.

Demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy. 

Now the Chinese example shows us several points.

On the other hand, the nation is too big.

If you try to change the rules in the nation, you can't give some people a chance to hold back, see how things turn out, and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules.

So the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city.

We start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city.

You'll need to attract firms, who will come hire the people who move there first.

With that charter, people will move there.

The city can be built.

Those are captured in the charter.

We also need the choices for people.

That's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land.

You start from uninhabited territory.

The final thing we need are choices for leaders. 

So if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again, we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world. 

Why is this not like colonialism?

The thing that was bad about colonialism, and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs, is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension.

And, choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension. 

So let's talk about how this could play out in practice.

Let's take a particular leader, Raul Castro, who is the leader of Cuba.

they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation.

This is a picture I took when I was flying along the coast.

is there enough land for them?

Well, throughout the world, if we look at the lights at night, the one thing that's misleading is that, visually, it looks like most of the world is already built out.

So let me show you why that's wrong.

Take this representation of all of the land.

Turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on Earth.

And let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in.

So if we wanted to build cities for another billion people, they would be dots like this.

We'd go from three percent of the arable land, to four percent.

And if these are cities governed by good rules, they can be cities where people are safe from crime, safe from disease and bad sanitation, where people have a chance to get a job.

They can get basic utilities like electricity.

Their kids can get an education. 

So what will it take to get started building the first charter cities, scaling this so we build many more?

It would help to have a manual.

(Laughter) What university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual.

How would we finance this?

Turns out Singapore and Hong Kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started.

So the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it, and set up the basic rules, go very much in the right direction. 

So there are many other details like this.

Let me conclude with this picture.

The reason we can be so well off, even though there is so many people on earth, is because of the power of ideas.

We can share ideas with other people, and when they discover them, they share with us.

When we share ideas we all get more.

When we think about ideas in that way, we usually think about technologies. 

Let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office, that people can pledge as collateral. 

