The first thing is water.

Now I see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference, over the past couple of days.

And I'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source. 

Then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea.

I talked a lot in the past about statistics, and the provision of safe drinking water for all.

But they just don't seem to get through.

And I think I've worked out why.

It's because, using current thinking, the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving.

Well, today, I'd like to show you that through thinking differently, the problem has been solved.

By the way, since I've been speaking, another 13,000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea.

And four children have just died. 

That really stuck with me.

Day two: nothing.

Do you know it took five days to get water to the Superdome?

That's when I decided I had to do something. 

Okay, now for the science bit.

Before Lifesaver, the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers.

The smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers.

So a 200-nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200-nanometer hole.

The smallest virus, on the other hand, is about 25 nanometers.

So that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes.

Lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers.

So nothing is getting through. 

Okay, I'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration.

Would you like to see that?

I spent all the time setting this up, so I guess I should.

But I got to thinking, you know, if we were in the middle of a flood zone in Bangladesh, the water wouldn't look like this.

So I've gone and got some stuff to add into it.

And this is from my pond. 

The Lifesaver bottle works really simply.

That's all that's necessary.

(Applause) Cheers.

(Applause) There you go Chris.

(Applause) What's it taste of? 

Chris Anderson: Delicious. 

It'll last for 6,000 liters.

So let's look at the applications.

Traditionally, in a crisis, what do we do?

We ship water.

Then, after a few weeks, we set up camps.

And people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water.

The problem just becomes self-perpetuating.

But by thinking differently, and shipping these, people can stay put.

They can make their own sterile drinking water, and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives. 

Now, it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work.

Using the old thinking, of national infrastructure and pipe work, is too expensive.

When you run the numbers on a calculator, you run out of noughts.

So here is the "thinking different" bit. 

All we've go to do is make it sterile.

Well, we could use the Lifesaver bottle.

Or we could use one of these.

The same technology, in a jerry can.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

So with just eight billion dollars, we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water.

To put that into context, The U.K. government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid.

But why stop there?

With 20 billion dollars, everyone can have access to safe drinking water.

So the three-and-a-half billion people that suffer every year as a result, and the two million kids that die every year, will live.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

