And somehow the idea that one would want to make art for the iPhone, which my friends and I are doing now, is still not reflected in our understanding of what computers are for. 

In my own case, I'm an artist, and I'm really interested in expanding the vocabulary of human action, and basically empowering people through interactivity.

A lot of my work is about trying to get away from this.

This a photograph of the desktop of a student of mine.

And the thing I'm really trying to do is enabling people to have more rich kinds of interactive experiences.

And a lot of my experiences resemble mirrors in some way.

Song is one of our oldest ways of making ourselves heard and understood.

So what we're really seeing here is a phenomenon called phonaesthesia, which is a kind of synesthesia that all of you have.

And here we suddenly begin to have a mapping between curvature that we can exploit numerically, a relative mapping between curvature and shape. 

And this is an interactive installation which presents the fiction that speech casts visible shadows.

And they sort of fly away, out of your head.

If a computer speech recognition system is able to recognize what you're saying, then it spells it out.

And if it isn't then it produces a shape which is very phonaesthetically tightly coupled to the sounds you made.

So let's bring up a video of that. 

(Applause) 

And it's almost impossible to perform.

But Jaap is one of the world experts in performing it.

And in this project we've developed a form of intelligent real-time subtitles.

So all the text you're going to see is real-time generated by the computer, visualizing what he's doing with his voice.

It's a really profound amount of nonverbal information that's communicated with the eyes.

So there is a lot of emotional communication that happens there. 

And so I've been beginning, with a variety of different projects, to understand how people can relate to machines with their eyes.

And what could it do if it could look back at us?

And so those are the questions that are happening in the next projects. 

In the first one which I'm going to show you, called Eyecode, it's a piece of interactive software in which, if we read this little circle, "the trace left by the looking of the previous observer looks at the trace left by the looking of previous observer."

So let me just switch over so we can do the live demo.

So let's run this and see if it works. 

There is just a little test screen that shows that it's working.

And what I'm just going to do is -- I'm going to hide that.

And no matter where I am, what's really going on here is that it's an eye-tracking system that tries to locate my eyes.

And if I get really far away I'm blurry.

You know, you're going to have these kind of blurry spots like this that maybe only resemble eyes in a very very abstract way.

But if I come up really close and stare directly at the camera on this laptop then you'll see these nice crisp eyes. 

You can think of it as a way of, sort of, typing, with your eyes.

So each person is looking at the looking of everyone else before them.

So that's this kind of recursive observation system.

(Applause) Thank you. 

The last couple pieces I'm going to show are basically in the new realm of robotics -- for me, new for me.

It's called Opto-Isolator.

In this case, the Opto-Isolator is blinking in response to one's own blinks.

So it blinks one second after you do.

This is a device which is intended to reduce the phenomenon of gaze down to the simplest possible materials.

And at the same time, it attempts to engage in what you might call familiar psycho-social gaze behaviors.

(Laughter) It's an eight-foot snout, with a googly eye.

(Laughter) And inside it's got an 800-pound robot arm that I borrowed, (Laughter) from a friend.

(Laughter) It helps to have good friends.

I'm at Carnegie Mellon; we've got a great Robotics Institute there.

I'd like to show you thing called Snout, which is -- The idea behind this project is to make a robot that appears as if it's continually surprised to see you.

(Laughter) The idea is that basically -- if it's constantly like "Huh?

(Laughter) The idea is that basically -- if it's constantly like "Huh?

(Laughter) The idea is that basically -- if it's constantly like "Huh?

And the idea is basically, can it look at you and make you feel as if like, "What?

Those are its targets.

It's really about trying to create a novel body language for a new creature.

Hollywood does this all the time, of course.

But also have the body language communicate something to the person who is looking at it.

This language is communicating that it is surprised to see you, and it's interested in looking at you. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

