This is Tiananmen Square.

A man before a tank became a picture that became a symbol for the whole world of resistance.

This next is the Sudanese girl, a few moments from death, a vulture hovering in the background, a picture that went round the world and shocked people into action on poverty.

And what do all these pictures and events have in common?

What they have in common is what we see unlocks what we cannot see.

What we see unlocks the invisible ties and bonds of sympathy that bring us together to become a human community.

What these pictures demonstrate is that there is a moral sense across all religions, across all faiths, across all continents -- a moral sense that not only do we share the pain of others, and believe in something bigger than ourselves but we have a duty to act when we see things that are wrong that need righted, see injuries that need to be corrected, see problems that need to be rectified. 

There is a story about Olof Palme, the Swedish Prime Minister, going to see Ronald Reagan in America in the 1980s.

I believe there is a moral sense and a global ethic that commands attention from people of every religion and every faith, and people of no faith.

But I think what's new is that we now have the capacity to communicate instantaneously across frontiers right across the world.

Go back 200 years when the slave trade was under pressure from William Wilberforce and all the protesters.

They protested across Britain.

They won public opinion over a long period of time.

But it took 24 years for the campaign to be successful.

What could they have done with the pictures that they could have shown if they were able to use the modern means of communication to win people’s hearts and minds? 

But what more could she have done if she’d had the modern means of communications available to her to create a sense that the injustice that people saw had to be acted upon immediately? 

Now look at what’s happened in the last 10 years.

Because people were able to take mobile phone photographs of what was happening at the polling stations, it was impossible for that Premier to fix that election in the way that he wanted to do.

Or take Burma and the monks that were blogging out, a country that nobody knew anything about that was happening, until these blogs told the world that there was a repression, meaning that lives were being lost and people were being persecuted and Aung San Suu Kyi, who is one of the great prisoners of conscience of the world, had to be listened to.

Take, therefore, what modern technology is capable of: the power of our moral sense allied to the power of communications and our ability to organize internationally. 

150 years ago I suppose the main problem in a country like ours was how young people, children, had the right to education.

100 years ago in most countries in Europe, the pressure was for the right to vote.

50 years ago the pressure was for the right to social security and welfare.

I was with Nelson Mandela a year ago, when he was in London.

I was at a concert that he was attending to mark his birthday and for the creation of new resources for his foundation.

We are the first generation which is in a position to do this.

We cannot solve these problems unless we work together. 

One of the things that has got to come out of Copenhagen in the next few months is an agreement that there will be a global environmental institution that is able to deal with the problems of persuading the whole of the world to move along a climate-change agenda. 

Take the financial crisis.

You need in the long run for stability, for economic growth, for jobs, as well as for financial stability, global economic institutions that make sure that growth to be sustained has to be shared, and are built on the principle that the prosperity of this world is indivisible. 

I have just been talking to the President of Sierra Leone.

You cannot begin to build a healthcare system for six million people with such limited resources. 

She was an AIDS orphan being handed across different extended families to be cared for.

Take the problems of human rights and the problems of security in so many countries around the world.

There is a photograph of a boy called David.

Beside that photograph there is the information about his life.

It said "David, age 10."

David: ambition to be a doctor.

And we never did. 

We have the means by which we could create a truly global society.

The institutions of this global society can be created by our endeavors.

They said, "Let's march."

We should be marching towards a global society.

Thank you. 

