But to get started we've got to go back over 100 years.

Because it turns out there was an Uber way before Uber.

And if it had survived, the future of transportation would probably already be here. 

So let me introduce you to the jitney.

And within one year, by 1915, there were 50,000 rides per day in Seattle, 45,000 rides per day in Kansas and 150,000 rides per day in Los Angeles.

To give you some perspective, Uber in Los Angeles is doing 157,000 rides per day, today ... 100 years later. 

They were clearly not happy about the jitney juggernaut.

And there were all kinds of regulations.

There were licenses -- often they were pricey.

In some cities, if you were a jitney driver, you were required to be in the jitney for 16 hours a day.

In other cities, they required two jitney drivers for one jitney.

And car ownership skyrocketed and it's no wonder that by 2007, there was a car for every man, woman and child in the United States.

And that phenomenon had gone global.

In China by 2011, there were more car sales happening in China than in the US. 

Now, all this private ownership of course had a public cost.

In the US, we spend 7 billion hours a year, wasted, sitting in traffic.

Now, that's only four percent of our problem though.

Because if you have to own a car then that means 96 percent of the time your car is sitting idle.

And so, up to 30 percent of our land and our space is used storing these hunks of steel.

We even have skyscrapers built for cars.

That's the world we live in today. 

Now, cities have been dealing with this problem for decades.

It's called mass transit.

And even in a city like New York City, one of the most densely populated in the world and one of the most sophisticated mass transit systems in the world, there are still 2.5 million cars that go over those bridges every day.

Why is that?

Well, it's because mass transit hasn't yet figured out how to get to everybody's doorstep.

And so the beginning of Uber in 2010 was -- well, we just wanted to push a button and get a ride.

We saw a lot of people pushing the same button at the same time going essentially to the same place. 

And so we started thinking about, well, how do we make those two trips and turn them into one.

And the answer, fortunately, is a resounding yes. 

In San Francisco, before uberPOOL, we had -- well, everybody would take their car wherever the heck they wanted.

And the bright colors is where we have the most cars.

And once we introduced uberPOOL, well, you see there's not as many bright colors.

More people getting around the city in fewer cars, taking cars off the road.

It looks like uberPOOL is working. 

And so we rolled it out in Los Angeles eight months ago.

And of course we're seeing that exponential growth happen.

In fact, we're seeing it in LA, too.

And when I talk to my team, we don't talk about, "Hey, well, 100,000 people carpooling every week and we're done."

How do we get that to a million?

And in China, well, that could be several million. 

And so uberPOOL is a very great solution for urban carpooling.

But what about the suburbs? 

So the question for us is: well, how do we turn all of these commuter cars -- and literally there's tens of millions of them -- how do we turn all these commuter cars into shared cars? 

Well, we have something for this that we recently launched called uberCOMMUTE.

Well, that is what the US government has determined that the cost of owning a car is per mile.

You can pick up anybody in the United States and take them wherever they want to go at a moment's notice, for 54 cents a mile or less.

But if you charge 60 cents a mile, you're a criminal.

But what if for 60 cents a mile we could get half a million more people carpooling in Los Angeles?

And what if at 60 cents a mile we could get 50 million people carpooling in the United States?

And so it goes back to the lesson of the jitney.

If by 1915 this thing was taking off, imagine without the regulations that happened, if that thing could just keep going.

How would our cities be different today?

Would we have parks in the place of parking lots?

Well, we lost that chance.

But technology has given us another opportunity. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Chris Anderson: Travis, thank you. 

Travis Kalanick: Thank you. 

So first of all, last week I think it was, I switched on my phone and tried to book an Uber and I couldn't find the app.

You had this very radical, very bold, brave redesign. 

TK: Sure. 

CA: How did it go?

Did you notice other people not finding the app that day?

Are you going to win people over for this redesign? 

TK: Well, first I should probably just say, well, what we were trying to accomplish.

And I think if you know a little bit about our history, it makes a lot more sense.

Which is, when we first got started, it was just black cars.

It was literally you push a button and get an S-Class.

And so what we did was almost what I would call an immature version of a luxury brand that looked like a badge on a luxury car. 

And so that was a little bit what it was about. 

Now, when you first roll out something like that, I mean, your hands are sweating, you've got -- you know, you're a little worried.

And our numbers were slightly up from what we expected. 

CA: OK, that's cool. 

How did it feel like inside the company during that period?

Did you notice a loss of business?

Did you learn anything from that? 

Now, inside, we felt like -- I guess at the end of the day we felt like we were good people doing good work, but on the outside that wasn't evident.

And so when you go through that growth, you have to sort of cement your cultural values and talk about them all of the time.

CA: It seems to me, everywhere you turn, you're facing people who occasionally give you a hard time.

You're being forced to be, whether you want it or not, a kind of global visionary who's changing the world.

I mean -- who are you?

Do you want that?

Are you ready to go with that and be what that takes? 

First is on the pricing side -- I mean, keep in mind, right?

UberX, when we first started, was literally 10 or 15 percent cheaper than our black car product.

It's now in many cities, half the price of a taxi.

And we have all the data to show that the divers are making more per hour than they would as taxi drivers. 

What happens is when the price goes down, people are more likely to take Uber at different times of the day than they otherwise would have, and they're more likely to use it in places they wouldn't have before.

And what that means for a driver is wherever he or she drops somebody off, they're much more likely to get a pickup and get back in.

And so what that means is more trips per hour, more minutes of the hour where they're productive and actually, earnings come up. 

So even in New York -- We have a blog post we call "4 Septembers" -- compare the earnings September after September after September.

Same month every year.

And we see the earnings going up over time as the price comes down.

And there's a perfect price point -- you can't go down forever.

And in those places where we bring the price down but we don't see those earnings pop, we bring the prices back up. 

So that addresses that first part.

And then the enigma and all of this -- I mean, the kind of entrepreneur I am is one that gets really excited about solving hard problems.

CA: What do you say to a driver?

Part two is it's going to also take -- there's going to be a long transition.

These cars will work in certain places and not in others. 

For us it's an interesting challenge, right?

This is a world that's going to exist, and for good reason.

A million people die a year in cars.

And we already looked at the billions or even trillions of hours worldwide that people are spending sitting in them, driving frustrated, anxious.

And think about the quality of life that improves when you give people their time back and it's not so anxiety-ridden.

So I think there's a lot of good. 

But how do we optimistically lead through it?

Are there ways to partner with cities?

But it is a world that's going to exist, and it is going to be a better world. 

