I'm a neuroscientist, a professor at the University of California.

So that's what I normally do.

But then, for some reason, I got into something else, just recently.

And it all grew out of one of my colleagues asking me to analyze a bunch of brains of psychopathic killers. 

And so some of the brains that I've studied are people you know about.

When I get the brains I don't know what I'm looking at.

So I've looked at about 70 of these.

And what came up was a number of pieces of data.

So we look at these sorts of things theoretically, on the basis of genetics, and brain damage, and interaction with environment, and exactly how that machine works.

So we're interested in exactly where in the brain, and what's the most important part of the brain.

And how you end up with a psychopath, and a killer, depends on exactly when the damage occurs.

It's really a very precisely timed thing.

You get different kinds of psychopaths. 

So there is the pattern that every one of them had, but they all were a little different too.

They had other sorts of brain damage.

A key thing is that the major violence genes, it's called the MAO-A gene. 

And in fact this is probably why mostly men, boys, are psychopathic killers, or are very aggressive.

Because a daughter can get one X from the father, one X from the mother, it's kind of diluted out.

But for a son, he can only get the X chromosome from his mother. 

So this is how it's passed from mother to son.

And I'd given this one talk in Israel, just this past year.

And it does have some consequences.

And so, if you have that gene, and you see a lot of violence in a certain situation, this is the recipe for disaster, absolute disaster.

And what I think might happen in these areas of the world, where we have constant violence, you end up having generations of kids that are seeing all this violence.

And if I was a young girl, somewhere in a violent area, you know, a 14 year old, and I want to find a mate, I'd find some tough guy, right, to protect me.

Well what the problem is this tends to concentrate these genes.

And now the boys and the girls get them.

So I think after several generations, and here is the idea, we really have a tinderbox. 

So that was the idea.

She then told me about our own family tree.

She goes, "No it gets worse, read this book."

But it doesn't stop there.

There were seven more men, on my father's side, starting then, Cornells, that were all murderers.

Okay, now this gives one a little pause.

(Laughter) Because my father himself, and my three uncles, in World War II, were all conscientious objectors, all pussycats.

(Laughter) 

So the moral of the story is: people in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.

But more likely is this.

And they all seemed to be OK.

But our grandkids are going to be kind of concerned here.

So what we've done is I've started to do PET scans of everybody in the family.

(Laughter) We started to do PET scans, EEGs and genetic analysis to see where the bad news is.

They have the same brain, and the same EEG.

And now they are close as can be.

But there's gonna be bad news somewhere.

And we don't know where it's going to pop up.

(Laughter) 

