Now, inspired by Jill Bolte Taylor last year, I didn't bring a human brain, but I did bring a liter of bone marrow.

And bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients, most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases. 

So, a few years ago, I'm doing my transplant fellowship at Stanford.

We're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia.

So I'm thinking, you know, this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years.

And there is probably a better way to do this.

This is it.

And the Marrow Miner, the way it works is shown here. 

Our standard see-through patient.

Instead of entering the bone dozens of times, we enter just once, into the front of the hip or the back of the hip.

So it enables you to very rapidly aspirate, or suck out, rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole.

We can do multiple passes through that same entry.

No robots required.

And eventually we got two large animals, and pig studies.

And we found, to our surprise, that we not only got bone marrow out, but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the Marrow Miner, compared to the normal device.

This device was just FDA approved in the last year. 

There will be two passes here, in the same patient, from the same hole.

This was done under local anesthesia, as an outpatient.

And we got, again, about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient. 

You all know about embryonic stem cells.

They've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials.

We've just come out, we're commercializing, this year, generation 2.0 of the Marrow Miner.

The hope is that this gets more stem cells out, which translates to better outcomes.

It may encourage more people to sign up to be potential live-saving bone marrow donors.

It may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells, when you're younger and healthier, to use in the future should you need it.

Hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future.

Thanks. 

