In the studio we do a lot of experiments.

I would consider the studio more like a laboratory.

We have an annual gathering of people, and that is called Life in Space.

Life in Space is really not necessarily about how we do things, but why we do things. 

This whole idea of sharing, the idea of constituting reality by overlapping what I say and what you say -- think of a movie. 

I don't necessarily think the film is so interesting.

Obviously this is not interesting at all in the sense of the narrative.

This is the Tate Modern in London.

The show was, in a sense, about that.

It was about a space in which I put half a semi-circular yellow disk.

I also put a mirror in the ceiling, and some fog, some haze.

And my idea was to make the space tangible.

So here I had the hope that by inserting some natural elements, if you want -- some fog -- I could make the space tangible. 

And in that whole idea, how do we configure the relationship between our body and the space?

How do we reconfigure it?

How do we know that being in a space makes a difference? 

Do you see when I said in the beginning, it's about why, rather than how?

And the water flows through the city with time.

The water has an ability to make the city negotiable, tangible.

Negotiable meaning that it makes a difference whether you do something or not.

This whole idea of a city not being a picture is, I think, something that art, in a sense, always was working with.

The idea that art can actually evaluate the relationship between what it means to be in a picture, and what it means to be in a space.

These kinds of experiments, they filter into architectural models.

These are ongoing experiments.

One is an experiment I did for BMW, an attempt to make a car.

It's made out of ice.

A crystalline stackable principle in the center on the top, which I am trying to turn into a concert hall in Iceland.

So the movement with your legs will change the color of your horizon.

It's quite simple and fundamental. 

I've walked a lot in the mountains in Iceland.

And as you come to a new valley, as you come to a new landscape, you have a certain view.

If you stand still, the landscape doesn't necessarily tell you how big it is.

It doesn't really tell you what you're looking at.

The moment you start to move, the mountain starts to move.

The big mountains far away, they move less.

The small mountains in the foreground, they move more.

And your body somehow knows that.

So this means a waterfall is a way of measuring space. 

Of course being an iconic city like New York, that has had an interest in somehow playing around with the sense of space, you could say that New York wants to seem as big as possible.

So it was not just necessarily about putting nature into the cities.

It was also about giving the city a sense of dimension.

And why would we want to do that?

Is there a sense of consequences? 

So if I have a sense of the space, if I feel that the space is tangible, if I feel there is time, if there is a dimension I could call time, I also feel that I can change the space.

One could say this is about community, collectivity.

It's about being together. 

How do we create public space?

What does the word "public" mean today anyway?

How do we create an idea which is both tolerant to individuality, and also to collectivity, without polarizing the two into two different opposites?

Of course the political agendas in the world has been very obsessed, polarizing the two against each other into different, very normative ideas. 

I would claim that art and culture, and this is why art and culture are so incredibly interesting in the times we're living in now, have proven that one can create a kind of a space which is both sensitive to individuality and to collectivity.

It's very much about this causality, consequences.

It's very much about the way we link thinking and doing.

So what is between thinking and doing?

And right in-between thinking and doing, I would say, there is experience.

Having an experience is taking part in the world.

Taking part in the world is really about sharing responsibility.

