Because of what I'm about to say, I really should establish my green credentials.

And I've stuck to that.

And then worked for the Jerry Brown administration.

California is basically the equivalent of Europe, in this. 

The dominant demographic event of our time is this screamingly rapid urbanization that we have going on.

It's qualitatively different.

They are the drivers of history, as we see by looking at history. 

1,000 years ago this is what the world looked like.

Well we now have a distribution of urban power similar to what we had 1,000 years ago.

In other words, the rise of the West, dramatic as it was, is over.

What's really going on?

Well, what's going on is the villages of the world are emptying out.

Subsistence farming is drying up basically. 

People are following opportunity into town.

And this is why.

They see a cash economy that they were not able to participate in back in the subsistence farm. 

As you go around these places there's plenty of aesthetics.

They even build their own infrastructure.

Well, steal their own infrastructure, at first.

Cable TV, water, the whole gamut, all gets stolen.

And then gradually gentrifies. 

So in a town like Mumbai, which is half slums, it's 1/6th of the GDP of India.

Social capital in the slums is at its most urban and dense.

These people are valuable as a group.

And that's how they work. 

Now they're showing us how they do their phone service.

Famine mostly is a rural event now.

There are things they care about.

And this is where we can help.

And the nations they're in can help.

And they are helping each other solve these issues. 

And you go to a nice dense place like this slum in Mumbai.

You look at that lane on the right.

It's much more interactive.

And the scale is terrific.

The main event is, these are not people crushed by poverty.

They're helping each other do it.

They're doing it through an outlaw thing, the informal economy.

There's all kinds of activity. 

In Dharavi the slum performs not only a lot of services for itself, but it performs services for the city at large.

And one of the main events are these ad-hoc schools.

So you see some interesting, typical, urban things. 

In this case, supply right next to demand.

So the maids and the gardeners and the guards that live in this lively part of town on the left walk to work, in the boring, rich neighborhood. 

Proximity is amazing.

We are learning about how dense proximity can be.

This is what makes cities -- (Applause) this is what makes cities so green in the developing world. 

Because people leave the poverty trap, an ecological disaster of subsistence farms, and head to town.

And when they're gone the natural environment starts to come back very rapidly.

And those who remain in the village can shift over to cash crops to send food to the new growing markets in town.

So if you want to save a village, you do it with a good road, or with a good cell phone connection, and ideally some grid electrical power. 

Another billion is expected.

That's more than a sixth of humanity living a certain way.

And that will determine a lot of how we function. 

Now, for us environmentalists, maybe the greenest thing about the cities is they diffuse the population bomb.

Very interesting side effect here, here's a slide from Phillip Longman.

Shows what is happening.

As we have more and more old people, like me, and fewer and fewer babies.

And they are regionally separated.

Where do you think the action is going to be? 

The climate news, I'm sorry to say, is going to keep getting worse than we think, faster than we think.

Here's just a few samples.

That's what drought does.

Shift to the power situation.

Of those, only nuclear and hydro are green.

Coal is what is causing the climate problems.

So with hydro maxed out, coal and lose the climate, or nuclear, which is the current operating low-carbon source, and maybe save the climate.

And it puts 18 thousand tons of carbon dioxide in the air.

And does nuclear really compete with coal?

Well the good news is that the developing world, but frankly, the whole world, is busy building, and starting to build, nuclear reactors.

This is good for the atmosphere.

It's good for their prosperity. 

I want to point out one interesting thing, which is that environmentalists like the thing we call micropower.

It's supposed to be, I don't know, local solar and wind and cogeneration, and good things like that.

But frankly micro-reactors which are just now coming on, might serve even better. 

And they're selling these floating reactors, only 35 megawatts, to developing countries.

Here's the design of an early one from Toshiba.

Here's an American design from Lawrence Livermore Lab.

Here's another American design that came out of Los Alamos, and is now commercial. 

Almost all of these are not only small, they are proliferation-proof.

They're typically buried in the ground.

And the innovation is moving very rapidly.

So I think microreactors is going to be important for the future.

In terms of proliferation, nuclear energy has done more to dismantle nuclear weapons than any other activity.

And that's why 10 percent of the electricity in this room, 20 percent of electricity in this room is probably nuclear.

Half of that is coming from dismantled warheads from Russia, soon to be joined by our dismantled warheads.

And so I would like to see the GNEP program, that was developed in the Bush administration, go forward aggressively.

And I was glad to see that president Obama supported the nuclear fuel bank strategy when he spoke in Prague the other week. 

My fellow environmentalists, on this subject, have been irrational, anti-scientific, and very harmful.

Despite their best efforts, genetically engineered crops are the most rapidly successful agricultural innovation in history.

And biotech is moving rapidly in Africa, at last. 

This is a moral issue.

The Nuffield Council on Bioethics met on this issue twice in great detail and said it is a moral imperative to make genetically engineered crops readily available.

This is a list of them. 

Basically the news is going to keep getting more scary.

Because everybody is downstream, downwind of whatever is done.

And if we just taboo it completely we could lose civilization.

So this is very interesting diplomacy coming along.

I should say, it is more practical than people think. 

There was so much ice in 1992, the following year, that there was a bumper crop of polar bear cubs who were known as the Pinatubo cubs.

To put sulfur dioxide in the stratosphere would cost on the order of a billion dollars a year.

That's nothing, compared to all of the other things we may be trying to do about energy. 

So here is where we are.

In the Whole Earth Catalog, my first words were, "We are as Gods, and might as well get good at it."

The first words of Whole Earth Discipline are, "We are as Gods, and have to get good at it."

