I normally teach courses on how to rebuild states after war.

But today I've got a personal story to share with you.

This is a picture of my family, my four siblings -- my mom and I -- taken in 1977.

And we're actually Cambodians.

And this picture is taken in Vietnam.

So how did a Cambodian family end up in Vietnam in 1977?

Well to explain that, I've got a short video clip to explain the Khmer Rouge regime during 1975 and 1979. 

The Khmer Rouge closes the doors to the outside world.

But after four years the grim truth seeps out.

Sophal Ear: So, notwithstanding the 1970s narration, on April 17th 1975 we lived in Phnom Penh.

And my parents were told by the Khmer Rouge to evacuate the city because of impending American bombing for three days.

The reason that they gave about American bombing wasn't all that far off.

I mean, from 1965 to 1973 there were more munitions that fell on Cambodia than in all of World War II Japan, including the two nuclear bombs of August 1945.

But not just that, they actually banned money.

I think it's the only precedent in which money has ever been stopped from being used.

My family was moved from Phnom Penh to Pursat province.

This is a picture of what Pursat looks like.

It's actually a very pretty area of Cambodia, where rice growing takes place.

And in fact they were forced to work the fields.

So my father and mother ended up in a sort of concentration camp, labor camp. 

And it was at that time that my mother got word from the commune chief that the Vietnamese were actually asking for their citizens to go back to Vietnam.

And she spoke some Vietnamese, as a child having grown up with Vietnamese friends.

And they're giving about -- in a modern-day, caloric-restriction diet, I guess -- they're giving porridge, with a few grains of rice. 

And at about this time actually my father got very sick.

And he didn't speak Vietnamese.

So he died actually, in January 1976.

And it made it possible, in fact, for us to take on this plan.

So the Khmer Rouge took us from a place called Pursat to Kaoh Tiev, which is across from the border from Vietnam.

And there they had a detention camp where alleged Vietnamese would be tested, language tested. 

If she fails, we're all headed to the gallows; if she passes, we can leave to Vietnam.

And she actually, of course -- I'm here, she passes.

And this is a picture of Hong Ngu, Vietnam today.

A pretty idyllic place on the Mekong Delta.

But for us it meant freedom.

And freedom from persecution from the Khmer Rouge. 

Last year, the Khmer Rouge Tribunal, which the U.N. is helping Cambodia take on, started, and I decided that as a matter of record I should file a Civil Complaint with the Tribunal about my father's passing away.

Five years ago my mother and I went back to Chau Doc.

I'm happy, actually, today, to present her.

