Last year at TED we aimed to try to clarify the overwhelming complexity and richness that we experience at the conference in a project called Big Viz.

And the consensus was: it really worked.

So this year we're going to visualize how the brain visualizes. 

Cognitive psychologists now tell us that the brain doesn't actually see the world as it is, but instead, creates a series of mental models through a collection of "Ah-ha moments," or moments of discovery, through various processes. 

The processing, of course, begins with the eyes.

And primary visual cortex sees just simple geometry, just the simplest of shapes.

But it also acts like a kind of relay station that re-radiates and redirects information to many other parts of the brain.

As many as 30 other parts that selectively make more sense, create more meaning through the kind of "Ah-ha" experiences.

We're only going to talk about three of them. 

So the first one is called the ventral stream.

A second part of the brain is called the dorsal stream.

And what it does is locates the object in physical body space.

You'd be activating the dorsal stream if you did that. 

Well, again, the schematic view is that the eye visually interrogates what we look at.

The brain processes this in parallel, the figments of information asking a whole bunch of questions to create a unified mental model. 

So the act of engaging, and looking at the image creates the meaning.

It's the selective logic.

And so we can compare and contrast the big ideas.

So the act of engaging and creating interactive imagery enriches meaning.

It activates a different part of the brain.

The lessons for us are three-fold.

First, use images to clarify what we're trying to communicate.

Secondly make those images interactive so that we engage much more fully.

And the third is to augment memory by creating a visual persistence.

These are techniques that can be used to be -- that can be applied in a wide range of problem solving. 

So the low-tech version looks like this.

And, by the way, this is the way in which we develop and formulate strategy within Autodesk, in some of our organizations and some of our divisions.

What we literally do is have the teams draw out the entire strategic plan on one giant wall.

And it's very powerful because everyone gets to see everything else.

There's always a room, always a place to be able to make sense of all of the components in the strategic plan. 

This is a time-lapse view of it.

No Powerpoint is used in two days.

But instead the entire team creates a shared mental model that they can all agree on and move forward on. 

And this can be enhanced and augmented with some emerging digital technology.

And this is our great unveiling for today.

And this is an emerging set of technologies that use large-screen displays with intelligent calculation in the background to make the invisible visible.

Here what we can do is look at sustainability, quite literally.

So a team can actually look at all the key components that heat the structure and make choices and then see the end result that is visualized on this screen. 

So making images meaningful has three components.

And I believe that these three principles can be applied to solving some of the very tough problems that we face in the world today.

