And yet, when I look at the environment outside, you see how resistant architecture is to change.

And yet, at the end, it's so hard to change a wall.

We applaud the well-mannered box.

And I think that's really what architecture is based on. 

Architecture is not based on concrete and steel and the elements of the soil.

It's based on wonder.

If you think of the great buildings, of the cathedrals, of the temples, of the pyramids, of pagodas, of cities in India and beyond, you think of how incredible this is that that was realized not by some abstract idea, but by people. 

There it is: the things that I really believe are of important architecture.

These are the dimensions that I like to work with.

And I therefore believe that optimism is what drives architecture forward.

It's the only profession where you have to believe in the future.

And it is that belief that I think drives society. 

And today we have a kind of evangelical pessimism all around us.

They were built in times that were not really the best of times in a certain way.

And yet that energy and power of architecture has driven an entire social and political space that these buildings occupy. 

So again, I am a believer in the expressive.

I have never been a fan of the neutral.

I don't like neutrality in life, in anything.

I think expression.

And it's like espresso coffee, you know, you take the essence of the coffee.

That's what expression is.

And, of course, expressive spaces are not mute.

Expressive spaces are not spaces that simply confirm what we already know.

Expressive spaces may disturb us.

And I think that's also part of life.

And I think that is what architecture is, it's radical.

It's not something that has a good ending or a bad ending.

It's actually a story in which our acts themselves are pushing the story in a particular way. 

So again I am a believer in the radical architecture.

You know the Soviet architecture of that building is the conservation.

It's like the old Las Vegas used to be.

Therefore I believe it should not be cool. 

Life without emotion would really not be life.

Even the mind is emotional.

There is no reason which does not take a position in the ethical sphere, in the philosophical mystery of what we are.

So I think emotion is a dimension that is important to introduce into city space, into city life. 

And of course, we are all about the struggle of emotions.

And I think that is what makes the world a wondrous place.

And of course, the confrontation of the cool, the unemotional with emotion, is a conversation that I think cities themselves have fostered.

I think that is the progress of cities.

They connect themselves into various sources, into a kind of complex vector matrix that isn't really frontal but is really embedded in the lives, and in the history of a city, and of a people.

Our whole practice depends on computing.

We realize that the hand has been given us by forces that are beyond our own autonomy.

I think that's part of what the complexity of architecture is.

Listening to all of you, the complexity of thought, the complexity of layers of meaning is overwhelming.

Space is something that folds out of itself into completely new worlds.

And as wondrous as it is, it cannot be reduced to a kind of simplification that we have often come to be admired.

And yet, our lives are complex.

So I do believe that architecture as I see it needs to mirror that complexity in every single space that we have, in every intimacy that we possess. 

Of course that means that architecture is political.

And we live in a world which is connecting us more and more.

So again, the evasion of that sphere, which has been so endemic to that sort of pure architecture, the autonomous architecture that is just an abstract object has never appealed to me.

Because architecture is also the asking of questions.

Therefore it is important that it be real.

You know we can simulate almost anything.

But the one thing that can be ever simulated is the human heart, the human soul.

It's not something that comes to us from books and theories.

It's a self-induced poison.

So the unexpected is always unexpected.

And of course habits are enforced by architecture.

When we see the same kind of architecture we become immured in that world of those angles, of those lights, of those materials.

We think the world really looks like our buildings.

And yet our buildings are pretty much limited by the techniques and wonders that have been part of them. 

So again, the unexpected which is also the raw.

And often it takes just a building to change our experience of what could be done, what has been done, how the world has remained both in between stability and instability.

And of course buildings have their shapes.

Those shapes are difficult to change.

So I believe that my main interest is to memory.

Without memory we would be amnesiacs.

We would not know which way we were going, and why we are going where we're going. 

Critics like the performance to be repeated again and again the same way.

But I rather play something completely unheard of, and even with flaws, than repeat the same thing over and over which has been hollowed by its meaninglessness.

So again, memory is the city, memory is the world.

The memorable, I think, is really our world, what we think the world is.

It can reach into sources that are not explicitly available.

It can reach into millennia that have been buried, and return them in a just and unexpected equity. 

So again, I think the notion that the best architecture is silent has never appealed to me.

Silence maybe is good for a cemetery but not for a city.

Create a shopping center, a swimming place that is more like a museum than like entertainment.

And these are our dreams. 

It should not play it safe, because if it plays it safe it's not moving us in a direction that we want to be.

And I think, of course, risk is what underlies the world.

World without risk would not be worth living.

So yes, I do believe that the risk we take in every building.

It's not about decoration.

It's about creating with minimal means something which can not be repeated, cannot be simulated in any other sphere.

And there of course is the space that we need to breathe, is the space we need to dream.

These are the spaces that are not just luxurious spaces for some of us, but are important for everybody in this world. 

So again, it's not about the changing fashions, changing theories.

It's about carving out a space for trees.

It's carving out a space where nature can enter the domestic world of a city.

A space where something which has never seen a light of day can enter into the inner workings of a density.

And I think that is really the nature of architecture. 

Now I am a believer in democracy.

And yet when I think of the poverty of society which doesn't give freedom to its people, I don't admire those buildings.

So democracy, as difficult as it is, I believe in it. 

And of course, at Ground Zero what else?

There are emotions of the victims.

And yet, compromise, consensus, that is what I believe in.

Chris Anderson: I've got a question.

And I believe that what will be built at Ground Zero will be meaningful, will be inspiring, will tell other generations of the sacrifices, of the meaning of this event.

Not just for New York, but for the world. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you so much, Daniel Libeskind. 

