There are times when I feel really quite ashamed to be a European.

There are just so many contradictions.

We mourn the tragic death of two-year-old Alan Kurdi, and yet, since then, more than 200 children have subsequently drowned in the Mediterranean.

What are we doing?

And so what I want to do is take a step back and ask two really fundamental questions, the two questions we all need to ask.

First, why is the current system not working?

And second, what can we do to fix it? 

Its basic aim is to ensure that when a state fails, or worse, turns against its own people, people have somewhere to go, to live in safety and dignity until they can go home.

It was created precisely for situations like the situation we see in Syria today.

Through an international convention signed by 147 governments, the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees, and an international organization, UNHCR, states committed to reciprocally admit people onto their territory who flee conflict and persecution. 

In theory, refugees have a right to seek asylum.

In practice, our immigration policies block the path to safety.

In theory, refugees are a shared global responsibility.

In practice, geography means that countries proximate the conflict take the overwhelming majority of the world's refugees.

The system isn't broken because the rules are wrong.

So I want to explain to you a little bit about how the current system works.

How does the refugee regime actually work?

But not from a top-down institutional perspective, rather from the perspective of a refugee.

So imagine a Syrian woman.

Let's call her Amira.

And Amira to me represents many of the people I've met in the region.

So Amira and her family face an almost impossible choice.

They have three basic options.

The first option is that Amira can take her family to a camp.

In the camp, she might get assistance, but there are very few prospects for Amira and her family.

Camps are in bleak, arid locations, often in the desert.

In the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan, you can hear the shells across the border in Syria at nighttime.

And around the world, some 80 percent of refugees who are in camps have to stay for at least five years.

It's a miserable existence, and that's probably why, in reality, only nine percent of Syrians choose that option. 

Alternatively, Amira can head to an urban area in a neighboring country, like Amman or Beirut.

Refugees in such urban areas don't usually have the right to work.

They don't usually get significant access to assistance.

And so when Amira and her family have used up their basic savings, they're left with very little and likely to face urban destitution. 

So there's a third alternative, and it's one that increasing numbers of Syrians are taking.

I think we can reconsider that choice.

The reason why we limit those options is because we think that those are the only options that are available to refugees, and they're not.

And I want to suggest four ways we can transform the paradigm of how we think about refugees.

Together with my colleagues in Oxford, we've embarked on a research project in Uganda looking at the economic lives of refugees.

And the results of that are extraordinary both for refugees and the host community.

In the capital city, Kampala, we found that 21 percent of refugees own a business that employs other people, and 40 percent of those employees are nationals of the host country.

Even in the camps, we found extraordinary examples of vibrant, flourishing and entrepreneurial businesses. 

For example, in a settlement called Nakivale, we found examples of Congolese refugees running digital music exchange businesses.

We found a Rwandan who runs a business that's available to allow the youth to play computer games on recycled games consoles and recycled televisions.

So with friends and colleagues, he started a community radio station, he rented a video camera, and he's now making films.

He made two documentary films with and for our team, and he's making a successful business out of very little.

It's those kinds of examples that should guide our response to refugees.

Rather than seeing refugees as inevitably dependent upon humanitarian assistance, we need to provide them with opportunities for human flourishing. 

All the ways in which we take for granted that we are plugged in to the global economy can and should apply to refugees. 

The second idea I want to discuss is economic zones.

Unfortunately, not every host country in the world takes the approach Uganda has taken.

And just 15 minutes away from the Zaatari refugee camp, home to 83,000 refugees, is an existing economic zone called the King Hussein Bin Talal Development Area.

It was announced at the London Syria Conference two weeks ago, and a pilot will begin in the summer. 

The third idea that I want to put to you is preference matching between states and refugees to lead to the kinds of happy outcomes you see here in the selfie featuring Angela Merkel and a Syrian refugee.

Now, of course you'd need to build in quotas on things like diversity and vulnerability, but it's a way of increasing the possibilities of matching.

The matching idea has been successfully used to match, for instance, students with university places, to match kidney donors with patients, and it underlies the kind of algorithms that exist on dating websites.

So why not apply that to give refugees greater choice? 

So matching markets offer a potential way to bring those preferences together and listen to the needs and demands of the populations that host and the refugees themselves. 

The fourth idea I want to put to you is of humanitarian visas.

Much of the tragedy and chaos we've seen in Europe was entirely avoidable.

They're completely unnecessary journeys, and last year, they led to the deaths of over 3,000 people on Europe's borders and within European territory. 

If we allowed refugees to do that, it would have major advantages.

It would save lives, it would undercut the entire market for smugglers, and it would remove the chaos we see from Europe's front line in areas like the Greek islands.

It's politics that prevents us doing that rather than a rational solution. 

And this is an idea that has been applied.

Brazil has adopted a pioneering approach where over 2,000 Syrians have been able to get humanitarian visas, enter Brazil, and claim refugee status on arrival in Brazil.

And in that scheme, every Syrian who has gone through it has received refugee status and been recognized as a genuine refugee. 

There is a historical precedent for it as well.

Between 1922 and 1942, these Nansen passports were used as travel documents to allow 450,000 Assyrians, Turks and Chechens to travel across Europe and claim refugee status elsewhere in Europe.

And the Nansen International Refugee Office received the Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of this being a viable strategy. 

So all four of these ideas that I've presented you are ways in which we can expand Amira's choice set.

There's nothing inevitable about refugees being a cost.

Yes, they are a humanitarian responsibility, but they're human beings with skills, talents, aspirations, with the ability to make contributions -- if we let them. 

In the new world, migration is not going to go away.

What we've seen in Europe will be with us for many years.

I'd urge you all to wake up and urge our politicians to wake up to this challenge. 

Thank you very much. 

