And I stood there beside two very good friends of mine, Richard Weber and Kevin Vallely.

Together we had just broken the world speed record for a trek to the South Pole.

It took us 33 days, 23 hours and 55 minutes to get there.

We shaved five days off the previous best time.

And in the process, I became the first person in history to make the entire 650-mile journey, from Hercules Inlet to South Pole, solely on feet, without skis. 

It's going to be 40 below, every single day.

You'll be in a massive headwind.

And at some point you're going to have to cross these cracks in the ice, these crevasses.

Our journey did not, in fact, begin at Hercules Inlet, where frozen ocean meets the land of Antarctica.

It began a little less than two years ago.

A couple of buddies of mine and I had finished a 111-day run across the entire Sahara desert.

And while we were there we learned the seriousness of the water crisis in Northern Africa.

We also learned that many of the issues facing the people of Northern Africa affected young people the most.

He's trying to find and solve water issues, the crisis around the world.

We'd catch cat-naps at 40 below on our sled, incidentally.

In turn, students, people from around the world, would ask us questions.

Young people would ask the most amazing questions. 

One of my favorite: It's 40 below, you've got to go to the bathroom, where are you going to go and how are you going to do it?

We were burning about 8,500 a day, so we needed it. 

How many batteries do you carry for all the equipment that you have?

The stories we were hearing got us to the South Pole.

The website worked brilliantly as a two-way street of communication.

Young people in northern Canada, kids in an elementary school, dragging sleds across the school-yard, pretending they were Richard, Ray and Kevin.

We looked at each other with these looks of disbelief at what we had just completed.

That I'm this uber-endurance guy? 

As I stand here today talking to you guys, I've been running for the grand sum of five years.

What I take from this journey, from my journeys, is that, in fact, within every fiber of my belief standing here, I know that we can make the impossible possible.

I'm learning this at 40 years of age.

