I want to help you re-perceive what philanthropy is, what it could be, and what your relationship to it is.

And in doing that, I want to offer you a vision, an imagined future, if you will, of how, as the poet Seamus Heaney has put it, "Once in a lifetime the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up, and hope and history rhyme."

I want to start with these word pairs here.

We all know which side of these we'd like to be on.

When philanthropy was reinvented a century ago, when the foundation form was actually invented, they didn't think of themselves on the wrong side of these either.

This entrepreneurial energy is emerging from many quarters.

And it's driven and propelled forward by new leaders, like many of the people here, by new tools, like the ones we've seen here, and by new pressures. 

I've been following this change for quite a while now, and participating in it.

This report is our main public report.

And as I do that, I'm not going to dwell much on the very large philanthropy that everybody already knows about -- the Gates or the Soros or the Google.

The first is mass collaboration, represented here by Wikipedia.

Now, this may surprise you.

But remember, philanthropy is about giving of time and talent, not just money.

Watch, this spring, for Paul Hawken's new book -- Author and entrepreneur many of you may know about.

The book is called "Blessed Unrest."

And when it comes out, a series of wiki sites under the label WISER, are going to launch at the same time.

WISER stands for World Index for Social and Environmental Responsibility.

Now, all of these big things for love -- experiments -- aren't going to take off.

But the ones that do are going to be the biggest, the most open, the fastest, the most connected form of philanthropy in human history. 

Second category is online philanthropy marketplaces.

This is, of course, to philanthropy what eBay and Amazon are to commerce.

It's one of the best known of these new marketplaces where a donor can go straight into a classroom and connect with what a teacher says they need.

And it goes on and on. 

There are now, today, so many new funds that are aggregating giving and investing, bringing together people around a common goal, to think bigger.

Now, imagine for a second these first three types of experiments: mass collaboration, online marketplaces, aggregated giving.

I'm going to look quickly at the fourth and fifth categories, which are innovation, competitions and social investing.

This tackles yet another assumption, that the giver and the organization is at the center, as opposed to putting the problem at the center.

You can look to these innovators to help us especially with things that require technological or scientific solution. 

It lists already 1,000 entities that are offering debt and equity for social enterprise.

So we can look to these innovators to help us remember that if we can leverage even a small amount of the capital that seeks a return, the good that can be driven could be astonishing. 

Philanthropy is reorganizing itself before our very eyes.

We have got to realize that it is going to take a long time to do these things.

If we don't develop the stamina to stick with things -- whatever it is you pick, stick with it -- all of this stuff is just going to be, you know, a fad. 

But I'm really hopeful.

And I'm hopeful because it's not only philanthropy that's reorganizing itself, it's also whole other portions of the social sector, and of business, that are busy challenging "business as usual."

And everywhere I go, including here at TED, I feel that there is a new moral hunger that is growing.

What we're seeing is people really wrestling to describe what is this new thing that's happening.

Many of you will realize that I'm ripping a bit off of the science fiction writer Vernor Vinge's notion of a technological singularity, where a number of trends accelerate and converge and come together to create, really, a shockingly new reality.

And as we've heard here, it is no exaggeration to say that we hold the future of our civilization in our hands as never before. 

The question is, is there a positive social singularity?

Is there a frontier for us of how we live together?

Our future doesn't have to be imagined.

We can create a future where hope and history rhyme.

But we have a problem.

Our experience to date, both individually and collectively, hasn't prepared us for what we're going to need to do, or who we're going to need to be.

We are going to need a new generation of citizen leaders willing to commit ourselves to growing and changing and learning as rapidly as possible.

That's why I have one last thing I want to show you. 

This is a photograph taken about 100 years ago of my grandfather and great-grandfather.

This is a newspaper publisher and a banker.

And so, in their honor, I want to offer you this blank slide.

And I want you to imagine that this a photograph of you.

What is the story you most want for them to tell?

