I'm going to talk about post-conflict recovery and how we might do post-conflict recovery better.

The record on post-conflict recovery is not very impressive.

40 percent of all post-conflict situations, historically, have reverted back to conflict within a decade.

In fact, they've accounted for half of all civil wars.

Why has the record been so poor?

Well, the conventional approach to post-conflict situations has rested on, on kind of, three principles. 

The first principle is: it's the politics that matters.

So, the first thing that is prioritized is politics.

Try and build a political settlement first.

And thirdly, what is the exit strategy for the peacekeepers?

It's an election.

That will produce a legitimate and accountable government. 

So that's the conventional approach.

I think that approach denies reality.

We see that there is no quick fix.

There's certainly no quick security fix.

And they stay high regardless of the political innovations.

Does an election produce an accountable and legitimate government?

What an election produces is a winner and a loser.

And the loser is unreconciled.

The reality is that we need to reverse the sequence.

It's not the politics first; it's actually the politics last.

The politics become easier as the decade progresses if you're building on a foundation of security and economic development -- the rebuilding of prosperity. 

Why does the politics get easier?

And why is it so difficult initially?

And that doesn't produce a productive politics.

And so the mentality has to shift from zero-sum to positive-sum before you can get a productive politics.

You can only get positive, that mental shift, if the reality is that prosperity is being built.

And in order to build prosperity, we need security in place.

So that is what you get when you face reality.

But the objective of facing reality is to change reality. 

And so now let me suggest two complimentary approaches to changing the reality of the situations.

The first is to recognize the interdependence of three key actors, who are different actors, and at the moment are uncoordinated.

The first actor is the Security Council.

It is a cost-effective approach.

It does increase security.

But it needs to be done long-term.

It needs to be a decade-long approach, rather than just a couple of years.

That's one actor, the Security Council. 

The second actor, different cast of guys, is the donors.

The donors provide post-conflict aid.

Typically in the past, the donors have been interested in the first couple of years, and then they got bored.

They moved on to some other situation.

Post-conflict economic recovery is a slow process.

There are no quick processes in economics except decline.

You can do that quite fast.

(Laughter) So the donors have to stick with this situation for at least a decade. 

And then the third key actor is the post-conflict government.

And there are two key things it's got to do.

One is it's got to do economic reform, not fuss about the political constitution.

So this legacy of conflict is really bad economic policy.

So there is a reform agenda, and there is an inclusion agenda.

The inclusion agenda doesn't come from elections.

Elections produce a loser, who is then excluded.

So the inclusion agenda means genuinely bringing people inside the tent.

So those three actors.

And they are interdependent over a long term.

If the Security Council doesn't commit to security over the course of a decade, you don't get the reassurance which produces private investment.

If you don't get the policy reform and the aid, you don't get the economic recovery, which is the true exit strategy for the peacekeepers.

So we should recognize that interdependence, by formal, mutual commitments.

And so we need a post-conflict compact.

It would be ideal to have a standard set of norms where, when we got to a post-conflict situation, there was an expectation of these mutual commitments from the three parties.

And that is to focus on a few critical objectives.

Typical post-conflict situation is a zoo of different actors with different priorities.

So we have to be disciplined and focus on things that are critical. 

And I want to suggest that in the typical post-conflict situation three things are critical.

One is jobs.

So jobs, health, and clean government.

Those are the three critical priorities.

So I'm going to talk a little about each of them. 

In post-conflict situations, the reason that they so often revert to conflict, is not because elderly women get upset.

And so we need a process of generating jobs, for ordinary young men, fast.

Now, that is difficult.

It's not sustainable.

In fact, you're building a long-term liability by inflating civil service.

These are not environments where you can build export manufacturing. 

The construction sector has a vital role, obviously, in reconstruction.

But typically that sector has withered away during conflict.

And then when you try and expand it, because it's shriveled away, you encounter a lot of bottlenecks.

And so the policy priority is to break the bottlenecks in expanding the construction sector. 

What might the bottlenecks be?

Often the legal system is broken down so you can't even get access to land.

Secondly you need skills, the mundane skills of the construction sector.

So we need to encourage the growth of local firms.

If we do that, we not only get the jobs, we get the improvements in public infrastructure, the restoration of public infrastructure. 

Let me turn from jobs to the second objective, which is improving basic social services.

And to date, there has been a sort of a schizophrenia in the donor community, as to how to build basic services in post-conflict sectors.

On the one hand it pays lip service to the idea of rebuild an effective state in the image of Scandinavia in the 1950s.

Lets develop line ministries of this, that, and the other, that deliver these services.

Neither of those approaches is sensible.

And so what I'd suggest is what I call Independent Service Authorities.

And in between, there should be a public agency, the Independent Service Authority, which channels public money, and especially donor money, to the retail providers.

So the NGOs become part of a public government system, rather than independent of it. 

One advantage of that is that you can allocate money coherently.

Another is, you can make NGOs accountable.

The good NGOs, like Oxfam, are very keen on this idea.

They want to have the discipline and accountability.

So that's a way to get basic services scaled up.

And because the government would be funding it, it would be co-branding these services.

So they wouldn't be provided thanks to the United States government and some NGO.

They would be co-branded as being done by the post-conflict government, in the country.

So, jobs, basic services, finally, clean government. 

Clean means follow their money.

The typical post-conflict government is so short of money that it needs our money just to be on a life-support system.

You can't get the basic functions of the state done unless we put money into the core budget of these countries.

But, if we put money into the core budget, we know that there aren't the budget systems with integrity that mean that money will be well spent.

It's captured by the crooks who are at the heart of the political problem.

And so inadvertently we empower the people who are the problem. 

Paddy Ashdown, who was the grand high nabob of Bosnia to the United Nations, in his book about his experience, he said, "I realize what I needed was accountants without borders, to follow that money."

What's the goal?

If we follow this, what would we hope to achieve?

So that's the focus on the construction sector.

And so gradually the selection, the composition of politicians, would shift from the crooked to the honest.

Where would that leave us?

