I want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time, in a very short time. 

Promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment. 

Of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage -- thank you George Bush -- the majority, 60 percent, yielded to sexual temptations within one year.

And most of them did so without using birth control.

So much for promises. 

Of course it pays, if you like marshmallows, to wait.

What happens is two-thirds of the kids give in to temptation.

Walter Mischel, my colleague at Stanford, went back 14 years later, to try to discover what was different about those kids.

There were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded, in many ways.

The kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the SAT.

Time perspective is the study of how individuals, all of us, divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories.

And you do it automatically and non-consciously.

They vary between cultures, between nations, between individuals, between social classes, between education levels.

What determines any decision you make?

You make a decision on which you're going to base an action.

For some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation, what other people are doing and what you're feeling.

For others, the present is irrelevant.

It's always about "What is this situation like that I've experienced in the past?"

For others it's not the past, it's not the present, it's only about the future.

Their focus is always about anticipated consequences.

Cost-benefit analysis.

So, time paradox, I want to argue, the paradox of time perspective, is something that influences every decision you make, you're totally unaware of.

There is two ways to be past-oriented, two ways to be future.

You can focus on past-positive, or past-negative.

You can be future-oriented, setting goals.

Or you can be transcendental future: namely, life begins after death.

Developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation, that's what you've got to learn to do. 

What you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations, new challenges.

What you get from the present hedonism is the energy, the energy to explore yourself, places, people, sensuality. 

Any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives.

And they live for work, achievement and control.

I'm here as a future-oriented person who went over the top, who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened, and made me future oriented.

I just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the drop-out rates of school kids, combating addictions, enhancing teen health, curing vets' PTSD with time metaphors -- getting miracle cures -- promoting sustainability and conservation, reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50-percent drop out rate, altering appeals to suicidal terrorists, and modifying family conflicts as time-zone clashes. 

So I want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others.

And the idea is so simple, so obvious, but I think the consequences are really profound.

