I've also lived in Biosphere 2.

And the wonderful thing about that is that I get to compare biospheres.

And hopefully from that I get to learn something. 

And then of course I have to milk the goats and feed the goats in order to make the cheese.

It took me four months in Biosphere 2 to make a pizza.

Here in Biosphere 1, well it takes me about two minutes, because I pick up the phone and I call and say, "Hey, can you deliver the pizza?"

So we had our own miniature rainforest, a private beach with a coral reef.

We had a savanna, a marsh, a desert.

We had our own half-acre farm that we had to grow everything.

And of course we had our human habitat, where we lived. 

Back in the mid-'80s when we were designing Biosphere 2, we had to ask ourselves some pretty basic questions.

I mean, what is a biosphere?

Well, you have to get a little more specific than that if you're going to build one.

This is a chamber that was 1/400th the size of Biosphere 2 that we called our Test Module.

And the very first day that this fellow, John Allen, walked in, to spend a couple of days in there with all the plants and animals and bacteria that we'd put in there to hopefully keep him alive, the doctors were incredibly concerned that he was going to succumb to some dreadful toxin, or that his lungs were going to get choked with bacteria or something, fungus.

But of course none of that happened. 

And over the ensuing few years, there were great sagas about designing Biosphere 2.

But by 1991 we finally had this thing built.

And it was time for us to go in and give it a go.

We needed to know, is life this malleable?

Big questions.

We also wanted to know so we can understand more about the Earth that we all live in.

Well, in 1991 it was finally time for us to go in and try out this baby.

Let's take it on a maiden voyage.

(Laughter) And this is the world that we lived in.

One of the Biospherians called it "garden of Eden on top of an aircraft carrier."

And then also we had the human habitat of course, with the laboratories, and all of that.

This is the agriculture.

It was essentially an organic farm. 

At that moment I became part of that biosphere.

When I breathed out, my CO2 fed the sweet potatoes that I was growing.

And we ate an awful lot of the sweet potatoes.

(Laughter) And those sweet potatoes became part of me.

In fact, we ate so many sweet potatoes I became orange with sweet potato.

I literally was eating the same carbon over and over again.

I was eating myself in some strange sort of bizarre way. 

And we knew that we were losing CO2.

And so we were working to sequester carbon.

Good lord -- we know that term now.

We were growing plants like crazy.

We were trying to stop carbon from going into the atmosphere.

We stopped irrigating our soil, as much as we could.

We stopped tilling, so that we could prevent greenhouse gasses from going into the air.

And it was like playing atomic hide-and-seek.

We had lost seven tons of oxygen.

And we had no clue where it was. 

And I tell you, when you lose a lot of oxygen -- and our oxygen went down quite far; it went from 21 percent down to 14.2 percent -- my goodness, do you feel dreadful.

I mean we were dragging ourselves around the Biosphere.

And we had sleep apnea at night.

And everybody outside thought we were dying.

I mean, the media was making it sound like were were dying.

And I had to call up my mother every other day saying, "No, Mum, it's fine, fine.

And the doctor was, in fact, checking us to make sure we were, in fact, fine.

But in fact he was the person who was most susceptible to the oxygen.

And one day he couldn't add up a line of figures.

And it was time for us to put oxygen in.

And you might think, well, "Boy, your life support system was failing you.

Not me, that was for sure. 

And we did indeed find it.

And we found it in the concrete.

Essentially it had done something very simple.

Pretty straightforward really. 

And nothing else emerged that really was as serious as that.

And we proved the concept, more or less.

People, on the other hand, was a different subject.

We were -- yeah I don't know that we were fixable.

We all went quite nuts, I will say. 

And the day I came out of Biosphere 2, I was thrilled I was going to see all my family and my friends.

For two years I'd been seeing people through the glass.

People stink!

We stink of hairspray and underarm deodorant, and all kinds of stuff.

And boy do we stink out here.

Not only that, but I lost touch of where my food came from.

I had been growing all my own food.

I had no idea what was in my food, where it came from.

I didn't even recognize half the names in most of the food that I was eating.

In fact, I would stand for hours in the aisles of shops, reading all the names on all of the things.

People must have thought I was nuts.

It was really quite astonishing.

And I slowly lost track of where I was in this big biosphere, in this big biosphere that we all live in.

In Biosphere 2 I totally understood that I had a huge impact on my biosphere, everyday, and it had an impact on me, very viscerally, very literally. 

And so we sent one onto the Mir Space Station.

We had one on the shuttle and one on the International Space Station, for 16 months, where we managed to produce the first organisms to go through complete multiple life cycles in space -- really pushing the envelope of understanding how malleable our life systems are. 

And part of that is that we had to model very rapid circulation of CO2 and oxygen and water through this plant system. 

As a result of that modeling I ended up in all places, in Eritrea, in the Horn of Africa.

It is so dry.

This is what I saw.

But this is also what I saw.

I saw a company that had taken seawater and sand, and they were growing a kind of crop that will grow on pure salt water without having to treat it.

And it will produce a food crop.

And all of it was coming from this: shrimp farms.

Shrimp farms are a scourge on the earth, frankly, from an environmental point of view.

So they're all shitting each other's ponds, quite literally.

And what this project was doing was taking the effluent of these, and turning them into all of this food.

They were literally turning pollution into abundance for a desert people.

They had created an industrial ecosystem, of a sense. 

In a mangrove forest like this I have no idea.

And put your project in that context. 

This is in fact, this beautiful photograph, is in fact over the Amazon.

And here the light green are areas of massive deforestation.

And those beautiful wispy clouds are, in fact, fires, human-made fires.

We're in the process of transforming from this, to what I would call a biophilic society, one where we learn to nurture society.

Now it may not seem like it, but we are.

It is happening all across the world, in every kind of walk of life, and every kind of career and industry that you can think of.

And I think often times people get lost in that.

They go, "But how can I possibly find my way in that?

It's such a huge subject."

This is the story of a rake in my backyard.

This was my backyard, very early on, when I bought my property.

And on Sunday morning the neighbors leaf blower comes out, and I want to throttle them.

It's a certain type of aesthetic.

We're very uncomfortable with untidiness.

And I threw away my rake.

And I let all of the leaves fall from the trees that I have on my property.

And over time, essentially what have I been doing?

This is actually in a riparian area.

And all of Tucson could be like this if everybody would just revolt and throw away the rake.

The small stuff counts. 

The Industrial Revolution -- and Prometheus -- has given us this, the ability to light up the world.

It has also given us this, the ability to look at the world from the outside.

Now we may not all have another biosphere that we can run to, and compare it to this biosphere.

But we can look at the world, and try to understand where we are in its context, and how we choose to interact with it. 

And if you lose where you are in your biosphere, or are perhaps having a difficulty connecting with where you are in the biosphere, I would say to you, take a deep breath.

The yogis had it right.

Breath does, in fact, connect us all in a very literal way.

Take a breath now.

And as you breathe, think about what is in your breath.

There perhaps is the CO2 from the person sitting next-door to you.

Maybe there is a little bit of oxygen from some algae on the beach not far from here.

It also connects us in time.

There may be some carbon in your breath from the dinosaurs.

