So you go to the doctor and get some tests.

The doctor determines that you have high cholesterol and you would benefit from medication to treat it.

So you get a pillbox.

The company that invented it did a lot of studies, submitted it to the FDA.

They studied it very carefully, skeptically, they approved it.

They have a rough idea of how it works, they have a rough idea of what the side effects are.

So now we're talking about two medications.

Think things should go OK.

How much have we studied these two together? 

Well, it's very hard to do that.

In fact, it's not traditionally done.

We totally depend on what we call "post-marketing surveillance," after the drugs hit the market.

Ask your favorite person who has several diagnoses how many medications they're on. 

Why do I care about this problem?

So let me tell you a data science story.

And it begins with my student Nick.

Let's call him "Nick," because that's his name. 

Let's go into the Stanford electronic medical record.

Now there are thousands and thousands of people in the Stanford medical records that take paroxetine and pravastatin.

But we needed special patients.

We needed patients who were on one of them and had a glucose measurement, then got the second one and had another glucose measurement, all within a reasonable period of time -- something like two months.

And when we did that, we found 10 patients.

So a 20 bump -- pretty significant. 

Let's see if they can find similar patients with the one P, the other P, the glucose measurements in that range that we need. 

So at the end, we had 150 patients from three diverse medical centers that were telling us that patients getting these two drugs were having their glucose bump somewhat significantly. 

When we looked at the glucose of diabetics, it was going up 60 milligrams per deciliter, not just 20.

This was a big deal, and we said, "We've got to publish this."

We submitted the paper.

We had not done a single real experiment. 

But we were nervous.

So Nick, while the paper was in review, went to the lab.

We found somebody who knew about lab stuff.

I don't do that.

I take care of patients, but I don't do pipettes.

They taught us how to feed mice drugs.

We took mice and we gave them one P, paroxetine.

We gave some other mice pravastatin.

And we gave a third group of mice both of them.

And lo and behold, glucose went up 20 to 60 milligrams per deciliter in the mice. 

That was great, and the story could have ended there.

But I still have six and a half minutes. 

How would we ever determine that?"

What are you experiencing?

Google, I am sorry to say, denied our request.

So I was bummed.

I felt like I was talking to Nick again.

And it turns out that about .5 to one percent of all searches on the Internet involve one of those words.

So that's our baseline rate.

If it's "pravastatin," the rate goes up to about three percent from the baseline.

The reason it deserves attention is that patients are telling us their side effects indirectly through their searches.

We brought this to the attention of the FDA.

They were interested.

Nick went on; he's a professor at Columbia now.

However, there's a couple of things.

We don't just use pairs of drugs at a time.

As I said before, there are patients on three, five, seven, nine drugs.

We really have no idea.

It's a blue sky, open field for us to use data to try to understand the interaction of drugs. 

We need secure systems.

And the final thing I want to say is, in this case we found two drugs and it was a little bit of a sad story.

The two drugs actually caused problems.

They increased glucose.

But there was another possibility.

We could have found two drugs or three drugs that were interacting in a beneficial way.

If we think about drug treatment today, all the major breakthroughs -- for HIV, for tuberculosis, for depression, for diabetes -- it's always a cocktail of drugs. 

And so the upside here, and the subject for a different TED Talk on a different day, is how can we use the same data sources to find good effects of drugs in combination that will provide us new treatments, new insights into how drugs work and enable us to take care of our patients even better? 

Thank you very much. 

