Let me share with you today an original discovery.

It's a story about beyond biomimetics, to something I'm calling biomutualism.

Now, in terms of biomimetics, as human technologies take on more of the characteristics of nature, nature becomes a much more useful teacher.

Now, being a biologist, I was very curious about this.

These are gecko toes.

And the individual has 2 billion of these nano-size split ends.

They don't stick by Velcro or suction or glue.

They actually stick by intermolecular forces alone, van der Waals forces.

And I'm really pleased to report to you today that the first synthetic self-cleaning, dry adhesive has been made.

From the simplest version in nature, one branch, my engineering collaborator, Ron Fearing, at Berkeley, had made the first synthetic version.

And here is its first test.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

More recently, this happened. 

Man: This the first time someone has actually climbed with it. 

Narrator: Lynn Verinsky, a professional climber, who appeared to be brimming with confidence. 

Man: How do you know? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Lynn made it to the top in a perfect pairing of Hollywood and science. 

Man: So you're the first human being to officially emulate a gecko. 

Robert Full: That's what she did on rough surfaces.

But she actually used these on smooth surfaces -- two of them -- to climb up, and pull herself up.

And you can try this in the lobby, and look at the gecko-inspired material.

Well I'm really excited today to show you the newest version of a robot, Stickybot, using a new hierarchical dry adhesive.

Here is the actual robot.

And here is what it does.

And if you look, you can see that it uses the toe peeling, just like the gecko does.

If we can show some of the video, you can see it climbing up the wall.

(Applause) There it is.

(Applause) 

The engineers told us, for the climbing robots, that, if they don't have a tail, they fall off the wall.

We know that you can grab onto things with them.

And perhaps it is most well known that they provide static balance.

(Laughter) It can also act as a counterbalance.

Marc Raibert built a Uniroo hopping robot.

And it was unstable without its tail.

(Laughter) But of course, this is a passive tail.

And you can also have active tails. 

Video: Myhrvold thinks tail-cracking dinosaurs were interested in love, not war. 

Robert Full: He talked about the tail being a whip for communication.

It can also be used in defense.

Pretty powerful.

So we then went back and looked at the animal.

And we ran it up a surface.

And watch on the right what the animal is doing with its tail when it slips.

So here is normal speed.

If you make it slip a huge amount, this is what we discovered.

This is incredible.

The engineers had a really good idea. 

But there it is slowed down. 

What we discovered was the world's fastest air-righting response.

But geckos do it better.

And they do it with their tail.

So they do it with this active tail as they swing around.

And then they always land in the sort of superman skydiving posture.

Okay, now we wondered, if we were right, we should be able to test this in a physical model, in a robot. 

And we're going to attempt the first air-righting response in a tail, with a robot.

If we could have the lights on it.

Okay, there it goes.

And it works just like it does in the animal.

(Applause) 

And it's better than that, it -- just in the slide -- maneuvers in mid-air.

And the way it does it, is it takes its tail and it swings it one way to yaw left, and it swings its other way to yaw right.

It oscillates its tail up and down like a dolphin.

What does that mean for the origin of flapping flight?

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And it certainly looks like it.

You can see it even better from down on top.

It's unbelievable. 

We wondered, "Do they actually glide in nature?"

Well we went to the forests of Singapore and Southeast Asia.

And the next video you see is the first time we've showed this. 

Look at the end to see the animal.

So now we can continue this mutualism by suggesting that they can make an active tail.

So to conclude, I think we need to build biomutualisms, like I showed, that will increase the pace of basic discovery in their application.

And of course you need the organisms and the environment to do it.

(Applause) 

