But the pace of exponential growth is really what describes information technologies.

And it's not just computation.

There is a big difference between linear and exponential growth.

If I take 30 steps linearly -- one, two, three, four, five -- I get to 30.

If I take 30 steps exponentially -- two, four, eight, 16 -- I get to a billion.

It makes a huge difference.

And that really describes information technology. 

When I was a student at MIT, we all shared one computer that took up a whole building.

The computer in your cellphone today is a million times cheaper, a million times smaller, a thousand times more powerful.

And we're going to do it again in the next 25 years.

We'll then go to the next paradigm.

And Moore's Law was not the first paradigm to bring exponential growth to computing.

The exponential growth of computing started decades before Gordon Moore was even born.

And it doesn't just apply to computation.

It's really any technology where we can measure the underlying information properties. 

But what's even more amazing, really, than this fantastic scale of progress, is that -- look at how predictable this is.

I mean this went through thick and thin, through war and peace, through boom times and recessions.

The Great Depression made not a dent in this exponential progression.

We'll see the same thing in the economic recession we're having now.

At least the exponential growth of information technology capability will continue unabated. 

And I just updated these graphs.

Because I had them through 2002 in my book, "The Singularity is Near."

But look at how predictable this is.

And I'd say this knowledge is over-fitting to past data.

I've been making these forward-looking predictions for about 30 years.

And the cost of a transistor cycle, which is a measure of the price performance of electronics, comes down about every year.

That's a 50 percent deflation rate.

And it's also true of other examples, like DNA data or brain data.

But we more than make up for that.

We actually ship more than twice as much of every form of information technology.

This is a completely different example.

This is not Moore's Law.

The amount of DNA data we've sequenced has doubled every year.

The cost has come down by half every year.

And this has been a smooth progression since the beginning of the genome project.

But this has progressed at an exponential pace.

This is deeply democratizing.

I wrote, over 20 years ago in "The Age of Intelligent Machines," when the Soviet Union was going strong, that it would be swept away by this growth of decentralized communication. 

But where will we get the software?

Some critics say, "Oh, well software is stuck in the mud."

But we are learning more and more about the human brain.

Spatial resolution of brain scanning is doubling every year.

The amount of data we're getting about the brain is doubling every year.

And we're showing that we can actually turn this data into working models and simulations of brain regions. 

And all of this has fueled an increase, very smooth and predictable, of productivity.

We've gone from 30 dollars to 130 dollars in constant dollars in the value of an average hour of human labor, fueled by this information technology. 

And we're all concerned about energy and the environment.

Well this is a logarithmic graph.

And we're only eight doublings away from it meeting 100 percent of our energy needs.

And there is 10 thousand times more sunlight than we need. 

When I was a student it was across campus, now it's in our pockets.

What used to take up a building now fits in our pockets.

What now fits in our pockets would fit in a blood cell in 25 years.

Based on that we are announcing, here at TED, in true TED tradition, Singularity University.

It's a new university that's founded by Peter Diamandis, who is here in the audience, and myself.

It's backed by NASA and Google, and other leaders in the high-tech and science community.

And our goal was to assemble the leaders, both teachers and students, in these exponentially growing information technologies, and their application.

And if we did that, then Google would back this.

And so that's what we've done. 

The last third of the nine-week intensive summer session will be devoted to a group project to address some major challenge of humanity.

Like for example, applying the Internet, which is now ubiquitous, in the rural areas of China or in Africa, to bringing health information to developing areas of the world.

And these projects will continue past these sessions, using collaborative interactive communication.

Here is our founding meeting.

But this is being announced today.

It will be permanently headquartered in Silicon Valley, at the NASA Ames research center.

There are different programs for graduate students, for executives at different companies.

The first six tracks here -- artificial intelligence, advanced computing technologies, biotechnology, nanotechnology -- are the different core areas of information technology.

