And it's the idea of mastery and the idea of mindset. 

Or they'd get to a calculus class, and they'd be a little bit shaky on the algebra.

I saw it in the early days when I was uploading some of those videos on YouTube, and I realized that people who were not my cousins were watching. 

And at first, those comments were just simple thank-yous.

I thought that was a pretty big deal.

They're a little edgier than that.

But then the comments got a little more intense, student after student saying that they had grown up not liking math.

And in a lot of ways, this is how you would master a lot of things in life.

It's the way you would learn a martial art.

In a martial art, you would practice the white belt skills as long as necessary, and only when you've mastered it you would move on to become a yellow belt.

But what we point out -- this is not the way a traditional academic model is structured, the type of academic model that most of us grew up in.

The next morning, we'll review the homework, then another lecture, homework, lecture, homework.

On that test, maybe I get a 75 percent, maybe you get a 90 percent, maybe you get a 95 percent.

It might be logarithms or negative exponents.

And that process continues, and you immediately start to realize how strange this is.

I didn't know 25 percent of the more foundational thing, and now I'm being pushed to the more advanced thing.

And this will continue for months, years, all the way until at some point, I might be in an algebra class or trigonometry class and I hit a wall.

And it's not because algebra is fundamentally difficult or because the student isn't bright.

It's because I'm seeing an equation and they're dealing with exponents and that 30 percent that I didn't know is showing up.

And then I start to disengage. 

Say, home-building. 

So they do what they can.

Same thing.

We have two weeks, do what you can, inspector shows up, it's a 75 percent.

Great, that's a D-plus.

We were artificially constraining how long we had to something, pretty much ensuring a variable outcome, and we took the trouble of inspecting and identifying those gaps, but then we built right on top of it. 

So the idea of mastery learning is to do the exact opposite.

Instead of artificially constraining, fixing when and how long you work on something, pretty much ensuring that variable outcome, the A, B, C, D, F -- do it the other way around.

What's variable is when and how long a student actually has to work on something, and what's fixed is that they actually master the material. 

And it's important to realize that not only will this make the student learn their exponents better, but it'll reinforce the right mindset muscles.

You should have grit; you should have perseverance; you should take agency over your learning. 

It makes a lot of sense, but it seems impractical.

The teacher had to give different worksheets to every student, give on-demand assessments. 

But now today, it's no longer impractical.

We have the tools to do it.

Students see an explanation at their own time and pace?

There's adaptive exercises readily available for students. 

And when that happens, all sorts of neat things happen.

And all sorts of beautiful things can start to happen in the actual classroom.

To appreciate what we're talking about and the tragedy of lost potential here, I'd like to give a little bit of a thought experiment.

If we were to go 400 years into the past to Western Europe, which even then, was one of the more literate parts of the planet, you would see that about 15 percent of the population knew how to read.

But what if that estimate is just based on your own experience in a non-mastery framework, your own experience with yourself or observing your peers, where you're being pushed at this set pace through classes, accumulating all these gaps?

And this isn't even just a "nice to have."

I think it's a social imperative.

We're exiting what you could call the industrial age and we're going into this information revolution.

And it's clear that some things are happening.

In the industrial age, society was a pyramid.

At the base of the pyramid, you needed human labor.

But we know what's happening already, as we go into this information revolution.

The bottom of that pyramid, automation, is going to take over.

Even that middle tier, information processing, that's what computers are good at. 

Or do we do something that's more aspirational?

And I don't think that this is utopian.

I really think that this is all based on the idea that if we let people tap into their potential by mastering concepts, by being able to exercise agency over their learning, that they can get there.

And when you think of it as just a citizen of the world, it's pretty exciting.

I mean, think about the type of equity we can we have, and the rate at which civilization could even progress.

And so, I'm pretty optimistic about it.

I think it's going to be a pretty exciting time to be alive. 

Thank you. 

