All I wanted to see was something warm and fuzzy and human-like on the cold, steel, gray facade that I looked at everyday. 

Little did I know that this tiny piece would change the course of my life. 

So clearly the reaction was interesting.

It intrigued me and I thought, "What else could I do?"

Could I do something in the public domain that would get the same reaction?

So I wrapped the stop sign pole near my house.

The reaction was wild.

And the more that I did, the stronger the reaction. 

This was all seductive.

I found my new passion and the urban environment was my playground. 

So this is some of my early work.

I was very curious about this idea of enhancing the ordinary, the mundane, even the ugly, and not taking away its identity or its functionality but just giving it a well-tailored suit out of knitting.

And this was fun for me.

It was really fun to take inanimate objects and have them come to life. 

I was at a point where I wanted to take it seriously.

I wanted to analyze it.

I wanted to know why I was letting this take over my life, why I was passionate about it, why were other people reacting so strongly to it.

I think we've all become desensitized by our overdeveloped cities that we live in, and billboards and advertisements, and giant parking lots, and we don't even complain about that stuff anymore.

That is the moment I love and that is the moment I love to share with others. 

So at this point, my curiosity grew.

It went from the fire hydrants and the stop sign poles to what else can I do with this material.

Can I do something big and large-scale and insurmountable? 

So that's when the bus happened.

This was a real game changer for me.

I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for this one. 

So at this point, I'm experiencing, or I'm witnessing something interesting.

I may have started yarn bombing but I certainly don't own it anymore.

It had reached global status.

People from all over the world were doing this.

And I know this because I would travel to certain parts of the world that I'd never been to, and I'd stumble upon a stop sign pole and I knew I didn't wrap it. 

And that experience showed me the hidden power of this craft and showed me that there was this common language I had with the rest of the world.

It was through this granny hobby -- this unassuming hobby -- that I found commonality with people that I never thought I'd have a connection with. 

And I'm totally guilty of this as well.

A lot of people think that I am a master knitter but I actually couldn't knit a sweater to save my life.

But I did something interesting with knitting that had never been done before. 

And when this happened to me, I held on tight, I fought for it and I'm proud to say that I am a working artist today. 

So as we ponder the future, know that your future might not be so seamless.

And one day, you might be as bored as I was and knit a door handle to change your world forever. 

Thank you. 

