All human life, all life, depends on plants.

Let me try to convince you of that in a few seconds.

Just think for a moment.

All these things, they come back to plants.

And without them we wouldn't be here. 

Now plants are under threat.

They're under threat because of changing climate.

And they are also under threat because they are sharing a planet with people like us.

And people like us want to do things that destroy plants, and their habitats.

And whether that's because of food production, or because of the introduction of alien plants into places that they really oughtn't be, or because of habitats being used for other purposes -- all these things are meaning that plants have to adapt, or die, or move.

And plants sometimes find it rather difficult to move because there might be cities and other things in the way. 

So if all human life depends on plants, doesn't it make sense that perhaps we should try to save them?

I think it does.

And I want to tell you about a project to save plants.

And the way that you save plants is by storing seeds.

Because seeds, in all their diverse glory, are plants' futures.

All the genetic information for future generations of plants are held in seeds.

But it goes down below ground many stories.

And it's the largest seed bank in the world.

This is a nuclear-proof facility.

God forbid that it should have to withstand that. 

And we decided that what we want to store first of all, are the species that are most under threat.

And those are the dry land species.

So first of all we did deals with 50 different countries.

It means negotiating with heads of state, and with secretaries of state in 50 countries to sign treaties.

We have 120 partner institutions all over the world, in all those countries colored orange.

The seeds -- some of if is very untechnical.

And the main thing is that you have to dry them very carefully, at low temperature.

And these seeds will be able to germinate, we believe, with many of the species, in thousands of years, and certainly in hundreds of years. 

It's no good storing the seeds if you don't know they're still viable.

So every 10 years we do germination tests on every sample of seeds that we have.

And this is a distributed network.

So all around the world people are doing the same thing.

And that enables us to develop germination protocols.

That means that we know the right combination of heat and cold and the cycles that you have to get to make the seed germinate.

And that is very useful information.

So where have we got to?

I am pleased to unveil that our three billionth seed -- that's three thousand millionth seed -- is now stored.

Twenty-five percent of all the world's plants, by 2020.

This is at least 100 times bigger.

These seeds are used for restoration.

Some of these plants, like the ones on the bottom to the left of your screen, they are down to the last few remaining members.

The one where the guy is collecting seeds there on the truck, that is down to about 30 last remaining trees.

Fantastically useful plant, both for protein and for medicine. 

We have training going on in China, in the USA, and many other countries.

How much does it cost?

2,800 dollars per species is the average.

I think that's cheap, at the price.

And that gets you all the scientific data that goes with it.

The future research is "How can we find the genetic and molecular markers for the viability of seeds, without having to plant them every 10 years?"

And we're almost there.

