Can you believe that?

(Applause) And while this is not my first visit to the U.K., I have to say that I am glad that this is my first official visit.

The special relationship between the United States and the U.K. is based not only on the relationship between governments, but the common language and the values that we share, and I'm reminded of that by watching you all today.

During my visit I've been especially honored to meet some of Britain's most extraordinary women -- women who are paving the way for all of you. 

And although the circumstances of our lives may seem very distant, with me standing here as the First Lady of the United States of America, and you, just getting through school, I want you to know that we have very much in common.

For nothing in my life's path would have predicted that I'd be standing here as the first African-American First Lady of the United States of America.

There is nothing in my story that would land me here.

I wasn't raised with wealth or resources or any social standing to speak of.

My dad was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in the prime of his life.

But even as it got harder for him to walk and get dressed in the morning -- I saw him struggle more and more -- my father never complained about his struggle.

I am an example of what's possible when girls from the very beginning of their lives are loved and nurtured by the people around them.

The men in my life taught me some important things, as well.

And his date was to go with him to a community meeting.

(Laughter) I know, how romantic.

(Laughter) But when we met, Barack was a community organizer.

He worked, helping people to find jobs and to try to bring resources into struggling neighborhoods.

As he talked to the residents in that community center, he talked about two concepts.

He talked about "the world as it is" and "the world as it should be."

And I talked about this throughout the entire campaign.

We know what fairness and justice and opportunity look like.

We all know.

And I think about that today because I am reminded and convinced that all of you in this school are very important parts of closing that gap.

You are the women who will build the world as it should be.

You're going to write the next chapter in history.

Not just for yourselves, but for your generation and generations to come.

Because communities and countries and ultimately the world are only as strong as the health of their women.

And that's important to keep in mind. 

Part of that health includes an outstanding education.

The difference between a struggling family and a healthy one is often the presence of an empowered woman or women at the center of that family.

The difference between a broken community and a thriving one is often the healthy respect between men and women who appreciate the contributions each other makes to society.

And this school, named after the U.K.'s first female doctor, and the surrounding buildings named for Mexican artist Frida Kahlo, Mary Seacole, the Jamaican nurse known as the "black Florence Nightingale," and the English author, Emily Bronte, honor women who fought sexism, racism and ignorance, to pursue their passions to feed their own souls.

They allowed for no obstacles.

And by getting a good education, you too can control your own destiny. 

Please remember that.

I loved getting As.

I thought being smart was cooler than anything in the world.

And you too, with these same values, can control your own destiny.

You too can pave the way.

History proves that it doesn't matter whether you come from a council estate or a country estate. 

But you have everything you need.

Everything you need to succeed, you already have, right here. 

It was built by the timber of Her Majesty's Ship Resolute and given by Queen Victoria.

It's an enduring symbol of the friendship between our two nations.

Because we are counting on you.

