Believe me or not, I come offering a solution to a very important part of this larger problem, with the requisite focus on climate.

And the solution I offer is to the biggest culprit in this massive mistreatment of the earth by humankind, and the resulting decline of the biosphere.

As an industrial engineer, cum aspiring and then successful entrepreneur.

In his book, Paul charges business and industry as, one, the major culprit in causing the decline of the biosphere, and, two, the only institution that is large enough, and pervasive enough, and powerful enough, to really lead humankind out of this mess.

And by the way he convicted me as a plunderer of the earth. 

And thanks to the people of Interface, I have become a recovering plunderer. 

I once told a Fortune Magazine writer that someday people like me would go to jail.

And that became the headline of a Fortune article.

They went on to describe me as America's greenest CEO.

Asked later in the Canadian documentary, "The Corporation," what I meant by the "go to jail" remark, I offered that theft is a crime.

And theft of our children's future would someday be a crime.

According to Paul and Anne Ehrlich and a well-known environmental impact equation, impact -- a bad thing -- is the product of population, affluence and technology.

That is, impact is generated by people, what they consume in their affluence, and how it is produced.

So the equation is conceptual.

Still it works to help us understand the problem. 

Extractive: taking raw materials from the earth.

And I reasoned that if we could make those transformative changes, and get rid of T1 altogether, we could reduce our impact to zero, including our impact on the climate.

And that became the Interface plan in 1995, and has been the plan ever since. 

We have measured our progress very rigorously.

So I can tell you how far we have come in the ensuing 12 years.

Net greenhouse gas emissions down 82 percent in absolute tonnage.

(Applause) Over the same span of time sales have increased by two-thirds and profits have doubled.

So an 82 percent absolute reduction translates into a 90 percent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity relative to sales.

Fossil fuel usage is down 60 percent per unit of production, due to efficiencies in renewables.

The cheapest, most secure barrel of oil there is is the one not used through efficiencies.

Water usage is down 75 percent in our worldwide carpet tile business.

Down 40 percent in our broadloom carpet business, which we acquired in 1993 right here in California, City of Industry, where water is so precious.

Renewable or recyclable materials are 25 percent of the total, and growing rapidly.

Renewable energy is 27 percent of our total, going for 100 percent.

We call it Cool Carpet.

And it has been a powerful marketplace differentiator, increasing sales and profits.

It is practical, and pretty too. 

We reckon that we are a bit over halfway to our goal: zero impact, zero footprint.

We've set 2020 as our target year for zero, for reaching the top, the summit of Mount Sustainability.

We call this Mission Zero.

A better business model, a better way to bigger profits.

Here is the business case for sustainability.

This has paid all the costs for the transformation of Interface. 

And this dispels a myth too, this false choice between the environment and the economy.

Our products are the best they've ever been, inspired by design for sustainability, an unexpected wellspring of innovation.

Our people are galvanized around this shared higher purpose.

You cannot beat it for attracting the best people and bringing them together.

And the goodwill of the marketplace is astonishing.

No amount of advertising, no clever marketing campaign, at any price, could have produced or created this much goodwill.

Costs, products, people, marketplaces -- what else is there?

It is a better business model. 

And here is our 14-year record of sales and profits.

But the marketplace was down 36 percent.

We literally gained market share.

We might not have survived that recession but for the advantages of sustainability.

If every business were pursuing Interface plans, would that solve all our problems?

I don't think so.

But what if we reframed Ehrlich further?

But does the earth have to wait for our extinction as a species?

At Interface we really intend to bring this prototypical sustainable, zero-footprint industrial company fully into existence by 2020.

And now the challenge is in execution.

If we, a petro-intensive company can do it, anybody can.

And if anybody can, it follows that everybody can. 

But let me introduce you to the one who is most at risk here.

And I myself met this person in the early days of this mountain climb.

But about five days later back in Atlanta, I received an email from Glenn Thomas, one of my people in the California meeting.

He was sending me an original poem that he had composed after our Tuesday morning together.

And when I read it it was one of the most uplifting moments of my life.

Please meet "Tomorrow's Child."

Tomorrow's child, though yet unborn, I met you first last Tuesday morn. 

I saw a day that you would see, a day for you but not for me. 

that perhaps the things I do might someday, somehow threaten you. 

Well, every day of my life since, "Tomorrow's Child" has spoken to me with one simple but profound message, which I presume to share with you.

For you, it's your call. 

Thank you. 

