(Applause) AIDS was discovered 1981; the virus, 1983.

These Gapminder bubbles show you how the spread of the virus was in 1983 in the world, or how we estimate that it was.

What we are showing here is -- on this axis here, I'm showing percent of infected adults.

And on this axis, I'm showing dollars per person in income.

And the size of these bubbles, the size of the bubbles here, that shows how many are infected in each country, and the color is the continent. 

There were quite many people infected in the United States.

And, up there, you see Uganda.

They had almost five percent infected, and quite a big bubble in spite of being a small country, then.

And they were probably the most infected country in the world.

Now, what has happened?

Now you have understood the graph and now, in the next 60 seconds, we will play the HIV epidemic in the world. 

(Laughter) I have solidified the beam of the laser pointer. 

(Laughter) I have solidified the beam of the laser pointer. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

They went upwards like this.

In Asia, the first country to be heavily infected was Thailand -- they reached one to two percent.

Look, India got many infected, but had a low level.

In the last two to three years, we have reached a steady state of HIV epidemic in the world.

25 years it took.

And it has -- the steady state is, more or less, one percent of the adult world population is HIV-infected.

Now, let me make a fast replay of Botswana.

They started low, they skyrocketed, they peaked up there in 2003, and now they are down.

And if people who are infected are treated, they don't die of AIDS.

These percentages won't come down because people can survive 10 to 20 years.

So there's some problem with these metrics now.

But focus now is back on prevention.

Not the drug in itself, but the treatment and the care which is needed around it.

I would say, HIV is very different in Africa.

And you'll find Madagascar, and you'll find a lot of African countries about as low as the rest of the world.

It's this terrible simplification that there's one Africa and things go on in one way in Africa.

We have to stop that.

It's not respectful, and it's not very clever to think that way. 

I had the fortune to live and work for a time in the United States.

I found out that Salt Lake City and San Francisco were different.

War-torn Congo is down there -- two, three, four percent.

And this is peaceful Zambia, neighboring country -- 15 percent.

There are now studies clearly showing that the wars are terrible, that rapes are terrible, but this is not the driving force for the high levels in Africa. 

So, is it poverty?

Well if you look at the macro level, it seems more money, more HIV.

The ones with the highest income, the better off -- I wouldn't say rich -- they have higher HIV.

The difference goes from 11 percent down to four percent, and it is even bigger among women.

There's a lot of things that we thought, that now, good research, done by African institutions and researchers together with the international researchers, show that that's not the case.

So, this is the difference within Tanzania. 

And, I can't avoid showing Kenya.

Look here at Kenya.

I've split Kenya in its provinces.

Here it goes.

So, what is it then?

Why do we see this extremely high levels in some countries?

Well, it is more common with multiple partners, there is less condom use, and there is age-disparate sex -- that is, older men tend to have sex with younger women.

We see higher rates in younger women than younger men in many of these highly affected countries. 

But where are they situated?

I will swap the bubbles to a map.

Look, the highly infected are four percent of all population and they hold 50 percent of the HIV-infected.

HIV exists all over the world.

Look, you have bubbles all over the world here.

They have heroin addiction and also prostitution in Iran.

India has many because they are many.

Southeast Asia, and so on.

But, there is one part of Africa -- and the difficult thing is, at the same time, not to make a uniform statement about Africa, not to come to simple ideas of why it is like this, on one hand. 

UNAIDS have done good data available, finally, about the spread of HIV.

It could be that there is other things which makes transmission occur in a higher frequency.

After all, if you are completely healthy and you have heterosexual sex, the risk of infection in one intercourse is one in 1,000.

Don't jump to conclusions now on how to behave tonight and so on.

(Laughter) But -- and if you are in an unfavorable situation, more sexually transmitted diseases, it can be one in 100. 

(Laughter) But -- and if you are in an unfavorable situation, more sexually transmitted diseases, it can be one in 100. 

But what we think is that it could be concurrency.

And what is concurrency?

In Sweden, we have no concurrency.

We have serial monogamy.

And you collect a big number of exes.

And we have a terrible chlamydia epidemic -- terrible chlamydia epidemic which sticks around for many years.

HIV has a peak three to six weeks after infection and therefore, having more than one partner in the same month is much more dangerous for HIV than others.

Probably, it's a combination of this. 

And what makes me so happy is that we are moving now towards fact when we look at this.

And we hope that when we act on global problems in the future we will not only have the heart, we will not only have the money, but we will also use the brain. 

Thank you very much. 

