So sometimes I get invited to give weird talks.

I got invited to speak to the people who dress up in big stuffed animal costumes to perform at sporting events.

Unfortunately I couldn't go.

What they do is they dress up as stuffed animals and entertain people at sporting events. 

Sometimes they get in trouble, but not often.

And the other thing about these guys is, they also know what they do for a living.

They make balloon animals. 

But what do we do for a living?

What exactly to the people watching this do every day?

And I want to argue that what we do is we try to change everything.

That we try to find a piece of the status quo -- something that bothers us, something that needs to be improved, something that is itching to be changed -- and we change it.

We try to make big, permanent, important change.

But we don't think about it that way.

And we haven't spent a lot of time talking about what that process is like.

And I've been studying it for a couple years.

And I want to share a couple stories with you today. 

And what you may not know about the history of the SPCA is, it was founded to kill dogs and cats.

Cities gave them a charter to get rid of the stray animals on the street and destroy them.

Nathan and his boss saw this, and they could not tolerate it.

And everyone said it was impossible.

He went from being a glorified dogcatcher to completely transforming the community.

And then he went to North Carolina and did it again.

And he went to Reno and he did it again. 

And when I think about what Nathan did, and when I think about what people here do, I think about ideas.

And I think about the idea that creating an idea, spreading an idea has a lot behind it.

I don't know if you've ever been to a Jewish wedding, but what they do is, they take a light bulb and they smash it.

It is a moment in time.

Henry Ford comes up with a really cool idea.

It enables him to hire men who used to get paid 50 cents a day and pay them five dollars a day.

Because he's got an efficient enough factory.

You can change the fabric of an entire country.

That the essence of what you're doing is you need ever-cheaper labor, and ever-faster machines.

And the problem we've run into is, we're running out of both.

(Laughter) 

And you can build an entire industry on that.

And if babies don't work, you can use doctors.

But be careful.

Because you don't want to get an unfortunate juxtaposition, where you're talking about one thing instead of the other.

That you are in charge, and you're going to tell people what to do next.

The quick little diagram of it is, you're up here, and you are pushing it out to the world.

(Laughter) 

I call it the idea of tribes.

What tribes are, is a very simple concept that goes back 50,000 years.

It's about leading and connecting people and ideas.

And it's something that people have wanted forever.

But now, thanks to the internet, thanks to the explosion of mass media, thanks to a lot of other things that are bubbling through our society around the world, tribes are everywhere. 

That people on the fringes can find each other, connect and go somewhere.

(Laughter) 

Now it turns out this is a legitimate non-photoshopped photo.

People I know who are firemen told me that this is not uncommon.

And that what firemen do to train sometimes is they take a house that is going to be torn down, and they burn it down instead, and practice putting it out.

(Laughter) 

You can tell when you're running into someone in a tribe.

And it turns out that it's tribes -- not money, not factories -- that can change our world, that can change politics, that can align large numbers of people.

Not because you force them to do something against their will, but because they wanted to connect. 

That what we do for a living now, all of us, I think, is find something worth changing, and then assemble tribes that assemble tribes that spread the idea and spread the idea.

So when Al Gore set out to change the world again, he didn't do it by himself.

And he didn't do it by buying a lot of ads.

He did it by creating a movement.

You don't need everyone.

What it's about instead is finding the true believers.

It's easy to look at what I've said so far, and say, "Wait a minute, I don't have what it takes to be that kind of leader."

What they did, though, is each in their own way, created a different way of navigating your way through technology.

What would happen if, when you're using your Kindle, you could see the comments and quotes and notes from all the other people reading the same book as you in that moment.

The Beatles did not invent teenagers.

They merely decided to lead them.

When Diane Hatz worked on "The Meatrix," her video that spread all across the internet about the way farm animals are treated, she didn't invent the idea of being a vegan.

She didn't invent the idea of caring about this issue.

But she helped organize people, and helped turn it into a movement. 

Hugo Chavez did not invent the disaffected middle and lower class of Venezuela.

What all these people have in common is that they are heretics.

I see what the status quo is; I don't like it."

So Tony Hsieh does not run a shoe store.

It can be something as prosaic as shoes, and something as complicated as overthrowing a government.

It's exactly the same behavior though. 

We're just waiting for someone to lead us."

Michelle Kaufman has pioneered new ways of thinking about environmental architecture.

She doesn't do it by quietly building one house at a time.

By connecting a tribe of people who are desperate to be connected to each other.

And around and around and around it goes. 

So three questions I'd offer you.

The second question is, who are you connecting?

And the third one is, who are you leading?

Because focusing on that part of it -- not the mechanics of what you're building, but the who, and the leading part -- is where change comes. 

So Blake, at Tom's Shoes, had a very simple idea.

"What would happen if every time someone bought a pair of these shoes I gave exactly the same pair to someone who doesn't even own a pair of shoes?"

This is not the story of how you get shelf space at Neiman Marcus.

It's a story of a product that tells a story.

And suddenly it's not one pair of shoes or 100 pairs of shoes.

It's tens of thousands of pairs of shoes. 

My friend Red Maxwell has spent the last 10 years fighting against juvenile diabetes.

And the people he surrounds himself with need the connection.

You don't need permission from people to lead them.

They challenge what's currently there.

The second thing is, they build a culture.

They connect people to one another.

Do you know what people want more than anything?

They want to be missed.

Being a leader gives you charisma.

If you look and study the leaders who have succeeded, that's where charisma comes from -- from the leading.

They commit to the people who are there. 

So I'd like you to do something for me.

