So, it can balance on a point.

And the wooden disk was really thought about as something that you'd want to hold on to, and that would glide easily through your hands.

The aluminum is because it's very light.

The bronze is nice hard, durable material that could roll on the ground.

So it allows it to roll.

But in this case because the interior is free-swinging in relation to the sphere, it can stand up on one point.

I was exploring, really early on, wanting to make things float in the air.

The thing is, is that it's slightly dangerous.

Normally it's sort of cordoned off when it's in a museum.

It's sort of surfing on a magnetic field at the crest of a wave.

And that's what supports the object and keeps it stable. 

I think we could roll the tape, admin.

I have a sort of a collection of videos that I took of different installations, which I could narrate.

And here is a similar sculpture.

That's the Sun at that end.

This is in a sculpture park in Taejon. 

This is a little stone ball, floating.

As you can see the little tether, that it's also magnetically levitated. 

And so this is the size of the Sun.

So this, again, is on the subject -- a slice from the equator of the Earth.

And then the Moon in the center, and it's floating.

This is in Sapporo.

It's made of stainless steel, quite thick.

But it's being balanced like that in equilibrium.

It's susceptible to motion by the air currents. 

So all the red sides, for example, face one direction: south.

And the blue side, the compliment, faces the other way.

So as you turn around you're seeing different colors. 

This is based on the structure of a diamond.

It was a diamond cell structure was the point of departure.

And then there were kind of large spaces in the hollows between the atoms.

And so I placed one more element of each one of them.

These were white spheres.

Then I had video projectors that were projecting intermittently onto the spheres.

It was the idea of isolating the tactile component of sculpture, and then putting it into a communication system.

This is a clock I designed.

It has Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion Map edited here.

It turns once per day in synchrony with the Earth. 

And then, this is like projects that are harder to build.

(Laughter) This has a diamond-bottomed lake.

This would be grown, I suppose, with nanotechnology in the future sometime. 

In the course of doing my work I sort of have a broad range of interests.

And I had a lot of -- always interested in the concept of a crystal ball.

So if we could roll the next film here.

I came with a plan.

So we have a physical plan of how to make this actually happen.

This is the control room inside of the ship.

The idea of this air genie is, it's something that can just transform and become anything.

So it can see its environment, and then it can mimic its environment and disappear.

Here the legs are retracting.

The cabin is open or closed, as you like.

It weighs about 20 tons.

It has on-board generators.

The idea of it is to make a kind of a traveling show.

It really would be dedicated to the arts and to interacting.

It's completely silent and nonpolluting.

It has electric motors with a novel propulsion system.

It could be interacted with large crowds in different ways. 

The default image on the object would probably be a high-resolution Earth image.

But then one could interact with that and show plate tectonics or global warming issues, or migrations -- all of the things that we're concerned with today. 

So it could land in a park, for example.

Or this could represent a college green.

And so interacting with the same kind of imagery.

