We're lagging behind.

Who wants to be illogical?

Talent would run from either of these fields if you said you had to choose either.

But the '60s left me with a problem.

And I also avidly followed the Gemini and the Apollo programs.

I had science projects and tons of astronomy books.

You have to pull things apart.

Biotechnology is constructive.

Orchestral arranging is constructive.

Different quantum states of an atom?

The sciences, to me, are manifestations of our attempt to express or share our understanding, our experience, to influence the universe external to ourselves.

It doesn't rely on us as individuals.

That's what we have to think about, that they're all part of us, they're all part of a continuum.

And then you have artists, and you all know this is true as well, artists will say things about scientists because they say they're too concrete, they're disconnected with the world.

And folks say we need to choose either or.

But it would really be foolish to choose either one, right?

Now... (Laughter) I want to share with you a little equation, okay?

How do understanding science and the arts fit into our lives and what's going on and the things that we're talking about here at the design conference, and this is a little thing I came up with, understanding and our resources and our will cause us to have outcomes.

I did a project called S.E.E.ing the Future: Science, Engineering and Education, and it was looking at how to shed light on most effective use of government funding.

And education is not keeping up.

We have corporate funding now that, when it goes to some company, when it goes to support the arts, it almost requires that the product be part of the picture that the artist draws, and we have stadiums that are named over and over again by corporations.

(Applause) I want to tell you what I've been doing a little bit since...

Then I went to medical school, and I was supposed to just go on what the machine said about bodies.

We have all kinds of possibilities to use our senses by, and that's what we have to do.

I like to think of ideas as potential energy.

They're really wonderful, but nothing will happen until we risk putting them into action.

This conference is filled with wonderful ideas.

Here's how you judge what you're doing.

I talked about that balance between intuitive, analytical.

