We look around the media, as we see on the news from Iraq, Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, and the conflict seems incomprehensible to us.

And that's certainly how it seemed to me when I started this project.

But as a physicist, I thought, well if you give me some data, I could maybe understand this.

There was data within the streams of news that we consume.

All this noise around us actually has information.

So what I started thinking was, perhaps there is something like open source intelligence here.

If we can get enough of these streams of information together, we can perhaps start to understand the war. 

We brought these guys together and we started to try and solve this.

We brought this raw data in and we filtered it.

We extracted the key bits on information to build the database.

That database contained the timing of attacks, the location, the size and the weapons used.

It's all in the streams of information we consume daily, we just have to know how to pull it out.

And once we had this we could start doing some cool stuff.

What if we were to look at the distribution of the sizes of attacks?

What would that tell us? 

And on the vertical axis you've got the number of attacks.

We did this exact same thing for Iraq.

And we didn't know, for Iraq what we were going to find.

It turns out what we found was pretty surprising.

You take all of the conflict, all of the chaos, all of the noise, and out of that comes this precise mathematical distribution of the way attacks are ordered in this conflict.

This blew our mind.

Why should a conflict like Iraq have this as its fundamental signature?

Why should there be order in war?

We didn't really understand that.

We thought maybe there is something special about Iraq.

So we looked at a few more conflicts.

We looked at Colombia, we looked at Afghanistan, and we looked at Senegal. 

And the same pattern emerged in each conflict.

This wasn't supposed to happen.

And we found that not only were the distributions these straight lines, but the slope of these lines, they clustered around this value of alpha equals 2.5.

And we could generate an equation that could predict the likelihood of an attack.

What we're saying here is the probability of an attack killing X number of people in a country like Iraq is equal to a constant, times the size of that attack, raised to the power of negative alpha.

And negative alpha is the slope of that line I showed you before. 

That was a challenge we had to face as physicists.

How do we explain this?

And what we really found was that alpha, if we think about it, is the organizational structure of the insurgency.

Alpha is the distribution of the sizes of attacks, which is really the distribution of the group strength carrying out the attacks.

Can we create the kind of patterns that we're seeing in places like Iraq?

Turns out we kind of do a reasonable job.

We can run these simulations.

We can recreate this using a process of group dynamics to explain the patterns that we see all around the conflicts around the world. 

So what's going on?

Why should these different -- seemingly different conflicts have the same patterns?

Taking it forward, how do we change it?

How do we end a war like Iraq?

This is what wars look like when they continue.

We've got to change that.

So this graph here, I'm going to show you now.

And it stays there through the invasion of Fallujah until the Samarra bombings in the Iraqi elections of '06.

This is when the surge happens.

The groups became stronger.

They became more robust.

I don't know what the answer is to that.

But I know that we should be looking at the structure of the insurgency to answer that question.

