So the first question is, why do we need to even worry about a pandemic threat?

What is it that we're concerned about?

When I say "we," I'm at the Council on Foreign Relations.

We're concerned in the national security community, and of course in the biology community and the public health community.

While globalization has increased travel, it's made it necessary that everybody be everywhere, all the time, all over the world.

And that means that your microbial hitchhikers are moving with you.

So a plague outbreak in Surat, India becomes not an obscure event, but a globalized event -- a globalized concern that has changed the risk equation.

Indeed, an outbreak would be multiple Katrinas at once. 

At the end of last Christmas only 13 countries had seen H5N1.

But we're now up to 55 countries in the world, have had this virus emerge, in either birds, or people or both.

In the bird outbreaks we now can see that pretty much the whole world has seen this virus except the Americas.

And I'll get into why we've so far been spared in a moment. 

In domestic birds, especially chickens, it's 100 percent lethal.

It's also carried on migration patterns of wild migratory aquatic birds.

There has been this centralized event in a place called Lake Chenghai, China.

So that birds going to Siberia, to Europe, and to Africa carried the virus, which had not previously been possible. 

It's not going to do us very much good in a global pandemic.

So one thought is: after 9/11, when the airports closed, our flu season was delayed by two weeks.

However, huge supercomputer analyses, done of the likely effectiveness of this, show that it won't buy us much time at all.

And of course it will be hugely disruptive in preparation plans.

So it turns out that shutting down the airports is counterproductive. 

We're worried because this virus, unlike any other flu we've ever studied, can be transmitted by eating raw meat of the infected animals.

We've seen transmission to wild cats and domestic cats, and now also domestic pet dogs.

This is not your normal garden-variety flu.

And we don't have a huge number of people who got infected and never developed disease. 

In experimental feeding in monkeys you can see that it actually downregulates a specific immune system modulator.

The result: most of the deaths have been in people under 30 years of age, robustly healthy young adults.

Alright, so I've got you nervous.

Now you probably assume, well the governments are going to do something.

And we have spent a lot of money.

End result: only 15 states have been certified to be able to do mass distribution of vaccine and drugs in a pandemic.

So what have people been doing with this money?

Exercises, drills, all over the world.

Let's pretend there's a pandemic.

Let's everybody run around and play your role.

Main result is that there is tremendous confusion.

Most of these people don't actually know what their job will be.

And the bottom line, major thing that has come through in every single drill: nobody knows who's in charge.

Nobody knows the chain of command.

If it were Los Angeles, is it the mayor, the governor, the President of the United States, the head of Homeland Security?

The rest is up to your local community.

Everything is about your town, where you live.

And you'll have massive competition.

Now we did purchase a vaccine, you've probably all heard about it, made by Sanofi-Aventis.

The vaccine will probably be useless.

So here's where the decisions come in. 

You're the mayor of your local town.

Let's see, should we order that all pets be kept indoors?

Germany did that when H5N1 appeared in Germany last year, in order to minimize the spread between households by household cats, dogs and so on.

What about quarantine?

During the SARS epidemic in Beijing quarantine did seem to help.

We have no uniform policies regarding quarantine across the United States.

And some states have differential policies, county by county.

Well the British government did a model of telecommuting.

Six weeks they had all people in the banking industry pretend a pandemic was underway.

Nobody was processing the credit cards.

Your insurance payments didn't go through.

And basically the economy would be in a disaster state of affairs.

And that's just office workers, bankers. 

The Institute of Medicine tried to look at the masking question.

Or can we get away with some different kinds of masks?

In the SARS epidemic, we learned in Hong Kong that most of transmission was because people were removing their masks improperly.

It wasn't flying microbes.

And here is the other interesting thing: when a human being ingests Tamiflu, only 20 percent is metabolized appropriately to be an active compound in the human being.

And we now have seen Tamiflu-resistant strains in both Vietnam in person-to-person transmission, and in Egypt in person-to-person transmission.

So I personally think that our life expectancy for Tamiflu as an effective drug is very limited -- very limited indeed. 

Nevertheless most of the governments have based their whole flu policies on building stockpiles of Tamiflu.

Russia has actually stockpiled enough for 95 percent of all Russians.

We've stockpiled enough for 30 percent.

When I say enough, that's two weeks worth.

And then you're on your own because the pandemic is going to last for 18 to 24 months.

What do we know from 1918, the last great pandemic?

The federal government abdicated most responsibility.

And so we ended up with this wild patchwork of regulations all over America.

Every city, county, state did their own thing.

And the rules and the belief systems were wildly disparate.

In some cases all schools, all churches, all public venues were closed. 

The second wave was the mutated, super-killer wave.

And in the first wave we had enough healthcare workers.

Overall we lost 700,000 people.

It was likened to the plague.

We don't actually know how many people died.

The low-ball estimate is 35 million.

This was based on European and North American data. 

So there is a strong belief that in places of poverty the death toll was far higher.

So are we ready?

As a nation, no we're not.

And I think even those in the leadership would say that is the case, that we still have a long ways to go. 

What mask works, what mask doesn't work.

How many masks do you need?

The Institute of Medicine study felt that you could not recycle masks.

Well if you think it's going to last 18 months, are you going to buy 18 months worth of masks for every single person in your family? 

We don't know -- again with Tamiflu, the number one side effect of Tamiflu is flu-like symptoms.

So then how can you tell who in your family has the flu if everybody is taking Tamiflu?

If you expand that out to think of a whole community, or all your employees in your company, you begin to realize how limited the Tamiflu option might be.

Do you want to view the pandemic threat the way back in the 1950s people viewed the civil defense issue, and build your own little bomb shelter for pandemic flu?

I don't think that's rational. 

And right now most of the preparedness is deeply flawed.

And put the pressure where the pressure needs to be put.

But I guess the other thing to add is, if you do have employees, and you do have a company, I think you have certain responsibilities to demonstrate that you are thinking ahead for them, and you are trying to plan.

At a minimum the British banking plan showed that telecommuting can be helpful.

But can you sustain your company that way?

Well if you have a dot-com, maybe you can.

Otherwise you're in trouble.

Audience member: What factors determine the duration of a pandemic? 

Laurie Garret: What factors determine the duration of a pandemic, we don't really know.

Clearly the bottom line is the virus eventually attenuates, and ceases to be a lethal virus to humanity, and finds other hosts.

But we don't really know how and why that happens.

It's a very complicated ecology. 

Audience member: What kind of triggers are you looking for?

You know way more than any of us.

To say ahh, if this happens then we are going to have a pandemic? 

LG: The moment that you see any evidence of serious human-to-human to transmission.

Audience member: Some research has indicated that statins can be helpful.

Can you talk about that? 

The mechanism isn't clear.

And I don't know that there is any way responsibly for someone to start medicating their children with their personal supply of Lipitor or something of that nature.

We have absolutely no idea what that would do.

Audience member: How far along are we in being able to determine whether someone is actually carrying, whether somebody has this before the symptoms are full-blown? 

It takes 24 hours in a very highly developed laboratory, in highly skilled hands.

I'm thinking dipstick.

It tells you if you have H5N1.

In terms of where we are in science with DNA identification capacities and so on, it's not that far off.

I mean 100 percent death rate is pretty severe. 

And after circulating around the world came back in a form that was tremendously lethal.

What percentage of infected people were killed by it?

Again we don't really know for sure.

It's clear that if you were malnourished to begin with, you had a weakened immune system, you lived in poverty in India or Africa, your likelihood of dying was far greater.

But we don't really know. 

Audience member: One of the things I've heard is that the real death cause when you get a flu is the associated pneumonia, and that a pneumonia vaccine may offer you 50 percent better chance of survival. 

And along comes pneumococcus or another bacteria, streptococcus and boom, they get a bacterial pneumonia.

But it turns out that in 1918 that was not the case at all.

And so far in the H5N1 cases in people, similarly bacterial infection has not been an issue at all.

And I would just add we saw the same thing with SARS.

It won't do any good to bring in the sharpshooters because those antibodies aren't here.

But it's not bacterial pneumonia.

