And so I thought perhaps a really civilized-sounding British accent might help things a bit. 

(Laughter) But the theme of this session, of course, is invention.

And while I don't have any patents that I'm aware of, you will be meeting a few of my inventions today.

We're all born into certain circumstances with particular physical traits, unique developmental experiences, geographical and historical contexts.

But then what?

Like, what if one could be anyone at any time?

Well my characters, like the ones in my shows, allow me to play with the spaces between those questions.

And so I've brought a couple of them with me.

And well, they're very excited.

What I should tell you -- what I should tell you is that they've each prepared their own little TED talks.

(Laughter) 

Good evening everybody.

(Laughter) Anyway, I am here because of a young girl, Sarah Jones.

She's a very nice, young black girl.

Well you know, she calls herself black -- she's really more like a caramel color if you look at her.

And you know what that means, of course.

Really, it's amazing.

Not only, of course, the scientists and all the wonderful giants of the industries but the celebrities.

And she was getting a yogurt in the Google cafe.

Isn't that adorable?

(Laughter) So many others you see, they're just wonderful.

It's lovely to know they're concerned, you know.

You know, she's only half Jewish.

Yeah, she's lovely.

You're all so responsible for this world that we live in today.

You know, I couldn't have dreamed of such a thing as a young girl.

You know, your parents must be very proud. 

But I -- I also appreciate the diversity that you have here.

I noticed it's very multicultural.

You know, when you're standing up here, you can see all the different people.

I just -- I can't keep up with whether you can say, you know, the different things.

(Laughter) 

The point is, I'm happy somebody has practical ideas to get us out of this mess.

So I salute each of you and your stellar achievements.

Thank you for all that you do.

And congratulations on being such big makhers that you've become TED meisters.

(Applause) 

Thank you everybody.

I am Dominican-American.

Actually, you could say I grew up in the capital of Dominican Republic, otherwise known as Washington Heights in New York City.

I just -- I'm sorry.

I'm just trying not to be nervous because this is a very wonderful experience for me and everything.

And I just -- you know I'm not used to doing the public speaking.

And whenever I get nervous I start to talk really fast.

I usually have to just like try to calm down and take a deep breath.

But then on top of that, you know, Sarah Jones told me we only have 18 minutes.

Like, it's -- I can't get over this right now.

And, like, people would not believe, seriously, where I'm from, that this even exists.

You know, like even, I mean I love like the name, the -- TED.

I like that. 

And actually, I can relate to the whole like acronym thing and everything.

Because, actually, I'm a sophomore at college right now.

I am a working mother, and I also go to school full-time.

And, you know, it's like -- it's so important to have like role models out there.

I mean, I know sometimes our lifestyles are very different, whatever. 

But like even at my job -- like, I just got promoted.

So, but I think whether you own your own company or you're just starting out like me, like something like this is so vital for people to just continue expanding their minds and learning.

And if everybody, like all people really had access to that, it would be a very different world out there, as I know you know.

So, we deserve just as much to be part of the exchange of ideas as everybody else.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

I come from a multicultural family.

In fact, the older lady you just met: very, very loosely based on a great aunt on my mother's side.

It's a long story, believe me.

It was like, you know, she was there in the class, you know, she was kind of typically French.

You know, she was very chic, but she was very filled with ennui, you know.

(Laughter) 

Although, you know, it was wonderful.

Of course, TED, the reputation precedes itself all over the world.

(Applause) 

But then, I decided, just like Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, I try anyway.

(Laughter) My daughter -- my daughter wrote that, she told me, "Always start your speech with humor."

But my background -- I want to tell you story only briefly.

And we tried to teach our kids to be proud of their tradition, but it's very hard.

They love rock music, pop culture, American culture.

But that's where we had some problems.

It's not that it's bad, but I told him, "What's wrong with a Chinese woman?"

But I think he will change his mind soon. 

So, then I decide instead, I will concentrate on my daughter.

The daughter's marriage is very special to the mom.

But first, she said she's not interested.

She only wants to spend time with her friends.

And then at college, it's like she never came home.

And she doesn't want me to come and visit.

So I said, "What's wrong in this picture?"

So, I accused my daughter to have like a secret boyfriend.

But she told me, "Mom, you don't have to worry about boys because I don't like them."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) And I said, "Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."

(Laughter) So, these are the words I am waiting to hear, but from my son, not my daughter.

(Laughter) So, these are the words I am waiting to hear, but from my son, not my daughter.

(Applause) 

I am originally from Jordan.

And I teach comparative literature at Queens College.

It is not Harvard.

And I see that a few of them did make it here to the conference.

So you will get the extra credit I promised you.

So, back in the ancient times.

On the radio [unclear], they were very popular. 

So, all of that is to say that I like to believe that for every word intended as to render us deaf to one another, there is always a lyric connecting ears and hearts across the continents in rhyme.

(Applause) 

Thank you for having me.

I want to thank Chris and Jacqueline, and just everyone for having me here.

It's been a long time coming, and I feel like I'm home.

(Applause) 

