It confers on us the ability to do things tomorrow that we can't do today, things today that we couldn't do yesterday.

And of course it's born stupid. 

If we were to assay her perceptual abilities, they would be crude.

There is no real indication that there is any real thinking going on.

In fact there is little evidence that there is any cognitive ability in a very young infant.

Infants don't respond to much.

There is not really much of an indication in fact that there is a person on board.

(Laughter) And they can only in a very primitive way, and in a very limited way control their movements. 

By this age the brain can actually store.

And those relationships can in fact be constructed in hundreds of thousands, potentially millions of ways.

By this age the brain controls very refined perceptual abilities.

And it actually has a growing repertoire of cognitive skills.

This brain is very much a thinking machine.

And in fact at this age it is substantially controlling its own self-development.

And by this age we see a remarkable evolution in its capacity to control movement. 

Now this boy can bounce a soccer ball on his head.

And where this boy comes from, Sao Paulo, Brazil, about 40 percent of boys of his age have this ability.

You could go out into the community in Monterey, and you'd have difficulty finding a boy that has this ability.

(Laughter) 

That's all another way of saying that our individual skills and abilities are very much shaped by our environments.

Because what we've done in our personal evolutions is build up a large repertoire of specific skills and abilities that are specific to our own individual histories.

And we try to track the changes that occur as the new skill or ability is acquired.

From these studies we defined two great epochs of the plastic history of the brain.

The first great epoch is commonly called the "Critical Period."

And that is the period in which the brain is setting up in its initial form its basic processing machinery.

All it takes for example in the sound domain, is exposure to sound.

And the brain actually is at the mercy of the sound environment in which it is reared.

It actually exaggerates their separateness of representation, in multi-dimensional neuronal representational terms. 

Or I can expose the animal to a completely meaningless and destructive sound.

I can raise an animal under conditions that would be equivalent to raising a baby under a moderately loud ceiling fan, in the presence of continuous noise.

And when I do that I actually specialize the brain to be a master processor for that meaningless sound.

And I frustrate its ability to represent any meaningful sound as a consequence.

Such things in the early history of babies occur in real babies.

And they account for, for example the beautiful evolution of a language-specific processor in every normally developing baby.

And so they also account for development of defective processing in a substantial population of children who are more limited, as a consequence, in their language abilities at an older age. 

Now in this early period of plasticity the brain actually changes outside of a learning context.

I don't have to be paying attention to what I hear.

The input doesn't really have to be meaningful.

I don't have to be in a behavioral context.

In the next great epoch of life, which applies for most of life, the brain is actually refining its machinery as it masters a wide repertoire of skills and abilities.

And in this epoch, which extends from late in the first year of life to death; it's actually doing this under behavioral control.

And that's another way of saying the brain has strategies that define the significance of the input to the brain.

And it's focusing on skill after skill, or ability after ability, under specific attentional control.

It's a function of whether a goal in a behavior is achieved or whether the individual is rewarded in the behavior.

This is actually very powerful.

This lifelong capacity for plasticity, for brain change, is powerfully expressed.

So here is a very simple experiment.

It was actually conducted about five years ago in collaboration with scientists from the University of Provence in Marseilles.

The monkey actually mastered the task in about 700 practice tries.

So in the beginning the monkey could not perform this task at all.

It had a success rate of about one in eight tries.

Those tries were elaborate.

Each attempt was substantially different from the other.

But the monkey gradually developed a strategy.

He's successful in his retrieval of food with this tool every time.

And here we see the distortion reflected in the map of the skin surfaces of the hand of the monkey.

Now this is a map, down in the surface of the brain, in which, in a very elaborate experiment we've reconstructed the responses, location by location, in a highly detailed response mapping of the responses of its neurons.

We see here a reconstruction of how the hand is represented in the brain.

These are the surfaces the monkey is using to manipulate the tool.

In other words there is still a single, simple representation of the fingertips in this most organized of cortical areas of the surface of the skin of the body.

Monkey has like you have.

And yet now it's represented in substantially finer grain.

The monkey is getting more detailed information from these surfaces.

And that is an unknown -- unsuspected, maybe, by you -- part of acquiring the skill or ability. 

Now actually we've looked in several different cortical areas in the monkey learning this task.

And each one of them changes in ways that are specific to the skill or ability.

So for example we can look to the cortical area that represents input that's controlling the posture of the monkey.

There are 15 or 20 cortical areas that are changed specifically when you learn a simple skill like this.

And that represents in your brain, really massive change.

It represents the change in a reliable way of the responses of tens of millions, possibly hundreds of millions of neurons in your brain.

It represents changes of hundreds of millions, possibly billions of synaptic connections in your brain.

This is constructed by physical change.

And the level of construction that occurs is massive.

What it's all about is the selective representations of things that are important to the brain.

Because in most of the life of the brain this is under control of behavioral context.

It's all about cortical processing and forebrain specialization.

And that underlies your specialization.

Now, one of the characteristics of this change process is that information is always related to other inputs or information that is occurring in immediate time, in context.

And that's because the brain is constructing representations of things that are correlated in little moments of time and that relate to one another in little moments of successive time.

The brain is recording all information and driving all change in temporal context.

Now overwhelmingly the most powerful context that's occurred in your brain is you.

Billions of times little pieces of sensation have come in from the surface of your body that are always associated with you as the receiver, and that result in the embodiment of you.

And it's created in the brain via physical change.

Now we've used this research to try to understand not just how a normal person develops, and elaborates their skills and abilities, but also try to understand the origins of impairment, and the origins of differences or variations that might limit the capacities of a child, or an adult.

So the first example I'm going to talk about relates to children with learning impairments.

We now have a large body of literature that demonstrates that the fundamental problem that occurs in the majority of children that have early language impairments, and that are going to struggle to learn to read, is that their language processor is created in a defective form.

And the reason that it rises in a defective form is because early in the baby's brain's life the machine process is noisy.

And there are a lot of things that contribute to that.

There are numerous inherited faults that could make the machine process noisier.

Now I might say the noise problem could also occur on the basis of information provided in the world from the ears. 

If any -- those of you who are older in the audience know that when I was a child we understood that a child born with a cleft palate was born with what we called mental retardation.

Well, it was understood by a Dutch surgeon, about 35 years ago, that if you simply fix the problem early enough, when the brain is still in this initial plastic period so it can set up this machinery adequately, in this initial set up time in the critical period, none of that happens.

What are you doing by operating on the cleft palate to correct it?

You're basically opening up the tubes that drain fluid from the middle ears, which have had them reliably full.

It's crap.

And the brain specializes for it.

It creates a representation of language crap.

And then the child is stuck with it. 

There are many inherited faults that can make it noisier.

And that results in defective representations of sounds of words -- not normal -- a different strategy, by a machine that has different time constants and different space constants.

Space constants are about three times greater.

And they are going to have poor reading skills.

Because reading is dependent upon the translation of word sounds into this orthographic or visual representational form.

If you don't have a brain representation of word sounds that translation makes no sense.

And you are going to have corresponding abnormal neurology. 

Then these children increasingly in evaluation after evaluation, in their operations in language, and their operations in reading -- we document that abnormal neurology.

The point is is that you can train the brain out of this.

And actually when you look at the impacts, the impacts are substantial. 

This is from about 3,000 children.

You can see that most of the children on the left side of the distribution are moving into the middle or the right.

This is in a broad assessment of their language abilities.

This is like an IQ test for language.

The impact in the distribution, if you trained every child in the United States, would be to shift the whole distribution to the right and narrow the distribution.

This is a substantially large impact. 

Think of a classroom of children in the language arts.

Think of the children on the slow side of the class.

We have the potential to move most of those children to the middle or to the right side.

In addition to accurate language training it also fixes memory and cognition speech fluency and speech production.

And to a large extent it fixes the brain.

Now you can also take the same approach to address problems in aging.

Noise is increasing in the brain.

And learning modulation and control is deteriorating.

And you can actually look down on the brain of such an individual and witness a change in the time constants and space constants with which, for example, the brain is representing language again.

Just as the brain came out of chaos at the beginning, it's going back into chaos in the end.

This results in declines in memory in cognition, and in postural ability and agility.

These are 80- to 90-year-olds. 

And what you see are substantial improvements of their immediate memory, of their ability to remember things after a delay, of their ability to control their attention, their language abilities and visual-spatial abilities.

The overall neuropsychological index of these trained individuals in this population is about two standard deviations.

That means that if you sit at the left side of the distribution, and I'm looking at your neuropyschological abilities, the average person has moved to the middle or the right side of the distribution.

It means that most people who are at risk for senility, more or less immediately, are now in a protected position. 

My main interest is how to elaborate this science to address other maladies.

I'm specifically interested in things like autism, and cerebral palsy, these great childhood catastrophes.

And in older age conditions like Parkinsonism, and in other acquired impairments like schizophrenia. 

Your issues as it relates to this science, is how to maintain your own high-functioning learning machine.

And of course, a well-ordered life in which learning is a continuous part of it, is key.

The other way that we will ultimately come to consider this literature and the science that is important to you is in a consideration of how to nurture yourself.

It will be a long time before they really understand it.

