There are a few things that all of us need.

And we all need a safe place to pee. 

(Laughter) Yeah? 

(Applause) Trans people and trans issues, they've been getting a lot of mainstream media attention lately.

Fame and money insulates these television star trans people from most of the everyday challenges that the rest of us have to tackle on a daily basis. 

Public bathrooms.

Now, today as a trans person, public bathrooms and change rooms are where I am most likely to be questioned or harassed.

I've often been verbally attacked behind their doors.

I've been hauled out by security guards with my pants still halfway pulled up.

I can and do just use the men's room most of the time these days.

But that doesn't solve my change room dilemmas, does it?

And I shouldn't have to use the men's room because I'm not a man.

I'm a trans person. 

And now we've got these fearmongering politicians that keep trying to pass these bathroom bills.

Have you heard about these?

They try to legislate to try and force people like myself to use the bathroom that they deem most appropriate according to the gender I was assigned at birth.

And if these politicians ever get their way, in Arizona or California or Florida or just last week in Houston, Texas, or Ottawa, well then, using the men's room will not be a legal option for me either. 

Panty checks?

Really.

Genital inspections outside of bath change rooms at public pools?

There's no legal or ethical or plausible way to enforce laws like these anyway.

They exist only to foster fear and promote transphobia.

They don't make anyone safer.

But they do for sure make the world more dangerous for some of us. 

And meanwhile, our trans children suffer.

They drop out of school, or they opt out of life altogether.

Trans people, especially trans and gender-nonconforming youth face additional challenges when accessing pools and gyms, but also universities, hospitals, libraries.

Don't even get me started on how they treat us in airports. 

If we don't move now to make sure that these places are truly open and accessible to everyone, then we just need to get honest and quit calling them public places.

I never have.

And this starts very early. 

She's a self-identified tomboy.

I'm talking about cowboy boots and Caterpillar yellow toy trucks and bug jars, the whole nine yards.

And she couldn't hold her pee any longer. 

Her and her classmates were four years old.

They already felt empowered enough to police her use of the so-called public bathrooms.

She'd already learned that bathrooms were going to be a problem, and that problem started with her and was hers alone.

So my friend asked me to talk to her little daughter, and I did.

"Mad and sad," she told me.

She doesn't need to know that, I figure. 

When you get old like me, you're going to be able to hold your pee for way longer, I promised her. 

I said, "Yes, until you can get home."

She seemed to take some comfort in that. 

This we can do.

So let's just do it. 

And if you are one of those people who is sitting out there right now already coming up with a list of reasons in your head why this is not a priority, or it's too expensive, or telling yourself that giving a trans person a safe place to pee or get changed in supports a lifestyle choice that you feel offends your morality, or your masculinity, or your religious beliefs, then let me just appeal to the part of your heart that probably, hopefully, does care about the rest of the population.

Oh, grade eight, what a cruel master you can be.

Right?

What about people with anxiety issues?

What about people with disabilities or who need assistance in there?

What about folks with bodies who, for whatever reason, don't fit into the mainstream idea of what a body should look like?

How many of us still feel shy or afraid to disrobe in front of our peers, and how many of us allow that fear to keep us from something as important as physical exercise?

Would all those people not benefit from these single stall facilities? 

Thank you for listening. 

Thank you. 

