And each one of these forces split the world, tore the world apart, divided the world.

It was only in the second half of the 20th century that we slowly began to pull ourselves out of this abyss.

Trade walls began to come tumbling down.

Transportation walls came tumbling down.

You know in 1950 the typical ship carried 5,000 to 10,000 tons worth of goods.

Communication walls, I don't have to tell you -- the Internet -- have come tumbling down.

And of course the iron curtains, political walls have come tumbling down. 

Now all of this has been tremendous for the world.

And perhaps most remarkably, at the beginning of the 21st century, really for the first time in modern history, growth extended to almost all parts of the world.

So China, I've already mentioned, beginning around 1978, around the time of the death of Mao, growth -- ten percent a year.

Year after year after year, absolutely incredible.

Never before in human history have so many people been raised out of such great poverty as happened in China.

China is the world's greatest anti-poverty program over the last three decades.

India, starting a little bit later, but in 1990, begetting tremendous growth.

Incomes at that time less than $1,000 per year.

Now Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa -- Sub-Saharan Africa has been the area of the world most resistant to growth.

And we can see the tragedy of Africa in the first few bars here.

Growth was negative.

But at the end of the 20th century, the beginning of the 21st century, we saw growth in Africa.

Now why. 

On the cutting edge today it's new ideas which are driving growth.

And by that I mean it's products for which the research and development costs are really high, and the manufacturing costs are low.

More than ever before it is these types of ideas which are driving growth on the cutting edge.

Now ideas have this amazing property.

This is practically the model of TED.

But what is new is that the greater function of ideas is going to drive growth even more than ever before.

This provides a reason why trade and globalization are even more important, more powerful than ever before, and are going to increase growth more than ever before. 

And to explain why this is so, I have a question.

The reason for this is incentives.

It costs about the same to produce a new drug whether that drug treats 1,000 people, 100,000 people, or a million people.

But the revenues are much greater if the drug treats a million people.

So the incentives are much larger to produce drugs which treat more people.

To put this differently: larger markets save lives.

In this case misery truly does love company. 

Now think about the following: if China and India were as rich as the United States is today, the market for cancer drugs would be eight times larger than it is now.

Now we are not there yet, but it is happening.

As other countries become richer the demand for these pharmaceuticals is going to increase tremendously.

And that means an increase incentive to do research and development, which benefits everyone in the world.

People are willing to invest more, and the budgets are larger. 

It's by having one world market, by globalizing the world.

The way I like to put this is: one idea.

How else can we create new ideas?

Well, more idea creators.

Now idea creators, they come from all walks of life.

Artists and innovators -- many of the people you've seen on this stage.

Now, today, less than one-tenth of one percent of the world's population are scientists and engineers.

But the U.S. is losing its idea leadership.

And for that I am very grateful.

That is a good thing.

I think of the great Indian mathematician, Ramanujan.

Africa is coming on line.

We will see an Einstein in Africa in this century. 

Now think what this means.

This means we all benefit when another country gets rich.

We should not fear other countries becoming wealthy.

Now you can see some of the reasons why I'm optimistic.

Globalization is increasing the demand for ideas, the incentive to create new ideas.

Investments in education are increasing the supply of new ideas. 

In fact if you look at world history you can see some reasons for optimism.

From about the beginnings of humanity to 1500: zero economic growth, nothing.

1500 to 1800: maybe a little bit of economic growth, but less in a century than you expect to see in a year today.

Twenty-first century could easily be 3.3, even higher percent.

That's not that far.

And I should say, I think this is a rather modest prediction.

In Kurzweilian terms this is gloomy.

What would you have predicted, not knowing this?

If you had based your prediction, your forecast on 1900 to 1929 you'd have predicted something like this.

If you'd been a little more optimistic -- say, based upon the Roaring Twenties -- you'd have said this.

So what actually happened?

We went off a cliff but we recovered.

So growth can wash away even what appears to be a great depression. 

But I think I don't have to tell this audience that a higher price of oil is not necessarily a bad thing.

Moreover, as everyone knows, look -- it's energy, not oil, which counts.

As oil prices go up, energy patents go up.

Now remember here what Jefferson said.

Jefferson said, "When they come and light their candles at ours, they gain light, and we are not darkened."

But Jefferson wasn't quite right, was he?

