I'm going to read a few strips.

These are, most of these are from a monthly page I do in and architecture and design magazine called Metropolis. 

And the first story is called "The Faulty Switch."

Another beautifully designed new building ruined by the sound of a common wall light switch.

But at dusk everything changes. 

The architect spent hundreds of hours designing the burnished brass switchplates for his new office tower.

And then left it to a contractor to install these 79-cent switches behind them. 

We know instinctively where to reach when we enter a dark room.

We automatically throw the little nub of plastic upward.

(Laughter) 

But where does this sound, commonly described as a click, come from?

Is it simply the byproduct of a crude mechanical action?

Or is it an imitation of one half the set of sounds we make to express disappointment?

The often dental consonant of no Indo-European language. 

Or is it the amplified sound of a synapse firing in the brain of a cockroach?

But today these improvements seem somehow inauthentic.

The sound made flicking a wall switch off is of a completely different nature.

It has a deep melancholy ring.

(Laughter) Adults find it comforting. 

But wouldn't it be an easy matter to wire a wall switch so that it triggers the muted horn of a steam ship?

Or the recorded crowing of a rooster?

Or the distant peel of thunder? 

Thomas Edison went through thousands of unlikely substances before he came upon the right one for the filament of his electric light bulb.

Why have we settled so quickly for the sound of its switch?

The next story is called "In Praise of the Taxpayer."

Yet for one reason or another they have confounded the efforts of developers to be combined into lots suitable for high-rise construction. 

Although they make no claim to architectural beauty, they are, in their perfect temporariness, a delightful alternative to the large-scale structures that might someday take their place.

The most perfect examples occupy corner lots.

They offer a pleasant respite from the high-density development around them.

A break of light and air, an architectural biding of time. 

The few surfaces not covered by signs are often clad in a distinctive, dark green-gray, striated aluminum siding.

Take-out sandwich shops, film processing drop-offs, peep-shows and necktie stores. 

Now these provisional structures have, in some cases, remained standing for the better part of a human lifetime.

(Laughter) 

And the next story is called, "On the Human Lap."

It was not until the 14th century that an Italian painter recognized the lap as a Grecian temple, upholstered in flesh and cloth.

From there, to the modern ventriloquist's dummy, is but a brief moment in history.

You were late for school again this morning.

The ventriloquist must first make us believe that a small boy is sitting on his lap.

On a crowded bus there was always a lap to sit on.

It is children and teenage girls who are most keenly aware of its architectural beauty.

The relationship between the lap and its owner is direct and intimate.

The bathrooms and kitchens will, of course, have no windows.

The lap of luxury is an architectural construct of childhood, which we seek, in vain, as adults, to employ.

(Laughter) 

The next story is called "The Haverpiece Collection" A nondescript warehouse, visible for a moment from the northbound lanes of the Prykushko Expressway, serves as the temporary resting place for the Haverpiece collection of European dried fruit. 

The profound convolutions on the surface of a dried cherry.

The foreboding sheen of an extra-large date. 

Do you remember wandering as a child through those dark wooden storefront galleries?

Where everything was displayed in poorly labeled roach-proof bins. 

As an art form it lies somewhere between still-life painting and plumbing. 

(Laughter) 

A shoe made of apricot leather for the daughter of a czar. 

