When I was five years old I fell in love with airplanes.

Now I'm talking about the '30s.

He had high leather boots, jodhpurs, an old leather jacket, a wonderful helmet and those marvelous goggles -- and, inevitably, a white scarf, to flow in the wind.

(Laughter) 

But this was real romance to me.

Everything about flying in those years, which was -- you have to stop and think for a moment -- was probably the most advanced technological thing going on at the time.

It's the way I got a part of this romance.

And of course, in a way, when I say romance, I mean in part the aesthetics of that whole situation.

I think the word is the holistic experience revolving around a product.

Even the parts of the airplane had French names.

So that it was something that just got into your spirit.

It did mine. 

And I decided I had to get closer than just drawing fantasy airplanes.

I wanted to build airplanes.

So I built model airplanes.

And I found that in doing the model airplanes the appearance drawings were not enough.

You couldn't transfer those to the model itself.

You had to learn about aeronautics.

You had to learn what made an airplane stay in the air.

And of course, as a model in those years, you couldn't control it.

So it had to be self-righting, and stay up without crashing.

And in so doing, I could produce a model that would fly, stay in the air.

And it had, once it was in the air, some of this romance that I was in love with. 

Well the act of drawing airplanes led me to, when I had the opportunity to choose a course in school, led me to sign up for aeronautical engineering.

And when I was sitting in classes -- in which no one asked me to draw an airplane -- to my surprise.

I had to learn mathematics and mechanics and all this sort of thing.

I'd wile away my time drawing airplanes in the class.

(Laughter) 

So my romance was temporarily shifted.

(Laughter) And I went into art because they appreciated drawing.

Studied painting; didn't do very well at that.

Went through design, some architecture.

Eventually hired myself out as a designer.

And it exists.

Any of you who rode the automobiles -- was it yesterday?

So after 25 years I began to feel as though I was running dry.

I wanted to get back where the romance was. 

So I chose furniture.

And I chose chairs specifically because I knew something about them.

But not office chairs.

So I started doing that.

And I found that there were ways to duplicate the same approach that I used to use on the airplane.

Only this time, instead of the product being shaped by the wind, it was shaped by the human body.

And that's the way, ultimately after some ups and downs, I ended up designing the chair I'm going to show you. 

And that's the way I work now.

When I started this chair it was not a preconceived notion.

Design nowadays, if you mean it, you don't start with styling sketches.

And I felt, the one thing they don't need, is a chair that interferes with their main reason for sitting there. 

So my idea was that, instead of sitting down and reaching for a lot of controls, that you would sit on the chair, and it would automatically balance your weight against the force required to recline.

I'll tell you right up front, this is a trade off.

There are drawbacks to this.

One is: you can't accommodate everybody.

There are some very light people, some extremely heavy people, maybe people with a lot of bulk up top.

They begin to fall off the end of your chart.

Well, that's typical of a lot of us working in chairs.

And why should you get a 20-page manual about how to run a chair?

(Laughter) I had one for a wristwatch once.

(Laughter) I had one for a wristwatch once.

Anyway, I felt that it was important that you didn't have to make an adjustment in order to get this kind of action.

But I felt it was too much to ask to have to adjust each individual armrest in order to get it where you wanted.

So I spent a long time.

I said I worked eight or nine years on it.

And each of these things went along sort of in parallel but incrementally were a problem of their own.

I worked a long time on figuring out how to move the arms over a much greater arc -- that is up and down -- and make them a lot easier, so that you didn't have to use a button.

And so after many trials, many failures, we came up with a very simple arrangement in which we could just move one arm or the other.

Or you can pull them up where you want them.

And this was another thing that I felt, while not nearly as romantic as Cary Grant, nevertheless begins to grab a little bit of aesthetic operation, aesthetic performance into a product. 

The next area that was of interest to me was the fact that reclining was a very important factor.

And the more you can recline, in a way, the better it is.

Would everybody put their hand under their bottom and feel their tailbone?

(Laughter) You feel that bone under there?

(Laughter) Just your own.

(Laughter) There's two of them, one on either side.

All the weight of your upper torso -- your arms, your head -- goes right down through your back, your spine, into those bones when you sit.

And that's a lot of load.

Just relieving your arms with armrests takes 20 percent of that load off.

Now that, if your spine is not held in a good position, will help bend your spine the wrong way, and so on.

So to unload that great weight -- if that indeed exists -- you can recline.

When you recline you take away a lot of that load off your bottom end, and transfer it to your back.

As I recline, my head says more or less vertical.

Well if you're reclined a great deal, you have to use muscle force to hold your head there.

So that's where a headrest comes in.

So here we are.

I've got five inches of adjustment here in order to get the headrest in the right place.

But then I knew from experience and looking around in offices where there were chairs with headrests that nobody would ever bother to reach back and turn a knob and adjust the headrest to put it in position.

And you need it in a different position when you're upright, then when you're reclined.

So I knew that had to be solved, and had to be automatic.

So if you watch this chair as I recline, the headrest comes up to meet my neck.

So that part of it took a long time to work out. 

You cant hit your elbow on bottom.

And I did want to demonstrate the fact that the chair can accommodate people.

