I'm here today, as June said, to talk about a project that my twin sister and I have been doing for the past three and half years.

We're crocheting a coral reef.

It's true.

All of this I'm going to get to in the next 18 minutes, I hope.

But let me first begin by showing you some pictures of what this thing looks like.

This is some more images of it.

That one on the right is about five feet high.

The work involves hundreds of different crochet models.

And indeed there are now thousands and thousands of models that people have contributed all over the world as part of this.

The totality of this project involves tens of thousands of hours of human labor -- 99 percent of it done by women.

On the right hand side, that bit there is part of an installation that is about 12 feet long. 

So the whole thing has sort of morphed into this organic, ever-evolving creature, that's actually gone way beyond Christine and I. 

The frilly crenulated forms that you see in corals, and kelps, and sponges and nudibranchs, is a form of geometry known as hyperbolic geometry.

So what is this hyperbolic geometry that corals and sea slugs embody? 

The next few minutes is, we're all going to get raised up to the level of a sea slug.

(Laughter) This sort of geometry revolutionized mathematics when it was first discovered in the 19th century.

But not until 1997 did mathematicians actually understand how they could model it.

In 1997 a mathematician at Cornell, Daina Taimina, made the discovery that this structure could actually be done in knitting and crochet.

But what she was doing was actually making a model of a mathematical structure, that many mathematicians had thought it was actually impossible to model.

So what is this impossible hyperbolic structure?

Before hyperbolic geometry, mathematicians knew about two kinds of space: Euclidean space, and spherical space.

And they have different properties.

Mathematicians like to characterize things by being formalist.

You all have a sense of what a flat space is, Euclidean space is.

But mathematicians formalize this in a particular way.

And what they do is, they do it through the concept of parallel lines.

So here we have a line and a point outside the line.

That's our definition of a parallel line.

It's a definition really of Euclidean space. 

But there is another possibility that you all know of: spherical space.

What do we mean to talk about a straight line on a curved surface?

Now mathematicians have answered that question.

They've understood there is a generalized concept of straightness, it's called a geodesic.

And on the surface of a sphere, a straight line is the biggest possible circle you can draw.

To a mathematician if there are two answers, and the first two are zero and one, there is another number that immediately suggests itself as the third alternative.

This is what it looks like.

This is the drawing.

But that's only because I'm projecting it onto a flat surface.

Mathematicians for several hundred years had to really struggle with this.

How could they see this?

What did it mean to actually have a physical model that looked like this? 

It's a bit like this: imagine that we'd only ever encountered Euclidean space.

And you can stitch all sorts of mathematical theorems onto these surfaces.

The discovery of hyperbolic space ushered in the field of mathematics that is called non-Euclidean geometry.

And this is actually the field of mathematics that underlies general relativity and is actually ultimately going to show us about the shape of the universe.

So there is this direct line between feminine handicraft, Euclid and general relativity. 

Now, I said that mathematicians thought that this was impossible.

Here's two creatures who've never heard of Euclid's parallel postulate -- didn't know it was impossible to violate, and they're simply getting on with it.

They've been doing it for hundreds of millions of years.

I once asked the mathematicians why it was that mathematicians thought this structure was impossible when sea slugs have been doing it since the Silurian age.

Their answer was interesting.

And so, too, we've discovered that there is an infinite taxonomy of crochet hyperbolic creatures.

