This is Tim Ferriss circa 1979 A.D. Age two.

(Laughter) Obviously, you see the resemblance.

And this routine went on for some time. 

When I was seven I went to summer camp.

My parents found it necessary for peace of mind.

And at noon each day the campers would go to a pond, where they had floating docks.

And I tried to come up for air, and my lower back hit the bottom of the inner tube.

And I went wild eyed and thought I was going to die.

A camp counselor fortunately came over and separated us.

From that point onward I was terrified of swimming.

That is something that I did not get over.

My inability to swim has been one of my greatest humiliations and embarrassments.

That is when I realized that I was not the Incredible Hulk. 

But there is a happy ending to this story.

And I came out, in my Speedos, European style, feeling like the Incredible Hulk. 

And that's what I want everyone in here to feel like, the Incredible Hulk, at the end of this presentation.

More specifically, I want you to feel like you're capable of becoming an excellent long-distance swimmer, a world-class language learner, and a tango champion.

And I would like to share my art.

I find that the best results in life are often held back by false constructs and untested assumptions.

So it turns out that propulsion isn't really the problem.

The problem is hydrodynamics.

And you do that by maintaining a horizontal body position.

And you can see that he's extending his right arm below his head and far in front.

Small flick, and the only purpose of that is to rotate his hips so he can get to the opposite side.

Incorrect, above, which is what almost every swimming coach will teach you.

Not their fault, honestly.

And I'll get to implicit versus explicit in a moment.

I'll be doing a swimming lesson later, for myself, if anyone wants to join me. 

In freestyle, easiest way to remedy this is to turn with body roll, and just to look at your recovery hand as it enters the water.

But I said, "Please rape me at eight a.m." (Laughter) You've never seen a more confused Japanese woman.

(Laughter) 

I walked in to school.

And a teacher came up to me and handed me a piece of paper.

Asked him what this said.

And he goes, "Ahh, okay okay, eehto, World History, ehh, Calculus, Traditional Japanese."

And so it came to me in waves.

There had been something lost in translation.

The Japanese classes were not Japanese instruction classes, per se.

(Laughter) 

And this became my Holy Grail, my Rosetta Stone. 

As soon as I focused on this material, I took off.

I ended up being able to read Asahi Shinbu, Asahi newspaper, about six months later -- so a total of 11 months later -- and went from Japanese I to Japanese VI.

Ended up doing translation work at age 16 when I returned to the U.S., and have continued to apply this material over method approach to close to a dozen languages now.

Someone who was terrible at languages, and at any given time, speak, read and write five or six.

This brings us to the point, which is, it's oftentimes what you do, not how you do it, that is the determining factor.

This is the difference between being effective -- doing the right things -- and being efficient -- doing things well whether or not they're important. 

You can also do this with grammar.

I came up with these six sentences after much experimentation.

Having a native speaker allow you to deconstruct their grammar, by translating these sentences into past, present, future, will show you subject, object, verb, placement of indirect, direct objects, gender and so forth.

From that point, you can then, if you want to, acquire multiple languages, alternate them so there is no interference.

We can talk about that if anyone in interested.

And now I love languages. 

So ballroom dancing, implicit versus explicit -- very important.

(Laughter) Fight-or-flight fear sweat, because I tried ballroom dancing in college -- stepped on the girl's foot with my heel.

I was so concerned with her perception of what I was doing, that it exploded in my face, never to return to the ballroom dancing club.

She comes up, and this was her approach, the teacher.

As someone who wrestled since age eight, I proceeded to crush her, "Of Mice and Men" style.

(Laughter) 

And then I took an inventory of the characteristics, along with her, of the of the capabilities and elements of different dancers who'd won championships.

I interviewed these people because they all taught in Buenos Aires.

I compared the two lists, and what you find is that there is explicitly, expertise they recommended, certain training methods.

Then there were implicit commonalities that none of them seemed to be practicing.

I found that longer steps were much more elegant.

So you can have -- and you can do it in a very small space in fact.

That photo is of the semi-finals of the Buenos Aires championships, four months later.

I want you to see part of what I practiced.

I'm going to jump forward here.

One of the most elegant dancers of his generation, known for his long steps, and his tempo changes and his pivots.

Alicia, in her own right, very famous.

So I think you'll agree, they look quite good together.

He didn't lead with his chest, which requires you lean forward.

I couldn't develop the attributes in my toes, the strength in my feet, to do that.

So he uses a lead that focuses on his shoulder girdle and his arm.

So he can lift the woman to break her, for example.

That's just one benefit of that.

So then we broke it down.

There are many different types.

So using my arch-nemesis, Spanish, no less, to learn tango. 

Apply them to very big dreams. 

And when I think of what I fear now, it's very simple.

But I ask a lot of questions, and I would love your advice.

