And you know, I saw all the visions of the first couple of sessions.

I want to talk to you a little bit about why the visions of Jeremy Rivkins, who would like to ban these sorts of technologies, or of the Bill Joys who would like to relinquish them, are actually -- to follow those paths would be such a tragedy for us.

I'm focusing on biology, the biological sciences.

The reason I'm doing that is because those are going to be the areas that are the most significant to us.

The reason for that is really very simple.

It's because we're flesh and blood.

We're biological creatures.

I think that Shakespeare really put it very nicely.

And I'm actually going to use his words in the same order that he did.

And we need to think about planning a little bit.

We're all going to eventually, even in the developed world, going to have to lose everything that we love.

When you're beginning to rot a little bit, all of the videos crammed into your head, all of the extensions that extend your various powers, are going to being to seem a little secondary.

This is where it's really central to our lives.

Now I know there's been a whole lot of hype about our power to control biology.

You just have to look at the Human Genome Project.

You know it's 2003, and there is no HAL.

And there is no odyssey to our own moon, much less the moons of Jupiter.

And we're still picking up pieces of the Challenger.

And I just want to say that that is absolutely not going to be the case.

Because when we talk about our genetics and our biology, and modifying and altering and adjusting these things, we're talking about changing ourselves.

And this is very critical stuff. 

If you have any doubts about how technology affects our lives, you just have to go to any major city.

This is not the stomping ground of our Pleistocene ancestors.

Before it's all done we are going to alter ourselves every bit as much as we have changed the world around us.

It's going to happen a lot sooner than people imagine.

On the way there it's going to completely revolutionize medicine and health care; that's obvious.

It's going to probably change the human lifespan.

It will really make us question what it is to be a human being. 

The larger context of this is that are two unprecedented revolutions that are going on today.

The genomics revolution, proteomics, metabolomics, all of these "omics" that sound so terrific on grants and on business plans.

What we're doing is we are seizing control of our evolutionary future.

I mean we're essentially using technology to just jam evolution into fast-forward.

The most immediate changes that we'll see are things like in medicine.

There is going to be a big shift towards preventative medicine as we start to be able to identify all of the risk factors that we have as individuals.

That is going to be the IT challenge of the next generation, is communicating all this information. 

There's pharmacogenomics, the combination of pharmacology and genetics: tailoring drugs to our individual constitutions that Juan talked about a little bit earlier.

That's going to have amazing impacts.

And it's going to be used for diet as well, and nutritional supplements and such.

But it's going to have a big impact because we're going to have niche drugs.

And we aren't going to be able to support the kinds of expenses that we have to create blockbuster drugs today.

Another thing is that we're just going to have to deal with this knowledge.

It's really wonderful when we hear, "Oh, 99.9 percent of the letters in the code are the same.

And look around you and know that what we really care about is that little bit of difference.

And we're going to have to come to grips with the fact that there are differences between us as individuals that we will know about, and between subpopulations of humans as well.

To deny that that's the case is not a very good start on that. 

A generation or so away there are going to be even more profound things that are going to happen.

That's when we're going to begin to use this knowledge to modify ourselves.

Now I don't mean extra gills or something -- something we care about, like aging.

What if we could unravel aging and understand it -- begin to retard the process or even reverse it?

It would change absolutely everything.

And it's obvious to anyone, that if we can do this, we absolutely will do this, whatever the consequences are. 

The second is modifying our emotions.

I mean Ritalin, Viagra, things of that sort, Prozac.

You know, this is just clumsy little baby steps.

What if you could take a little concoction of pharmaceuticals that would make you feel really contented, just happy to be you.

Are you going to be able to resist that if it doesn't have any overt side effects?

Probably not.

And if you don't, who are you going to be?

Why do you do what you do?

We're sort of circumventing evolutionary programs that guide our behavior.

It's going to be very challenging to deal with. 

The third area is reproduction.

The idea that we're going to chose our children's genes, as we begin to understand what genes say about who we are.

That's the focus of my book "Redesigning Humans," where I talk about the kinds of choices we'll make, and the challenges it's going to present to society.

There are three obvious ways of doing this.

The first is cloning.

And when it does it's not going to be that big a deal.

The birth of a delayed identical twin is not going to shake western civilization. 

It's already done to avoid rare diseases today.

And pretty soon it's going to be possible to avoid virtually all genetic diseases in that way.

And in that process that's going to morph from being just for diseases, to being for lesser vulnerabilities, like risk of manic depression or something, to picking personalities, temperaments, traits, these sorts of things.

Of course there is going to be genetic engineering.

Directly going in -- it's a little bit further away, but not that far away -- going in and altering the genes in the first cell in an embryo.

The way I suspect it will happen is using artificial chromosomes and extra chromosomes, so we go from 46 to 47 or 48.

They'll want the new release. 

Those kinds of loose analogies with (Laughter) computers, and with programming, are actually much deeper than that.

They are really going to come to operate in this realm.

Now not everything that can be done should be done.

And it won't be done.

The first is that all these technologies are just a spin-off of mainstream medical research that everybody wants to see happen.

It is being funded very very -- in a big way.

We try and use our technology to improve our lives in one way or another.

That's really the central one, I believe. 

But ultimately all this is going to do is just shift development elsewhere.

It's going to drive these things from view.

It's going to reserve the technology for the wealthy because they are in the best position to circumvent any of these sorts of laws.

And it's going to deny us the information that we need to make wise decisions about how to use these technologies.

So, sure, we need to debate these things.

And I think it's wonderful that we do.

But we shouldn't kid ourselves and think that we're going to reach a consensus about these things.

That is simply not going to happen.

Some people are going to see this as an abomination, as the worst thing, as just awful.

The one thing though that is really dangerous about these sorts of technologies, is that it's easy to become seduced by them.

So we shouldn't dismiss this because it's an enormous opportunity to use these sorts of results, or these random loose trials from the last thousand years about what has impacts on our health.

And to use our advanced technologies to pull out what is beneficial from this sea of noise, basically. 

In fact this isn't just abstract.

If you look forward, I mean future humans, far before the end of this millennium, in a few hundred years, they are going to look back at this moment.

And from the beginning of today's sessions you'd think that they're going to see this as this horrible difficult, painful period that we struggled through.

And they are actually going to romanticize this moment in time.

They are going to think about it as this glorious instant when we laid down the very foundations of their lives, of their society, of their future.

You know it's a little bit like a birth.

Actually as was pointed out earlier, we forget about all the struggle there was in getting there. 

To me it's an incredible privilege to be alive now and to be able to witness this thing.

And what's extraordinary is that we're not just observing this, we are the architects of this.

I think that we should be proud of it.

What is so difficult and challenging is that we are also the objects of these changes.

It's our health, it's our lives, it's our future, it's our children.

And that is why they are so very troubling to so many people who would pull back in fear.

I think that our choice in the choice of life, is not whether we're going to go down this path.

We are, definitely.

