So how would you run a whole country without oil?

That's the question that sort of hit me in the middle of a Davos afternoon about four years ago.

It never left my brain.

And I started playing with it more like a puzzle.

The original thought I had: this must be ethanol.

So that is not going to be the path to go. 

Now I started this from a point of view that it has to be something that scales en masse.

The thought that came to mind is that it needs to be as good as any car that you would have today.

And convenient is not something that you drive for an hour and charge for eight. 

So we're bound with the laws of physics and the laws of economics.

How do you do it within the economics that we have today?

How do you do it from the power of the consumer up?

And not from the power of an edict down. 

In a sense if you want to think about it this is the classic "batteries not included."

The network has two components in them.

If you drive a car in the morning and drive it back in the afternoon the ratio of charge to drive is about a minute for a minute.

If you park your car and didn't plug in the heater, when you come back you don't have a car.

Now that last mile, last foot, in a sense, is the first step of the infrastructure.

The second step of the infrastructure needs to take care of the range extension.

See we're bound by today's technology on batteries, which is about 120 miles if you want to stay within reasonable space and weight limitations.

As a matter of fact, we added to the contract.

Then we looked at the question of the affordability.

We looked at the question, what happens when the battery is disconnected from the car.

What is the cost of that battery?

Everybody tells us batteries are so expensive.

What we found out, when you move from molecules to electrons, something interesting happens.

We can go back to the original economics of the car and look at it again.

The battery is not the gas tank, in a sense.

Remember in your car you have a gas tank.

And so it's sort of a mini well.

We were asked in the past when we bought an electric car to pay for the entire well, for the life of the car.

Nobody wants to buy a mini well when they buy a car.

In a sense what we've done is we've created a new consumable. 

And the price of electric miles ends up being a very interesting number.

Today 2010, in volume, when we come to market, it is eight cents a mile.

Those of you who have a hard time calculating what that means -- in the average consumer environment we're in in the U.S. 20 miles per gallon that's a buck 50, a buck 60 a gallon.

That's cheaper than today's gasoline, even in the U.S.

In Europe where taxes are in place, that's the equivalent to a minus 60 dollar barrel.

But e-miles follow Moore's Law.

And these prices are actually with clean electrons.

We do not use any electrons that come from coal.

So in a sense this is an absolute zero-carbon, zero-fossil fuel electric mile at two cents a mile by 2020.

That's a new economic factor, which is fascinating to most people. 

And some governments told me that it's fascinating that the younger generation actually thinks about these things.

Peres thought that was a great idea. 

So we went out, and we looked at all the car companies.

But one of them Carlos Ghosn, CEO of Renault and Nissan, when asked about hybrids said something very fascinating.

He said hybrids are like mermaids.

When you want a fish you get a woman and when you need a woman you get a fish.

(Laughter) And Ghosn came up and said, "I have the car, Mr. Peres; I will build you the cars."

It's the first mass-volume electric car, zero-emission electric car in the market.

And I said, "I'm ready for CEO" And he said, "Oh no no no no no.

And I had to quit and come and do this thing called A Better Place.

They put 180 percent tax on gasoline cars and zero tax on zero-emission cars.

So if you want to buy a gasoline car in Denmark, it costs you about 60,000 Euros.

If you buy our car it's about 20,000 Euros.

(Laughter) 

If your car is driving outside Israel it's been stolen.

It's got three centers -- in Brisbane, in Melbourne, in Sydney -- and one freeway, one electric freeway that connects them.

Hawaii you can drive around the island on one battery.

And if you really have a long day you can switch, and keep on driving around the island. 

He decided that he's going to take over the state, unofficially, and then officially, and then created this beautiful Region One policy.

In the San Francisco Bay Area not only do you have the highest concentration of Priuses, but you also have the perfect range extender.

It's called the other car.

As we stared scaling it up we looked at what is the problem to come up to the U.S.?

Why is this a big issue?

So the price of oil, much like lots of other curves that we've seen, goes along a depletion curve.

The foundation of this curve is that we keep losing the wells that are close to the ground.

And we keep getting wells that are farther away from the ground.

Now we're running a stimulus package.

What happens when the economy recovers?

That's another 30 percent demand on oil.

That is another 25 million barrels a day.

That's all the U.S. usage today.

In other words at some point when we've recovered we go up to the peak.

We take our money and we give it away.

And the downs are going to be much longer and the ups are going to be much shorter. 

That is oh point oh well percent of the rest of the world.

That won't do much difference. 

Ten million out of 500 million we will add between now and then.

That is the most pessimistic number you can have.

You have to remember that the world today is bringing in so many cars.

We have 10 million cars by region.

That's an enormous amount of cars. 

China is adding those cars -- India, Russia, Brazil.

For them to get a battery that goes 120 miles is an extension on range, not a reduction in range.

We forgot about the entire chain around us.

All this stuff that happens around.

But our cars are actually going to be cheaper than gasoline cars. 

You're looking at a world where cars are matched with windmills.

In Denmark, we will drive all the cars in Denmark from windmills, not from oil.

In Israel, we've asked to put a solar farm in the south of Israel.

And people said, "Oh that's a very very large space that you're asking for."

These are perfect matches to one another. 

Now all you need is about 10 percent of the electricity generated.

Think of it as a project that spans over about 10 years.

That's one percent a year.

Now when we're looking at solving big problems, we need to start thinking in two numbers.

And those are not 20 percent by 2020.

The two numbers are zero -- as in zero footprint or zero oil -- and scale it infinity.

And when we go to COP15 at the end of this year we can't stop thinking of padding CO2.

We have to start thinking about giving kickers to countries that are willing to go to this kind of scale. 

One car emits four tons.

And actually 700 and change million cars today emit 2.8 billion tons of CO2.

That's, in the additive, about 25 percent of our problem.

Cars and trucks add up to about 25 percent of the world's CO2 emissions.

I actually shared that with some legislators here in the U.S.

I shared it with a gentleman called Bobby Kennedy Jr., who is one of my idols.

(Laughter) 

He actually shared with me another story, which is from about 200 years ago.

And what would it do to our economy?

And people said, "Well we need to take time to do it.

And the U.K. had 100 years of economic growth.

We have to make the right moral decision.

We have to make it immediately.

