Bacteria are the oldest living organisms on the earth.

They've been here for billions of years, and what they are are single-celled microscopic organisms.

So they are one cell and they have this special property that they only have one piece of DNA.

They have very few genes, and genetic information to encode all of the traits that they carry out.

I know you guys think of yourself as humans, and this is sort of how I think of you.

This man is supposed to represent a generic human being, and all of the circles in that man are all of the cells that make up your body.

So, 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells on a human being.

I know you think of yourself as human beings, but I think of you as 90 or 99 percent bacterial. 

They cover us in an invisible body armor that keeps environmental insults out so that we stay healthy.

They digest our food, they make our vitamins, they actually educate your immune system to keep bad microbes out.

But they get a lot of press because they do a lot of terrible things as well.

So, there's all kinds of bacteria on the Earth that have no business being in you or on you at any time, and if they are, they make you incredibly sick. 

And so, the question for my lab is whether you want to think about all the good things that bacteria do, or all the bad things that bacteria do.

The question we had is how could they do anything at all?

I mean they're incredibly small, you have to have a microscope to see one.

They live this sort of boring life where they grow and divide, and they've always been considered to be these asocial reclusive organisms.

And so it seemed to us that they are just too small to have an impact on the environment if they simply act as individuals.

And so we wanted to think if there couldn't be a different way that bacteria live. 

The clue to this came from another marine bacterium, and it's a bacterium called Vibrio fischeri.

What was actually interesting to us was not that the bacteria made light, but when the bacteria made light.

What we noticed is when the bacteria were alone, so when they were in dilute suspension, they made no light.

But when they grew to a certain cell number all the bacteria turned on light simultaneously.

The question that we had is how can bacteria, these primitive organisms, tell the difference from times when they're alone, and times when they're in a community, and then all do something together.

This is now supposed to be my bacterial cell.

When it's alone it doesn't make any light.

But when the bacteria grow and double and they're all participating in making these molecules, the molecule -- the extracellular amount of that molecule increases in proportion to cell number.

And when the molecule hits a certain amount that tells the bacteria how many neighbors there are, they recognize that molecule and all of the bacteria turn on light in synchrony.

The reason that Vibrio fischeri is doing that comes from the biology.

The reason the squid is willing to put up with these shenanigans is because it wants that light.

The squid is nocturnal, so during the day it buries itself in the sand and sleeps, but then at night it has to come out to hunt.

This is like the stealth bomber of the ocean. 

First we figured out how this bacterium does this, but then we brought the tools of molecular biology to this to figure out really what's the mechanism.

These are just like the receptors on the surfaces of your cells.

So now what we understand is that all bacteria can talk to each other.

We have a fancy name for this: we call it quorum sensing.

They vote with these chemical votes, the vote gets counted, and then everybody responds to the vote. 

What's important for today's talk is that we know that there are hundreds of behaviors that bacteria carry out in these collective fashions.

But the one that's probably the most important to you is virulence.

It's not like a couple bacteria get in you and they start secreting some toxins -- you're enormous, that would have no effect on you.

Bacteria always control pathogenicity with quorum sensing.

That's how it works. 

What I hope you can see is that the molecules are related.

What that does is to confer exquisite species specificities to these languages.

These conversations are for intraspecies communication.

Each bacteria uses a particular molecule that's its language that allows it to count its own siblings. 

Once we got that far we thought we were starting to understand that bacteria have these social behaviors.

So this is just a picture -- a micrograph of your skin.

And so we started to think if this really is about communication in bacteria, and it's about counting your neighbors, it's not enough to be able to only talk within your species.

There has to be a way to take a census of the rest of the bacteria in the population. 

So we went back to molecular biology and started studying different bacteria, and what we've found now is that in fact, bacteria are multilingual.

It's used by all different bacteria and it's the language of interspecies communication.

What happens is that bacteria are able to count how many of me and how many of you.

They take that information inside, and they decide what tasks to carry out depending on who's in the minority and who's in the majority of any given population. 

It's a very small, five-carbon molecule.

What the important thing is that we learned is that every bacterium has exactly the same enzyme and makes exactly the same molecule.

So they're all using this molecule for interspecies communication.

This is the bacterial Esperanto. 

Once we got that far, we started to learn that bacteria can talk to each other with this chemical language.

But what we started to think is that maybe there is something practical that we can do here as well.

I've told you that bacteria do have all these social behaviors, they communicate with these molecules.

Of course, I've also told you that one of the important things they do is to initiate pathogenicity using quorum sensing.

We thought, what if we made these bacteria so they can't talk or they can't hear?

Couldn't these be new kinds of antibiotics? 

Of course, you've just heard and you already know that we're running out of antibiotics.

They either pop the bacterial membrane, they make the bacterium so it can't replicate its DNA.

We kill bacteria with traditional antibiotics and that selects for resistant mutants.

And so now of course we have this global problem in infectious diseases.

We thought, well what if we could sort of do behavior modifications, just make these bacteria so they can't talk, they can't count, and they don't know to launch virulence. 

And so that's exactly what we've done, and we've sort of taken two strategies.

The first one is we've targeted the intraspecies communication system.

By targeting the red system, what we are able to do is to make species-specific, or disease-specific, anti-quorum sensing molecules.

We've also done the same thing with the pink system.

We've taken that universal molecule and turned it around a little bit so that we've made antagonists of the interspecies communication system.

The hope is that these will be used as broad-spectrum antibiotics that work against all bacteria. 

To finish I'll just show you the strategy.

What you know is that when that bacterium gets into the animal, in this case, a mouse, it doesn't initiate virulence right away.

It gets in, it starts growing, it starts secreting its quorum sensing molecules.

It recognizes when it has enough bacteria that now they're going to launch their attack, and the animal dies.

What we now know is that if we treat the animal with a pathogenic bacterium -- a multi-drug-resistant pathogenic bacterium -- in the same time we give our anti-quorum sensing molecule, in fact, the animal lives. 

We think that this is the next generation of antibiotics and it's going to get us around, at least initially, this big problem of resistance.

What I hope you think, is that bacteria can talk to each other, they use chemicals as their words, they have an incredibly complicated chemical lexicon that we're just now starting to learn about.

What happens is that bacteria have these collective behaviors, and they can carry out tasks that they could never accomplish if they simply acted as individuals. 

What I would hope that I could further argue to you is that this is the invention of multicellularity.

We think, by studying bacteria, we're going to be able to have insight about multicellularity in the human body.

We know that the principles and the rules, if we can figure them out in these sort of primitive organisms, the hope is that they will be applied to other human diseases and human behaviors as well.

I hope that what you've learned is that bacteria can distinguish self from other.

By using these two molecules they can say "me" and they can say "you."

This is exactly what happens in your body.

But then, to finish with a plug for all the good and miraculous bacteria that live on the Earth, we've also made pro-quorum sensing molecules.

So, we've targeted those systems to make the molecules work better.

Remember you have these 10 times or more bacterial cells in you or on you, keeping you healthy.

Everything I told you about was discovered by someone in that picture.

Science is done by that demographic.

It's a really lucky demographic to work with.

I keep getting older and older and they're always the same age, and it's just a crazy delightful job.

I want to thank you for inviting me here.

It's a big treat for me to get to come to this conference. 

Thanks. 

