What I'm going to try to do is explain to you quickly how to predict, and illustrate it with some predictions about what Iran is going to do in the next couple of years. 

In order to predict effectively, we need to use science.

And if we can predict, then we can engineer the future.

So if you are concerned to influence energy policy, or you are concerned to influence national security policy, or health policy, or education, science -- and a particular branch of science -- is a way to do it, not the way we've been doing it, which is seat-of-the-pants wisdom. 

But I'm not engaged in doing that.

I don't have a clue. 

We can no longer pretend that we just speculate about politics, we need to look at this in a rigorous way.

Now, what is game theory about?

It assumes that people are looking out for what's good for them.

That doesn't seem terribly shocking -- although it's controversial for a lot of people -- that we are self-interested.

And they have beliefs about what other people want, and what other people don't want, how much power other people have, how much those people could get in the way of whatever it is that you want.

Now who is rational?

A lot of people are worried about what is rationality about?

You know, what if people are rational?

Mother Theresa, she was rational.

Terrorists, they're rational.

Pretty much everybody is rational.

That is, they are just trying to do what they think is in their own best interest. 

Now in order to work out what people are going to do to pursue their interests, we have to think about who has influence in the world.

If you're trying to influence corporations to change their behavior, with regard to producing pollutants, one approach, the common approach, is to exhort them to be better, to explain to them what damage they're doing to the planet.

So, we have to work out who influences problems.

That person surrounds himself or herself with advisers.

The secretary of defense doesn't know much about Iran.

There are lots of people shaping decisions and so if we want to predict correctly we have to pay attention to everybody who is trying to shape the outcome, not just the people at the pinnacle of the decision-making pyramid. 

Unfortunately, a lot of times we don't do that.

Imagine a problem with just five decision-makers.

Imagine for example that Sally over here, wants to know what Harry, and Jane, and George and Frank are thinking, and sends messages to those people.

Sally's giving her opinion to them, and they're giving their opinion to Sally.

But Sally also wants to know what Harry is saying to these three, and what they're saying to Harry.

That's a complicated problem; that's a lot to know.

Now you may be surprised to know that smart people can keep 120 things straight in their head.

Suppose we double the number of influencers from five to 10.

We've increased it to 3.6 million.

Nobody can keep that straight in their head.

They can keep this information straight and that means that we can process the information. 

This is an assessment by the Central Intelligence Agency of the percentage of time that the model I'm talking about is right in predicting things whose outcome is not yet known, when the experts who provided the data inputs got it wrong.

So, what do we need to know in order to predict?

You may be surprised to find out we don't need to know very much.

We do need to know who has a stake in trying to shape the outcome of a decision.

We need to know how focused they are on the problem at hand.

And how much clout could they bring to bear if they chose to engage on the issue? 

And so we have to figure out how they balance those two things.

Different people trade off between standing by their outcome, faithfully holding to it, going down in a blaze of glory, or giving it up, putting their finger in the wind, and doing whatever they think is going to be a winning position.

Most people fall in between, and if we can work out where they fall we can work out how to negotiate with them to change their behavior. 

So with just that little bit of input we can work out what the choices are that people have, what the chances are that they're willing to take, what they're after, what they value, what they want, and what they believe about other people.

You might notice what we don't need to know: there's no history in here.

How they got to where they are may be important in shaping the input information, but once we know where they are we're worried about where they're going to be headed in the future.

How they got there turns out not to be terribly critical in predicting.

I remind you of that 90 percent accuracy rate. 

So where are we going to get this information?

If they don't know, who are the people trying to influence the decision, how much clout do they have, how much they care about this issue, and what do they say they want, are they experts?

What is Iran going to do about its nuclear weapons program?

How secure is the theocratic regime in Iran?

What's its future?

How are things going to be working out for him in the next year or two?

Up at the top of the axis, "Build the Bomb."

At 130, we start somewhere above 130, between building a bomb, and making enough weapons-grade fuel so that you could build a bomb.

That's where, according to my analyses, the Iranians were at the beginning of this year.

It would achieve some national pride, but not go ahead and build a weapon.

And down at 100 they would build civilian nuclear energy, which is what they say is their objective. 

The yellow line shows us the most likely path.

The yellow line includes an analysis of 87 decision makers in Iran, and a vast number of outside influencers trying to pressure Iran into changing its behavior, various players in the United States, and Egypt, and Saudi Arabia, and Russia, European Union, Japan, so on and so forth.

The white line reproduces the analysis if the international environment just left Iran to make its own internal decisions, under its own domestic political pressures.

But in any event, by the end of this year, beginning of next year, we get to a stable equilibrium outcome.

And that equilibrium is not what the United States would like, but it's probably an equilibrium that the United States can live with, and that a lot of others can live with.

And that is that Iran will achieve that nationalist pride by making enough weapons-grade fuel, through research, so that they could show that they know how to make weapons-grade fuel, but not enough to actually build a bomb.

How is this happening?

Just about nobody supports research on weapons-grade fuel today, but by 2011 that gets to be a big block, and you put these two together, that's the controlling influence in Iran. 

Out here today, there are a bunch of people -- Ahmadinejad for example -- who would like not only to build a bomb, but test a bomb.

That power disappears completely; nobody supports that by 2011.

These guys are all shrinking, the power is all drifting out here, so the outcome is going to be the weapons-grade fuel. 

Who are the winners and who are the losers in Iran?

These folks are the moneyed interests in Iran, the bankers, the oil people, the bazaaries.

That's this line here, growing in power, these are what the Iranians call the quietists.

And the reason that being able to predict those things is important, is not just because you might run a hedge fund and make money off of it, but because if you can predict what people will do, you can engineer what they will do.

And if you engineer what they do you can change the world, you can get a better result.

Thank you. 

Chris Anderson: One question for you.

That was fascinating.

I love that you put it out there.

I got very nervous halfway through the talk though, just panicking whether you'd included in your model, the possibility that putting this prediction out there might change the result.

We've got 800 people in Tehran who watch TEDTalks. 

It would hasten how quickly people arrive at an agreement, and so it would save everybody a lot of grief and time.

So it would be a good thing. 

CA: So you're kind of trying to say, "People of Iran, this is your destiny, lets go there."

BBM: Thank you. 

