And in making this film I felt that so many of the documentaries I've seen were all about learning something, or knowledge, or driven by talking heads, and driven by ideas.

And I wanted this film to be driven by emotions, and really to follow my journey.

So instead of doing the talking head thing, instead it's composed of scenes, and we meet people along the way.

It's something like life, that once you get in it you can't get out. 

They play off each other in a wonderful way.

And those three clips will be followed by a scene of perhaps what, to me, is really his greatest building which is a building in Dhaka, Bangladesh.

We were the first film crew in there. 

So you'll see images of this remarkable building.

It took as long as the Taj Mahal.

Unfortunately it took so long that Lou never saw it finished.

He died in 1974.

The building was finished in 1983.

So it continued on for many years after he died.

Think about that when you see that building, that sometimes the things we strive for so hard in life we never get to see finished. 

Richard Saul Wurman: I remember hearing him talk at Penn.

Nathaniel Kahn: If he did he was a very lucky man. 

NK: Did you hear that, really? 

FG: Yeah, when he was in Rome. 

Moshe Safdie: He was a real nomad.

And you know, when I knew him when I was in the office, he would come in from a trip, and he would be in the office for two or three days intensely, and he would pack up and go.

I mean as tragic as his death was in a railway station, it was so consistent with his life, you know?

I mean I often think I'm going to die in a plane, or I'm going to die in an airport, or die jogging without an identification on me.

I don't know why I sort of carry that from that memory of the way he died.

But he was a sort of a nomad at heart. 

Louis Kahn: How accidental our existences are really and how full of influence by circumstance. 

We are proud of it. 

NK: You're proud of it? 

Man: Yes, it is the national image of Bangladesh. 

NK: Do you know anything about the architect? 

Man: Louis Kahn, yes! 

Man: Your father, is he alive? 

NK: No, he's been dead for 25 years. 

NK: Thank you. 

NK: He never saw it finished, Pop.

No, he never saw this. 

Shamsul Wares: It was almost impossible, building for a country like ours.

In 30, 50 years back, it was nothing, only paddy fields, and since we invited him here, he felt that he has got a responsibility.

He wanted to be a Moses here, he gave us democracy.

He is not a political man, but in this guise he has given us the institution for democracy, from where we can rise.

In that way it is so relevant.

He didn't care for how much money this country has, or whether he would be able to ever finish this building, but somehow he has been able to do it, build it, here.

And this is the largest project he has got in here, the poorest country in the world. 

NK: It cost him his life. 

He cared in a very different manner, but it takes a lot of time to understand that.

In social aspect of his life he was just like a child, he was not at all matured.

He could not say no to anything, and that is why, that he cannot say no to things, we got this building today.

You see, only that way you can be able to understand him.

But I think he has given us this building and we feel all the time for him, that's why, he has given love for us.

You have to understand that.

He had an enormous amount of love, he loved everybody.

