I thought I'd begin with a scene of war.

There was little to warn of the danger ahead.

The Iraqi insurgent had placed the IED, an Improvised Explosive Device, along the side of the road with great care.

Perhaps the best sign of how valuable they are to the war effort, is that the Iraqi insurgents put a $50,000 bounty on the head of a single EOD soldier. 

Unfortunately, this particular call would not end well.

By the time the soldier advanced close enough to see the telltale wires of the bomb, it exploded in a wave of flame.

Now, depending how close you are and how much explosive has been packed into that bomb, it can cause death or injury.

And he apologized for not being able to bring them home.

But then he talked up the silver lining that he took away from the loss.

"At least," as he wrote, "when a robot dies, you don't have to write a letter to its mother."

That scene sounds like science fiction, but is battlefield reality already.

The soldier in that case was a 42-pound robot called a PackBot.

The chief's letter went, not to some farmhouse in Iowa like you see in the old war movies, but went to the iRobot Company, which is named after the Asimov novel and the not-so-great Will Smith movie, and... um... (Laughter)... if you remember that in that fictional world, robots started out carrying out mundane chores, and then they started taking on life-and-death decisions.

That's a reality we face today. 

What we're going to do is actually just flash a series of photos behind me that show you the reality of robots used in war right now or already at the prototype stage.

It's just to give you a taste.

We went in with zero unmanned ground systems.

And we need to remember that we're talking about the Model T Fords, the Wright Flyers, compared to what's coming soon.

And so what that means is the kind of things that we used to only talk about at science fiction conventions like Comic-Con have to be talked about in the halls of power and places like the Pentagon.

A robots revolution is upon us. 

That is, every previous revolution in war, be it the machine gun, be it the atomic bomb, was about a system that either shot faster, went further, had a bigger boom.

So the first is that the future of war, even a robotics one, is not going to be purely an American one.

And this raises a bigger worry for me.

How do we move forward in this revolution given the state of our manufacturing and the state of our science and mathematics training in our schools?

But just as software has gone open-source, so has warfare.

One of those things you just saw flashed before you was a raven drone, the handheld tossed one.

During the war between Israel, a state, and Hezbollah, a non-state actor, the non-state actor flew four different drones against Israel.

There's already a jihadi website that you can go on and remotely detonate an IED in Iraq while sitting at your home computer. 

And so I think what we're going to see is two trends take place with this.

First is, you're going to reinforce the power of individuals against governments, but then the second is that we are going to see an expansion in the realm of terrorism.

The future of it may be a cross between al Qaeda 2.0 and the next generation of the Unabomber.

And another way of thinking about this is the fact that, remember, you don't have to convince a robot that they're gonna receive 72 virgins after they die to convince them to blow themselves up. 

We don't buy war bonds anymore.

And now we have the fact that we're converting more and more of our American soldiers that we would send into harm's way into machines, and so we may take those already lowering bars to war and drop them to the ground. 

But the future of war is also going to be a YouTube war.

So they don't just delink the public: they reshape its relationship with war.

Now, this could be a good thing.

It could be building connections between the home front and the war front as never before.

The typical one that I was sent was an email that had an attachment of video of a Predator strike taking out an enemy site.

This ability to watch more but experience less creates a wrinkle in the public's relationship with war.

But we have to remember, these are just the clips.

These are just the ESPN SportsCenter version of the game.

So one example of this that has big resonance in the policy realm is how this plays out on our very real war of ideas that we're fighting against radical groups.

What is the message that we think we are sending with these machines versus what is being received in terms of the message. 

