In fact it appeared like they referenced a mountain cabin. 

We stripped out all the vinyl and zolatone paint that was covering up this just fantastic aluminum shell.

We took off all the visible hardware and trim that was kind of doing the country cabin thing.

I literally drew on the walls of the trailer, mocked it up in cardboard, we'd come in and cut, decide things were wrong, pull it out, put it back in. 

There's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together, where you can change materials and shapes.

So that became a challenge.

Compounding that, the material of choice, laminate, that I was trying to highlight, only bends in two dimensions.

It's a compound curve interior.

What I had to devise was a way of fooling the eye into believing that all these panels are curved with the shell. 

That's the trailer, pretty much finished. 

That trailer led to another commission, to participate in whats called Tokyo Designers Block.

Its a week of furniture design events in Tokyo, in October.

Teruo Kurosaki, who owns a furniture company called Idee, he asked me to ship him two trailers to Tokyo.

He said one he would like to make a real trailer, functioning, and we would sell that one.

Trailer number two, you have a blank slate, you can to anything you want. 

This trailer housed two turntables, mixer, wet bar, fridge, integrated sound system.

It's got a huge couch, fits quite a few people, and basically we'd had a great time with this.

And so in this trailer I took it upon myself to think about travel, and escape, in an idiosyncratic sense.

A lot of these ideas migrated into the production trailers for Airstream. 

This brings us up to the time that I started consulting to Airstream.

They came to me and said, "Well, what can we do to freshen this thing up?

And do you think kids, you know, skateboarders, surfers, rock climbers, would use these things?"

The trailers themselves are actually hand-built.

They didn't want to go to a componentized system.

