I started with paragliding.

From there I started with skydiving.

From regular, relative skydiving I went on to freeflying.

Freeflying is more the three-dimensional skydiving.

From freeflying I went on to skysurfing.

Skysurfing is skydiving with a board on the feet.

You can imagine with this big surface of a skysurfing board, there is a lot of force, a lot of power.

From there I went on to wingsuit flying.

Wingsuit flying is a suit, that I can make fly, just only with my body.

With a proper body position I'm able to really move forward to gain quite some distance.

This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro.

You can see the Copacabana on the left-hand side. 

From there with all the skills and knowledge from paragliding and all the different disciplines in skydiving, I went on to BASE jumping.

It's for sure -- for me -- it's the ultimate feeling of being in free fall, with all the visual references. 

So my goal soon was to discover new places that nobody had jumped before.

So in summer 2000 I was the first to BASE jump the Eiger North Face in Switzerland.

Two years after this, I was the first to BASE jump from Matterhorn, a very famous mountain that probably everybody knows in here.

The special thing on these three jumps were, I hiked them all and climbed them all in only one day.

(Laughter) 

So with all this knowledge, I also wanted to get into stunts.

(Laughter) 

You need to have the best possible equipment.

And probably the most important is you have to work on your mental skills, mental preparation.

And all this to come as close as possible to the human dream of being able to fly. 

So for 2009, I'm training hard for my two new projects.

For my second project, I have a sensational idea of a jump that never has been done before. 

June Cohen: I have some questions.

JC: I know the answer to this, but how do you land? 

(Laughter) It's not possible to land a wingsuit yet. 

JC: Coming off of you? 

(Laughter) 

UE: Hopefully not. 

(Laughter) 

JC: That seems dangerous. 

What do you do to to cover your face?

Because I just keep thinking of going that fast and having your whole face smushed backwards.

UE: The purest and the best feeling would be with only goggles. 

JC: And is that how you usually fly? 

So you have to be prepared. 

(Laughter) 

JC: ...a round of applause... 

UE: Thank you very much. 

