Newspapers are dying for a few reasons.

Readers don't want to pay for yesterday's news, and advertisers follow them.

Your iPhone, your laptop, is much more handy than New York Times on Sunday.

And we should save trees in the end.

So it's enough to bury any industry.

So, should we rather ask, "Can anything save newspapers?"

There are several scenarios for the future newspaper.

Sounds nice, but this can only buy time.

Because in the long run, I think there is no reason, no practical reason for newspapers to survive. 

So what can we do?

(Laughter) Let me tell you my story.

20 years ago, Bonnier, Swedish publisher, started to set newspapers in the former Soviet Bloc.

After a few years, they had several newspapers in central and eastern Europe.

I decided to be -- to work for them as an art director.

The front page became our signature.

It was my personal intimate channel to talk to the readers. 

I'm not going to tell you stories about teamwork or cooperation.

My approach was very egotistic.

I wanted to make posters, not newspapers.

Soon it started to bring results.

In Poland, our pages were named "Covers of the Year" three times in a row.

But it's not only about the front page.

And design is responsible for this experience.

You can see some Russian pages here which got many awards on biggest infographic competition in Spain.

But the real award came from Society for Newspaper Design.

Just a year after redesigning this newspaper in Poland, they name it the World's Best-Designed Newspaper.

And two years later, the same award came to Estonia.

Isn't amazing? 

What really makes it amazing: that the circulation of these newspapers were growing too.

Just some examples: in Russia, plus 11 after one year, plus 29 after three years of the redesign.

Same in Poland: plus 13, up to 35 percent raise of circulation after three years.

You can see on a graph, after years of stagnation, the paper started to grow, just after redesign.

But the real hit was in Bulgaria.

And that is really amazing. 

Did design do this?

Design was just a part of the process.

And the process we made was not about changing the look, it was about improving the product completely.

I took an architectural rule about function and form and translated it into newspaper content and design.

Then we adjust the content accordingly.

And then, usually after two months, we start designing.

My bosses, in the beginning, were very surprised.

Why am I asking all of these business questions, instead of just showing them pages?

So what is the lesson behind it?

Give power to designers.

(Applause) But the second is even more important.

You can have no budgets, no people -- but still can put your work to the highest possible level.

And everybody can do it.

You just need inspiration, vision and determination.

And you need to remember that to be good is not enough. 

Thank you. 

