Maybe even a sister.

Or oppressed, brainwashed, a terrorist.

If some of your perceptions were negative, I don't really blame you.

That's just how the media has been portraying people who look like me.

I guess people don't talk to their Uber drivers. 

Well, for those of you who have never met a Muslim, it's great to meet you.

Let me tell you who I am.

But not like Lady Gaga says, because baby, I wasn't born this way.

It was a choice. 

When I was 17, I decided to come out.

I didn't just passively accept the faith of my parents.

I wrestled with the Quran.

I read and reflected and questioned and doubted and, ultimately, believed.

My relationship with God -- it was not love at first sight.

It was a trust and a slow surrender that deepened with every reading of the Quran.

Have you ever felt like someone sees you, completely understands you and yet loves you anyway?

That's how it feels. 

And so later, I got married, and like all good Egyptians, started my career as an engineer. 

I later had a child, after getting married, and I was living essentially the Egyptian-American dream. 

And then that terrible morning of September, 2001.

I think a lot of you probably remember exactly where you were that morning.

I was sitting in my kitchen finishing breakfast, and I look up on the screen and see the words "Breaking News."

There was smoke, airplanes flying into buildings, people jumping out of buildings.

What was this?

An accident?

A malfunction?

My shock quickly turned to outrage.

Not only had my country been attacked, but in a flash, somebody else's actions had turned me from a citizen to a suspect. 

That same day, we had to drive across Middle America to move to a new city to start grad school.

We moved into our apartment that night in a new town in what felt like a completely different world.

And then I was hearing and seeing and reading warnings from national Muslim organizations saying things like, "Be alert," "Be aware," "Stay in well-lit areas," "Don't congregate."

I stayed inside all week.

And I was watching the news, wall-to-wall coverage.

And I thought, we should just stay home. 

And yet, something didn't feel right.

Because those people who attacked our country attacked our country.

It's the accusations that are tough. 

They talk about my community kind of like we're a tumor in the body of America.

And the only question is, are we malignant or benign?

You know, a malignant tumor you extract altogether, and a benign tumor you just keep under surveillance. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Muslims are inventors and teachers, first responders and Olympic athletes. 

Now, is closing down mosques going to make America safer?

It might free up some parking spots, but it will not end terrorism.

Going to a mosque regularly is actually linked to having more tolerant views of people of other faiths and greater civic engagement.

So if we want to prevent radicalization, we have to keep people going to the mosque. 

Now, some will still argue Islam is a violent religion.

After all, a group like ISIS bases its brutality on the Quran.

Now, as a Muslim, as a mother, as a human being, I think we need to do everything we can to stop a group like ISIS.

But we would be giving in to their narrative if we cast them as representatives of a faith of 1.6 billion people. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

ISIS has as much to do with Islam as the Ku Klux Klan has to do with Christianity. 

It's their brutality that makes them read these things into the scripture. 

Recently, a prominent imam told me a story that really took me aback.

He said that a girl came to him because she was thinking of going to join ISIS.

And so with nowhere to channel and make sense of this anger, she was a prime target to be exploited by extremists promising her a solution.

What this imam did was to connect her back to God and to her community.

He didn't shame her for her rage -- instead, he gave her constructive ways to make real change in the world.

What she learned at that mosque prevented her from going to join ISIS. 

How does consuming fear 24 hours a day affect the health of our democracy, the health of our free thought? 

Well, one study -- actually, several studies in neuroscience -- show that when we're afraid, at least three things happen.

We become more accepting of authoritarianism, conformity and prejudice.

One study showed that when subjects were exposed to news stories that were negative about Muslims, they became more accepting of military attacks on Muslim countries and policies that curtail the rights of American Muslims. 

Now, this isn't just academic.

Muslims are like canaries in the coal mine.

We might be the first to feel it, but the toxic air of fear is harming us all. 

And assigning collective guilt isn't just about having to explain yourself all the time.

Deah was an athlete.

He was in dental school, talented, promising ... And his sister would tell me that he was the sweetest, most generous human being she knew.

She was visiting him there and he showed her his resume, and she was amazed.

He shot Deah eight times.

So bigotry isn't just immoral, it can even be lethal. 

Did we go to the mosque or did we play it safe and stay home?

So we decided to go to the mosque.

And we put my son in his car seat, buckled him in, and we drove silently, intensely, to the mosque.

The place was completely full.

I just break down at this time.

These people were there because they chose courage and compassion over panic and prejudice. 

What will you choose?

What will you choose at this time of fear and bigotry?

Will you play it safe?

Or will you join those who say we are better than that? 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you so much. 

Helen Walters: So Dalia, you seem to have struck a chord.

Dalia Mogahed: I would say, don't let this stage distract you, I'm completely ordinary.

I'm not an exception.

When you look at Muslims around the world -- and I've done this, I've done the largest study ever done on Muslims around the world -- people want ordinary things.

They want prosperity for their family, they want jobs and they want to live in peace.

So I am not in any way an exception.

