I thought I would read poems I have that relate to the subject of youth and age.

I was sort of astonished to find out how many I have actually. 

My grandmother is washing my mouth out with soap; 

her hand clawing at my head. 

Might its bitter burning have been what made me a poet? 

The street she lived on was unpaved, 

I never really loved her again? 

She lived to a hundred, 

loved her again. 

"You have maligned a great woman."

It took some diplomacy. 

This is called "The Dress."

It's a longer poem. 

under a coat, the twisted hem of the nightgown always lank and yellowed, dangling beneath. 

Only later would I see the dresses also as a proclamation: 

what you revealed of yourself was a fabulation; 

how much unspoken joy there was in that affirmation of equality and communion, 

no matter how much misunderstanding and pain had passed between you by then. 

We knew so little in those days, as little as now, I suppose about healing those hurts: 

even in lipstick and mascara, their hair aflow, could only stand wringing their hands, begging for peace, 

In those days there was still countryside close to the city, farms, cornfields, cows; 

you could find tracts with hills and trees you could pretend were mountains and forests. 

Or you could go out by yourself even to a half-block-long empty lot, 

already there was wanting to be simpler, wanting, when they called you, 

This is another longish one, about the old and the young.

It actually happened right at the time we met.

Part of the poem takes place in space we shared and time we shared. 

It's called "The Neighbor."

Her five horrid, deformed little dogs who incessantly yap on the roof under my window. 

only the barking and the music -- jazz -- filtering as it does, day and night into the hall. 

as I was too young, later, to believe in her pain. 

It startled, then bored, then repelled me. 

My starting to fancy she'd ended up in this fire-trap in the Village, that my neighbor was her. 

her mouth torn suddenly open as though in a scream, 

A cry so pure, practiced, detached, it had no need of a voice, or could no longer bear one. 

her drunkenly stumbling, falling, sprawling, skirt hiked, eyes veined red, swollen with tears, her shame, her dishonor. 

What pathways through pain, what junctures of vulnerability, what crossings and counterings? 

Too many lives in our lives already, too many chances for sorrow, too many unaccounted-for pasts. 

My holding the door. 

I think I'll lighten up a little.

(Laughter) Another, different kind of poem of youth and age. 

It's called "Gas."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

who whenever he was mounted would buck just like that, though more hugely of course, enormous, gleaming, resplendent. 

(Laughter) 

This is called "Thirst."

Many -- most of my poems actually are urban poems.

We regarded each other, scrutinized one another. 

Me shyly, obliquely, trying not to be furtive. 

there was will in it, and intention, power and purpose -- a social, ethical rage and rebellion -- 

despair too, though, grief, loss. 

Sometimes I'd think I should take her home with me, bathe her, comfort her, dress her. 

She wouldn't have wanted me to, I would think.

Instead, I'd step into my train. 

How rich I would think, is the lexicon of our self-absolving. 

How enduring, our bland fatal assurance that reflection is righteousness being accomplished. 

Her vigil somewhere I know continues. 

a teacher passes and chides her, "Be careful, you might fall," almost banteringly chides her, 

smiles back, and leans into the open window, which wouldn't even be open if it were winter -- 

farther and farther, though it takes less time than this, really an instant, and lets herself fall. 

Herself fall. 

because it occurs to her in that instant, that beautiful or not, bright yes or no, she's not who she is, 

she's not the person she is, 

Weightfully upon me was the world. 

This happened. 

But I'm afraid that Ricky will come out here and shake his fist at me. 

This is called "Old Man," appropriately enough. 

has left me forever infected with an unquenchable lust of the eye. 

lined up in snow waiting to be shot and thrown into a ditch. 

What carnal mistrust had their teacher taught them. 

a studio portrait, an absolute angel, an absolute angel with tormented, tormenting eyes. 

I kept finding myself at her page. 

But it was like sex, you didn't have to be told. 

Sex and death, how close they can seem. 

My wife's loveliness almost consumes me. 

My passion for her goes beyond reasonable bounds. 

And not having to know history's next mad rage or regression, it might be a relief. 

my breath catches.

Thank you. 

