When most people think about the beginnings of AIDS, they're gonna think back to the 1980s.

And certainly, this was the decade in which we discovered AIDS and the virus that causes it, HIV.

But in fact this virus crossed over into humans many decades before, from chimpanzees, where the virus originated, into humans who hunt these apes. 

This photo was taken before the Great Depression in Brazzaville, Congo.

At this time, there were thousands of individuals, we think, that were infected with HIV. 

So I have a couple of really important questions for you.

If this virus was in thousands of individuals at this point, why was it the case that it took us until 1984 to be able to discover this virus?

OK now, more importantly, had we been there in the '40s and '50s, '60s, had we seen this disease, had we understood exactly what was going on with it, how might that have changed and completely transformed the nature of the way this pandemic moved? 

And you can kind of think of this as a pyramid of this bubbling up of viruses from animals into human populations.

But only at the very top of this pyramid do these things become completely human.

OK, so this is a picture, and I'm going to show you some pictures now from the field.

This is a picture of a central African hunter.

So if we're going to study viral chatter, we need to get to these populations who have intensive contact with wild animals. 

And so we've been studying people like this individual.

When they were sick, we would collect specimens from them. 

We would actually enlist them -- which we've done now -- to collect specimens from animals.

(Video) Narrator: Deep in a remote region of Cameroon, two hunters stalk their prey.

Their names are Patrice and Patee.

They're searching for bush meat; forest animals they can kill to feed their families.

Patrice and Patee set out most days to go out hunting in the forest around their homes.

They have a series of traps, of snares that they've set up to catch wild pigs, snakes, monkeys, rodents -- anything they can, really.

Patrice and Patee have been out for hours but found nothing.

The animals are simply gone. 

We stop for a drink of water.

Then there is a rustle in the brush.

There's at least three viruses that you know about, which are in this particular monkey. 

These individuals are at specific risk, particularly if there's blood contact, they're at risk for transmission and possibly infection with novel viruses. 

Narrator: As the hunters display their kills, something surprising happens.

They show us filter paper they've used to collect the animals' blood.

The blood will be tested for zoonotic viruses, part of a program Dr. Wolfe has spent years setting up. 

I'm going to be talking about this.

But in fact that's not the only question they're going to ask you about this.

Why did we not find some other solution to this?

But they're also going to ask you probably a different question.

OK, take a look at his shirt.

You know, take a look at his face.

So, in 1998, along with my mentors Don Burke and Colonel Mpoudi-Ngole, we went to actually start this work in Central Africa, to work with hunters in this part of the world.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Needless to say, I was drastically wrong.

This is challenging work to do.

We have a whole range of challenges about this work. 

One of them is just obtaining trust from individuals that we work with in the field.

The person you see on the right hand side is Paul DeLong-Minutu.

He's one of the best communicators that I've really ever dealt with.

But -- when he began to speak they would actually recognize his voice from the radio.

But the reason I like to show the shot is because you can see that he's about to solve this problem.

Just a few quick before and after shots.

This was our laboratory before.

This is what it looks like now.

(Laughter) No comment. 

(Laughter) No comment. 

We made a number of discoveries.

And what we've found is that if you look in the right place, you can actually monitor the flow of these viruses into human populations.

That gave us a tremendous amount of hope.

And critically, what happens in central Africa doesn't stay in Central Africa.

So, once we discovered that it was really possible that we could actually do this monitoring, we decided to move this from research, to really attempt to phase up to a global monitoring effort.

Through generous support and partnership scientifically with Google.org and the Skoll Foundation, we were able to start the Global Viral Forecasting Initiative and begin work in four different sites in Africa and Asia.

Needless to say, different populations from different parts of the world have different sorts of contact.

So it's not just hunters in Central Africa.

But really, this is just the beginning from our perspective. 

There was a time not very long ago when the discovery of unknown organisms was something that held incredible awe for us.

It had potential to really change the way that we saw ourselves, and thought about ourselves. 

This is honestly the most exciting period ever for the study of unknown life forms on our planet.

The dominant things that exist here we know almost nothing about.

And yet finally, we have the tools, which will allow us to actually explore that world and understand them. 

