I'm the weekly tech critic for the New York Times.

The little box has your phone number.

I mean, no self-respecting college kid has home phone service anymore.

It's really cute.

But I -- at least it was when I did it -- 

I think where VOIP is really going to get interesting is when they start putting it on cell phones.

I can't figure out why! 

And it's so interesting that I thought I would tell you about it.

It comes from T-Mobile.

The deal is, any time you're in a Wi-Fi hotspot, all your calls are free.

And when you're out of the hotspot, you're on the regular cellular network.

Anyway, they have Wi-Fi phones in Europe.

This is me with a camcorder on a phone going like this. 

As I walk out of the house from my Wi-Fi hotspot into the cellular network on a call with my wife -- look at the upper left.

(Video): Jennifer Pogue: Hello? 

JP: Oh, hi darling, how are you? 

DP: What are you guys doing? 

Right there!

And the call will continue to be free.

It also works the other way.

You can make free unlimited calls home to the US with these phones.

This is another favorite of mine.

And don't you all call me at three a.m. asking me to fix your printer. 

Excuse me one second.

I didn't even know it was you -- I was looking at this guy.

I have your numbers now! 

The beauty of that is you never miss a call.

But the beauty is it's all going through the internet, so you get all of these really cool features -- like you can say, I want these people to be able to call me only during these hours.

Very, very customizable.

Google bought it, and they've been working on it for a year.

They're supposed to come out with it very shortly in a public method. 

I actually got a photograph of the Verizon employee right there.

I'm going to tell you how to avoid that now.

Leave off the last "e" for savings. 

Anyway, so lets say you need a drugstore near Chicago.

You type "pharmacy Chicago," or the zip code.

It works with weather, too.

These are all the different things that you can text to Google and they will -- yeah!

So I'm going to teach you something even better.

This is called Google Info.

They've just launched this voice-activated version of the same thing.

It's speech recognition like you've never heard before.

Google: Say the business and the city and state. 

DP: Hi, could I have 400 with a schmear?

No, no, no -- just kidding, no no.

So anyway, you never even find out the number.

This you can ask by voice any question.

Who won the 1958 World Series?

I tried this this morning just to make sure it's still alive.

"Which actors have played James Bond?"

They have 10,000 people who are being paid 20 cents per answer.

As you can imagine, it's college kids and old people.

Of course I want to listen to the messages! 

So now I'm going to tell you how to get out of that.

There are these services that transcribe your voicemail into text.

And they send it either to your email or as text messages to your phone.

It is a life-changer.

And by the way, they don't always get the words right, because it's over the phone and all that.

So you be the judge. 

So I thought I'd see how that goes.

This is me testing it out. 

(Video): Hello, this is Michael.

So it had better be the gist of the gist, right?

And at that moment your phone will ring.

Here's the girlfriend. 

Phone: Hey, this is Mr. Johnson calling from the office. 

Phone: Yeah, well so when was the last time you used the photocopier? 

DP: It was like three weeks ago. 

I think the biggest change when Internet met phone was with the iPhone.

Not my finest moment in New York Times journalism.

It was when in the fall of 2006, I explained why Apple would never do a cell phone. 

It was not very conducive to innovation.

I'm going to talk about the effect of the iPhone.

Another thing was that it let 10 million people, for the first time, experience being online all the time.

Not using these 60-dollar-a-month cellular cards for their laptops.

I don't understand why we're not there yet.

When I'm an old man, I'm going to tell my grandchildren, "When I was your age, if I wanted to check my email, I used to drive around town looking for a coffee shop.

Anyway -- but this teaches people what it's like.

You have to go to YouTube and type in "iPhone Shuffle."

This guy did a mock video of one that's one inch square, like the real iPod Shuffle.

But the other thing it did is it opened up this idea of an app store.

It downloads right to the phone.

And you can use the tilt sensor to steer this car using this game.

These programs can use all the components of the iPhone -- the touch screen.

This is the Etch-A-Sketch program -- the theme of EG 2008.

You know how you erase it?

A song is running through your head -- you sing it into the thing: do do do do do, da da da da da da, da dum ... OK, you tap, "Done" and it will find out the song and play it for you.

It has a thumbs-up and a thumbs-down.

You say if you like this song or not.

If you like it, it tries another song on you from a different band, with the same instrumentation, vocals, theme and tempo.

It proposes a restaurant.

It gives you the price, and the location and ratings.

Of course, its not just about the iPhone. 

Also with its own app store, where you can download programs. 

It's only three pounds, or 12 if you install Microsoft Office. 

And now the end is near.

I want my friends to look and drool.

