And yet the complexity of poverty really has to look at income as only one variable.

Because really, it's a condition about choice, and the lack of freedom. 

And I had an experience that really deepened and elucidated for me the understanding that I have.

It was in Kenya, and I want to share it with you.

I was with my friend Susan Meiselas, the photographer, in the Mathare Valley slums.

And when we were walking through the narrow alleys, it was literally impossible not to step in the raw sewage and the garbage alongside the little homes.

Four sleep in one twin bed, and three sleep on the mud and linoleum floor.

And she keeps them all in school by selling water from that kiosk, and from selling soap and bread from the little store inside. 

It was also the day after the inauguration, and I was reminded how Mathare is still connected to the globe.

And they would look quizzically, and then be like, "High five!"

And it was here that I met Jane.

It wasn't organized in the way we often think of it.

In 2001, her life changed.

And so she spent a year to save 50 dollars, and started borrowing, and over time she was able to buy a sewing machine.

Some of them might be ones you gave.

But she still lives in Mathare Valley.

And so with patient capital from Acumen and other organizations, loans and investments that will go the long term with them, they built a low-cost housing development, about an hour outside Nairobi central.

So she has to give 10 percent of the mortgage -- of the total value, or about 400 dollars in savings.

And then they match her mortgage to what she paid in rent for her little shanty.

And in the next couple of weeks, she's going to be among the first 200 families to move into this development. 

I said, "Well what about your dreams?"

And in the middle of this economic crisis, where so many of us are inclined to pull in with fear, I think we're well suited to take a cue from Jane and reach out, recognizing that being poor doesn't mean being ordinary.

Because when systems are broken, like the ones that we're seeing around the world, it's an opportunity for invention and for innovation.

I truly believe it's where dignity starts.

