And one day, a vessel not unlike this will probably break the world speed record. 

But kites aren't just toys like this.

Kites: I'm going to give you a brief history, and tell you about the magnificent future of every child's favorite plaything.

So they knew at that stage they could carry large weights.

I'm not sure why there is a hole in this particular man. 

In 1827, a fellow called George Pocock actually pioneered the use of kites for towing buggies in races against horse carriages across the English countryside.

Then of course, at the dawn of aviation, all of the great inventors of the time -- like Hargreaves, like Langley, even Alexander Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone, who was flying this kite -- were doing so in the pursuit of aviation. 

Then these two fellows came along, and they were flying kites to develop the control systems that would ultimately enable powered human flight.

So this is of course Orville and Wilbur Wright, and the Wright Flyer.

And their experiments with kites led to this momentous occasion, where we powered up and took off for the first-ever 12-second human flight.

And that was fantastic for the future of commercial aviation. 

But unfortunately, it relegated kites once again to be considered children's toys.

That was until the 1970s, where we had the last energy crisis.

The real key observation he made is that a free-flying wing can sweep through more sky and generate more power in a unit of time than a fixed-wing turbine. 

So this is the dawn of the new age of kites.

This is our test site on Maui, flying across the sky.

I'm now going to show you the first autonomous generation of power by every child's favorite plaything.

As you can tell, you need to be a robot to fly this thing for thousands of hours.

It makes you a little nauseous.

And the real significant thing here is we're developing the control systems, as did the Wright brothers, that would enable sustained, long-duration flight.

And it doesn't hurt to do it in a location like this either. 

And this is where we're actually going.

So we're beyond the 12-second steps.

So you ask, how big are those machines?

And the Spruce Goose would be a 15-megawatt wing. 

But audacious is what has happened many times before in history.

Prior to World War II, they were making 1000 planes a year.

By 1945, they were making 100,000.

With this factory and 100,000 planes a year, we could make all of America's electricity in about 10 years. 

I am lucky enough to work with 30 of them.

