I don't know what the hell I'm doing here.

So I think I'm actually the first one here -- I lead.

And meanwhile, I use nonsense, as you can see. 

This was one of a series called "Zany Afternoons," which became a book. 

This is my submission for the L.A. Museum of Film.

You can probably tell Frank Gehry and I come from the same town. 

My work is so personal and so strange that I have to invent my own lexicon for it.

And I work a lot in what I call "retrofuturism," which is looking back to see how yesterday viewed tomorrow.

And they're always wrong, always hilariously, optimistically wrong.

Automotive retrofuturism is one of my specialties.

This is a chain gang of guys admiring the car.

That's from a whole catalog -- it's 18 pages or so -- ran back in the days of the Lampoon, where I cut my teeth. 

But the zeppelin was the biggest thing that ever moved made by man.

So the Hindenburg wasn't, you know, it was inevitable it was going to go. 

This is auto-gyro jousting in Malibu in the 30s.

It's the only Spanish innovation, technologically, of the 20th century, by the way.

You needed to know that. 

My old man used to tell me we were going to get a flying car.

Faux-nostalgia, which I'm sort of -- not, say, famous for, but I work an awful lot in it.

It's the achingly sentimental yearning for times that never happened.

This is tank polo in the South Hamptons.

And authenticity is a major part of my serious nonsense.

I think it adds a huge amount.

Those, for example, are Mark IV British tanks from 1916.

They went five miles an hour and inside it was 105 degrees in the pitch dark.

And they had a canary hung inside the thing to make sure the Germans weren't going to use gas.

Happy little story, isn't it? 

Anybody who was anybody had an apartment there.

And faux-nostalgia works even in serious subjects like war.

It's a fond memory of times past. 

It's obviously modeled on the Titanic.

But it's not a cri de coeur about man's hubris in the face of the elements.

It's just a sick, silly joke. 

People wrote in for reprints of that thing. 

Urban absurdism -- that's what the New Yorker really calls for.

I try to make life in New York look even weirder than it is with those covers.

I've done about 40 of them, and I'd say 30 of them are based on that concept.

The Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan in New York -- it's a very somber place.

I thought I could jazz it up a bit, have a little fun with it. 

This is the word side of my brain.

(Laughter) That's all the Eurotrash coming through JFK customs. 

This was the New York bike messenger meeting the Tour de France.

If you live in New York, you know how the bike messengers move.

This is the only fashion cover I've ever done.

This is a big joke.

This is the audition for "King Kong."

(Laughter) People always ask me, where do you get your ideas, how do your ideas come?

And then when it ran, a lovely lady, an old lady named Mrs. Edgar Rosenberg -- if you know that name -- called me and said she loved the cover, it was so sweet.

Her former name was Fay Wray, and so that was -- I didn't have the wit to say, "Take the painting."

So thank you very much. 

