Well, this isn't exactly true.

If you go look at their website today, they'll actually list these specimens, saying, the rest was lost in a fire. 

(Laughter) 

I want to point out here at this point that I've spent my life obsessed by objects and the stories that they tell, and this was the very latest one.

The key that the Marquis du Lafayette sent to George Washington to celebrate the storming of the Bastille.

And one day, a couple of weeks later, it might have been maybe a year later, I was in the art store with my kids, and I was buying some clay tools -- we were going to have a craft day.

I bought some Super Sculpeys, some armature wire, some various materials.

And I looked down at this Sculpey, and I thought, maybe, yeah, maybe I could make my own dodo skull. 

It's exactly how I made my living for 15 years.

So, I started looking at the best photos I could find.

And one of the other things I'd been interested in and obsessed with over the years is spines and skeletons, having collected a couple of hundred.

I actually understood the mechanics of vertebrae enough to kind of start to imitate them.

And so button by button, vertebrae by vertebrae, I built my way down.

And this actually represented kind of a sea change to me.

First of all, there's the object in the world.

This is the "Kniphausen Hawk."

And so now it was time to do some research.

I was able to scan the picture, blow it up to exactly full size. 

It was made out of resin, which wasn't a common material for movie props about the time the movie was made.

As I moved through, I achieved a very reasonable facsimile of the Maltese Falcon.

But again, I am not a sculptor, 

Now there's a lot of ways to fill and get yourself a nice smooth finish.

My preference is about 70 coats of this -- matte black auto primer.

Oh, finishing up with triple-zero steel wool.

So I was able to actually screen-shot and freeze-frame to make sure.

is sculpted by a guy named Fred Sexton.

This is where it gets weird.

Fred Sexton was a friend of this guy, George Hodel.

This thing was made of resin and it was too light.

There's this group online that I frequent.

And this is, after some acid etching, the one that I ended up with. 

And this thing, it's deeply, deeply satisfying to me.

Here, I'm going to put it out there, later on tonight, and I want you to pick it up and handle it.

(Laughter) (Applause) There you can see, it's weighing in at 27 and a half pounds.

That's half the weight of my dog, Huxley. 

But there's a problem.

Now, here's the most recent progression of Falcons.

On the far left is a piece of crap -- a replica I bought on eBay.

I'll give them one if they want it.

And then, maybe, then I'll achieve the end of this exercise.

