Now that title, that phrase, comes from a critic, an early critic, and this is a passage that I just love, and would like to read for you. 

You would have thought it stands to reason that design requires an intelligent designer.

But Darwin shows that it’s just false. 

It stands to reason that we love chocolate cake because it is sweet.

Guys go for girls like this because they are sexy.

We adore babies because they’re so cute.

And, of course, we are amused by jokes because they are funny. 

Honey is sweet because we like it, not "we like it because honey is sweet."

There’s nothing intrinsically sweet about honey.

If you looked at glucose molecules till you were blind, you wouldn’t see why they tasted sweet.

You have to look in our brains to understand why they’re sweet.

Sweetness was born with the wiring which evolved. 

Now you might think, ah, there’s a solution: hallucinations.

That would be one way of doing it, but there’s a quicker way.

That’s all there is to it.

Over six million years, we and the chimps evolved our different ways.

We became bald-bodied, oddly enough; for one reason or another, they didn’t.

If we hadn’t, then probably this would be the height of sexiness. 

Our sweet tooth is an evolved and instinctual preference for high-energy food.

It wasn’t designed for chocolate cake.

Chocolate cake is a supernormal stimulus.

It was a hyperstimulus for them, and they loved it.

There's lots of supernormal stimuli for sexiness. 

So babies have to attract our affection and our nurturing, and they do.

And, by the way, a recent study shows that mothers prefer the smell of the dirty diapers of their own baby.

So nature works on many levels here.

But now, if babies didn’t look the way they do -- if babies looked like this, that’s what we would find adorable, that’s what we would find -- we would think, oh my goodness, do I ever want to hug that.

This is the strange inversion. 

And I won’t be able to say too much about it.

It’s a neural system that’s wired up to reward the brain for doing a grubby clerical job.

Our bumper sticker for this view is that this is the joy of debugging.

Now I’m not going to have time to spell it all out, but I’ll just say that only some kinds of debugging get the reward.

Thank you very much. 

