So going back to 1989, I wrote a memo suggesting the global hypertext system.

I wrote the code and put it out there. 

They brought all sorts of different computers with them.

And these were all incompatible.

It was just very frustrating.

The frustration was all this unlocked potential. 

In fact, on all these discs there were documents.

It's difficult to explain to people now that it was difficult then.

But then -- OK, when TED started, there was no web so things like "click" didn't have the same meaning.

I can show somebody a piece of hypertext, a page which has got links, and we click on the link and bing -- there'll be another hypertext page.

Not impressive.

You know, we've seen that -- we've got things on hypertext on CD-ROMs.

Alright, that is the leap that was very difficult for people to make.

Well, some people did.

So yeah, it was difficult to explain, but there was a grassroots movement.

And that is what has made it most fun.

And you did.

Thanks.

It's been a blast, hasn't it?

They're much more than we'd originally imagined when we put together the little, initial website that we started off with.

Now, I want you to put your data on the web.

Data -- you can do all kinds of stuff with a computer.

He put up a slide a little bit like this.

And Hans made a point of saying, "Look, it's really important to have a lot of data."

And I was happy to see that at the party last night that he was still saying, very forcibly, "It's really important to have a lot of data."

All kinds of conceptual things, they have names now that start with HTTP. 

So the second rule is I get important information back. 

Third rule is that when I get back that information it's not just got somebody's height and weight and when they were born, it's got relationships.

Data is relationships.

So, I can go ahead and look that thing up.

That is linked data.

The idea of linked data is that we get lots and lots and lots of these boxes that Hans had, and we get lots and lots and lots of things sprouting.

It's not just a whole lot of other plants.

So, linked data.

The meme went out there.

Well, in those documents, there are little squares, little boxes.

And in most information boxes, there's data.

So if you pull the data from dbpedia about Berlin, you'll end up pulling up these other things as well.

Let's think about data for a bit.

Let's start with government data.

I can use it in my company.

I could use it as a kid to do my homework.

So we're talking about making the place, making the world run better by making this data available. 

We want unadulterated data.

OK, we have to ask for raw data now.

And I'm going to ask you to practice that, OK?

Can you say "raw"? 

Tim Berners-Lee: Can you say "data"? 

TBL: Can you say "now"? 

So I'm just going to mention a few other thoughts on data.

But a lot of the state of knowledge of the human race at the moment is on databases, often sitting in their computers, and actually, currently not shared. 

Well, you take that mouthful and you put it into Google.

It's very very important.

Now if I go on like this, you'll think that all the data comes from huge institutions and has nothing to do with you.

But, that's not true.

In fact, data is about our lives.

The way to break down the silos is to get inter-operability between social networking sites.

We need to do that with linked data. 

And that is what linked data is all about.

And we've practiced that. 

So, linked data -- it's huge.

You get this really huge power out of it.

OK, so it's called linked data.

I want you to make it.

I want you to demand it.

And I think it's an idea worth spreading. 

Thanks. 

