So, here we go: a flyby of play. 

It's got to be serious if the New York Times puts a cover story of their February 17th Sunday magazine about play.

Not bad, except if you look at that cover, what's missing?

You see any adults? 

Well, lets go back to the 15th century.

I think we may have lost something in our culture. 

So I'm gonna take you through what I think is a remarkable sequence.

Any of you who've been to Africa or had a junkyard dog come after you, there is a fixed kind of predatory gaze that you know you're in trouble.

But on the other side of that predatory gaze is a female husky in a play bow, wagging her tail.

And something very unusual happens.

That fixed behavior -- which is rigid and stereotyped and ends up with a meal -- changes.

And if you'll begin to look closely at the husky that's bearing her throat to the polar bear, and look a little more closely, they're in an altered state.

They're in a state of play.

And it's that state that allows these two creatures to explore the possible.

And it is a marvelous example of how a differential in power can be overridden by a process of nature that's within all of us. 

Now how did I get involved in this?

John mentioned that I've done some work with murderers, and I have.

Charles Whitman was his name.

And our committee, which consisted of a lot of hard scientists, did feel at the end of that study that the absence of play and a progressive suppression of developmentally normal play led him to be more vulnerable to the tragedy that he perpetrated.

And that finding has stood the test of time -- unfortunately even into more recent times, at Virginia Tech. 

And it was many years in taking play histories of individuals before I really began to recognize that I didn't really have a full understanding of it.

And I don't think any of us has a full understanding of it, by any means.

But there are ways of looking at it that I think can give you -- give us all a taxonomy, a way of thinking about it. 

And this image is, for humans, the beginning point of play.

And I'd like you to think that every bit of more complex play builds on this base for us humans.

This is a mountain goat.

If its purpose is more important than the act of doing it, it's probably not play. 

The human hand, in manipulation of objects, is the hand in search of a brain; the brain is in search of a hand; and play is the medium by which those two are linked in the best way. 

JPL we heard this morning -- JPL is an incredible place.

Frank Wilson had written a book called "The Hand."

They got together -- JPL hired them.

Now JPL, NASA and Boeing, before they will hire a research and development problem solver -- even if they're summa cum laude from Harvard or Cal Tech -- if they haven't fixed cars, haven't done stuff with their hands early in life, played with their hands, they can't problem-solve as well.

So play is practical, and it's very important. 

But curiosity, exploration, are part of the play scene.

If you want to belong, you need social play.

And rough-and-tumble play is a great learning medium for all of us.

Preschool kids, for example, should be allowed to dive, hit, whistle, scream, be chaotic, and develop through that a lot of emotional regulation and a lot of the other social byproducts -- cognitive, emotional and physical -- that come as a part of rough and tumble play. 

A really important part of being a player is imaginative solo play. 

We all have an internal narrative that's our own inner story.

The unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story.

I'm telling you a story today about play.

So what does play do for the brain?

Well, a lot. 

Nothing lights up the brain like play.

Three-dimensional play fires up the cerebellum, puts a lot of impulses into the frontal lobe -- the executive portion -- helps contextual memory be developed, and -- and, and, and. 

And that's part of what the National Institute for Play is all about.

I'm sorry I don't have a playful-looking subject, but it allows mobility, which has limited the actual study of play.

And we've got a mother-infant play scenario that we're hoping to complete underway at the moment. 

The reason I put this here is also to queue up my thoughts about objectifying what play does.

The animal world has objectified it.

So what happens?

They both hide out.

That says to me, at least in rats -- and I think they have the same neurotransmitters that we do and a similar cortical architecture -- that play may be pretty important for our survival. 

And, and, and -- there are a lot more animal studies that I could talk about. 

And we do know that in domestic animals and others, when they're play deprived, they don't -- and rats also -- they don't develop a brain that is normal. 

And I think if you think about life without play -- no humor, no flirtation, no movies, no games, no fantasy and, and, and.

Try and imagine a culture or a life, adult or otherwise without play.

And the thing that's so unique about our species is that we're really designed to play through our whole lifetime. 

And we all have capacity to play signal.

Nobody misses that dog I took a picture of on a Carmel beach a couple of weeks ago.

What's going to follow from that behavior is play.

And you can trust it.

The basis of human trust is established through play signals.

And we begin to lose those signals, culturally and otherwise, as adults.

That's a shame.

I think we've got a lot of learning to do. 

Now, Jane Goodall has here a play face along with one of her favorite chimps.

So part of the signaling system of play has to do with vocal, facial, body, gestural.

Because neoteny means the retention of immature qualities into adulthood.

And we are, by physical anthropologists, by many, many studies, the most neotenous, the most youthful, the most flexible, the most plastic of all creatures.

And therefore, the most playful.

And this gives us a leg up on adaptability. 

Your own personal play history is unique, and often is not something we think about particularly. 

And so he followed up on it.

Now there's another play history that I think is a work in progress.

This is our maiden voyage in this.

We're about two and a half, three months into it, and it's really been fun.

And one of their projects was to see what makes meetings boring, and to try and do something about it.

Narrator: Flow is the mental state of apparition in which the person is fully immersed in what he or she is doing.

Characterized by a feeling of energized focus, full involvement and success in the process of the activity. 

An important key insight that we learned about meetings is that people pack them in one after another, disruptive to the day.

Attendees at meetings don't know when they'll get back to the task that they left at their desk.

But it doesn't have to be that way. 

Some sage and repeatedly furry monks at this place called the d.school designed a meeting that you can literally step out of when it's over.

Take the meeting off, and have peace of mind that you can come back to me.

Because when you need it again, the meeting is literally hanging in your closet. 

The Wearable Meeting.

Because when you put it on, you immediately get everything you need to have a fun and productive and useful meeting.

But when you take it off -- that's when the real action happens. 

And I think you'll have a better and more empowered life.

Thank You. 

John Hockenberry: So it sounds to me like what you're saying is that there may be some temptation on the part of people to look at your work and go -- I think I've heard this, in my kind of pop psychological understanding of play, that somehow, the way animals and humans deal with play, is that it's some sort of rehearsal for adult activity.

Your work seems to suggest that that is powerfully wrong. 

SB: Yeah, I don't think that's accurate, and I think probably because animals have taught us that.

If you stop a cat from playing -- which you can do, and we've all seen how cats bat around stuff -- they're just as good predators as they would be if they hadn't played.

And if you imagine a kid pretending to be King Kong, or a race car driver, or a fireman, they don't all become race car drivers or firemen, you know.

So there's a disconnect between preparation for the future -- which is what most people are comfortable in thinking about play as -- and thinking of it as a separate biological entity. 

And this is where my chasing animals for four, five years really changed my perspective from a clinician to what I am now, which is that play has a biological place, just like sleep and dreams do.

And if you look at sleep and dreams biologically, animals sleep and dream, and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memory and that are a very important part of sleep and dreams. 

The next step of evolution in mammals and creatures with divinely superfluous neurons will be to play.

And the fact that the polar bear and husky or magpie and a bear or you and I and our dogs can crossover and have that experience sets play aside as something separate.

And its hugely important in learning and crafting the brain.

So it's not just something you do in your spare time. 

JH: How do you keep -- and I know you're part of the scientific research community, and you have to justify your existence with grants and proposals like everyone else -- how do you prevent -- and some of the data that you've produced, the good science that you're talking about you've produced, is hot to handle.

SB: Well, I think the only way I know to do it is to have accumulated the advisers that I have who go from practitioners -- who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever -- a state of play.

So people know that it's there.

And then you get an fMRI specialist, and you get Frank Wilson, and you get other kinds of hard scientists, including neuroendocrinologists.

And you get them into a group together focused on play, and it's pretty hard not to take it seriously. 

Unfortunately, that hasn't been done sufficiently for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Mental Health or anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously.

I mean you don't hear about anything that's like cancer or heart disease associated with play.

And yet I see it as something that's just as basic for survival -- long term -- as learning some of the basic things about public health. 

JH: Stuart Brown, thank you very much. 

