And the job in question was sheep rancher. 

My role on the show, for those of you who haven't seen it -- it's pretty simple.

I'm an apprentice, and I work with the people who actually do the jobs in question.

We go to Craig and we check in to a hotel and I realize the next day that castration is going to be an absolute part of this work.

So, normally, I never do any research at all.

So I called the Humane Society and I say, "Look, I'm going to be castrating some lambs, Can you tell me the deal?"

And they're like, "Yeah, it's pretty straightforward."

They use a band -- basically a rubber band, like this, only a little smaller.

I also call PETA, just for fun, and they don't like it -- but they confirm it.

OK, that's basically how you do it. 

So the next day I go out.

Melanie is the wife of Albert.

Albert is the shepherd in question.

Albert goes in, I follow Albert, the crew is around.

I always watch the process done the first time before I try it.

Being an apprentice, you know, you do that.

Albert reaches in his pocket to pull out, you know, this black rubber band but what comes out instead is a knife.

And I'm like that's not rubber at all, you know.

And he kind of flicked it open in a way that caught the sun that was just coming over the Rockies, it was very -- it was, it was impressive. 

In the space of about two seconds, Albert had the knife between the cartilage of the tail, right next to the butt of the lamb, and very quickly the tail was gone and in the bucket that I was holding.

We can't do this."

And Albert's like, "What?"

And I'm like, "I don't know what just happened, but there are testicles in this bucket and that's not how we do it."

And he said "Well, that's how we do it."

Melanie picks up another lamb, puts it on the post, band goes on the tail, band goes on the scrotum.

Lamb goes on the ground, lamb takes two steps, falls down, gets up, shakes a little, takes another couple steps, falls down.

I'm like, this is not a good sign for this lamb, at all.

He's like, "A day."

Meanwhile, the lamb that he had just did his little procedure on is, you know, he's just prancing around, bleeding stopped.

He's, you know, nibbling on some grass, frolicking.

And I was just so blown away at how wrong I was, in that second.

And I was reminded how utterly wrong I am, so much of the time.

(Laughter) And I was especially reminded of what an ridiculously short straw I had that day because now I had to do what Albert had just done, and there are like 100 of these lambs in the pen, and suddenly this whole thing's starting to feel like a German porno, and I'm like ... (Laughter) 

(Laughter) And I was especially reminded of what an ridiculously short straw I had that day because now I had to do what Albert had just done, and there are like 100 of these lambs in the pen, and suddenly this whole thing's starting to feel like a German porno, and I'm like ... (Laughter) 

(Laughter) And I was especially reminded of what an ridiculously short straw I had that day because now I had to do what Albert had just done, and there are like 100 of these lambs in the pen, and suddenly this whole thing's starting to feel like a German porno, and I'm like ... (Laughter) 

(Laughter) And I was especially reminded of what an ridiculously short straw I had that day because now I had to do what Albert had just done, and there are like 100 of these lambs in the pen, and suddenly this whole thing's starting to feel like a German porno, and I'm like ... (Laughter) 

Melanie picks up the lamb, puts it on the post, opens it up.

Albert hands me the knife.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I went in and I took them.

I took them like this, and I yanked my face back.

And I'm standing there with two testicles on my chin.

(Laughter) And now I can't get -- I can't shake the metaphor. 

(Laughter) And now I can't get -- I can't shake the metaphor. 

(Laughter) And now I can't get -- I can't shake the metaphor. 

(Laughter) And now I can't get -- I can't shake the metaphor. 

And they are anagnorisis and peripeteia.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I got to tell you, it's such a great device though.

When you start to look for peripetia, you find it everywhere.

I mean, Bruce Willis in "The Sixth Sense," right?

You know?

It's crushing when the audience sees it the right way.

And, as I stood there, looking at the happy lamb that I had just defiled -- but it looked OK.

Because, look, I'm not a social anthropologist but I have a friend who is.

"And if you have something to say about their thoughts, collectively, it might be time to think about it.

Because, dude, you know, four years."

You know, that's in my head, testicles are on my chin, thoughts are bouncing around.

And now, when I talk about the show, I no longer just tell the story you heard and 190 like it.

People with dirty jobs are happier than you think.

As a group, they're the happiest people I know.

And I don't want to start whistling "Look for the Union Label," and all that happy worker crap.

They've got this amazing sort of symmetry to their life.

And I see it over and over and over again. 

So I started to wonder what would happen if we challenged some of these sacred cows.

Follow your passion -- we've been talking about it here for the last 36 hours.

Follow your passion -- what could possibly be wrong with that?

Probably the worst advice I ever got.

(Laughter) You know, follow your dreams and go broke, right?

I mean, that's all I heard growing up.

He's making a great living.

The guy's worth -- he just got offered like 60 million dollars for his farm and turned it down, outside of Vegas.

He didn't follow his passion.

He stepped back and he watched where everybody was going and he went the other way.

And I hear that story over and over. 

Matt Froind, a dairy farmer in New Canaan, Connecticut, who woke up one day and realized the crap from his cows was worth more than their milk, if he could use it to make these biodegradable flower pots.

I mean -- this is heresy, what I'm about to say -- but what if it's really safety third?

They know that other things come first -- the business of doing the work comes first, the business of getting it done. 

Most hazardous environment I'd ever seen, and I was back with a guy, lashing the pots down.

So, I'm 40 feet off the deck, which is like looking down at the top of your shoe, you know, and it's doing this in the ocean.

Unspeakably dangerous. 

I scamper down, I go into the wheelhouse and I say, with some level of incredulity, "Captain, OSHA."

I was like -- So, the idea that we create this false -- this sense of complacency when all we do is talk about somebody else's responsibility as though it's our own, and vice versa.

But, what it all comes down to is this.

I formed a theory, and I'm going to share it now in my remaining two minutes and 30 seconds. 

It's a civil war.

It's a cold war, really.

And we've waged this war on at least four fronts, certainly in Hollywood.

You see him all the time.

That's what plumbers look like, right?

We turn them into heroes, or we turn them into punch lines.

That's what TV does.

But, we've waged this war on Madison Avenue.

I mean, so many of the commercials that come out there -- in the way of a message, what's really being said?

Your life would be better if you could work a little less, if you didn't have to work so hard, if you could get home a little earlier, if you could retire a little faster, if you could punch out a little sooner -- it's all in there, over and over, again and again. 

I just know that that's a front in this war. 

And right here guys, Silicon Valley, I mean -- how many people have an iPhone on them right now?

How many people have their Blackberries?

We're plugged in; we're connected.

I would never suggest for a second that something bad has come out of the tech revolution.

Good grief, not to this crowd.

(Laughter) But I would suggest that innovation without imitation is a complete waste of time.

And nobody celebrates imitation the way "Dirty Jobs" guys know it has to be done.

So, we've got this new toolbox, you know.

Our tools today don't look like shovels and picks.

They look like the stuff we walk around with.

And so the collective effect of all of that has been this marginalization of lots and lots of jobs.

And I realized, probably too late in this game -- I hope not, because I don't know if I can do 200 more of these things -- but we're going to do as many as we can.

And to me the most important thing to know and to really come face to face with, is that fact that I got it wrong about a lot of things, not just the testicles on my chin.

I got a lot wrong. 

So, we're thinking -- by we, I mean me -- that the thing to do is to talk about a PR campaign for work, manual labor, skilled labor.

Somebody needs to be out there talking about the forgotten benefits.

Barack wants to create two and a half million jobs.

The infrastructure is a huge deal.

This war on work, that I suppose exists, has casualties like any other war.

Every single year: fewer electricians, fewer carpenters, fewer plumbers, fewer welders, fewer pipefitters, fewer steamfitters.

Meanwhile, we've got two trillion dollars -- at a minimum, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers -- that we need to expend to even make a dent in the infrastructure, which is currently rated at a D minus. 

So, if I were running for anything, and I'm not, I would simply say that the jobs we hope to make and the jobs we hope to create aren't going to stick unless they're jobs that people want.

And I know the point of this conference is to celebrate things that are near and dear to us, but I also know that clean and dirty aren't opposites.

They're two sides of the same coin, just like innovation and imitation, like risk and responsibility, like peripetia and anagnorisis, like that poor little lamb, who I hope isn't quivering anymore, and like my time that's gone. 

