One of the reasons I tell you about ants is because of my husband, who is in fact an ant taxonomist and when we got married, he promised to name an ant after me, which he did -- Procryptocerus nalini, a canopy ant.

I was interested, and my canopy researcher colleagues have been interested in the dynamics of the canopy plants that live in the forest.

So, recolonization is really very slow.

So I hope I've showed you that canopy-dwellers are not just insignificant bits of green up high in the canopy that Tarzan and Jane were interested in, but rather that they foster biodiversity contribute to ecosystem nutrient cycles, and they also help to keep our global climate stable. 

Up in the canopy, if you were sitting next to me and you turned around from those primary forest ecosystems, you would also see scenes like this.

Scenes of forest destruction, forest harvesting and forest fragmentation, thereby making that intact tapestry of the canopy unable to function in the marvelous ways that it has when it is not disturbed by humans. 

I've also looked out on urban places like this and thought about people who are disassociated from trees in their lives.

Here in 2009, you know, it's not an easy thing to be a forest ecologist, gripping ourselves with these kinds of questions and trying to figure out how we can answer them.

We consult to the media about canopy questions; we have a canopy newsletter; we have an email LISTSERV.

And so we're trying to disseminate information about the importance of the canopy, the beauty of the canopy, the necessity of intact canopies, to people outside of academia.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

He saw nests in the canopy at one of our Canopy Confluences in the Pacific Northwest, and created this beautiful sculpture.

They danced in the forest, and we are taking this dance, my scientific outreach communications, and also linking up with environmental groups, to go to different cities and to perform the science, the dance and the environmental outreach that we hope will make a difference.

These mosses are taken from the forest; they're used by the floriculture industry, by florists, to make arrangements and make hanging baskets.

It's a 265 million dollar industry and it's increasing rapidly.

If you remember that bald guy, you'll know that what has been stripped off of these trunks in the Pacific Northwest old-growth forest is going to take decades and decades to come back.

So this whole industry is unsustainable.

What can I, as an ecologist, do about that? 

And so, I think for many reasons -- ecological, social, economic and perhaps even spiritual -- this has been a tremendous project and I'm really looking forward to not only myself and my students doing it, but also to promote and teach other scientists how to do this.

As many of you are aware, the world of academia is a rather inward-looking one.

I started my career with trying to understand the mysteries of forests with the tools of science.

By making these partnerships that I described to you, I have really opened my mind and, I have to say, my heart to have a greater understanding, to make other discoveries about nature and myself. 

When we come to understand nature, we are touching the most deep, the most important parts of our self.

In these partnerships, I have also learned that people tend to compartmentalize themselves into IT people, and movie star people, and scientists, but when we share nature, when we share our perspectives about nature, we find a common denominator. 

Finally, as a scientist and as a person and now, as part of the TED community, I feel that I have better tools to go out to trees, to go out to forests, to go out to nature, to make new discoveries about nature -- and about humans' place in nature wherever we are and whomever you are. 

