I met with David to talk about what I might do in his company.

There's six billion dollars on the table.

They would go for it if they could figure out how. 

So, what is the deal here?

So, contrary to popular belief, there is not a conflict of interest between empiricism and values.

And Interval Research is kind of the living example of how that can be true.

Then we formed a spin-off company.

Also, we did focus groups with people who were on the ground with kids every day, like playground supervisors.

And we spent that time designing interactive prototypes for computer software and testing them with little girls.

We launched a website on September 2nd that has now served 25 million pages, and has 42,000 registered young girl users.

So we feel that we've formed a successful online community with girls. 

We've made half-a-billion impressions with marketing and PR for this brand, Purple Moon.

There are really two kinds of negative reviews that we've received.

Girl 1: Yeah, my character is usually a tomboy.

Hers is more into boys. 

Girl 1: We have -- in the very beginning of the whole game, always we do this: we each have a piece of paper; we write down our name, our age -- are we rich, very rich, not rich, poor, medium, wealthy, boyfriends, dogs, pets -- what else -- sisters, brothers, and all those. 

Girl 4: We make a school newspaper on the computer. 

Girl 5: For a girl's game also usually they'll have really pretty scenery with clouds and flowers.

Girl 6: Like, if you were a girl and you were really adventurous and a real big tomboy, you would think that girls' games were kinda sissy. 

And sometimes I feel like I can't really enjoy myself unless it's like a vacation, like when I get Mondays and all those days off. 

But she gives my sister everything. 

And you can see how we've tried to incorporate the issues that matter to them in the game that we've created. 

BL: I'm going to fast-forward to the decision point because I know I don't have a lot of time.

After this awful event occurs, Rocket gets to decide how she feels about it. 

We can, for example, go find Miko's locker and get some more information about her.

Oops, I turned the wrong way.

But you get the general idea of the product. 

We love them.

We see them.

We're not trying to tell them who they ought to be.

"Rockett 28!"

BL: Thanks. 

