So I learned to follow hunches even though you can't necessarily justify them or know where they're going to go.

And that's kind of what's happened with Twitter, time after time. 

So, for those of you unfamiliar, Twitter is based around a very simple, seemingly trivial concept.

You say what you're doing in 140 characters or less, and people who are interested in you get those updates.

If they're really interested, they get the update as a text message on their cell phone.

So, for instance, I may Twitter right now that I'm giving a talk at TED.

And in my case, when I hit send, up to 60,000 people will receive that message in a matter of seconds.

This is the primary use we saw of Twitter from the beginning, and what got us excited. 

What we didn't anticipate was the many, many other uses that would evolve from this very simple system.

One of the things we realized was how important Twitter could be during real-time events.

But it wasn't just individuals.

The L.A. Times actually turned to Twitter to dispense information as well, and put a Twitter feed on the front page, and the L.A. Fire Department and Red Cross used it to dispense news and updates as well.

Politicians have recently begun Twittering.

In fact, there are 47 members of Congress who currently have Twitter accounts.

And they're tweeting, in some cases, from behind closed-door sessions with the President.

In this case, this guy's not liking what he's hearing.

As have this guy's. 

This is one of the many ways that users have shaped the system. 

Another is via the API.

We built an application-programming interface, which basically means that programmers can write software that interacts with Twitter.

Probably the most important third-party development came from a little company in Virginia called Summize.

Summize built a Twitter search engine.

This really changed how we perceived Twitter.

For instance, here's what people are saying about TED.

This is another way that our mind was shifted, and Twitter wasn't what we thought it was.

We liked this so much we actually bought the company and are folding it into the main product.

This not only lets you view Twitters in different ways, but it introduces new use cases as well.

One of my favorites is what happened a few months ago when there was a gas shortage in Atlanta.

And this trend of people using this communication network to help each other out goes far beyond the original idea of just keeping up with family and friends.

It's happened more and more lately, whether it's raising money for homeless people or to dig wells in Africa or for a family in crisis.

People have raised tens of thousands of dollars over Twitter in a matter of days on several occasions.

It seems like when you give people easier ways to share information, more good things happen. 

I have no idea what will happen next with Twitter.

I've learned to follow the hunch, but never assume where it will go.

Thanks. 

Chris Anderson: We're not quite done yet.

So, this would be the Twitter search screen.

So we're going to just type a couple of random words into Twitter.

Thanks. 

CA: Just kidding. 

But, literally in the eight minutes he was talking, there are about fifty tweets that already came on the talk.

