At the same time, I fell in love with New York City.

I started to realize that I could look at the whole city as a living organism.

I wanted to dissect it and look into its unseen layers.

And the way to it, for me, was through artistic means.

In New York City, rats are part of commuters' daily lives.

Most people ignore them or are frightened of them.

And even though they're used in labs to promote human lives, they're also considered pests.

I also started looking around in the city and trying to photograph them.

Then I started going into the tunnels, which made me realize that there's a whole new dimension to the city that I never saw before and most people don't get to see. 

When I took photographs in these locations, I felt there was something missing in the pictures.

Simply documenting these soon-to-be-demolished structures wasn't enough for me.

I wanted a simple way to represent a living body inhabiting these decaying, derelict spaces. 

This was taken in the Riviera Sugar Factory in Red Hook, Brooklyn.

The nature had really reclaimed the whole complex.

When I got comfortable in the space, it also felt like a big playground.

The construction began in 1837.

It lasted about five years.

It got abandoned when the new Croton Aqueducts opened in 1890.

I love feeling the aura of a space that has so much history.

Instead of looking at reproductions of it at home, you're actually feeling the hand-laid bricks and shimmying up and down narrow cracks and getting wet and muddy and walking in a dark tunnel with a flashlight. 

The murals were done by a graffiti artist to commemorate the hundreds of homeless people that got relocated from the tunnel in 1991 when the tunnel reopened for trains.

Walking in this tunnel is very peaceful.

There's nobody around you, and you hear the kids playing in the park above you, completely unaware of what's underneath. 

"Naked City" is a nickname for New York, and "Spleen" embodies the melancholia and inertia that come from feeling alienated in an urban environment. 

This is the same tunnel.

I was basically intruding in his living space.

One thing that struck me, after this incident, was that a space like that holds so many deleted memories of the city.

That homeless man, to me, really represented an element of the unconscious of the city.

The tunnel was once built for the prosperity of the city, but is now a sanctuary for outcasts, who are completely forgotten in the average urban dweller's everyday life. 

This is underneath my alma mater, Columbia University.

The tunnels are famous for having been used during the development of the Manhattan Project.

I was reminded of how fragile our sense of security is and how vulnerable people truly are. 

This was taken under a homeless asylum built in 1885 to house 1,100 people.

This is the actual catacombs in Paris.

There are more than 185 miles of tunnels, and only about a mile is open to the public as a museum.

As you can see, the system is very complex and vast.

It's very dangerous to get lost in there.

And at the same time, there was a problem in the city with overflowing cemeteries.

The remains of over six million people are housed in there, some over 1,300 years old.

This was taken under the Montparnasse Cemetery where most of the ossuaries are located.

There are also phone cables that were used in the '50s and many bunkers from the World War II era. 

This is a German bunker.

And I saw a lot of graffiti from the 1800s, like this one. 

This is the Tower of Saint Jacques.

It was built in the early 1500s.

This was probably the toughest place to explore.

And when the tides of waste matter come in it sounds as if a whole storm is approaching you. 

This is a still from a film I worked on recently, called "Blind Door."

I've become more interested in capturing movement and texture.

And the 16mm black-and-white film gave a different feel to it. 

And this is the first theater project I worked on.

I've been leaning towards more collaborative projects like these, lately.

But whenever I get a chance I still work on my series. 

The last place I visited was the Mayan ruins of Copan, Honduras.

This was taken inside an archaeological tunnel in the main temple. 

I like doing more than just exploring these spaces.

I feel an obligation to animate and humanize these spaces continually in order to preserve their memories in a creative way -- before they're lost forever.

Thank you. 

