Let's talk trash. 

You know, we had to be taught to renounce the powerful conservation ethic we developed during the Great Depression and World War II.

After the war, we needed to direct our enormous production capacity toward creation of products for peacetime.

Life Magazine helped in this effort by announcing the introduction of throwaways that would liberate the housewife from the drudgery of doing dishes. 

Mental note to the liberators: throwaway plastics take a lot of space and don't biodegrade.

Only we humans make waste that nature can't digest. 

Plastics are also hard to recycle.

A teacher told me how to express the under-five-percent of plastics recovered in our waste stream.

It's diddly-point-squat.

That's the percentage we recycle. 

Now, melting point has a lot to do with this.

Plastic is not purified by the re-melting process like glass and metal.

It begins to melt below the boiling point of water and does not drive off the oily contaminants for which it is a sponge.

Half of each year's 100 billion pounds of thermal plastic pellets will be made into fast-track trash.

A large, unruly fraction of our trash will flow downriver to the sea. 

Here is the accumulation at Biona Creek next to the L.A. airport.

In spite of deposit fees, much of this trash leading out to the sea will be plastic beverage bottles.

Here is a remote island repository for bottles off the coast of Baja California.

Isla San Roque is an uninhabited bird rookery off Baja's sparsely populated central coast.

Notice that the bottles here have caps on them.

Bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate, PET, will sink in seawater and not make it this far from civilization.

Also, the caps are produced in separate factories from a different plastic, polypropylene.

Let's trace the journey of the millions of caps that make it to sea solo.

After a year the ones from Japan are heading straight across the Pacific, while ours get caught in the California current and first head down to the latitude of Cabo San Lucas.

After 20 years, we see emerging the debris accumulation zone of the North Pacific Gyre. 

It so happens that millions of albatross nesting on Kure and Midway atolls in the Northwest Hawaiian Islands National Monument forage here and scavenge whatever they can find for regurgitation to their chicks.

A four-month old Laysan Albatross chick died with this in its stomach.

Sadly, their parents mistake bottle caps for food tossing about in the ocean surface. 

The retainer rings for the caps also have consequences for aquatic animals.

We cleaned up the swaths of beach shown.

Here are the 1,100 bottle caps they collected.

Here's what our trawl samples from the plastic soup our ocean has become look like.

Trawling a zooplankton net on the surface for a mile produces samples like this.

And this.

Small bits of plastic concentrate persistent organic pollutants up to a million times their levels in the surrounding seawater. 

We wanted to see if the most common fish in the deep ocean, at the base of the food chain, was ingesting these poison pills.

We did hundreds of necropsies, and over a third had polluted plastic fragments in their stomachs.

The record-holder, only two-and-a-half inches long, had 84 pieces in its tiny stomach. 

This is the legacy we are leaving to future generations.

We simply cannot store and maintain or recycle all our stuff.

We have to throw it away.

Now, the market can do a lot for us, but it can't fix the natural system in the ocean we've broken.

All the king's horses and all the king's men ... will never gather up all the plastic and put the ocean back together again. 

Anchor: He offers no hope of cleaning it up.

Straining the ocean for plastic would be beyond the budget of any country and it might kill untold amounts of sea life in the process.

And in a plastic-wrapped and packaged world, he doesn't hold out much hope for that, either.

This is Brian Rooney for Nightline, in Long Beach, California. 

Charles Moore: Thank you. 

