Fifty years ago, when I began exploring the ocean, no one -- not Jacques Perrin, not Jacques Cousteau or Rachel Carson -- imagined that we could do anything to harm the ocean by what we put into it or by what we took out of it.

It seemed, at that time, to be a sea of Eden, but now we know, and now we are facing paradise lost. 

I'm haunted by the thought of what Ray Anderson calls "tomorrow's child," asking why we didn't do something on our watch to save sharks and bluefin tuna and squids and coral reefs and the living ocean while there still was time.

Well, now is that time.

I hope for your help to explore and protect the wild ocean in ways that will restore the health and, in so doing, secure hope for humankind.

Health to the ocean means health for us. 

And I hope Jill Tarter's wish to engage Earthlings includes dolphins and whales and other sea creatures in this quest to find intelligent life elsewhere in the universe.

And I hope, Jill, that someday we will find evidence that there is intelligent life among humans on this planet. 

For me, as a scientist, it all began in 1953 when I first tried scuba.

It's when I first got to know fish swimming in something other than lemon slices and butter.

I actually love diving at night; you see a lot of fish then that you don't see in the daytime.

Diving day and night was really easy for me in 1970, when I led a team of aquanauts living underwater for weeks at a time -- at the same time that astronauts were putting their footprints on the moon.

In 1979 I had a chance to put my footprints on the ocean floor while using this personal submersible called Jim.

It was six miles offshore and 1,250 feet down.

It's one of my favorite bathing suits. 

And I'm living proof.

Astronauts and aquanauts alike really appreciate the importance of air, food, water, temperature -- all the things you need to stay alive in space or under the sea.

We need to learn everything we can about it and do everything we can to take care of it. 

No blue, no green.

If you think the ocean isn't important, imagine Earth without it.

Mars comes to mind.

No ocean, no life support system.

Tim Worth says the economy is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the environment.

With every drop of water you drink, every breath you take, you're connected to the sea.

No matter where on Earth you live.

The ocean drives climate and weather, stabilizes temperature, shapes Earth's chemistry.

Water from the sea forms clouds that return to the land and the seas as rain, sleet and snow, and provides home for about 97 percent of life in the world, maybe in the universe.

Yet we have this idea, we humans, that the Earth -- all of it: the oceans, the skies -- are so vast and so resilient it doesn't matter what we do to it.

That may have been true 10,000 years ago, and maybe even 1,000 years ago but in the last 100, especially in the last 50, we've drawn down the assets, the air, the water, the wildlife that make our lives possible.

New technologies are helping us to understand the nature of nature; the nature of what's happening, showing us our impact on the Earth.

I mean, first you have to know that you've got a problem.

And fortunately, in our time, we've learned more about the problems than in all preceding history.

But first we have to know. 

These are the gentle giants that I've had the pleasure of meeting face to face many times underwater.

There's nothing quite like being personally inspected by a whale. 

One-way trips are easy.

We need new deep-diving submarines.

How about some X Prizes for ocean exploration?

We need to see deep trenches, the undersea mountains, and understand life in the deep sea. 

We can now go to the Arctic.

That's bad news for the polar bears.

That's bad news for us too.

Excess carbon dioxide is not only driving global warming, it's also changing ocean chemistry, making the sea more acidic.

We're putting hundreds of millions of tons of plastic and other trash into the sea.

Millions of tons of discarded fishing nets, gear that continues to kill.

We're clogging the ocean, poisoning the planet's circulatory system, and we're taking out hundreds of millions of tons of wildlife, all carbon-based units.

Barbarically, we're killing sharks for shark fin soup, undermining food chains that shape planetary chemistry and drive the carbon cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the oxygen cycle, the water cycle -- our life support system.

We're still killing bluefin tuna; truly endangered and much more valuable alive than dead.

All of these parts are part of our life support system.

Using Google Earth you can witness trawlers -- in China, the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico -- shaking the foundation of our life support system, leaving plumes of death in their path.

The next time you dine on sushi -- or sashimi, or swordfish steak, or shrimp cocktail, whatever wildlife you happen to enjoy from the ocean -- think of the real cost.

For every pound that goes to market, more than 10 pounds, even 100 pounds, may be thrown away as bycatch.

This is the consequence of not knowing that there are limits to what we can take out of the sea.

This chart shows the decline in ocean wildlife from 1900 to 2000.

Most of the turtles, sharks, tunas and whales are way down in numbers. 

Natural systems on the land are in big trouble too, but the problems are more obvious, and some actions are being taken to protect trees, watersheds and wildlife. 

About 12 percent of the land around the world is now protected: safeguarding biodiversity, providing a carbon sink, generating oxygen, protecting watersheds.

That's another great idea.

The good news is that there are now more than 4,000 places in the sea, around the world, that have some kind of protection.

In the last three years, for example, the U.S. protected 340,000 square miles of ocean as national monuments.

But it only increased from 0.6 of one percent to 0.8 of one percent of the ocean protected, globally.

Protected areas provide hope that the creatures of Ed Wilson's dream of an encyclopedia of life, or the census of marine life, will live not just as a list, a photograph, or a paragraph. 

With scientists around the world, I've been looking at the 99 percent of the ocean that is open to fishing -- and mining, and drilling, and dumping, and whatever -- to search out hope spots, and try to find ways to give them and us a secure future.

Such as the Arctic -- we have one chance, right now, to get it right.

Or the Antarctic, where the continent is protected, but the surrounding ocean is being stripped of its krill, whales and fish.

Sargasso Sea's three million square miles of floating forest is being gathered up to feed cows.

97 percent of the land in the Galapagos Islands is protected, but the adjacent sea is being ravaged by fishing.

It's true too in Argentina on the Patagonian shelf, which is now in serious trouble.

The high seas, where whales, tuna and dolphins travel -- the largest, least protected, ecosystem on Earth, filled with luminous creatures, living in dark waters that average two miles deep.

They flash, and sparkle, and glow with their own living light. 

There are still places in the sea as pristine as I knew as a child.

The next 10 years may be the most important, and the next 10,000 years the best chance our species will have to protect what remains of the natural systems that give us life.

We need many things to keep and maintain the world as a better place.

But, nothing else will matter if we fail to protect the ocean.

Our fate and the ocean's are one.

We need to do for the ocean what Al Gore did for the skies above. 

The goal is to protect biodiversity, to provide stability and resilience.

We need deep-diving subs, new technologies to explore the ocean.

We need, maybe, an expedition -- a TED at sea -- that could help figure out the next steps. 

And so, I suppose you want to know what my wish is.

I wish you would use all means at your disposal -- films, expeditions, the web, new submarines -- and campaign to ignite public support for a global network of marine protected areas -- hope spots large enough to save and restore the ocean, the blue heart of the planet.

How much?

Some say 10 percent, some say 30 percent.

You decide: how much of your heart do you want to protect?

Whatever it is, a fraction of one percent is not enough.

For the children of today, for tomorrow's child: as never again, now is the time. 

Thank you. 

