There's a great big elephant in the room called the economy.

So let's start talking about that.

I wanted to give you a current picture of the economy.

That's what I have behind myself. 

But of course what we have to remember is this.

And I will try and give you a sense of what the ultimate reboot looks like.

And somehow it will all make sense. 

But anyway, let's start with the economy.

There's a couple of really big problems that are still sitting there.

One is leverage.

And the problem with leverage is it makes the U.S. financial system look like this. 

So, a normal commercial bank has nine to 10 times leverage.

That means for every dollar you deposit, it loans out about nine or 10.

It turns out that B of A in September had 32 times.

And your friendly Citibank had 47 times.

And that, of course, is the reason why all of you are making such generous and wonderful donations to these nice folks.

And then by 2007 it was 68 percent.

And we weren't supposed to run into 100 percent until about 2030.

And we thought we were going to be able to lay these debts off on our kids, but, guess what?

We're going to start to pay them.

Right? 

Here's some advice from one of the largest investors in the United States.

This guy runs the China Investment Corporation.

He is the main buyer of U.S. Treasury bonds.

And then all bets are off. 

Let me show you what it looks like.

This is an actual bill.

And it's 10 triliion dollars.

The only problem with this bill is it's not really worth very much.

So the next time somebody as cute as this shows up on your doorstep, and sometimes this creature's called Chrysler and sometimes Ford and sometimes ... whatever you want -- you've just got to say no.

And you've got to start banishing a word that's called "entitlement."

And the reason we have to do that in the short term is because we have just run out of cash. 

If you look at the federal budget, this is what it looks like.

The orange slice is what's discretionary.

Everything else is mandated.

It makes no difference if we cut out the bridges to Alaska in the overall scheme of things.

We've got to start thinking about asking people to retire a little bit later.

If you're 50 to 60 we want you to work two years more.

If you're under 50 we want you to work four more years.

Sixty-eight is young today.

We've also got to cut the military about three percent a year. 

We've got to limit other mandatory spending.

And we've got to end up with a smaller government.

And if we don't start changing this trend line, we are going to lose the dollar and start to look like Iceland.

I got what you're thinking.

Here's what happens if you don't address this stuff.

So, Japan had a fiscal real estate crisis back in the late '80s.

And its 225 largest companies today are worth one quarter of what they were 18 years ago.

We don't fix this now, how would you like to see a Dow 3,500 in 2026?

Because that's the consequence of not dealing with this stuff.

That's the financial crisis. 

It's groups like that in this room that generate the future of the U.S. economy.

And that's what we've got to keep growing.

That's where the ability to engineer microbes, the ability to engineer tissues, and the ability to engineer robots begin to lead to a reboot.

And let me recap some of the stuff you've seen. 

In parallel, the folks at MIT have been building a standard registry of biological parts.

So think of it as a Radio Shack for biology.

You can go out and get your proteins, your RNA, your DNA, whatever.

And start building stuff.

In 2006 they brought together high school students and college students and started to build these little odd creatures.

They just happened to be alive instead of circuit boards. 

Then they stop growing.

Graduate students wanted a way of telling which stage they were in.

And when they stopped growing they would smell like bananas.

And you could tell very easily when your experiment was working and wasn't, and where it was in the phase. 

They started competing.

The team from Rice University started to engineer the substance in red wine that makes red wine good for you into beer.

So you take resveratrol and you put it into beer.

Of course, one of the judges is wandering by, and he goes, "Wow!

The team from Taiwan was a little bit more ambitious.

They tried to engineer bacterias in such a way that they would act as your kidneys.

Four years ago, I showed you this picture.

And that was very cool stuff back then.

Two years ago, you saw this creature.

You give away all your teeth to the tooth fairy.

You re-grow a set of teeth.

She's now running around with her kids.

So there are now nine women walking around Boston with re-grown bladders, which is much more pleasant than walking around with a whole bunch of plastic bags for the rest of your life. 

But, I mean it gets more interesting.

This may be one of the ultimate papers.

Third trend: robots.

So, Rosie runs around on skates and the other one ran on flat threads.

This is Boston Dynamics' "BigDog."

This is not an intelligence Turing rest, but this is as close as you can get to a physical Turing test.

These are not the only interesting robots.

You've also got flies, the size of flies, that are being made by Robert Wood at Harvard.

You've got Stickybots that are being made at Stanford.

And as you bring these things together, as you bring cells, biological tissue engineering and mechanics together, you begin to get some really odd questions. 

He came within about a second of qualifying.

And two or three Olympics after that, they are going to be unbeatable. 

Now, they can't hear as well as you and I can.

And the same thing is happening in eyes.

Very primitive.

And then they'll be able to see shape.

They'll do stuff you and I can't do.

All of these things are coming together, and it's a particularly important thing to understand, as we worry about the flames of the present, to keep an eye on the future. 

And it's the 150th anniversary of the publication of "The Origin of Species."

And Darwin, of course, argued that evolution is a natural state.

It is a natural state in everything that is alive, including hominids.

It is common for hominids to evolve.

And that's the reason why, as you look at the hominid fossil record, erectus, and heidelbergensis, and floresiensis, and Neanderthals, and Homo sapiens, all overlap.

Maybe not.

I think what we're going to see is we're going to see a different species of hominid.

I think we're going to move from a Homo sapiens into a Homo evolutis.

And I think this isn't 1,000 years out.

And a Homo evolutis brings together these three trends into a hominid that takes direct and deliberate control over the evolution of his species, her species and other species.

And that, of course, would be the ultimate reboot. 

