But what did he appeal to?

Instead, what he told us was to put aside childish things.

And he appealed to virtue.

Virtue is an old-fashioned word.

It seems a little out of place in a cutting-edge environment like this one.

Let me begin with an example.

And all of the items on it are unremarkable.

Not one.

The janitor's job could just as well be done in a mortuary as in a hospital. 

Now, not all janitors are like this, of course.

But the ones who are think that these sorts of human interactions involving kindness, care and empathy are an essential part of the job.

And yet their job description contains not one word about other human beings.

These janitors have the moral will to do right by other people.

And beyond this, they have the moral skill to figure out what "doing right" means. 

You need the time to get to know the people that you're serving.

And you need to be mentored by wise teachers. 

When you ask the janitors who behaved like the ones I described how hard it is to learn to do their job, they tell you that it takes lots of experience.

And they don't mean it takes lots of experience to learn how to mop floors and empty trash cans.

It takes lots of experience to learn how to care for people.

At TED, brilliance is rampant.

It's scary.

The good news is you don't need to be brilliant to be wise.

The bad news is that without wisdom, brilliance isn't enough.

Now, I hope that we all know this.

It's a story about lemonade.

A dad and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the ballpark.

The emergency room ascertained that the kid had no alcohol in his blood.

And they were ready to let the kid go. 

But not so fast.

The Wayne County Child Welfare Protection Agency said no.

And the child was sent to a foster home for three days.

After two weeks, I'm happy to report, the family was reunited.

How do things like this happen?

Fair enough.

One tool we reach for is rules.

Better ones, more of them.

What else, after all, is there?

The truth is that neither rules nor incentives are enough to do the job.

How could you even write a rule that got the janitors to do what they did?

And would you pay them a bonus for being empathic?

It's preposterous on its face.

Here's an example from Chicago kindergarten.

All over Chicago in every kindergarten class in the city, every teacher is saying the same words in the same way on the same day.

We know why these scripts are there.

Scripts like these are insurance policies against disaster.

And they prevent disaster.

Now, how about incentives?

They seem cleverer.

Right?

Well, not always.

I'll just give you one example because time is racing.

There was going to be a national referendum.

Some psychologists went around and polled citizens who were very well informed.

And they said, "Would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?"

Astonishingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes.

They knew it was dangerous.

They thought it would reduce their property values.

But it had to go somewhere and they had responsibilities as citizens.

The psychologists asked other people a slightly different question.

Instead of 50 percent saying yes, 25 percent said yes.

But excessive reliance on incentives demoralizes professional activity in two senses of that word.

It causes people who engage in that activity to lose morale and it causes the activity itself to lose morality. 

We see this in medicine.

So what can we do?

One way not to do it: teach more ethics courses.

What to do instead?

One: Celebrate moral exemplars.

Acknowledge, when you go to law school, that a little voice is whispering in your ear about Atticus Finch.

No 10-year-old goes to law school to do mergers and acquisitions.

People are inspired by moral heroes.

Well, acknowledge them.

Be proud that you have them.

Celebrate them.

And demand that the people who teach you acknowledge them and celebrate them too.

That's one thing we can do. 

Just at this TED we heard talks from several moral heroes.

Two were particularly inspiring to me.

And a bonus he's discovering is he's actually going to make even more money.

In many ways this is the perfect example.

Because it took the will to do the right thing.

God knows it took a huge amount of technical skill.

But most important to make it work -- and he emphasized this -- is that it took knowing the people in the communities.

Unless the people you're working with are behind you, this will fail.

So there's a lot here at TED, and at other places, to celebrate.

And you don't have to be a mega-hero.

There are ordinary heroes.

Ordinary heroes like the janitors who are worth celebrating too.

As practitioners each and every one of us should strive to be ordinary, if not extraordinary heroes.

As heads of organizations, we should strive to create environments that encourage and nurture both moral skill and moral will.

Even the wisest and most well-meaning people will give up if they have to swim against the current in the organizations in which they work. 

And any moral work depends upon practical wisdom. 

I want to focus on one particular thing KIPP is doing that Bill didn't mention.

They need to learn to respect themselves.

They need to learn to respect their schoolmates.

They need to learn to respect their teachers.

And, most important, they need to learn to respect learning.

That's the principle objective.

If you do that, the rest is just pretty much a coast downhill.

And the teachers: the way you teach these things to the kids is by having the teachers and all the other staff embody it every minute of every day. 

Obama appealed to virtue.

And I think he was right.

He also appealed to hope.

Right again.

I think there is reason for hope.

I think people want to be allowed to be virtuous. 

In many ways, it's what TED is all about.

Wanting to do the right thing in the right way for the right reasons.

Thank you very much.

