You might say that the theme is nature and everything that follows is a variation on the subject. 

I was asked, I guess about six years ago, to do a series of paintings that in some way would celebrate the birth of Piero della Francesca.

Once I realized that I could take some liberties with the subject, I did the following series of drawings.

He apparently lost an eye in battle, which is why he is always shown in profile.

And this is Battista. 

Incidentally, I've never understood the conflict between abstraction and naturalism.

Since all paintings are inherently abstract to begin with there doesn't seem to be an argument there. 

On another subject -- 

"Fantastic!"

And so the entire issue is detoxified by the use of "Dutchman."

Now, if you think I'm exaggerating at all in this, all you have to do is substitute something else, like "Indonesian."

Or even "French."

Now, "Swiss" works, but you know it's going to cost a lot of money. 

I'm going to take you quickly through the actual process of doing a poster.

And I really struggled with this one.

So, it was going nowhere. 

Sometimes, in the middle of a resistant problem, I write down things that I know about it.

But you can see the beginning of an idea there, because you can see the word "new" emerging from the "old."

That's what happens.

There's a relationship between the old and the new; the new emerges from the context of the old.

I had this other version which had something interesting about it in terms of being able to put it together in your mind from clues.

Then I got the words "new" and "old" and now I had regressed back to a point where there seemed to be no return. 

I was really desperate at this point. 

And, finally, I arrived at the following solution.

For one thing, it transgresses the idea of what a poster's supposed to be, which is to be understood and seen immediately, and not explained.

So here's what it says in my explanation at the bottom left.

One is the sort of willingness to expose myself to a critical audience, and not to suggest that I am confident about what I'm doing.

And as you know, you have to have a front.

That can be a big contribution.

And that too is a relatively new idea.

Now, this is a little illusion.

That poster is not folded.

Same cheap trick in the upper left-hand corner.

And here, a very peculiar poster because, simply because of using the isometric perspective in the computer, it won't sit still in the space.

At times, it seems to be wider at the back than the front, and then it shifts.

And if you sit here long enough, it'll float off the page into the audience.

But, we don't have time. 

This is another poster from the School of Visual Arts.

But I was absolutely stuck on the idea of "art is" and trying to determine what art was.

But then I gave up and I said, "Well, art is whatever."

And as soon as I said that, I discovered that the word "hat" was hidden in the word "whatever," and that led me to the inevitable conclusion.

But then again, it's on my list of didactic posters.

My intent is to have a literary accompaniment that explains the poster, in case you don't get it. 

OK. 

And that idea stuck in my head.

Thank you. 

