For that brief moment in time, the glow was brighter than all the stars in all the galaxies in all of the known Universe.

It was a very big bang. 

But they didn't release their energy in light.

I mean, you know, they're black holes.

All that energy was pumped into the fabric of space and time itself, making the Universe explode in gravitational waves. 

Let me give you a sense of the timescale at work here.

1.3 billion years ago, Earth had just managed to evolve multicellular life.

Since then, Earth has made and evolved corals, fish, plants, dinosaurs, people and even -- God save us -- the Internet.

Now, most people thought they were nuts.

But enough people realized that they were brilliant nuts that the US National Science Foundation decided to fund their crazy idea.

For the last several years, LIGO's been undergoing a huge expansion in its accuracy, a tremendous improvement in its detection ability.

It's now called Advanced LIGO as a result. 

In early September of 2015, LIGO turned on for a final test run while they sorted out a few lingering details.

And on September 14 of 2015, just days after the detector had gone live, the gravitational waves from those colliding black holes passed through the Earth.

And they passed through you and me.

And they passed through the detector. 

Allan Adams: So that's my very good friend and collaborator, Scott Hughes, a theoretical physicist at MIT, who has been studying gravitational waves from black holes and the signals that they could impart on observatories like LIGO, for the past 23 years. 

So let me take a moment to tell you what I mean by a gravitational wave.

A gravitational wave is a ripple in the shape of space and time.

As the wave passes by, it stretches space and everything in it in one direction, and compresses it in the other.

So the trouble with gravitational waves is that they're very weak; they're preposterously weak.

That's a decimal place, 20 zeroes, and a one.

That's why everyone thought the LIGO people were nuts.

Even with a laser detector five kilometers long -- and that's already crazy -- they would have to measure the length of those detectors to less than one thousandth of the radius of the nucleus of an atom.

And that's preposterous. 

Now, coming back to LIGO, Scott likes to say that LIGO acts like an ear more than it does like an eye.

I want to explain what that means.

And that's really useful, because it lets you make an image or a map of the things around you, by looking at the light coming from different spots in the scene about you. 

Audible sound has a wavelength that can be up to 50 feet long.

And that makes it really difficult -- in fact, in practical purposes, impossible -- to make an image of something you really care about.

Your child's face.

So, the same is true of gravitational waves.

We can't use them to make simple images of things out in the Universe.

But by listening to changes in the amplitude and frequency of those waves, we can hear the story that those waves are telling.

And at least for LIGO, the frequencies that it can hear are in the audio band.

So if we convert the wave patterns into pressure waves and air, into sound, we can literally hear the Universe speaking to us.

For example, listening to gravity, just in this way, can tell us a lot about the collision of two black holes, something my colleague Scott has spent an awful lot of time thinking about. 

AA: So on September 14, 2015, a date that's definitely going to live in my memory, LIGO heard this: 

(Audio) SH: ... two black holes, each of about 30 solar masses, that were whirling around at a rate comparable to what goes on in your blender. 

AA: It's worth pausing here to think about what that means.

Two black holes, the densest thing in the Universe, one with a mass of 29 Suns and one with a mass of 36 Suns, whirling around each other 100 times per second before they collide.

Just imagine the power of that.

It's fantastic.

And we know it because we heard it. 

That's the lasting importance of LIGO.

It's an entirely new way to observe the Universe that we've never had before.

It's a way that lets us hear the Universe and hear the invisible. 

And there's a lot out there that we can't see -- in practice or even in principle.

So supernova, for example: I would love to know why very massive stars explode in supernovae.

Gravitational waves go through iron as if it were glass -- totally transparent.

The Big Bang: I would love to be able to explore the first few moments of the Universe, but we'll never see them, because the Big Bang itself is obscured by its own afterglow.

With gravitational waves, we should be able to see all the way back to the beginning.

Perhaps most importantly, I'm positive that there are things out there that we've never seen that we may never be able to see and that we haven't even imagined -- things that we'll only discover by listening. 

And in fact, even in that very first event, LIGO found things that we didn't expect.

Here's my colleague and one of the key members of the LIGO collaboration, Matt Evans, my colleague at MIT, addressing exactly that: 

AA: Our challenge now is to be as audacious as possible.

Thanks to LIGO, we know how to build exquisite detectors that can listen to the Universe, to the rustle and the chirp of the cosmos.

Our job is to dream up and build new observatories -- a whole new generation of observatories -- on the ground, in space.

I mean, what could be more glorious than listening to the Big Bang itself?

Our job now is to dream big.

Dream with us. 

Thank you. 

