I am a writer.

Writing books is my profession but it's more than that, of course.

It is also my great lifelong love and fascination.

And I don't expect that that's ever going to change.

But, that said, something kind of peculiar has happened recently in my life and in my career, which has caused me to have to recalibrate my whole relationship with this work.

And the peculiar thing is that I recently wrote this book, this memoir called "Eat, Pray, Love" which, decidedly unlike any of my previous books, went out in the world for some reason, and became this big, mega-sensation, international bestseller thing.

The result of which is that everywhere I go now, people treat me like I'm doomed.

So that's reassuring, you know.

And I always have been.

And what is it specifically about creative ventures that seems to make us really nervous about each other's mental health in a way that other careers kind of don't do, you know?

"That chemical-engineering block, John, how's it going?"

It just didn't come up like that, you know?

But to be fair, chemical engineers as a group haven't really earned a reputation over the centuries for being alcoholic manic-depressives. 

And all you have to do is look at the very grim death count in the 20th century alone, of really magnificent creative minds who died young and often at their own hands, you know?

And even the ones who didn't literally commit suicide seem to be really undone by their gifts, you know.

Norman Mailer, just before he died, last interview, he said, "Every one of my books has killed me a little more."

An extraordinary statement to make about your life's work.

And the question that I want to ask everybody here today is are you guys all cool with that idea?

Are you comfortable with that?

I think it's odious.

And I definitely know that, in my case -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous for me to start sort of leaking down that dark path of assumption, particularly given the circumstance that I'm in right now in my career.

So Jesus, what a thought!

And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome.

People believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source, for distant and unknowable reasons.

The Greeks famously called these divine attendant spirits of creativity "daemons."

The Romans had the same idea, but they called that sort of disembodied creative spirit a genius.

Which is great, because the Romans did not actually think that a genius was a particularly clever individual.

They believed that a genius was this, sort of magical divine entity, who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist's studio, kind of like Dobby the house elf, and who would come out and sort of invisibly assist the artist with their work and would shape the outcome of that work. 

So brilliant -- there it is, right there, that distance that I'm talking about -- that psychological construct to protect you from the results of your work.

And everyone knew that this is how it functioned, right?

If your work bombed, not entirely your fault, you know?

And I got to tell you, I think that was a huge error.

You know, I think that allowing somebody, one mere person to believe that he or she is like, the vessel, you know, like the font and the essence and the source of all divine, creative, unknowable, eternal mystery is just a smidge too much responsibility to put on one fragile, human psyche.

It's like asking somebody to swallow the sun.

It just completely warps and distorts egos, and it creates all these unmanageable expectations about performance.

And I think the pressure of that has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years. 

And, if this is true, and I think it is true, the question becomes, what now?

Can we do this differently?

Maybe go back to some more ancient understanding about the relationship between humans and the creative mystery.

Maybe not.

Maybe we can't just erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought in one 18 minute speech.

And there's probably people in this audience who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions about the notion of, basically, fairies who follow people around rubbing fairy juice on their projects and stuff.

I'm not, probably, going to bring you all along with me on this. 

But the question that I kind of want to pose is -- you know, why not?

Why not think about it this way?

Because it makes as much sense as anything else I have ever heard in terms of explaining the utter maddening capriciousness of the creative process.

A process which, as anybody who has ever tried to make something -- which is to say basically everyone here --- knows does not always behave rationally.

And, in fact, can sometimes feel downright paranormal. 

And she said it was like a thunderous train of air.

And in these instances, the poem would come up on the page perfect and intact but backwards, from the last word to the first. 

So when I heard that I was like -- that's uncanny, that's exactly what my creative process is like. 

And what is that thing?

And how are we to relate to it in a way that will not make us lose our minds, but, in fact, might actually keep us sane? 

And his whole work process changed after that.

But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air and I tried it.

Because -- 

(Applause) 

Curious historical footnote: when the Moors invaded southern Spain, they took this custom with them and the pronunciation changed over the centuries from "Allah, Allah, Allah," to "Olé, olé, olé," which you still hear in bullfights and in flamenco dances.

This is hard.

This is one of the most painful reconciliations to make in a creative life.

But maybe it doesn't have to be quite so full of anguish if you never happened to believe, in the first place, that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

