I wrote a letter last week talking about the work of the foundation, sharing some of the problems.

That is, the market does not drive the scientists, the communicators, the thinkers, the governments to do the right things.

And only by paying attention to these things and having brilliant people who care and draw other people in can we make as much progress as we need to. 

So this morning I'm going to share two of these problems and talk about where they stand.

But before I dive into those I want to admit that I am an optimist.

Any tough problem, I think it can be solved.

And part of the reason I feel that way is looking at the past.

Over the past century, average lifespan has more than doubled.

Another statistic, perhaps my favorite, is to look at childhood deaths.

It's a phenomenal thing.

Each one of those lives matters a lot. 

So we really can make changes.

The next breakthrough is to cut that 10 million in half again.

Well, what's the history of this disease?

It's been a severe disease for thousands of years.

So it was absolutely gigantic.

So it was everywhere.

And two tools helped bring the death rate down.

And so that's why the death rate did come down. 

And more recently you can see it's just around the equator. 

(Laughter) And rich men are afflicted.

And so that's why that priority has been set. 

But, malaria -- even the million deaths a year caused by malaria greatly understate its impact.

Over 200 million people at any one time are suffering from it.

We'll let those roam around the auditorium a little bit.

(Laughter) There's no reason only poor people should have the experience.

(Laughter) (Applause) Those mosquitos are not infected. 

And bed nets are a great tool.

What it means is the mother and child stay under the bed net at night, so the mosquitos that bite late at night can't get at them.

And when you use indoor spraying with DDT and those nets you can cut deaths by over 50 percent.

And that's happened now in a number of countries.

It's great to see. 

So every tool that we've ever had in the past has eventually become ineffective.

And so you end up with two choices.

If you go into a country with the right tools and the right way, you do it vigorously, you can actually get a local eradication.

And that's where we saw the malaria map shrinking.

Now we're on the upswing.

Bed net funding is up.

There's new drug discovery going on.

Our foundation has backed a vaccine that's going into phase three trial that starts in a couple months.

And that should save over two thirds of the lives if it's effective.

So we're going to have these new tools. 

But that alone doesn't give us the road map.

Because the road map to get rid of this disease involves many things.

Of course we need drug companies to give us their expertise.

We need rich-world governments to be very generous in providing aid for these things.

And this is: How do you make a teacher great?

And the answer is, really, that we don't.

Let's start with why this is important.

Well, all of us here, I'll bet, had some great teachers.

We all had a wonderful education.

That's part of the reason we're here today, part of the reason we're successful.

I can say that, even though I'm a college drop-out.

I had great teachers. 

In fact, in the United States, the teaching system has worked fairly well.

There are fairly effective teachers in a narrow set of places.

So the top 20 percent of students have gotten a good education.

And we have to change this.

We have to change it so that people have equal opportunity.

Over 30 percent of kids never finish high school.

Because they weren't tracking where the kids were before that.

But most of the dropouts had taken place before that.

For minority kids, it's over 50 percent.

And even if you graduate from high school, if you're low-income, you have less than a 25 percent chance of ever completing a college degree.

If you're low-income in the United States, you have a higher chance of going to jail than you do of getting a four-year degree.

And that doesn't seem entirely fair. 

Now, our foundation, for the last nine years, has invested in this.

There's many people working on it.

We've worked on small schools, we've funded scholarships, we've done things in libraries.

A lot of these things had a good effect.

And the answer is that these variations are absolutely unbelievable.

A top quartile teacher will increase the performance of their class -- based on test scores -- by over 10 percent in a single year.

What does that mean?

That means that if the entire U.S., for two years, had top quartile teachers, the entire difference between us and Asia would go away.

Within four years we would be blowing everyone in the world away. 

What are the characteristics of this top quartile?

What do they look like?

You might think these must be very senior teachers.

And the answer is no.

One is seniority.

Because your pay goes up and you vest into your pension.

The second is giving extra money to people who get their master's degree.

But it in no way is associated with being a better teacher.

Teach for America: slight effect.

For math teachers majoring in math there's a measurable effect.

But, overwhelmingly, it's your past performance.

There are some people who are very good at this.

You might say, "Do the good teachers stay and the bad teacher's leave?"

The answer is, on average, the slightly better teachers leave the system.

And it's a system with very high turnover. 

Now, there are a few places -- very few -- where great teachers are being made.

A good example of one is a set of charter schools called KIPP.

KIPP means Knowledge Is Power.

They take the poorest kids, and over 96 percent of their high school graduates go to four-year colleges.

Everybody needs to be involved.

And so KIPP is doing it. 

How does that compare to a normal school?

Well, in a normal school, teachers aren't told how good they are.

The data isn't gathered.

Even a teacher who wants to improve doesn't have the tools to do it.

For example, New York passed a law that said that the teacher improvement data could not be made available and used in the tenure decision for the teachers.

And so that's sort of working in the opposite direction.

First of all, there's a lot more testing going on, and that's given us the picture of where we are.

And that allows us to understand who's doing it well, and call them out, and find out what those techniques are.

Of course, digital video is cheap now.

You can take the very best teachers and kind of annotate it, have it so everyone sees who is the very best at teaching this stuff. 

If you have a kid who's behind, you would know you could assign them that video to watch and review the concept.

And in fact, these free courses could not only be available just on the Internet, but you could make it so that DVDs were always available, and so anybody who has access to a DVD player can have the very best teachers.

And so by thinking of this as a personnel system, we can do it much better. 

And I thought it was so fantastic.

It gave you a sense of what a good teacher does.

But I -- I'm optimistic.

I only had time to frame those two problems.

And the skill sets required to tackle these things are very broad.

You know, the system doesn't naturally make it happen.

Governments don't naturally pick these things in the right way.

The private sector doesn't naturally put its resources into these things. 

And with that, I think there's some great things that will come out of it. 

