How can we investigate this flora of viruses that surround us, and aid medicine?

How can we turn our cumulative knowledge of virology into a simple, hand-held, single diagnostic assay?

I want to turn everything we know right now about detecting viruses and the spectrum of viruses that are out there into, let's say, a small chip. 

When we started thinking about this project -- how we would make a single diagnostic assay to screen for all pathogens simultaneously -- well, there's some problems with this idea.

First of all, viruses are pretty complex, but they're also evolving very fast.

This is just some stuff you can do on the computer from the desktop.

I took a bunch of these small picornaviruses, like the common cold, like polio and so on, and I just broke them down into small segments.

And so took this first example, which is called coxsackievirus, and just break it into small windows.

And I'm coloring these small windows blue if another virus shares an identical sequence in its genome to that virus.

Down here you can see slower evolution: less diversity. 

And so we can encapsulate these regions of ultra-conservation through evolution -- how these viruses evolved -- by just choosing DNA elements or RNA elements in these regions to represent on our chip as detection reagents. 

OK, so that's what we did, but how are we going to do that?

Well, for a long time, since I was in graduate school, I've been messing around making DNA chips -- that is, printing DNA on glass.

We took our chip over to Hewlett-Packard and used their atomic force microscope on one of these spots, and this is what you see: you can actually see the strands of DNA lying flat on the glass here.

OK, I make little robots in lab to make these chips, and I'm really big on disseminating technology.

Here's the section on the all-important emergency stop switch.

(Laughter) Every important machine's got to have a big red button.

But really, it's pretty robust.

(Laughter) 

And so what we did -- and this is a really cool project -- we just started by making a respiratory virus chip.

I talked about that -- you know, that situation where you go into the clinic and you don't get diagnosed?

Well, we just put basically all the human respiratory viruses on one chip, and we threw in herpes virus for good measure -- I mean, why not?

The first thing you do as a scientist is, you make sure stuff works.

And so what we did is, we take tissue culture cells and infect them with various viruses, and we take the stuff and fluorescently label the nucleic acid, the genetic material that comes out of these tissue culture cells -- mostly viral stuff -- and stick it on the array to see where it sticks.

Now, if the DNA sequences match, they'll stick together, and so we can look at spots.

And if spots light up, we know there's a certain virus in there. 

That's what one of these chips really looks like, and these red spots are, in fact, signals coming from the virus.

And each spot represents a different family of virus or species of virus.

And, likewise, we infected them with parainfluenza-3 -- that's a paramyxovirus -- and you see a little barcode here.

And then we did respiratory syncytial virus.

That's the scourge of daycare centers everywhere -- it's like boogeremia, basically.

(Laughter) You can see that this barcode is the same family, but it's distinct from parainfluenza-3, which gives you a very bad cold.

And so we're getting unique signatures, a fingerprint for each virus.

Polio and rhino: they're in the same family, very close to each other.

And Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus gives a nice signature down here.

And so it is not any one stripe or something that tells me I have a virus of a particular type here; it's the barcode that in bulk represents the whole thing. 

How do I know which rhinovirus I have?

And so, here are four different rhinoviruses, and you can see, even with your eye, without any fancy computer pattern-matching recognition software algorithms, that you can distinguish each one of these barcodes from each other. 

We don't know what the sequence is; just pull them out of the field.

What about real people?

You can't control real people, as you probably know.

You have no idea what someone's going to cough into a cup, and it's probably really complex, right?

It could have lots of bacteria, it could have more than one virus, and it certainly has host genetic material.

So how do we deal with this?

And how do we do the positive control here? 

Well, it's pretty simple.

That's me, getting a nasal lavage.

And the idea is, let's experimentally inoculate people with virus.

Or, even better, let's just take people right out of the emergency room -- undefined, community-acquired respiratory tract infections.

You have no idea what walks in through the door.

So, let's start off with the positive control first, where we know the person was healthy.

Day two: we get a very robust rhinovirus pattern, and it's very similar to what we get in the lab doing our tissue culture experiment.

So, how about the people who walk in off the street? 

Here are two individuals represented by their anonymous ID codes.

They both have rhinoviruses; we've never seen this pattern in lab.

We sequenced part of their viruses; they're new rhinoviruses no one's actually even seen.

These different blocks represent the different viruses in this paramyxovirus family, so you can kind of go down the blocks and see where the signal is.

Well, doesn't have canine distemper; that's probably good.

So, that's great.

Here's another individual, sampled on two separate days -- repeat visits to the clinic.

This individual has parainfluenza-1, and you can see that there's a little stripe over here for Sendai virus: that's mouse parainfluenza.

So, we built out the chip.

Well, first of all, when you have a big chip like this, you need a little bit more informatics, so we designed the system to do automatic diagnosis.

And this is what this looks like.

If, for example, you used a cell culture that's chronically infected with papilloma, you get a little computer readout here, and our algorithm says it's probably papilloma type 18.

And that is, in fact, what these particular cell cultures are chronically infected with. 

So let's do something a little bit harder.

We put the beeper in the clinic.

When somebody shows up, and the hospital doesn't know what to do because they can't diagnose it, they call us.

That's the idea, and we're setting this up in the Bay Area.

And so, this case report happened three weeks ago.

We have a 28-year-old healthy woman, no travel history, [unclear], doesn't smoke, doesn't drink.

10-day history of fevers, night sweats, bloody sputum -- she's coughing up blood -- muscle pain.

They did a CT scan.

A normal lung is all sort of dark and black here.

All this white stuff -- it's not good.

They had to intubate her, so they put a tube down her throat and they began to mechanically ventilate her.

And on day six, they basically threw in the towel.

You do an open lung biopsy when you've got no other options.

There's an eight percent mortality rate with just doing this procedure, and so basically -- and what do they learn from it?

You're looking at her open lung biopsy.

And I'm no pathologist, but you can't tell much from this.

All you can tell is, there's a lot of swelling: bronchiolitis.

It was "unrevealing": that's the pathologist's report.

And so, what did they test her for?

Everything came back negative, over 100,000 dollars worth of tests.

I mean, they went to the max for this woman. 

And basically on hospital day eight, that's when they called us.

In fact, it's not even really sequenced that much.

There's just a little bit of it sequenced.

There's almost no epidemiology or studies on it.

Clearly, we have a case of a healthy person that's going down. 

OK, that's one case report.

For maybe about 10 percent of prostate cancer, there are folks that are predisposed to it.

It doesn't make sense -- unless, maybe, there's a virus?"

So, we put tumors --- and now we have over 100 tumors -- on our array.

And we know who's got defects in RNASEL and who doesn't.

And I'm showing you the signal from the chip here, and I'm showing you for the block of retroviral oligos.

So, we clone the whole virus.

First of all, I'll tell you that a little automated prediction told us it was very similar to a mouse virus.

But that doesn't tell us too much, so we actually clone the whole thing.

And the viral genome I'm showing you right here?

It's a classic gamma retrovirus, but it's totally new; no one's ever seen it before.

And this is a little phylogenetic tree to see how it's related to other viruses.

We've done it for many patients now, and we can say that they're all independent infections.

We take slices of these biopsies of tumor tissue and use material to actually locate the virus, and we find cells here with viral particles in them.

These guys really do have this virus. 

But now it's a door.

We have a strong association between the presence of this virus and a genetic mutation that's been linked to cancer.

That's where we're at.

This was all done by folks in the lab -- I cannot take credit for most of this.

This is a collaboration between myself and Don.

