So, I want to start out with this beautiful picture from my childhood.

I love the science fiction movies.

Here it is: "This Island Earth."

And leave it to Hollywood to get it just right.

Two-and-a-half years in the making.

(Laughter) I mean, even the creationists give us 6,000, but Hollywood goes to the chase.

Every world has an alien, and every alien world has a flying saucer, and they move about with great speed.

If you go back two billion years, you're not on an Earth-like planet any more.

What we call an Earth-like planet is actually a very short interval of time. 

Well, "Rare Earth" actually taught me an awful lot about meeting the public.

Right after, I got an invitation to go to a science fiction convention, and with all great earnestness walked in.

David Brin was going to debate me on this, and as I walked in, the crowd of a hundred started booing lustily.

I had a girl who came up who said, "My dad says you're the devil."

You cannot take people's aliens away from them and expect to be anybody's friends.

I really applaud the SETI efforts, but we have not heard anything yet.

And I really do think we have to start thinking about what's a good planet and what isn't. 

Well, we know from astrobiology that we can really now predict what's going to happen to our particular planet.

In the Cambrian explosion, life emerged from the swamps, complexity arose, and from what we can tell, we're halfway through.

And that will happen, paradoxically -- everything you hear about global warming -- when we hit CO2 down to 10 parts per million, we are no longer going to have to have plants that are allowed to have any photosynthesis, and there go animals.

So, a planet like us is going to have an age and an old age, and we are in its golden summer age right now. 

But there's two fates to everything, isn't there?

And that's the fate of a planet, too.

Earth, if we're lucky enough -- if it doesn't get hit by a Hale-Bopp, or gets blasted by some supernova nearby in the next seven billion years -- we'll find under your feet.

But what about accidental death?

How long did it take to go from one system to the next?

And what they found was something unexpected.

Now, in this slide the white is chalk, and this chalk was deposited in a warm ocean.

Well, there are five major mass extinctions over the last 500 million years, called the Big Five.

And every one of these has been subsequently blamed on large-body impact.

But is this true? 

Because it looks like those terrible geodesic domes of my late beloved '60s, they're called "buckyballs."

This evidence was used to suggest that at the end of the Permian, 250 million years ago, a comet hit us.

And when the comet hits, the pressure produces the buckyballs, and it captures bits of the comet.

Helium-3: very rare on the surface of the Earth, very common in space. 

But is this true?

In 1990, working on the K-T extinction for 10 years, I moved to South Africa to begin work twice a year in the great Karoo desert.

I was so lucky to watch the change of that South Africa into the new South Africa as I went year by year.

And I worked on this Permian extinction, camping by this Boer graveyard for months at a time.

And the fossils are extraordinary.

You know, you're gazing upon your very distant ancestors.

This is the top carnivore, the T-Rex of its time.

But there's lots of stuff.

This is my poor son, Patrick.

(Laughter) 

There was big stuff back then.

Fifty-five species of mammal-like reptiles.

You can see the eye socket and you can see the little teeth in the front.

If that does not survive, I'm not the thing giving this talk.

Something else is, because if that doesn't survive, we are not here; there are no mammals.

Well, can we say anything about the pattern of who survives and who doesn't?

Warm-blooded animals take a huge hit at this time.

So, if not impact, what?

They hate we animals.

They really want their world back.

And they've tried over and over and over again.

Hydrogen sulfide is very fatal to we humans.

As small as 200 parts per million will kill you.

You only have to go to the Black Sea and a few other places -- some lakes -- and get down, and you'll find that the water itself turns purple.

And the last three years have seen an enormous breakthrough in a brand-new field.

It's because lipids are so tough, they can get preserved in sediment and last the hundreds of millions of years necessary, and be extracted and tell us who was there. 

Well, what's the source of this?

This is when deep-Earth material comes to the surface, spreads out over the surface of the planet.

We are at 380 and climbing.

So, there goes the ice caps, and there comes 240 feet of sea level rise.

I live in a view house now; I'm going to have waterfront. 

We had these hydrogen sulfide oceans for a very great long period.

They stop complex life from existing.

We know hydrogen sulfide is erupting presently a few places on the planet.

Well now, I die.

And we can now use this as what I think will be a major medical breakthrough. 

He bleeds out pigs.

"I believe we are seeing in this response the result of mammals and reptiles having undergone a series of exposures to H2S."

I got this email from him two years ago; he said, "I think I've got an answer to some of your questions."

On the top, now, that is a temperature record of a mouse who has gone through -- the dotted line, the temperatures.

So, the temperature starts at 25 centigrade, and down it goes, down it goes.

Six hours later, up goes the temperature.

Its temperature drops.

Here is a way we can get people to critical care.

Here's how we can bring people cold enough to last till we get critical care.

Now, you're all thinking, yeah, what about the brain tissue?

What are you going to do?

Do we all have to have a little button saying, Let me die?

But there's a far worse danger confronting us.

We can easily go back to the hydrogen sulfide world.

How many of us flew here?

We have a huge problem facing us as a species.

We have to beat this.

Peter Ward: Yeah, every single cell in us can produce minute quantities of hydrogen sulfide in great crises.

This is what Roth has found out.

So, what we're looking at now: does it leave a signal?

Does it leave a signal in bone or in plant?

And we go back to the fossil record and we could try to detect how many of these have happened in the past. 

PW: Blessing and curse. 

