Now, that was before cassette tapes, C.D.s, DVDs -- any of the cool stuff we've got now.

And it was an arm that, instead of hinging and pivoting as it went across the record, went straight: a radial, linear tracking tone arm.

And it was the hardest invention I ever made, but it got me started, and I got really lucky after that. 

Golly, I'm just totally losing it.

My 44th patent; about the 15th invention.

I call this hypersonic sound.

Hasn't changed that much.

Light came out of it in every direction.

You turn on the loudspeaker, and after almost 80 years of having those gadgets, the sound just kind of goes where it wants.

Even when you're standing in front of a megaphone, it's pretty much every direction.

A little bit of differential, but not much.

Now, after almost 80 years of having sound, I thought it was about time that we figure out a way to put sound where you want to.

I have a couple of units.

What if I could aim sound the way I aim light? 

I got this waterfall I recorded in my back yard.

Now, you're not going to hear a thing unless it hits you.

Maybe if I hit the side wall it will bounce around the room.

(Applause) Because I have some limited time, I'll cut it off for a second, and tell you about how it works and what it's good for. 

Course, like light, it's great to be able to put sound to highlight a clothing rack, or the cornflakes, or the toothpaste, or a talking plaque in a movie theater lobby.

Sony's got an idea -- Sony's our biggest customers right now.

They tried this back in the '60s and were too smart, and so they gave up.

But they want to use it -- seriously.

There's a mix an inventor has to have.

We're just starting to really discover the laws of nature and science and physics.

And this is, I hope, a little piece of it. 

A hundred and fifty-one million people every day stand in the line at the supermarket.

And, you know, if the sound isn't there, the sale typically isn't made.

And hopefully they'll be sensitive that they don't want to offend you with just one more outlet.

But what's great about it, from the tests that have been done, is, if you don't want to hear it, you take about one step to the side and you don't hear it.

So, we create silence as much as we create sound.

We're also working on noise canceling things like snoring, noise from automobiles. 

They have literally beat a path to our door.

We've been selling it since about last September, October, and it's been immensely gratifying.

If you're interested in what it costs -- I'm not selling them today -- but this unit, with the electronics and everything, if you buy one, is around a thousand bucks.

We expect by this time next year, it'll be hundreds, a few hundred bucks, to buy it.

It's not any more pricey than regular electronics. 

Now, when I played it for you, you didn't hear the thunderous bass.

This unit that I played goes from about 200 hertz to above the range of hearing.

And the sound that you're hearing, unlike a regular speaker on which all the sound is made on the face, is made out in front of it, in the air.

The air is not linear, as we've always been taught.

It changes with temperature and with barometric pressure. 

All of audio as we know it is an attempt to be more and more perfectly linear.

Linearity means higher quality sound.

An effect happens in the air, it's a corrupting effect of the sound -- the ultrasound in this case -- that's emitted, but it's so predictable that you can produce very precise audio out of that effect. 

Now, the question is, where's the sound made?

I can put it so that one ear hears one speaker, the other ear hears the other.

When you listen to stereo on your home system, your both ears hear both speakers.

Turn on the left speaker sometime and notice you're hearing it also in your right ear.

That means you go to a rock concert or a symphony, and the guy in the front row gets the same level as the guy in the back row, now, all of a sudden.

Isn't that terrific? 

Actually, I haven't had breakfast yet.

It also works for transmitting and communicating data.

It also works five times better underwater. 

(Laughter) Or you can whisper in the ear of a supposed terrorist some Biblical verse.

(Laughter) I'm serious.

And so, another way of hopefully determining who's friendly and who isn't.

We make a version with this which puts out 155 decibels.

Pain is 120.

So it allows you to go nearly a mile away and communicate with people, and there can be a public beach just off to the side, and they don't even know it's turned on.

We sell those to the military presently for about 70,000 dollars, and they're buying them as fast as we can make them.

We put it on a turret with a camera, so that when they shoot at you, you're over there, and it's there. 

I have a bunch of other inventions.

I invented a plasma antenna, to shift gears.

So, I've been really lucky as an inventor.

I'm the happiest guy you're ever going to meet.

I usually figure out what my talk is when I get up in front of a group. 

Can never tell if it's on.

If you haven't heard it, raise your hand.

Getting it over there?

Get the cameraman.

Yeah, there you go.

I've got a Coke can opening that's right in your head; that's really cool.

Thank you once again.

Appreciate it very much. 

