What have I heard during these last four days?

One of the most impressive things about what some, perhaps 10, of the speakers have been talking about is the realization, as you listen to them carefully, that they're not saying: Well, this is what we should do; this is what I would like you to do.

It's the old concept, the real Greek concept, of philanthropy in its original sense: phil-anthropy, the love of humankind. 

And the only explanation I can have for some of what you've been hearing in the last four days is that it arises, in fact, out of a form of love.

And this gives me enormous hope.

And hope, of course, is the topic that I'm supposed to be speaking about, which I'd completely forgotten about until I arrived.

And, of course, that makes sense, because hope is an abstract phenomenon; it's an abstract idea, it's not a concrete word. 

Well, it reminds me a little bit of surgery.

If there's one operation for a disease, you know it works.

If there are 15 operations, you know that none of them work.

And that's the way it is with definitions of words.

If you have appendicitis, they take your appendix out, and you're cured.

They all come down to the idea of an expectation of something good that is due to happen.

And you know what I found out?

But what it means in the original Indo-European is a change in direction, going in a different way. 

And I find that very interesting and very provocative, because what you've been hearing in the last couple of days is the sense of going in different directions: directions that are specific and unique to problems.

I wasn't sure I heard it right, so I found him in one of the inter-sessions.

He was talking to a very large man, but I didn't care.

And by the human spirit, I don't mean anything divine, I don't mean anything supernatural -- certainly not coming from this skeptic.

Some of you have felt it in laboratories; some of you have felt it at the workbench.

We feel it at concerts.

I've felt it in the operating room, at the bedside.

It is an elevation of us beyond ourselves.

And I think that it's going to be, in time, the elements of the human spirit that we've been hearing about bit by bit by bit from so many of the speakers in the last few days.

And if there's anything that has permeated this room, it is precisely that. 

Now, it's about five, six, seven, eight pages long, and it gets kind of deep and difficult after about the third page, but somewhere on the second page he begins talking about the notion that he calls "moral imagination."

And here's what he says, roughly translated: A man -- generic man -- a man, to be greatly good, must imagine clearly.

He must see himself and the world through the eyes of another, and of many others.

See himself and the world -- not just the world, but see himself. 

What is it that they have every right to ask of us?

There has certainly been no argument about that in this room in the past four days. 

So, if we are to be the world's healer, every disadvantaged person in this world -- including in the United States -- becomes our patient.

Every disadvantaged nation, and perhaps our own nation, becomes our patient.

So, it's fun to think about the etymology of the word "patient."

It comes initially from the Latin patior, to endure, or to suffer.

So, you go back to the old Indo-European root again, and what do you find?

But beyond our compassion, and far greater than compassion, is our moral imagination and our identification with each individual who lives in that world, not to think of them as a huge forest, but as individual trees.

Of course, in this day and age, the trick is not to let each tree be obscured by that Bush in Washington that can get -- can get in the way.

(Laughter) So, here we are.

We are, should be, morally committed to being the healer of the world.

And we have had examples over and over and over again -- you've just heard one in the last 15 minutes -- of people who have not only had that commitment, but had the charisma, the brilliance -- and I think in this room it's easy to use the word brilliant, my God -- the brilliance to succeed at least at the beginning of their quest, and who no doubt will continue to succeed, as long as more and more of us enlist ourselves in their cause. 

Now, if we're talking about medicine, and we're talking about healing, I'd like to quote someone who hasn't been quoted.

I would like to quote one of my own household gods.

And I'll read you what it is.

