In this case, it was picking up bones and creating a tool, using it as a tool, which meant that apes just, sort of, running around and eating and doing each other figured out they can make things if they used a tool.

And that moved us to the next level. 

And, you know, we in the last 30 years in particular have seen this acceleration in knowledge and technology, and technology has bred more knowledge and given us tools.

And we've seen many seminal moments.

Then we go along and create the Internet and connect the world together; we flatten the world. 

I thought I'd take a moment to tell you what a genome is.

People never want to say, I really don't understand.

A genome is really a description for all of the DNA that is in a living organism.

And one thing that is common to all of life is DNA.

It doesn't matter whether you're a yeast; it doesn't matter whether you're a mouse; doesn't matter whether you're a fly; we all have DNA.

The DNA is organized in words, call them: genes and chromosomes. 

There is a historical archive. 

Living in your genome is the history of our species, and you as an individual human being, where you're from, going back thousands and thousands and thousands of years, and that's now starting to be understood.

DNA is a very elegant molecule.

And you would, you know, when you think about it, four letters, or the representation of four things, makes us work. 

Everything that happens in digital is converted, or a representation, of a one and a zero.

So, when you're listening to iTunes and your favorite music, that's really just a bunch of ones and zeros playing very quickly.

And look at all the complex things and wonderful things we've been able to create with just a one and a zero. 

Well, now you ramp that up to four, and you have a lot of complexity, a lot of ways to describe mechanisms.

So, let's talk about what that means.

And they mix up in all different fashions, and that makes you a human being.

If you convert that to binary, just to give you a little bit of sizing, we're actually smaller than the program Microsoft Office.

It's not really all that much data.

(Laughter) 

When you get sick, it is a bug in your genome.

We are starting to understand that. 

But if you really understand why does a cell go from normal cell to cancer?

What is the code?

What are the exact instructions that are making it do that?

then you can go about the process of trying to fix it and figure it out.

So, for your next dinner over a great bottle of wine, here's a few factoids for you. 

We actually have about 24,000 genes that do things.

You might also be interested in knowing that a mouse has about the same amount of genes. 

It is one one-hundredth of one percent of genetic material that makes the difference between any one of us.

That's a tiny amount of material, but the way that ultimately expresses itself is what makes changes in humans and in all species. 

So, we are now able to read genomes.

The first human genome took 10 years, three billion dollars.

It was done by Dr. Craig Venter.

And then James Watson's -- one of the co-founders of DNA -- genome was done for two million dollars, and in just two months.

And when you buy medicine, you won't be buying a drug that's used for everybody.

All those side effects, you know, oily residue and, you know, whatever they say in those commercials: forget about that.

They're going to make all that stuff go away. 

In a human being, down in here it could be: make blood cells, start cancer.

For my wife: eat three times as much and you never put on any weight.

So, you know, we now can learn the history of organisms. 

We can understand, for example, why we create plaque in our arteries, what creates the starchiness inside of a grain, why does yeast metabolize sugar and produce carbon dioxide.

We can also look at, at a grander scale, what creates problems, what creates disease, and how we may be able to fix them.

Because we can understand this, we can fix them, make better organisms. 

Most importantly, what we're learning is that Nature has provided us a spectacular toolbox.

The toolbox exists.

An architect far better and smarter than us has given us that toolbox, and we now have the ability to use it.

We are now not just reading genomes; we are writing them. 

If you have a UTI, you've probably -- or ever had a UTI -- you've come in contact with this little bug.

Very simple -- only has about 246 genes -- but we were able to completely synthesize that genome.

Well, actually, you could do it the other way.

So, you know, by being able to write a genome and plug it into an organism, the software, if you will, changes the hardware.

And this is extremely profound. 

So, last year the French and Italians announced they got together and they went ahead and they sequenced Pinot Noir.

They now are understanding, and the work is going on, exactly how this plant works, and we have the capability to know, to read that entire code and understand how it ticks.

So, then what do you do?

(Laughter) 

We can build a better vine.

By the way, just so you know: you get stressed out about genetically modified organisms; there is not one single vine in this valley or anywhere that is not genetically modified.

(Laughter) 

We could produce better flavors and aromas.

You want a little more raspberry, a little more chocolate here or there?

But there's an ecosystem here.

In fact -- I'm sorry to inform you -- that inside of your digestive tract is about 10 pounds of microbes which you're circulating through your body quite a bit.

If you take a closer look at a root system, you will find there are many, many, many diverse microbial colonies.

You don't necessarily know with granularity exactly what organisms are providing what flavors and what characteristics.

We can start to figure that out.

We can figure out what the heck terroir is.

It's in there, waiting to be sequenced.

There are thousands of microbes there.

Are we now, if we engineer organisms, are we playing God?

(Laughter) 

I don't believe that chemicals are unnatural.

We reorganize things, we change them around, but we don't make anything unnatural. 

There are microbes out there that actually make gasoline, believe it or not.

There are microbes, you know -- go back to yeast.

Nature has put a set of rules out there.

If we could, would we?

And all I can tell you is, stay healthy for 20 years.

If you can stay healthy for 20 years, you'll see 150, maybe 300. 

Thank you. 

