I'm co-founder and senior columnist at Worldchanging.com.

Alex Steffen and I founded Worldchanging in late 2003, and since then we and our growing global team of contributors have documented the ever-expanding variety of solutions that are out there, right now and on the near horizon. 

Our emphasis on solutions is quite intentional.

There are tons of places to go, online and off, if what you want to find is the latest bit of news about just how quickly our hell-bound handbasket is moving.

We want to offer people an idea of what they can do about it.

Moreover, I've come to realize that focusing only on negative outcomes can really blind you to the very possibility of success.

We have the knowledge, and our understanding of the planet improves every day.

(Laughter) The majority of models, tools and ideas on Worldchanging encompass combinations of these characteristics, so I want to give you a few concrete examples of how these principles combine in world-changing ways. 

We can see world-changing values in the emergence of tools to make the invisible visible -- that is, to make apparent the conditions of the world around us that would otherwise be largely imperceptible.

We know that people often change their behavior when they can see and understand the impact of their actions.

As a small example, many of us have experienced the change in driving behavior that comes from having a real time display of mileage showing precisely how one's driving habits affect the vehicle's efficiency.

The last few years have all seen the rise of innovations in how we measure and display aspects of the world that can be too big, or too intangible, or too slippery to grasp easily.

Simple technologies, like wall-mounted devices that display how much power your household is using, and what kind of results you'll get if you turn off a few lights -- these can actually have a direct positive impact on your energy footprint.

Community tools, like text messaging, that can tell you when pollen counts are up or smog levels are rising or a natural disaster is unfolding, can give you the information you need to act in a timely fashion.

Data-rich displays like maps of campaign contributions, or maps of the disappearing polar ice caps, allow us to better understand the context and the flow of processes that affect us all. 

We can see world-changing values in research projects that seek to meet the world's medical needs through open access to data and collaborative action.

Now, some people emphasize the risks of knowledge-enabled dangers, but I'm convinced that the benefits of knowledge-enabled solutions are far more important.

For example, open-access journals, like the Public Library of Science, make cutting-edge scientific research free to all -- everyone in the world.

And actually, a growing number of science publishers are adopting this model.

Last year, hundreds of volunteer biology and chemistry researchers around the world worked together to sequence the genome of the parasite responsible for some of the developing world's worst diseases: African sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis and Chagas disease.

That genome data can now be found on open-access genetic data banks around the world, and it's an enormous boon to researchers trying to come up with treatments.

But my favorite example has to be the global response to the SARS epidemic in 2003, 2004, which relied on worldwide access to the full gene sequence of the SARS virus.

The U.S. National Research Council in its follow-up report on the outbreak specifically cited this open availability of the sequence as a key reason why the treatment for SARS could be developed so quickly. 

And we can see world-changing values in something as humble as a cell phone.

In the developing world, mobile phones have become economic drivers.

A study last year showed a direct correlation between the growth of mobile phone use and subsequent GDP increases across Africa.

In Kenya, mobile phone minutes have actually become an alternative currency.

(Laughter) 

And it's just going to get more wild.

Pervasive, always-on networks, high quality sound and video, even devices made to be worn instead of carried in the pocket, will transform how we live on a scale that few really appreciate.

It's no exaggeration to say that the mobile phone may be among the world's most important technologies.

And in this rapidly evolving context, it's possible to imagine a world in which the mobile phone becomes something far more than a medium for social interaction. 

And I'm just incredibly happy to see the news that Witness is going to be opening up a Web portal to enable users of digital cameras and camera phones to send in their recordings over the Internet, rather than just hand-carrying the videotape.

Not only does this add a new and potentially safer avenue for documenting abuses, it opens up the program to the growing global digital generation. 

It would give everyday citizens a chance to play a role in the protection of the planet.

It would be, in essence, an "Earth Witness" project.

Now, just to be clear, in this talk I'm using the name "Earth Witness" as part of the scenario, simply as a shorthand, for what this imaginary project could aspire to, not to piggyback on the wonderful work of the Witness organization.

It could just as easily be called, "Environmental Transparency Project," "Smart Mobs for Natural Security" -- but Earth Witness is a lot easier to say. 

Now, many of the people who participate in Earth Witness would focus on ecological problems, human-caused or otherwise, especially environmental crimes and significant sources of greenhouse gases and emissions.

That's understandable and important.

We need better documentation of what's happening to the planet if we're ever going to have a chance of repairing the damage.

But the Earth Witness project wouldn't need to be limited to problems.

In the best Worldchanging tradition, it might also serve as a showcase for good ideas, successful projects and efforts to make a difference that deserve much more visibility.

And what makes this scenario particularly appealing to me is we could do it today.

The key components are already widely available.

Camera phones, of course, would be fundamental to the project.

And for a lot of us, they're as close as we have yet to always-on, widely available information tools.

We may not remember to bring our digital cameras with us wherever we go, but very few of us forget our phones.

You could even imagine a version of this scenario in which people actually build their own phones.

Over the course of last year, open-source hardware hackers have come up with multiple models for usable, Linux-based mobile phones, and the Earth Phone could spin off from this kind of project.

At the other end of the network, there'd be a server for people to send photos and messages to, accessible over the Web, combining a photo-sharing service, social networking platforms and a collaborative filtering system.

That's enough right there to start to build a compelling chronicle of what's now happening to our planet, but we could do more. 

An Earth Witness site could also serve as a collection spot for all sorts of data about conditions around the planet picked up by environmental sensors that attach to your cell phone.

It's hardly a stretch to imagine putting the same thing on a phone carried by a person.

Swedish firm Uppsala Biomedical, more seriously, makes a mobile phone add-on that can process blood tests in the field, uploading the data, displaying the results.

Even the Lawrence Livermore National Labs have gotten into the act, designing a prototype phone that has radiation sensors to find dirty bombs. 

Now, there's an enormous variety of tiny, inexpensive sensors on the market, and you can easily imagine someone putting together a phone that could measure temperature, CO2 or methane levels, the presence of some biotoxins -- potentially, in a few years, maybe even H5N1 avian flu virus.

You could see that some kind of system like this would actually be a really good fit with Larry Brilliant's InSTEDD project.

Now, all of this data could be tagged with geographic information and mashed up with online maps for easy viewing and analysis.

Earth Witness would take this further, linking what you see with what thousands or millions of other people see around the world. 

It's kind of exciting to think about what might be accomplished if something like this ever existed.

We'd have a far better -- far better knowledge of what's happening on our planet environmentally than could be gathered with satellites and a handful of government sensor nets alone.

This is a system that could put the next generation at the front lines of gathering environmental data.

And as we work to figure out ways to mitigate the worst effects of climate disruption, every little bit of information matters.

A system like Earth Witness would be a tool for all of us to participate in the improvement of our knowledge and, ultimately, the improvement of the planet itself. 

And as we say at Worldchanging, another world isn't just possible; another world is here.

