Did I want to try acting?

No, no, no, but yes, yes, yes. 

My fear of public speaking, my social anxiety, poof, gone.

It's amazing, the power of one word.

"Yes" changed my life.

"Yes" changed me.

as though she's a Southern waitress. 

And that yes was the beginning of a new way of life for my family.

Dream job.

No.

I'm a titan.

I make television, a great deal of television.

Dream job. 

I work a lot, very hard, and I love it. 

When I'm hard at work, when I'm deep in it, there is no other feeling.

There is some kind of shift inside me when the work gets good.

But the hum -- it wasn't until I started making television that I started working, working and making and building and creating and collaborating, that I discovered this thing, this buzz, this rush, this hum.

The hum is God's whisper right in my ear.

That's called the hum.

Or, maybe it's called being a workaholic. 

Maybe it's called genius.

Maybe it's called ego.

Maybe it's just fear of failure.

I don't know.

I just know that I'm not built for failure, and I just know that I love the hum.

I just know that I want to tell you I'm a titan, and I know that I don't want to question it. 

Am I nothing but that hum? 

And then the hum stopped.

Overworked, overused, overdone, burned out.

The hum stopped. 

They're baby titans.

They were 12, 3, and 1 when the hum stopped.

My hum was broken.

But there was no hum.

I was a titan you could take home to your mother.

All the colors were the same, and I was no longer having any fun.

And it was my life.

It was all I did.

I was the hum, and the hum was me.

So what do you do when the thing you do, the work you love, starts to taste like dust? 

Now, I know somebody's out there thinking, "Cry me a river, stupid writer titan lady."

What are you?

What am I?

Am I still a titan?

If the song of my heart ceases to play, can I survive in the silence? 

And I'm just about to say no, when I realize two things.

Nothing out of the ordinary. 

All that exists are sticky fingers and gooey kisses and tiny voices and crayons and that song about letting go of whatever it is that Frozen girl needs to let go of. 

It's all peace and simplicity.

The air is so rare in this place for me that I can barely breathe.

I can barely believe I'm breathing.

Play is the opposite of work.

And it's not instantaneous, but it happens, it does happen.

I feel it.

A hum creeps back.

Not the hum, but a hum. 

And now I feel like I know a very magical secret.

It's just something we forgot.

The hum is not power and the hum is not work-specific.

The hum is joy-specific.

The real hum is love-specific.

The hum is the electricity that comes from being excited by life.

The real hum is confidence and peace.

It's just love.

Any time my child asks me to play, I will say yes.

I don't like it.

I'm not interested in doing it the way I'm interested in doing work.

The truth is incredibly humbling and humiliating to face.

I don't like playing.

I work all the time because I like working.

I like working more than I like being at home.

Well, me.

And one of those issues isn't that I am too relaxed. 

I blow bubbles and they pop them.

And I feel stiff and delirious and confused most of the time.

I itch for my cell phone always.

I play and I play until I begin to wonder why we ever stop playing in the first place. 

Are you thinking that maybe I'm an idiot in diamond shoes?

You're right, but you can still do this.

You only need 15 minutes.

It's an amazing 15 minutes, but it's 15 minutes.

If I'm not a ladybug or a piece of candy, I'm invisible after 15 minutes. 

And my 13-year-old, if I can get a 13-year-old to talk to me for 15 minutes I'm Parent of the Year. 

Uninterrupted is the key.

It's about playing in general.

Give yourself the 15 minutes.

Find what makes you feel good.

Just figure it out and play in that arena. 

Turns out, nothing.

Work doesn't work without play. 

But now, I like that hum, but I don't love that hum.

The more I play, the happier I am, and the happier my kids are.

The more I play, the more I feel like a good mother.

I'm a writer, I make stuff up, I imagine.

That part of the job, that's living the dream.

That's the dream of the job.

Because a dream job should be a little bit dreamy. 

I said yes to less work and more play.

