My work is play.

And I realize I do both when I'm designing.

I'm both a kid and I'm gambling all the time.

And it's an essay I read 30 years ago.

Here is a letter of friendly advice. 

Be serious, it says.

What it means, of course, is, be solemn.

Being solemn is easy.

Being serious is hard.

Adults, on the whole, are solemn.

That's because it is hard for most people to recognize seriousness, which is rare, but more comfortable to endorse solemnity, which is commonplace.

Jogging, which is commonplace, and widely accepted as good for you, is solemn.

Poker is serious.

Washington, D.C. is solemn.

New York is serious.

Going to educational conferences to tell you anything about the future is solemn.

Taking a long walk by yourself, during which you devise a foolproof scheme for robbing Tiffany's, is serious. 

Now, when I apply Russell Baker's definition of solemnity or seriousness to design, it doesn't necessarily make any particular point about quality.

Solemn design is often important and very effective design.

Solemn design is also socially correct, and is accepted by appropriate audiences.

It's what right-thinking designers and all the clients are striving for.

Serious design, serious play, is something else.

For one thing, it often happens spontaneously, intuitively, accidentally or incidentally.

But mostly, it's achieved through all those kind of crazy parts of human behavior that don't really make any sense. 

Serious design is imperfect.

It's filled with the kind of craft laws that come from something being the first of its kind.

That's because the art of serious play is about invention, change, rebellion -- not perfection.

Perfection happens during solemn play.

Now, I always saw design careers like surreal staircases.

You sort of leap up very quickly in your youth.

And as you get older and more decrepit, you sort of inch along on this sort of depressing, long staircase, leading you into oblivion. 

I find it's actually getting really hard to be serious.

I'm hired to be solemn, but I find more and more that I'm solemn when I don't have to be.

And in my 35 years of working experience, I think I was really serious four times.

It's great to be a kid.

I thought everybody had a job like that.

And what -- the way I looked at design and the way I looked at the world was, what was going on around me and the things that came at the time I walked into design were the enemy.

I really, really, really hated the typeface Helvetica.

And when I was in my college days, this was the sort of design that was fashionable and popular.

So -- so, my goal in life was to do stuff that wasn't made out of Helvetica.

I mixed up Victorian designs with pop, and I mixed up Art Nouveau with something else.

I just hated Helvetica. 

By the end of the '70s, actually, the stuff became known.

I mean, these covers appeared all over the world, and they started winning awards, and people knew them.

And I was suddenly a post-modernist, and I began a career as -- in my own business.

I didn't do what I think was a piece of serious work again for about 14 years.

So, here was the second condition for which I think I accomplished some serious play.

There's a Paul Newman movie that I love called "The Verdict."

I don't know how many of you have seen it, but it's a beaut.

And that is a wonderful position to be in to create some serious play.

And I began getting immersed in this project in a way I never was before. 

This is what theater advertising looked like at that time.

This is what was in the newspapers and in the New York Times.

So, this is sort of a comment on the time.

And the Public Theater actually had much better advertising than this.

They had no logo and no identity, but they had these very iconic posters painted by Paul Davis.

So, drawing on my love of typography, I immersed myself into this project.

It enabled me to really express myself and grow.

I did these things, and I still do them.

I still work for the Public Theater.

I'm on their board, and I still am involved with it.

The high point of the Public Theater, I think, was in 1996, two years after I designed it, which was the "Bring in 'da Noise, Bring in 'da Funk" campaign that was all over New York.

But something happened to it, and what happened to it was, it became very popular.

Here's an ad in the New York Times somebody did for a play called "Mind Games."

Then "Chicago" came out, used similar graphics, and the Public Theater's identity was just totally eaten and taken away, which meant I had to change it.

The institutions are solemn, and so is the design.

They're better crafted than the Public Theater was, and they spend more money on them, but I think that that moment comes and goes.

The best way to accomplish serious design -- which I think we all have the opportunity to do -- is to be totally and completely unqualified for the job.

I'd never done this kind of work before.

I said, "Why can't the signage be on the floor?"

They integrated with the building in really peculiar ways.

They ran around corners, they went up sides of buildings, and they melded into the architecture.

And the architect, Jim Polshek, essentially gave me a canvas to play typography out on.

And it was serious play.

This is the children's museum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, made out of completely inexpensive materials.

Extruded typography that's backlit with neon.

I think my favorite of these was this little job in Newark, New Jersey.

It's a performing arts school.

By the time I did Bloomberg's headquarters my work had begun to become accepted.

People wanted it in big, expensive places.

And that began to make it solemn.

This is a current project in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where I got to be goofy.

A neighborhood has a thing -- it's got a landmark, it's got a place, it's got a restaurant.

And this is the bridge they're actually painting up and preparing as we speak.

It will change every six months, and it will become an art installation in the North Side of Pittsburgh, and it will probably become a landmark in the area. 

John Hockenberry told you a bit about my travail with Citibank, that is now a 10-year relationship, and I still work with them.

I drew the logo for Citibank on a napkin in the first meeting.

That was the play part of the job.

I thought I was going to go crazy at the end of this year.

As a matter of fact, they actually never bought onto the logo until Fallon put it on its very good "Live Richly" campaign, and then everybody accepted it all over the world. 

So during this time I needed some kind of counterbalance for this crazy, crazy existence of going to these long, idiotic meetings.

They would take me about six months initially, but then I started getting faster at it.

Here's the United States.

(Laughter) But what I liked about it was, I was controlling my own idiotic information, and I was creating my own palette of information, and I was totally and completely at play.

One of my favorites was this painting I did of Florida after the 2000 election that has the election results rolling around in the water.

I keep that for evidence. 

We started making prints from them.

This is Manhattan, one from the series.

This is a print from the United States which we did in red, white and blue.

We began doing these big silkscreen prints, and they started selling, too.

And then this funny thing happened.

I found that I was no longer at play.

Thank you very much. 

