And let's face it, everyone's trying to move towards whole grains.

We finally, after 40 years of knowing that wholegrain was a healthier option, we're finally getting to the point where we actually are tipping over and attempting to actually eat them. 

The challenge, though, for a wholegrain baker is, you know, how do you make it taste good?

Because whole grain -- it's easy with white flour to make a good-tasting bread.

With whole grain bread, you have other obstacles.

So, this is the challenge for this bread.

It starts to release the sugars trapped in the starch.

That's what enzymes are doing.

And so, if we can release some of those, they become accessible to us in our palate.

They become accessible to the yeast as food.

And this is what every student has to begin with.

But when they get hydrated and they bond to each other, they create a stronger molecule, a stronger protein we call gluten.

It's yeast burps and sweat.

That's called "rounding."

The final fermentation takes place in stage nine.

We call it "proofing."

Proofing means to prove that the dough is alive.

Three transformations take place in the oven.

The sugars in the dough caramelize in the crust.

Inside, the proteins -- this gluten -- coagulates.

And gelatinization is yet another oven transformation.

Coagulation, caramelization and gelatinization -- when the starch is thick and they absorb all the moisture that's around them, they -- they kind of swell, and then they burst.

There's a little carry-over baking.

And ultimately, the mystical or sometimes called the "anagogical" level.

It's hard to get to those levels unless you go through the literal.

And, like all grasses, at a certain point it puts out seeds.

And we harvest those seeds, and those are the wheat kernels.

Now, in order to harvest it -- I mean, what's harvesting?

Now, at least with seeds we have the potential for future life.

And at that point, the wheat has suffered the ultimate indignity.

It's not only been killed, but it's been denied any potential for creating future life.

So we turn it into flour. 

So as I said, I think bread is a transformational food.

Not like hot water made cold, or cold water turned hot, but water boiled off and becoming steam.

That's a transformation, two different things.

I'd call that radical.

In stage one, we weigh it.

It's like clay.

You see, the baker, in this moment, has become, in a sense, sort of, the God of his dough, you know, and his dough, well, while it's not an intelligent life form, is now alive.

And while it's growing, all these literal transformations are taking place.

Bacteria is in there, eating the same sugars, turning them into acids.

In other words, personality and character's being developed in this dough under the watchful gaze of the baker.

And the baker's choices all along the way determine the outcome of the product.

A subtle change in temperature -- a subtle change in time -- it's all about a balancing act between time, temperature and ingredients.

And then we divide it, and this one big piece of dough is divided into smaller units, and each of those units are given shape by the baker.

But it's the thermal death point -- all life ceases there.

Second transformation, dead brought back to life.

Third transformation, alive to dead -- but dough to bread. 

Or another analogy would be, a caterpillar has been turned into a butterfly.

And it's what comes out of the oven that is what we call the staff of life.

It's so deeply embedded in our psyches that bread is used as a symbol for life.

It's used as a symbol for transformation.

So this is what I've learned from bread.

This is what bread has taught me in my journey.

And so this is, again, hopefully not only a healthy bread, but a bread that you will enjoy.

So, if I, kind of, break this bread, maybe we can share this now a little bit here.

I'll leave you with what I call the baker's blessing.

May your crust be crisp, and your bread always rise.

Thank you. 

