I think this is partially due to my father, who was blind.

It was a fact that he didn't make much of a fuss about, usually.

I thought this was a little strange at the time. 

What I didn't know at the time was that my father had actually been born with perfect eyesight.

Decades later, it turned out that the source of their blindness was most likely some sort of bacterial infection.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So, Dad started racking up all of these patents and gaining a reputation as a blind genius, rocket scientist, inventor.

So, he has four kids, right?

(Laughter) Which, incidentally, makes me the opposite of Dean Kamen, because I'm a comic book artist, son of an inventor, and he's an inventor, son of a comic book artist.

The funny thing is, Dad had a lot of faith in me.

Now, faith in things which cannot be seen, which cannot be proved, is not the sort of faith that I've ever really related to all that much.

But there's a middle ground, too.

And I think a lot of people in his day probably thought he was a bit of a kook.

Or Paul Baran, and his vision for packet switching.

Hardly anybody listened to him in his day.

So, three types of vision, right?

Vision based on what one cannot see: the vision of that unseen and unknowable.

The vision of that which has already been proven or can be ascertained.

And this third kind of vision, of something which can be, which may be, based on knowledge, but is as yet unproven.

What it comes down to, really, is four basic principles: learn from everyone, follow no one, watch for patterns, and work like hell.

I think these are the four principles that go into this.

And it's that third one, especially, where visions of the future begin to manifest themselves.

What's interesting is that this particular way of looking at the world, is, I think, only one of four different ways that manifest themselves in different fields of endeavor.

Another one which believes in the pure transparency of content.

And then another which emphasizes the authenticity of human experience -- and honesty, and rawness. 

And they reflect a dichotomy of art and delight on left and the right; tradition and revolution on the top and the bottom.

And if you go on the diagonal, you get content and form -- and then beauty and truth.

(Laughter) So -- so this was my nature.

So what does a "scientific mind" do in the arts?

So, the different elements of comics, like pictures and words, and the different symbols and everything in between that comics presents are all funneled through the single conduit of vision.

Also, to try to represent the texture of sound to capture its essential character through visuals.

And there's also a balance between the visible and the invisible in comics.

Also, another sense which comics' vision represents, and that's time.

Sequence is a very important aspect of comics.

Comics presents a kind of temporal map.

And you can see this same principle operating in these ancient versions of the same idea.

And so, what they would do is, they'd have these comic pages that resemble print comics pages, and they would introduce all this sound and motion.

The problem was, that if you go with this idea -- this basic idea that space equals time in comics -- what happens is that when you introduce sound and motion, which are temporal phenomena that can only be represented through time, then they break with that continuity of presentation. 

Interactivity was another thing.

There were hypertext comics.

The distance from Abraham Lincoln to a Lincoln penny, the Penny Marshall to the Marshall Plan to "Plan 9" to nine lives: it's all the same.

(Laughter) And -- but in comics, in comics, every aspect of the work, every element of the work has a spatial relationship to every other element at all times. 

(Laughter) And -- but in comics, in comics, every aspect of the work, every element of the work has a spatial relationship to every other element at all times. 

So the question was: was there any way to preserve that spatial relationship while still taking advantage of all of the things that digital had to offer us?

And I found my personal answer for this in those ancient comics that I was showing you.

It's a different shape, but other than that it's the same basic limitation.

And that's what I proposed: that perhaps we could create these comics on an infinite canvas: along the X axis and the Y axis and staircases.

We could do circular narratives that were literally circular.

We could do a turn in a story that was literally a turn.

Parallel narratives could be literally parallel.

I'm going to show you a couple now. 

This was an early collage comic by a fellow named Jason Lex.

And notice what's going on here.

Now, we're taking this basic idea of presenting comics in a visual medium, and then we're carrying it through all the way from beginning to end.

That's that entire comic you just saw is up on the screen right now.

But even though we're only experiencing it one piece at a time, that's just where the technology is right now.

I just want to get to the last panel.

(Laughter) There we go.

(Laughter) (Laughter) Just one more.

Talk about your infinite canvas.

It's by a guy named Daniel Merlin Goodbrey in Britain. 

Why is this important?

I think this is important because media, all media, provide us a window back into our world.

Now, it could be that motion pictures -- and eventually, virtual reality, or something equivalent to it -- some sort of immersive display, is going to provide us with our most efficient escape from the world that we're in.

That's why most people turn to storytelling, is to escape.

And when media evolve so that the identity of the media becomes increasingly unique.

And that's why I think this is important.

One of many reasons, but I've got to go now.

Thank you for having me. 

