I take about 5,000 photographs a year, and I thought that I would edit from these, and try to come up with some images that might be appropriate and interesting to you.

I'll use these sidewalks in Rio as an example.

A very common public design done in the '50s.

Wholly inconsistent with San Francisco or New York.

How did I get started in this business?

And since that time in Amsterdam, I spent an increasing amount of time in the cities, looking at design for common evidence of design that really isn't under so much of a designer's signature.

But there were lots of other things going on in this area: it was a kind of construction zone; a lot of buildings were going up.

And, approaching a building from a distance, you don't see too much; you get a little closer, and you arrive at a nice little composition that might remind you of a Mondrian or a Diebenkorn or something.

But to me it was an example of industrial materials with a little bit of colors and animation and a nice little still life -- kind of unintended piece of design.

Color can animate simple blocks, simple materials: walking in New York, I'll stop. 

I don't always know why I take photographs of things.

So, there's this sort of silent hand of design at work that I see in places that I go. 

Havana is a wonderful area.

And Cuba needs to be far more resourceful, because of the blockades and things, but a really wonderful playground. 

The extreme might be in Italy where, again, there's kind of some type of control over what's happening in the environment is very evident, even in the way that they sell and distribute periodicals.

I walk to work every day or ride my scooter, and I come down and park in this little spot.

And it reminded me that -- to keep in the present, to look out for these kinds of things. 

It gave me possibilities for wonder -- if maybe it's a yellow day in San Francisco, and we could all agree, and create some installations.

But it also reminded me of the power of pattern and repetition to make an effect in our mind.

And I don't know if there's a stronger kind of effect than pattern and the way it unites kind of disparate elements.

And at that moment, the sun came out, and through this perforated screen, a pattern was cast over these bodies and they kind of faded into the rear, and we left the restaurant kind of feeling O.K.

And I do think pattern has the capability of eradicating some of the most evil forces of society, such as bad form in restaurants, but quite seriously, it was a statement to me that one thing that you do, sort of, see is the aggressive nature of the industrial world has produced -- kind of, large masses of things, and when you -- in monoculture, and I think the preservation of diversity in culture is something that's important to us. 

Post-Second World War, the influence of the automobile has really been devastating in a lot of our cities.

A lot of urban areas have been converted into parking lots in a sort of indiscriminate use.

Cities are the place where we're most likely to encounter diversity and to mix with other people.

