What I thought I would talk about today is the transition from one mode of thinking about nature to another that's tracked by architecture.

In the 15th century, the decimal point was invented; architects stopped using fractions, and they had a new model of nature.

But what was important is, the Gothic moment in architecture was the first time that force and motion was thought of in terms of form. 

So, examples like Christopher Wren's King's Cross: you can see that the structural forces of the vaulting get articulated as lines, so you're really actually seeing the expression of structural force and form.

Much later, Robert Maillart's bridges, which optimize structural form with a calculus curvature almost like a parabola.

So, in all of these examples, structure is the determining force.

And as an architect, I've always found these kinds of systems very limiting, because I'm not interested in ideal forms and I'm not interested in optimizing to some perfect moment. 

So, what I thought I would bring up is another component that needs to be thought of, whenever you think about nature, and that's basically the invention of generic form in genetic evolution.

When I first saw this image, 10 years ago, I actually found it very strange and beautiful at the same time.

Beautiful, because it has symmetry.

So, the mutations reverted to symmetry.

So, symmetry wasn't the sign of order and organization -- which is what I was always understanding, and as is an architect -- symmetry was the absence of information.

So, this whole idea of natural form shifted at that moment from looking for ideal shapes to looking for a combination of information and generic form. 

To just talk for a minute about the digital mediums that we're using now and how they integrate calculus: the fact that they're calculus-based means that we don't have to think about dimension in terms of ideal units or discreet elements. 

So, in architecture we deal with big assemblies of components, so there might be up to, say, 50,000 pieces of material in this room you're sitting in right now that all need to get organized.

Now, typically you'd think that they would all be the same: like, the chairs you're sitting in would all be the same dimension.

The elements that make up the ceiling grid and the lighting, they're all losing their modular quality, and moving more and more to these infinitesimal dimensions.

That's because we're all using calculus tools for manufacturing and for design. 

Calculus is also a mathematics of curves.

So, even a straight line, defined with calculus, is a curve.

It's just a curve without inflection.

The intricacies of scale that come out of that -- you know, in the example of the nose to the face, there's a fractional part-to-whole idea.

This is a Korean church that we did in Queens.

Now, the only way we could design that, or possibly construct it, is by using a calculus-based definition of the form.

So the same space that appears to be a kind of closed volume, when seen from the other side becomes a kind of open vista.

It turns out it's not rocket science to design a sacred space.

You just need to incorporate a certain number of traits in a very kind of genetic way.

In terms of construction and manufacturing, this is a kilometer-long housing block that was built in the '70s in Amsterdam.

And here we've broken the 500 apartments up into small neighborhoods, and differentiated those neighborhoods.

I won't go into too much description of any of these projects, but what you can see is that the escalators and elevators that circulate people along the face of the building are all held up by 122 structural trusses.

Because we're using escalators to move people, all of these trusses are picking up diagonal loads.

So, every one of them is a little bit different-shaped as you move down the length of the building.

So it's a single calculation for every single component of the building that we're adding onto.

So, it's tens of millions of calculations just to design one connection between a piece of structural steel and another piece of structural steel.

But what it gives us is a harmonic and synthesized relationship of all these components, one to another. 

So, not to pick on BMW, or to celebrate them, but take BMW as an example.

So they have to also discriminate between these products.

So, as manufacturing starts to allow more design options, this problem gets exacerbated, of the whole and the parts. 

So, the first kind of test product we did was with Alessi, which was for a coffee and tea set.

Basically what we can do, is just cut a graphite mold, put it in an oven, heat it to 1,000 degrees, gently inflate titanium that's soft, and then explode it at the last minute into this form.

But what's great about it is, the forms are only a few hundred dollars.

The titanium's several thousand dollars, but the forms are very cheap.

That way, each one of these tools we could pay for with a few hundred dollars, and get incredible variation in the components.

And this is one of those examples of the sets.

To go back to architecture, what's organic about architecture as a field, unlike product design, is this whole issue of holism and of monumentality is really our realm.

So a change in the form indicates a change in the color pattern.

So, the pattern and the form aren't the same thing, but they really work together and are fused in some way.

So, when doing a center for the national parks in Costa Rica, we tried to use that idea of a gradient color and a change in texture as the structure moves across the surface of the building.

And you can see that that change in massing also gives all 48 of the apartments a unique shape and size, but always within a, kind of, controlled limit, an envelope of change. 

I work with a group of other architects.

We have a company called United Architects.

We wanted to make a kind of Gothic cathedral around the footprints of the World Trade Center site.

And to do that, we tried to connect up the five towers into a single system.

And we looked at, from the 1950s on, there were numerous examples of other architects trying to do the same thing.

Finally, I'd like to just show you some of the effects of using digital fabrication.

What I found out is that the tooling, if you intervened in the software, actually produced decorative effects.

So, in vacuum-formed plastic, in fiberglass, and then even at the level of structural steel, which you think of as being linear and modular.

Thanks very much. 

