A number of years ago, Mr. Ford predicted that flying cars of some form would be available.

Now, 60 years later, I'm here to tell you why it's possible.

Getting to school, for a kid that was actually pretty short for his age, through the Canadian winter, was not a pleasant experience.

It was a trying and scary thing for a young kid to be going through. 

I thought, what a great way to get to school. 

Volantor-like helicopter, perhaps.

The FAA, the controlling body above all, calls it a "powered lift aircraft."

So for once, perhaps, the government is ahead of itself. 

The press calls my particular volantor a "Skycar."

On the ground, it's powered electrically.

So that's an asset because if you've got to deal with the crash protection issues of the automobile, forget it -- you're never going to fly it. 

And it's been a great motivator.

What we really need is something to replace the automobile for those 50-plus mile trips.

Very few people realize that 50 mile-plus trips make up 85 percent of the miles traveled in America.

And it's the infrastructure that really determines whether this process goes forward. 

The technology there was much more difficult than what I'm dealing with here.

However, the next 10 years, if like the last 10 years, we're going to see 30 percent more traffic.

And where is that going to lead you to?

So the issue then, I've often asked, is when is it going to happen? 

When are we going to be able to have these vehicles?

And of course, if you ask me, I'm going to give you a really optimistic view.

After all, I've been spending 60 years here believing it's going to happen tomorrow.

So, I'm not going to quote myself on this.

Because if you're in this world, where computers are controlling what you're doing, it's going to be very critical that something can't fail on you. 

How would a trip in a Skycar work?

I mean to be able to take off from your home, you'd have to be extremely quiet.

But it's still fairly quiet.

After all, if you can fly like that, why are you going to drive around on a highway?

Go to a local vertiport, plug in your destination, delivered almost like a passenger.

And of course, I suppose like recreational parks you can still do that.

But the vehicle itself is going to be a very, very controlled environment.

Or it's going to have no use to you as a person who might use such a system. 

And then through the various years we invented various vehicles.

Still not a practical vehicle during all of this, but moving in the right direction, we believe.

Finally, in the early part of -- or actually the middle of 2002, we flew the 400 -- M400, which was the four-passenger vehicle.

In this case here, we're flying it remotely, as we always did at the beginning.

And we had very small power plants in it at this time.

A vertical-takeoff aircraft is not the safest vehicle during the test flight program.

At least for the hover, and the low-speed flight.

And the adage that I'm referring to, that applied at that time, was that nothing comes down faster than a VTOL aircraft upside down. 

In fact, the aircraft companies gave up on vertical-takeoff aircraft more or less for a number of years.

And that sportscar won Sports Car of the Year.

Wonderful engine.

We actually get 175 horsepower into one cubic foot.

Redundancy is the critical issue here.

If you want to stay alive you've got to have backups.

And then you have three -- you still have the triple redundancy.

If one of those fails, you still have a second chance.

If you stick around, then good luck.

There won't be a third chance.

The parachutes are there -- hopefully, more for psychological than real reasons, but they will be an ultimate backup if it comes to that. 

Video: Skycar dispatched, launch rescue vehicle for San Francisco.

And it's going to change the demographics in a very significant way.

But you better be the first one out of town as the real estate values go to hell. 

Developing the Skycar has been a real challenge.

Obviously I'm dependent on a lot of other people believing in what I'm doing -- both financially and in technical help.

And that has -- you run into situations where you have this great acceptance of what you're doing, and a lot of rejection of the same kind of thing.

Thank you. 

