Sixty-five million years ago, a very important and catastrophic event changed the course of life on land.

You can go outside -- see many other examples.

Why didn't they do all these things, and if they didn't do all these things, what kinds of animals were in those spaces?

Dinosaur evolution proceeded at a stately pace, an order of magnitude slower on any way you want to measure it.

You want to measure it by diversity?

You want to measure it by the time it took to reach maximum body size?

Fifty million years to achieve this maximum body size.

And that is 10 times longer than it took the mammals to achieve maximum body size and invade all those habitats. 

There's burrowing birds.

It is the greatest transition that we have, actually, on land from one habitat to another, bar none, to understand how a bony, fairly heavy, kilogram or a couple-of-kilogram animal could make such a transition.

It is really our greatest -- one of our greatest -- evolutionary sequences. 

Now, my work began at the beginning.

And we're coming over a cliff, and at the top of that cliff, dinosaurs had basically taken over.

At the bottom of the cliff, we find that they're rare as hens' teeth.

That's where dinosaur origins is to be found: at the bottom of the cliff. 

228 million years old, we found what really is the most primitive dinosaur: that's the Ur-dinosaur.

This is sort of a look at the skull, and it's an absolutely fantastic thing about five or six inches long.

It looks rather bird-like because it is.

That is 10 times larger than the mammal radiation, which was a four-legged radiation.

We are extremely dinosaur-like, and unusual in our two-legged approach to life. 

But one with an immense chalkboard in the middle, with lots of little areas of dinosaur rock if you could survive an expedition. 

And the kinds of teams they bring in?

Some of them are more experienced. 

So, 125 degrees is normal.

The ground surface at 150 -- typical.

Your job is to excavate things like this in the foreground, and make them enter the pages of history.

To do that, you've got to actually transport them thousands of miles out of the desert. 

Basically you're talking about a country that, when we started working there, did not have container traffic.

You transported the bones out yourself to the coast of Africa, onto a boat, if you wanted to get them out of the middle of the Sahara.

That's a 2,000 mile journey.

So enormous excavations and a lot of work, and out of essentially a partial herd of dinosaurs that you saw buried there -- 20 tons of material -- we erect Jobaria, a sauropod dinosaur like we haven't seen on some other continents.

It really is a little bit out of place temporally.

It looks nothing like what we would find if we dug in contemporary beds in North America.

Here's the animal that was causing it trouble. 

It is an incredible view of life, and it really began when we began to understand the depth of time.

When you pick up a piece of history like that, I think it can transform kids that are possibly interested in science. 

That's the animal that thumb claw came from: Suchomimus.

Here's some others.

This is something we found in Morocco, an immense animal.

We prototyped by CAT-scanning the brain out of this animal.

All the stuff from Jurassic Park that you know of -- all those small animals -- they all come from northern continents.

It's really a wholly separate radiation.

So what we're trying to piece together here is a story.

It involves flying reptiles like this Pterosaur that we reconstructed from Africa. 

Crocodiles, of course, and that's a nasty one we haven't named yet.

And huge things -- I mean, this is a lower jaw just laying there in the desert of this enormous crocodile.

The crocodile is technically called Sarcosuchus.

That's an adult Orinoco crocodile in its jaws.

We had to try and reconstruct this.

We had to actually look at recent crocodiles to understand how crocodiles scale.

Could I have the second little video clip?

Now, this field is just -- and, of course, science in general -- is just -- adventure.

We had to find and measure the largest crocodiles living today. 

Narrator: ... as long as their boat. 

Narrator: If they can just land it, this croc will provide useful data, helping Paul in his quest to understand Sarcosuchus. 

Narrator: It falls to Paul to cover its eyes. 

Man: I knew it was big. 

Narrator: Paul has his data, so they decide to release the animal back into the river. 

Narrator: Paul has never seen a fossil do that. 

We proved with those measurements that crocodiles scaled isometrically.

It depended on the shape of their skull, though, so we had to actually get those measurements to be sure that we had reconstructed and could prove to the scientific world that supercroc in fact is a 40-foot crocodile, probably a male.

This is a ceremonial disk.

And then work later is going to take us to Tibet.

Now, we normally think of Tibet as a highland.

It's really an island continent.

They're only between 13 and 14,000 feet, but if you go in the warm part of the year, it's O.K.

But when they were divided, indeed they were divided, and we do see the continents carving differences among dinosaurs. 

But there's one thing that's even more important, and I think that's extinction.

We have downgraded this factor.

The best way to test this is to actually create a model.

So if we move back, this is a two-dimensional typical tree of life.

I want to give you three dimensions.

And ultimately we can control the branching to mimic what we think the continents were like, and run it a thousand times, so we can estimate the parameters, to answer the question whether we are on the mark or not, at least to know the barriers of the problems.

Who's pointing fingers?

Several teachers nearly killed me.

I found myself in art.

I was a total failure in school, not really headed to graduate high school.

It became abstract.

I worked up a portfolio, and I was headed to New York.

It takes us years to understand how to do that with dinosaurs.

They're really kindred disciplines.

But what we're trying to create in Chicago is a way to get, collect together, those students who are least represented in our science and technology spheres.

We all know, and there's been several allusions to it, that we are failing in our ability to produce enough scientists, engineers and technicians. 

And a more general question for our society is, what's going to happen to all the rest that are left behind?

Dinosaurs was one of them.

Give us a museum of dinosaurs, and we will attract tourists, which is our number two industry.

And I hope to God the United States government, me, or TED, or somebody helps us do that, because that would be an incredible thing for their country.

And we created a track record.

Because when you go out there as a scholar, and you try to find out longitudinal studies, track records like that, there essentially are very few, if none.

It's an impressive track record, and so we look back and we say, well, we didn't really exactly work this out theoretically from the start, but when we look back, there are theoretical movements in science education. 

To -- you learn by envisioning yourself as a scientist, and then you learn to envision yourself as a scientist.

It's going to be part-school, part-museum hall, part-conservatory, part-zoo, and part of an answer to the problem of how you interest kids in science.

Thank you very much. 

