Even a mobile phone, it's a computer.

And -- anyone remember this workbook, "Instant Activities for Your Apple" -- free poster in each book?

This was how computing began.

Don't forget: a computer came out; it had no software.

I mean, this was great.

It's, like, you know, Herbie the Apple II.

And, you see, this era coincided with my own childhood. 

I grew up in a tofu factory in Seattle.

And my mother was a kind of a designer, also.

But, anyway, that's where I grew up, in this little tofu factory in Seattle, and it was kind of like this: a small room where I kind of grew up.

Tofu comes out in these big batches, and my father would sort of cut them by hand.

He walked into a Safeway once on a rainy day, slipped, broke his arm, rushed out: he didn't want to inconvenience Safeway.

So, instead, you know, my father's, like, arm's broken for two weeks in the store, and that week -- now, those two weeks were when my older brother and I had to do everything.

And that was torture, real torture.

And because working in a store was so hard, I liked going to school; it was like heaven.

And I was really good at school. 

So, when I got to MIT, you know, as most of you who are creatives, your parents all told you not to be creative, right?

The Apple -- Macintosh just came out; I had a Mac in hand when I went to MIT.

And it was a time when a guy who, kind of, could cross the two sides -- it was a good time. 

And so, I remember that my first major piece of software was on a direct copy of then-Aldus PageMaker.

And the problem when you're younger -- for all you students out there -- is, your head gets kind of big really easy.

And when I saw this man's work, I realized how bad I was at design, or whatever I called it back then, and I suddenly had a kind of career goal, kind of in hot pursuit. 

I got my masters, and then went to art school after that.

A very difficult time, actually.

And this to me was an important message from Rand. 

I built a working version of an Adobe Illustrator-ish thing.

It looks like Illustrator; it can, like, draw.

It was very hard to make this, actually.

It took a month to make this part.

So I could, sort of, change the kind of stability with a little control there on the dial, and I can sort of watch it flip around.

And this is in 1993.

And when my professors saw this, they were very upset at me.

Now, I was saying, Well, that's the whole point: it's moving.

And he says, Well, when's it going to stop?

So, I went off with this, and began to look for things even more. 

And so in Japan, I began to experiment with people.

This is actually bad: human experiments.

And someone sits down and draws a picture.

They're laughing because he said, draw from the middle-right to the middle, and he kind of messed up.

It became computerish; we began to think computerish -- the X, Y system -- and so that was kind of a revelation. 

Sound down, please.

It's a computer where the people are the parts.

I have behind this wall a disk drive, a CPU, a graphics card, a memory system.

And that little program's on that cardboard disk.

On the computer, when you move your mouse, that arrow moves around.

On this computer, if you move the mouse, it takes half an hour for the mouse cursor to change.

And so, after this I began to do experiments for different companies.

This is something I did for Sony in 1996.

It was three Sony "H" devices that responded to sound.

And these hands were influenced by this man, Mr. Inami Naomi.

This guy was my kind of like mentor.

He was the first digital media producer in Tokyo.

He's the guy that kind of discovered me, and kind of got me going in digital media.

He'd come in and say, you know, If I am here, everything is okay.

He went into a coma.

How do you take that time you have left and go after it?

So, Naomi was pivotal in that. 

And so, I began to think more carefully about the computer.

This was a moment where I was thinking about, so, you have a computer program, it responds to motion -- X and Y -- and I realized that each computer program has all these images inside the program.

We're so used to working in one vector.

This is all at the same time.

The computer lives in so many dimensions.

Is this what we want, you know? 

And also, I discovered in Logan airport, this was, like, calling out to me.

I made -- I took my old Macintoshes and made different objects out of them from Tokyo.

I made this series of works.

And so it keeps thinking out loud of its own abstraction. 

And so computers, as you know, these big computers, there are now tiny computers.

This is a series of light boxes I made for a show in Italy.

So I took 16 iPod Nanos and made a kind of a Nano fish, basically.

Recently, this is for Reebok.

I've done shoes for Reebok as well, as a kind of a hobby for apparel. 

The world is just so tasty.

This I found, where nature had made a picture for me.

This is a perfect 90-degree angle by nature.

In this strange moment where, like, these things kind of appeared.

We all are creative people.

It's the forever-always-on museum.

This is from the Cape last year.

I began to collect every instance of circle-triangle-square.

I put these all back, by the way.

This is also out there, you know.

I'm, like, how did this happen, kind of thing?

I brought you guys together again. 

So, three years ago I discovered, the letters M-I-T occurring in simplicity and complexity.

My alma mater, MIT, and I had this moment -- a kind of M. Night Shayamalan moment -- where I thought, Whoa!

And I went after it with passion.

But I discovered in the French word raison d'être.

I was, like, aha, wait a second.

So, I'm going to RISD, actually.

It's a, kind of, the qi thing, or whatever.

It's about how to make it more humane again.

So, thank you everyone. 

