All right, I want to see a show of hands: how many of you have unfriended someone on Facebook because they said something offensive about politics or religion, childcare, food? 

are not safe either.

Pew Research did a study of 10,000 American adults, and they found that at this moment, we are more polarized, we are more divided, than we ever have been in history.

And we make decisions about where to live, who to marry and even who our friends are going to be, based on what we already believe.

Again, that means we're not listening to each other.

Now, part of that is due to technology.

The smartphones that you all either have in your hands or close enough that you could grab them really quickly.

According to Pew Research, about a third of American teenagers send more than a hundred texts a day.

And many of them, almost most of them, are more likely to text their friends than they are to talk to them face to face.

So I'd like to spend the next 10 minutes or so teaching you how to talk and how to listen. 

So I want you to forget all of that.

It is crap. 

There is no reason to learn how to show you're paying attention if you are in fact paying attention. 

Now, I actually use the exact same skills as a professional interviewer that I do in regular life.

So, I'm going to teach you how to interview people, and that's actually going to help you learn how to be better conversationalists.

Learn to have a conversation without wasting your time, without getting bored, and, please God, without offending anybody. 

The kind of conversation where you walk away feeling engaged and inspired, or where you feel like you've made a real connection or you've been perfectly understood.

There is no reason why most of your interactions can't be like that. 

I mean, be present.

Be in that moment.

If you want to get out of the conversation, get out of the conversation, but don't be half in it and half out of it. 

If you want to state your opinion without any opportunity for response or argument or pushback or growth, write a blog. 

Now, there's a really good reason why I don't allow pundits on my show: Because they're really boring.

Totally predictable.

And you don't want to be like that.

You need to enter every conversation assuming that you have something to learn.

The famed therapist M. Scott Peck said that true listening requires a setting aside of oneself.

And sometimes that means setting aside your personal opinion.

He said that sensing this acceptance, the speaker will become less and less vulnerable and more and more likely to open up the inner recesses of his or her mind to the listener.

Again, assume that you have something to learn. 

Number three: Use open-ended questions.

In this case, take a cue from journalists.

Start your questions with who, what, when, where, why or how.

If you put in a complicated question, you're going to get a simple answer out.

Because then they might have to stop for a moment and think about it, and you're going to get a much more interesting response. 

Number four: Go with the flow.

That means thoughts will come into your mind and you need to let them go out of your mind.

We've heard interviews often in which a guest is talking for several minutes and then the host comes back in and asks a question which seems like it comes out of nowhere, or it's already been answered.

That means the host probably stopped listening two minutes ago because he thought of this really clever question, and he was just bound and determined to say that.

And we do the exact same thing.

We're sitting there having a conversation with someone, and then we remember that time that we met Hugh Jackman in a coffee shop. 

And we stop listening.

Stories and ideas are going to come to you.

You need to let them come and let them go. 

Number five: If you don't know, say that you don't know.

Talk should not be cheap. 

Number six: Don't equate your experience with theirs.

If they're talking about having lost a family member, don't start talking about the time you lost a family member.

All experiences are individual.

And, more importantly, it is not about you.

You don't need to take that moment to prove how amazing you are or how much you've suffered.

Somebody asked Stephen Hawking once what his IQ was, and he said, "I have no idea.

Conversations are not a promotional opportunity. 

Don't do that. 

Number eight: Stay out of the weeds.

They care about what you're like, what you have in common.

Number nine: This is not the last one, but it is the most important one.

Listen.

Why do we not listen to each other?

Number one, we'd rather talk.

When I'm talking, I'm in control.

I don't have to hear anything I'm not interested in.

The average person talks at about 225 word per minute, but we can listen at up to 500 words per minute.

One more rule, number 10, and it's this one: Be brief. 

You know, I grew up with a very famous grandfather, and there was kind of a ritual in my home.

And honestly, I think it's what makes me a better host.

I keep my mouth shut as often as I possibly can, I keep my mind open, and I'm always prepared to be amazed, and I'm never disappointed. 

You do the same thing.

Go out, talk to people, listen to people, and, most importantly, be prepared to be amazed. 

Thanks. 

