I -- you know, when I -- after I had invented PCR, I kind of needed a change.

And I moved down to La Jolla and learned how to surf.

And I started living down there on the beach for a long time.

And when surfers are out waiting for waves, you probably wonder, if you've never been out there, what are they doing?

And I realized, the roots of the way I sort of thought was just the only natural way to think about things.

That -- you know, I was born thinking about things that way, and I had always been like a little scientist guy.

But it didn't -- it never occurred to me that it had to be invented and that it had been invented only 350 years ago.

So I'm going to talk a little bit about that, and what exactly is it that scientists are supposed to do.

And it's, it's a kind of -- You know, Charles I got beheaded somewhere early in the 17th century.

And the English set up Cromwell and a whole bunch of Republicans or whatever, and not the kind of Republicans we had.

They changed the government, and it didn't work.

They didn't have TV screens, and they didn't have any football games to watch.

(Laughter) Which was -- back then it was sort of, you know, well, you know -- if you made this thing -- he made this little device, like kind of like a bicycle pump in reverse that could suck all the air out of -- you know what a bell jar is?

And immediately, he got into trouble with the local clergy who said, you can't make a vacuum.

And you know, Boyle says, well, shit.

The actual nature of reality was not at issue.

Candles can't burn in a vacuum, therefore, probably sparklers wouldn't either.

And most the demonstrations had to do with visuals.

Like if you do an experiment on stage, and nobody can see it, they can just hear it, they would probably think you were freaky.

I mean, reality is what you can see.

That wasn't an explicit rule in the meeting, but I'm sure that was part of it, you know.

But the general idea that you could only -- you could only really talk about things in that place that had some kind of experimental basis.

Science had been all interlocked with theology, and philosophy, and -- and -- and mathematics, which is really not science.

It's been so cool since then.

It was 300,000, probably, years ago that most of us, the ancestors of most of us in this room came up out of Africa and turned to the left.

You know, the ones that turned to the right, there are some of those in the Japanese translation.

But that happened very -- a long time ago compared to 350 short years ago.

I was thinking about making my own little rockets.

I wanted it to go out of sight and then I wanted this little parachute to come back with the frog in it.

And -- I -- I -- I got this book from Fort Sill, Oklahoma, where there's a missile base.

They send it out for amateur rocketeers, and it said in there do not ever heat a mixture of potassium perchlorate and sugar.

(Laughter) You know, that's what you call a lead.

(Laughter) So I started developing -- you know, George's dad had a lot of help.

But at any rate, we finally did have a device that would reproduceably put a frog out of sight and get him back alive.

And we had not -- I mean, we weren't frightened by it.

We should have been, because it made a lot of smoke and it made a lot of noise, and it was powerful, you know.

And once in a while, they would blow up.

But I wasn't worried, by the way, about, you know, the explosion causing the destruction of the planet.

Nobody wants a chemist to come in and poke around in their stuff like that and change things.

OK. All scientists aren't like that.

You know -- and there is a lot -- (Laughter) There is a lot -- a lot has been going on since Isaac Newton and all that stuff happened.

Scientists, you know, made World War II as we know it quite possible.

And those people don't think -- they don't -- they don't always tell you the truth, you know.

So if you just average that and the daytime temperature, it looks like it went up about .7 degrees in this century.

I mean, you can talk about that stuff, and you can write these large reports, and you can get government money to do it, but these -- they actually measured it, and it turns out that in the last 10 years -- that's why they say "decadal" there -- that the energy -- that the level of what they call "imbalance" has been way the hell over what was expected.

But if we did, in 2025 or something, have double the CO2 as we had in 1900, they say it would be increase the energy budget by about -- in other words, one watt per square centimeter more would be coming in than going out.

So the planet should get warmer.

So the theory's kaput -- it's nothing.

These papers should have been called, "The End to the Global Warming Fiasco," you know.

So the planet is a pretty amazing thing, you know, it's big and horrible -- and big and wonderful, and it does all kinds of things we don't know anything about.

