We like to dance together, we like singing together.

And so, if you'll put up with this, I would like to enlist your help with a first experiment today.

It's interesting. 

This is a room full of intelligent people, highly sensitive.

Some trained musicians out there.

Is that what enabled you to synchronize?

So to put the question a little more seriously, let's ask ourselves what are the minimum requirements for what you just did, for spontaneous synchronization.

Do you need, for instance, to be as smart as you are?

It extends from the subatomic scale to the farthest reaches of the cosmos.

It's a deep tendency toward order in nature that opposes what we've all been taught about entropy.

I mean, I'm not saying the law of entropy is wrong -- it's not.

But there is a countervailing force in the universe -- the tendency towards spontaneous order.

So these are not particularly intelligent creatures, and yet, as we'll see, they exhibit beautiful ballets.

We're so used to choreography giving rise to synchrony.

These creatures are not choreographed.

They're choreographing themselves. 

And only today is science starting to figure out how it works.

I'll show you a computer model made by Iain Couzin, a researcher at Oxford, that shows how swarms work.

There are just three simple rules.

First, all the individuals are only aware of their nearest neighbors.

Second, all the individuals have a tendency to line up.

And third, they're all attracted to each other, but they try to keep a small distance apart.

And when you build those three rules in, automatically you start to see swarms that look very much like fish schools or bird flocks.

Now, fish like to stay close together, about a body length apart.

Birds try to stay about three or four body lengths apart.

But except for that difference, the rules are the same for both. 

Now, all this changes when a predator enters the scene.

And you see that in nature.

Keep in mind that, although it looks as if each individual is acting to cooperate, what's really going on is a kind of selfish Darwinian behavior.

Each is scattering away at random to try to save its scales or feathers.

That is, out of the desire to save itself, each creature is following these rules, and that leads to something that's safe for all of them.

Even though it looks like they're thinking as a group, they're not.

You might wonder what exactly is the advantage to being in a swarm, so you can think of several. 

As I say, if you're in a swarm, your odds of being the unlucky one are reduced as compared to a small group.

There are many eyes to spot danger.

And you'll see in the example with the starlings, with the birds, when this peregrine hawk is about to attack them, that actually waves of panic can propagate, sending messages over great distances.

You'll see -- let's see, it's coming up possibly at the very end -- maybe not.

Information can be sent over half a kilometer away in a very short time through this mechanism.

Yes, it's happening here.

As I say, it's just those three simple rules, plus the one about watch out for predators. 

There doesn't seem to be anything mystical about this.

I mean, I showed you a computer model, but a computer is not understanding.

A computer is, in a way, just another experiment.

We would really like to have a deeper insight into how this works and to understand, you know, exactly where this organization comes from.

How do the rules give rise to the patterns? 

There is one case that we have begun to understand better, and it's the case of fireflies.

They each do their own thing, flashing on and off, paying no attention to their neighbors.

But in Southeast Asia -- places like Thailand or Malaysia or Borneo -- there's a beautiful cooperative behavior that occurs among male fireflies.

You can see it every night along the river banks.

The trees, mangrove trees, are filled with fireflies communicating with light.

On, more on and then off.

For a long time it was not believed when the first Western travelers, like Sir Francis Drake, went to Thailand and came back with tales of this unbelievable spectacle.

No one believed them.

We don't see anything like this in Europe or in the West.

And for a long time, even after it was documented, it was thought to be some kind of optical illusion.

Scientific papers were published saying it was twitching eyelids that explained it, or, you know, a human being's tendency to see patterns where there are none.

Well, you don't have to be a whole creature.

You can even be just a single cell.

Every beat of your heart depends on this crucial region, the sinoatrial node, which has about 10,000 independent cells that would each beep, have an electrical rhythm -- a voltage up and down -- to send a signal to the ventricles to pump.

Now, your pacemaker is not a single cell.

It's this democracy of 10,000 cells that all have to fire in unison for the pacemaker to work correctly. 

I don't want to give you the idea that synchrony is always a good idea.

If you have epilepsy, there is an instance of billions of brain cells, or at least millions, discharging in pathological concert.

If you look, for instance, at how lasers work, that would be a case of atomic synchrony.

In a laser, what makes laser light so different from the light above my head here is that this light is incoherent -- many different colors and different frequencies, sort of like the way you clapped initially -- but if you were a laser, it would be rhythmic applause.

It would be all atoms pulsating in unison, emitting light of one color, one frequency. 

Hold your breath for me.

What I have here are two empty water bottles.

I have some metronomes here.

I've set it on the fastest setting, and I'm going to now take another one set to the same setting.

They were in sync for a while, but then they drifted apart.

And the reason is that they're not able to communicate.

Now, you might think that's a bizarre idea.

How can metronomes communicate?

Well, they can communicate through mechanical forces.

Let's see if we can get this to work.

And a clear case of that, was something that happened in London in the year 2000.

The Millennium Bridge was supposed to be the pride of London -- a beautiful new footbridge erected across the Thames, first river crossing in over 100 years in London.

There was a big competition for the design of this bridge, and the winning proposal was submitted by an unusual team -- in the TED spirit, actually -- of an architect -- perhaps the greatest architect in the United Kingdom, Lord Norman Foster -- working with an artist, a sculptor, Sir Anthony Caro, and an engineering firm, Ove Arup.

He would shoot his light saber across the abyss, making a blade of light, and then scamper across on this blade of light.

So they built the blade of light, and it's a very thin ribbon of steel, the world's -- probably the flattest and thinnest suspension bridge there is, with cables that are out on the side.

You're used to suspension bridges with big droopy cables on the top.

These cables were on the side of the bridge, like if you took a rubber band and stretched it taut across the Thames -- that's what's holding up this bridge.

Now, everyone was very excited to try it out.

On opening day, thousands of Londoners came out, and something happened.

And within two days the bridge was closed to the public.

So I want to first show you some interviews with people who were on the bridge on opening day, who will describe what happened. 

Man: It really started moving sideways and slightly up and down, rather like being on the boat. 

Interviewer: I mean, that much, or this much? 

Boy: About the second one. 

Man: It was at least six, six to eight inches, I would have thought. 

Woman: I remember wanting to get off. 

So you had to deliberately push your feet out sideways and -- oh, and short steps? 

Interviewer: Were they deliberately walking in step, or anything like that? 

Man: No, they just had to conform to the movement of the bridge. 

Steven Strogatz: All right, so that already gives you a hint of what happened.

They all showed this strange sort of skating gait that they adopted once the bridge started to move.

And so let me show you now the footage of the bridge.

But also, after you see the bridge on opening day, you'll see an interesting clip of work done by a bridge engineer at Cambridge named Allan McRobie, who figured out what happened on the bridge, and who built a bridge simulator to explain exactly what the problem was.

Actually, I think the first person you'll see is the young engineer who was put in charge of this project.

Engineer: I felt I was disappointed about it. 

We'd spent a lot of time designing this bridge, and we'd analyzed it, we'd checked it to codes -- to heavier loads than the codes -- and here it was doing something that we didn't know about.

This synchronized movement seemed to be driving the bridge.

But how could the crowd become synchronized?

Was there something special about the Millennium Bridge that caused this effect?

This was to be the focus of the investigation. 

Interviewer: Well, at last the simulated bridge is finished, and I can make it wobble.

Interviewer: You designed this, yes, this simulated bridge, and this, you reckon, mimics the action of the real bridge? 

Allan McRobie is a bridge engineer from Cambridge who wrote to me, suggesting that a bridge simulator ought to wobble in the same way as the real bridge -- provided we hung it on pendulums of exactly the right length. 

Interviewer: It's actually quite difficult to walk.

Interviewer: So you've got to put your feet out sideways.

So already, the simulator is making me walk in exactly the same way as our witnesses walked on the real bridge. 

Interviewer: For a more convincing experiment, I wanted my own opening-day crowd, the sound check team.

Their instructions: just walk normally.

It's really intriguing because none of these people is trying to drive it.

They're all having some difficulty walking.

And the only way you can walk comfortably is by getting in step.

SS: All right, well, with that from the Ministry of Silly Walks, maybe I'd better end.

But I hope that you'll go outside and see the world in a new way, to see all the amazing synchrony around us.

