Until about a dozen years ago, when I was really captured by caves, and I really re-focused most of my research in that direction. 

So I have a really cool day job-- I get to do some really amazing stuff.

I work in some of the most extreme cave environments on the planet.

I'm very passionately interested in the human future, on the Moon and Mars particularly, and elsewhere in the solar system.

Notably Mars, as a first example. 

Something I never talk about in scientific meetings is how I actually got to this state and why I do the work that I do.

Why don't I have a normal job, a sensible job?

And then of course, I blame the Soviet Union.

And a tremendous amount of money went into the funding of science and mathematics skills for kids.

And so, life is more valuable than no life.

And so I think that that holds together a great deal of the work that people in this audience approach. 

And that took what had been a tiny little astronomical object in the sky, that you would see as a dot, and turned it completely into a landscape, as that very first primitive picture came rastering across the screen.

And when it became a landscape, it also became a destination, and altered, really, the course of my life. 

In my graduate years I worked with my colleague and mentor and friend, Steve Schneider, at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, working on global change issues.

So, wonderful things and grim things.

And that is a wonderful stepping away in perspective, to try to then think about the way our planet behaves, as a planet, and with the life that's on it.

And all of this seems to me to be a salient point in history.

We're getting ready to begin to go through the process of leaving our planet of origin and out into the wider solar system and beyond. 

So, back to Mars.

How hard is it going to be to find life on Mars?

Well, sometimes it's really very hard for us to find each other, even on this planet.

And so this is very exciting news. 

So, my first bold prediction is that, is that in the universe, life is going to be everywhere.

It's going to be everywhere we look -- where there are planetary systems that can possibly support it.

And those planetary systems are going to be very common.

So, what about life on Mars?

Well, if somebody had asked me about a dozen years ago what I thought the chances of life on Mars would be, I would've probably said, a couple of percent.

And even that was considered outrageous at the time.

I was once sneeringly introduced by a former NASA official, as the only person on the planet who still thought there was life on Mars.

But things have changed greatly over the last dozen years.

And the reason that they have changed is because we now have new information.

The amazing Pathfinder mission that went in '97, and the MER Rover missions that are on Mars as we speak now and the European Space Agency's Mars Express, has taught us a number of amazing things.

So, with all of these things put together, I think that the chances of life are much greater than I would've ever thought.

I think that the chance of life having arisen on Mars, sometime in its past, is maybe one in four to maybe even half and half.

How do you try to get a handle on extraterrestrial life?

How do you plan to look for it?

How do you know it when you find it?

Because if it's big and obvious, we would've already found it -- it would've already bitten us on the foot, and it hasn't. 

So, we know that it's probably quite cryptic.

So why might it be hard to find?

And so, there's a game of predator-prey that's going to be, essentially, universal, really, in any kind of biological system.

It also may be very, very different in its fundamental properties – its chemistry, or its size. 

If I were to take a swab off your teeth and plate it on a Petri plate, within about four or five hours, I would have to see growth.

So they are, intrinsically, a slower life-form. 

So, perspective is everything and, because of the history that I've just briefly talked to you about, I have learned to think about Earth as an extraterrestrial planet.

And this has been invaluable in our approach to try to study these things. 

Well, this is what we apply to our work.

We have to go in with protective suits and breathing gear, and 30 parts per million of H2S will kill you.

This is regularly several hundred parts per million.

This is one of the richest caves that we have found on the planet, anywhere.

It's bursting with life.

The extremes on Earth are interesting in their own right, but one of the reasons that we're interested in them is because they represent, really, the average conditions that we may expect on other planets.

So, this is part of the ability that we have, to try to stretch our imagination, in terms of what we may find in the future.

There's so much life in this cave, and I can't even begin to scratch the surface of it with you. 

But one of the most famous objects out of this are what we call Snottites, for obvious reasons.

This stuff looks like what comes out of your two-year-old's nose when he has a cold.

And this is produced by bacteria who are actually making more sulfuric acid, and living at pHs right around zero.

And so, this stuff is like battery acid.

And yet, everything in this cave has adapted to it.

In fact, there's so much energy available for biology in this cave, that there's actually a huge number of cavefish.

And the local Zoque Indians harvest this twice a year, as part of their Easter week celebration and Holy Week celebration. 

This is very unusual for caves.

It's 115 miles of mapped passage, it's pristine, it has no natural opening and it's a gigantic biological, geo-microbiological laboratory.

In this cave, great areas are covered by this reddish material that you see here, and also these enormous crystals of selenite that you can see dangling down.

This stuff is produced biologically.

This is the breakdown product of the bedrock, that organisms are busy munching their way through.

They take iron and manganese minerals within the bedrock and they oxidize them.

And every time they do that, they get a tiny little packet of energy.

And that tiny little packet of energy is what they use, then, to run their life processes.

Interestingly enough, they also do this with uranium and chromium, and various other toxic metals. 

And so, the obvious avenue for bio-remediation comes from organisms like this.

So, these are signals that they leave in the rock record.

Well, even in basalt surfaces in lava-tube caves, which are a by-product of volcanic activity, we find these walls totally covered, in many cases, by these beautiful, glistening silver walls, or shiny pink or shiny red or shiny gold.

And these are mineral deposits that are also made by bacteria.

One of the interesting things about these particular guys is that they're in the actinomycete and streptomycete groups of the bacteria, which is where we get most of our antibiotics.

The sub-surface of Earth contains a vast biodiversity.

And these organisms, because they're very separate from the surface, make a vast array of novel compounds.

So, lava-tube caves-- I've just told you about organisms that live here on this planet.

We know that on Mars and the Moon there are tons of these structures.

We can see them.

These are all over the planet Mars, and we're busy cataloguing them now.

And so, there's very interesting cave real estate on Mars, at least of that type. 

In order to access these sub-surface environments that we're interested in, we're very interested in developing the tools to do this.

You know, it's not easy to get into these caves.

Why would we want to do it robotically?

Well, we're going to be sending robotic missions to Mars long in advance of human missions. 

And then, secondly, getting back to that earlier point that I made about the preciousness of any life that we may find on Mars, we don't want to contaminate it.

And one of the best ways to study something without contaminating it is to have an intermediary.

I want to talk specifically about the array that you see on the top. 

These are hopping microbot swarms.

And so, that allows you the flexibility to go into very challenging terrain and actually make your way where you want to go. 

And perhaps it's time we started to explore those, in the context of future Mars and the Moon exploration. 

It turns out to be a fairly simple and small list, and we have gone in the relatively primitive technology direction.

So, we're talking about things like inflatable liners that can conform to the complex topological shape on the inside of a cave, foamed-in-place airlocks to deal with this complex topology, various ways of getting breathing gases made from the intrinsic materials of these bodies.

Now, my view of what the current status of potential life on Mars is that it's probably been on the planet, maybe one in two chances.

The question as to whether there is life on Mars that is related to life on Earth has now been very muddied, because we now know, from Mars meteorites that have made it to Earth, that there's material that can be exchanged between those two planets. 

One of the burning questions, of course, is if we go there and find life in the sub-surface, as I fully expect that we will, is that a second genesis of life?

Did life start here and was it transported there?

Did it start there and get transported here?

This will be a fascinating puzzle as we go into the next half-century, and where I expect that we will have more and more Mars missions to answer these questions.

Thank you. 

