I'm just going to play a brief video clip. 

Video: On the fifth of December 1985, a bottle of 1787 Lafitte was sold for 105,000 pounds -- nine times the previous world record.

The buyer was Kip Forbes, son of one of the most flamboyant millionaires of the 20th century.

The original owner of the bottle turned out to be one of the most enthusiastic wine buffs of the 18th century.

Château Lafitte is one of the greatest wines in the world, the prince of any wine cellar. 

Benjamin Wallace: Now, that's about all the videotape that remains of an event that set off the longest-running mystery in the modern wine world.

And the mystery existed because of a gentleman named Hardy Rodenstock.

In 1985, he announced to his friends in the wine world that he had made this incredible discovery.

Some workmen in Paris had broken through a brick wall, and happened upon this hidden cache of wines -- apparently the property of Thomas Jefferson.

The mystery persisted for about 20 years. 

It finally began to get resolved in 2005 because of this guy.

But for those 20 years, an unbelievable number of really eminent and accomplished figures in the wine world were sort of drawn into the orbit of these bottles.

So, I decided to embark on a quest.

This was the first one.

A lot of the Kobe beef that you see in the U.S. is not the real thing.

It may come from Wagyu cattle, but it's not from the original, Appalachian Hyogo Prefecture in Japan.

I went there, and I ordered the eight-ounce rib eye for 160 dollars.

And it arrived, and it was tiny.

And I was outraged.

It was like, 160 dollars for this?

It's like foie gras -- it's not even like steak.

I almost couldn't finish it.

I was really happy when I was done. 

Which, I guess, you know, communicates to you that I did not think that one was really worth the price. 

To try this, I went to a Mario Batali restaurant in Manhattan -- Del Posto.

The waiter, you know, came out with the white truffle knob and his shaver, and he shaved it onto my pasta and he said, you know, "Would Signore like the truffles?"

These white pearlescent flakes hit the noodles, this haunting, wonderful, nutty, mushroomy smell wafted up.

10 seconds passed and it was gone.

There were several -- several of these items were disappointments. 

Yeah.

The magazine wouldn't pay for me to go there. 

They did give me a tour, though.

And this hotel suite is 4,300 square feet.

When I took the tour, it actually included some Opus One, I was glad to see.

30,000 dollars for a night in a hotel. 

This is soap that's made from silver nanoparticles, which have antibacterial properties.

I washed my face with this this morning in preparation for this.

I don't think that whether or not you're getting a compliment should be the test of something's value, but I think in the case of a fashion item, an article of clothing, that's a reasonable benchmark.

That said, a lot of work goes into these.

They are made from handpicked organic Zimbabwean cotton that has been shuttle loomed and then hand-dipped in natural indigo 24 times.

But no compliments. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Armando Manni is a former filmmaker who makes this olive oil from an olive that grows on a single slope in Tuscany.

And he goes to great lengths to protect the olive oil from oxygen and light.

He uses tiny bottles, the glass is tinted, he tops the olive oil off with an inert gas.

It was very green, it was very peppery.

But in the blind taste test, it came in last.

The olive oil that came in first was actually a bottle of Whole Foods 365 olive oil which had been oxidizing next to my stove for six months. 

I don't play golf, so I couldn't actually road test these, but I did interview a guy who owns them.

You're paying for the bling, that they're encrusted with gold and platinum.

The guy who I interviewed who owns them did say that he's gotten a lot of pleasure out of them, so ... 

Oh, yeah, you know this one?

This is a coffee made from a very unusual process.

The luwak is an Asian Palm Civet.

It's a cat that lives in trees, and at night it comes down and it prowls the coffee plantations.

Japan is doing crazy things with toilets. 

This one does not have those bells and whistles, but for pure functionality it's pretty much the best -- the Neorest 600.

The seat is preheated.

You get up, it flushes by itself.

The lid closes, it self-cleans.

Not only is it a technological leap forward, but I really do believe it's a bit of a cultural leap forward.

I mean, a no hands, no toilet paper toilet.

And I want to get one of these. 

This was another one I could not get a loaner of.

Tom Cruise supposedly owns this bed.

There's a little plaque on the end that, you know, each buyer gets their name engraved on it. 

To try this one, the maker of it let me and my wife spend the night in the Manhattan showroom.

This was a fun one.

I got to drive this with a chaperone from the company, a professional race car driver, and we drove around the canyons outside of Los Angeles and down on the Pacific Coast Highway.

And, you know, when we pulled up to a stoplight the people in the adjacent cars kind of gave us respectful nods.

And if I was a billionaire, I would get one. 

This is Tom Cruise arriving at the "Mission: Impossible III" premiere.

When he tries to open the door, you could call it "Mission: Impossible IV."

The '47 Cheval Blanc is probably the most mythologized wine of the 20th century.

And just together, that vintage and that chateau took on this aura that eventually kind of gave it this cultish following.

But it's 60 years old.

Not that many people are looking to pop open their one remaining bottle for a journalist. 

So, I'd about given up trying to get my hands on one of these.

I'd put out feelers to retailers, to auctioneers, and it was coming up empty.

And it was an invitation you do not refuse.

I went. 

It was three days, four meals.

And at lunch on Saturday, we opened the '47.

And you know, it had this fragrant softness, and it smelled a little bit of linseed oil.

There were people at my table who thought it was, you know, fantastic.

There were some people who were a little less impressed.

And I wasn't that impressed.

And it wasn't just to that wine.

Any one of the wines served at this tasting, if I'd been served it at a dinner party, it would have been, you know, the wine experience of my lifetime, and incredibly memorable.

But drinking 60 great wines over three days, they all just blurred together, and it became almost a grueling experience. 

And I just wanted to finish by mentioning a very interesting study which came out earlier this year from some researchers at Stanford and Caltech.

And they gave subjects the same wine, labeled with different price tags.

But what was unexpected was that these researchers did MRI brain imaging while the people were drinking the wine, and not only did they say they enjoyed the more expensively labeled wine more -- their brain actually registered as experiencing more pleasure from the same wine when it was labeled with a higher price tag. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

