And surely, if somebody could really tell us how to do exactly the right thing at all possible times, that would be a tremendous gift. 

It turns out that, in fact, the world was given this gift in 1738 by a Dutch polymath named Daniel Bernoulli.

And what I want to talk to you about today is what that gift is, and I also want to explain to you why it is that it hasn't made a damn bit of difference. 

In a sense, what Bernoulli was saying is, if we can estimate and multiply these two things, we will always know precisely how we should behave. 

Now, this simple equation, even for those of you who don't like equations, is something that you're quite used to.

This is what statisticians technically call a damn fine bet. 

Now, the idea is simple when we're applying it to coin tosses, but in fact, it's not very simple in everyday life.

There are two kinds of errors people make when trying to decide what the right thing is to do, and those are errors in estimating the odds that they're going to succeed, and errors in estimating the value of their own success.

Now, let me talk about the first one first.

You all know what the likelihood is of pulling the ace of spades or of flipping a heads.

The reason is, this isn't how people do odds. 

The way people figure odds requires that we first talk a bit about pigs.

And of course, you all know that the answer is dogs.

And the way that you know that the answer is dogs is you quickly reviewed in memory the times you've seen dogs and pigs on leashes.

So, for example, here's a word puzzle.

Well, you check memory very briefly, make a quick scan, and it's awfully easy to say to yourself, Ring, Rang, Rung, and very hard to say to yourself, Pare, Park: they come more slowly.

But in fact, there are many more words in the English language with R in the third than the first place.

You kind of shout out the sound, S -- and the word comes.

And these are just ordinary people like yourselves who are asked to guess how many people die from tornado, fireworks, asthma, drowning, etc.

Compare these to the actual numbers. 

When was the last time that you picked up a newspaper and the headline was, "Boy dies of Asthma?"

It's not interesting because it's so common.

It's very easy for all of us to bring to mind instances of news stories or newsreels where we've seen tornadoes devastating cities, or some poor schmuck who's blown his hands off with a firework on the Fourth of July.

The way that more of you are likely to die than the combination of all three of the others that you see on the slide. 

The lottery is an excellent example, of course -- an excellent test-case of people's ability to compute probabilities.

Why in the world would anybody ever play the lottery?

We see this on TV; we read about it in the paper.

When was the last time that you saw extensive interviews with everybody who lost?

There's 10 tickets in this lottery.

Nine of them have been sold to these individuals.

Well, Bernoulli tells us it is.

The expected value of this lottery is two dollars; this is a lottery in which you should invest your money.

And most people say, "OK, I'll play."

You can't say to yourself, "I'm as likely to win as anybody," because you're not as likely to win as Leroy.

The fact that all those tickets are owned by one guy changes your decision to play, even though it does nothing whatsoever to the odds. 

But in fact, to decide whether a Big Mac is worth 25 dollars requires that you ask one, and only one question, which is: What else can I do with 25 dollars?

On the other hand, if you're visiting an underdeveloped country, and 25 dollars buys you a gourmet meal, it's exorbitant for a Big Mac.

Why were you all sure that the answer to the question was no, before I'd even told you anything about the context?

And this is a systematic error people make.

What you knew is, you paid three dollars in the past; 25 is outrageous. 

For example, this is, of course, one of the most delicious tricks in marketing, is to say something used to be higher, and suddenly it seems like a very good deal.

Because they had the sense that declining wages are worse than rising wages, even when the total amount of wages is higher in the declining period.

Here's a $2,000 Hawaiian vacation package; it's now on sale for 1,600.

Here's another example of how comparing to the past can befuddle our decisions.

Imagine that you're going to the theater.

You're on your way to the theater.

Would you spend your remaining money on replacing it?

Most people answer, no.

Now, let's just change one thing in this scenario.

When you arrive you discover you've lost one of them.

What does the loss of 20 dollars along the way have to do? 

Now, just in case you're not getting it, here's a schematic of what happened, OK?

(Laughter) Along the way, you lost something.

In both cases, it was a piece of paper.

In one case, it had a U.S. president on it; in the other case it didn't.

What the hell difference should it make?

The difference is that when you lost the ticket you say to yourself, I'm not paying twice for the same thing.

You compare the cost of the play now -- 40 dollars -- to the cost that it used to have -- 20 dollars -- and you say it's a bad deal.

Comparing with the past causes many of the problems that behavioral economists and psychologists identify in people's attempts to assign value.

One of the things we know about comparison: that when we compare one thing to the other, it changes its value.

(Laughter) The comparison changes how we evaluate him. 

(Laughter) The comparison changes how we evaluate him. 

Now, retailers knew this long before anybody else did, of course, and they use this wisdom to help you -- spare you the undue burden of money.

Most people don't want the most expensive, they don't want the least expensive.

So, they will opt for the item in the middle.

So I'm telling you something you already knew: namely, that comparison changes the value of things.

Here's why that's a problem: the problem is that when you get that $33 bottle of wine home, it won't matter what it used to be sitting on the shelf next to.

The comparisons we make when we are appraising value, where we're trying to estimate how much we'll like things, are not the same comparisons we'll be making when we consume them.

This problem of shifting comparisons can bedevil our attempts to make rational decisions. 

Let me just give you an example.

I have to show you something from my own lab, so let me sneak this in.

They're sitting in a room with potato chips in front of them.

For some of the subjects, sitting in the far corner of a room is a box of Godiva chocolates, and for others is a can of Spam.

In fact, these items that are sitting in the room change how much the subjects think they're going to enjoy the potato chips.

Of course, what happens when they eat the potato chips?

Well, look, you didn't need a psychologist to tell you that when you have a mouthful of greasy, salty, crispy, delicious snacks, what's sitting in the corner of the room makes not a damn bit of difference to your gustatory experience.

The dealer near your house sells this particular stereo for 200 dollars, but if you drive across town, you can get it for 100 bucks.

So would you drive to get 50 percent off, saving 100 dollars?

Most people say they would.

They can't imagine buying it for twice the price when, with one trip across town, they can get it for half off. 

Now, let's imagine instead you wanted to buy a car that had a stereo, and the dealer near your house had it for 31,000.

It doesn't know what you saved it on.

And if a drive across town is worth 100 bucks, it's worth 100 bucks no matter what you're saving it on.

That's why they don't know whether their mutual fund manager is taking 0.1 percent or 0.15 percent of their investment, but they clip coupons to save one dollar off of toothpaste. 

Now, you can see, this is the problem of shifting comparisons, because what you're doing is, you're comparing the 100 bucks to the purchase that you're making, but when you go to spend that money you won't be making that comparison.

You've all had this experience. 

Now, you have exactly the same problem when you shop for a stereo.

And so you buy them, and you bring them home, and you entirely violate the décor of your house.

And the problem, of course, is that this comparison you made in the store is a comparison you'll never make again.

The problem of shifting comparisons is even more difficult when these choices are arrayed over time.

People have a lot of trouble making decisions about things that will happen at different points in time.

And what psychologists and behavioral economists have discovered is that by and large people use two simple rules.

So let me give you one very easy problem, a second very easy problem and then a third, hard, problem. 

This is what we call a one-item IQ test, OK?

All of us, I hope, prefer more money, and the reason is, we believe more is better than less. 

Well, by and large people are enormously impatient.

That is, they require interest rates in the hundred or thousands of percents in order to delay gratification and wait until next month for the extra 10 dollars.

Maybe that isn't so remarkable, but what is remarkable is how easy it is to make this impatience go away by simply changing when the delivery of these monetary units will happen.

What makes this dynamic inconsistency happen?

Now, why in the world do you get this pattern of results? 

These guys can tell us.

What you see here are two lads, one of them larger than the other: the fireman and the fiddler.

However, the difference between them seems to be getting smaller.

First it's an inch in your view, then it's a quarter-inch, then a half-inch, and then finally they go off the edge of the earth. 

Here are the results of what I just showed you.

This is the subjective height -- the height you saw of these guys at various points.

As Plato said, what space is to size, time is to value.

And these are subjective values, and what you can see is, our two rules are preserved. 

Watch what happens when we drop some out.

Suddenly we have the dynamic inconsistency that puzzled us.

We have the tendency for people to go for 50 dollars now over waiting a month, but not if that decision is far in the future.

Because I could go on for about two hours with evidence of people's inability to estimate odds and inability to estimate value. 

The answer to this question, I think, is an answer you've already heard in some of the talks, and I dare say you will hear again: namely, that our brains were evolved for a very different world than the one in which we are living.

They were evolved for a world in which people lived in very small groups, rarely met anybody who was terribly different from themselves, had rather short lives in which there were few choices and the highest priority was to eat and mate today. 

Bernoulli's gift, Bernoulli's little formula, allows us, it tells us how we should think in a world for which nature never designed us.

That explains why we are so bad at using it, but it also explains why it is so terribly important that we become good, fast.

We are the only species on this planet that has ever held its own fate in its hands.

We have no significant predators, we're the masters of our physical environment; the things that normally cause species to become extinct are no longer any threat to us.

The only thing -- the only thing -- that can destroy us and doom us are our own decisions.

If we're not here in 10,000 years, it's going to be because we could not take advantage of the gift given to us by a young Dutch fellow in 1738, because we underestimated the odds of our future pains and overestimated the value of our present pleasures. 

Chris Anderson: That was remarkable.

Surely the kinds of play that at least American media give to -- and forgive me, but in raw numbers these are very tiny accidents.

If I told you that there was a plague that was going to kill 15,000 Americans next year, you might be alarmed if you didn't find out it was the flu.

These are small-scale accidents, and we should be wondering whether they should get the kind of play, the kind of coverage, that they do.

Surely that causes people to overestimate the likelihood that they'll be hurt in these various ways, and gives power to the very people who want to frighten us. 

Talk more about it. 

Is terror the right response? 

Is it the fact that it's an intentional attack by, quote, outsiders?

What is it? 

Second, these are enemies who may want to strike and hurt us again.

People are being killed for no reason instead of good reason -- as if there's good reason, but sometimes people think there are.

CA: I mean, what would it take to persuade our culture to downplay it? 

And as the Israeli mother said, she said, "We never let them win by stopping weddings."

I mean, this is a society that has learned -- and there are others too -- that has learned to live with a certain amount of terrorism and not be quite as upset by it, shall I say, as those of us who have not had many terror attacks. 

CA: But is there a rational fear that actually, the reason we're frightened about this is because we think that the Big One is to come? 

What I'm saying is that, surely, rationally, our distress about things that happen, about threats, should be roughly proportional to the size of those threats and threats to come.

I think in the case of terrorism, it isn't.

(Laughter) (Applause) That's a tough one. 

(Laughter) (Applause) That's a tough one. 

CA: There's no question.

Poverty, by an order of magnitude, a huge order of magnitude, unless someone can show that there's, you know, terrorists with a nuke are really likely to come.

DG: Even if that were true, still more people die from poverty. 

CA: We've evolved to get all excited about these dramatic attacks.

People died; so be it.

But if you got attacked, that was something you could do something about.

DG: Well, you know, the people who are most skeptical about leaping to evolutionary explanations for everything are the evolutionary psychologists themselves.

Any animal you see that you've seen before is less likely to be a predator than one that you've never seen before.

So, you know, when a school bus is blown up and we've never seen this before, our general tendency is to orient towards that which is new and novel is activated.

I don't think it's quite as specific a mechanism as the one you alluded to, but maybe a more fundamental one underlying it. 

Jay Walker: You know, economists love to talk about the stupidity of people who buy lottery tickets.

It's not because she is stupid or he is stupid.

It's because the anticipation of possibly winning releases serotonin in the brain, and actually provides a good feeling until the drawing indicates you've lost.

Or, to put it another way, for the dollar investment, you can have a much better feeling than flushing the money down the toilet, which you cannot have a good feeling from.

Now, economists tend to -- (Applause) -- economists tend to view the world through their own lenses, which is: this is just a bunch of stupid people.

And as a result, many people look at economists as stupid people.

I would disagree that people know they're not going to win.

I think they think it's unlikely, but it could happen, which is why they prefer that to the flushing.

But certainly I see your point: that there can be some utility to buying a lottery ticket other than winning.

CA: Last question. 

Aubrey de Grey: My name's Aubrey de Grey, from Cambridge.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

AdG: In persuading them. 

But one thing that psychologists have tried that seems to work is to get people to imagine the future more vividly.

One of the problems with making decisions about the far future and the near future is that we imagine the near future much more vividly than the far future.

To the extent that you can equalize the amount of detail that people put into the mental representations of near and far future, people begin to make decisions about the two in the same way.

So, would you like to have an extra 100,000 dollars when you're 65 is a question that's very different than, imagine who you'll be when you're 65: will you be living, what will you look like, how much hair will you have, who will you be living with.

Once we have all the details of that imaginary scenario, suddenly we feel like it might be important to save so that that guy has a little retirement money.

But these are tricks around the margins.

I think in general you're battling a very fundamental human tendency, which is to say, "I'm here today, and so now is more important than later."

