These rocks have been hitting our earth for about three billion years, and are responsible for much of what’s gone on on our planet.

This is an example of a real meteorite, and you can see all the melting of the iron from the speed and the heat when a meteorite hits the earth, and just how much of it survives and melts.

From a meteorite from space, we’re over here with an original Sputnik.

This is one of the seven surviving Sputniks that was not launched into space.

This is not a copy.

They would bring them back and mount them.

The dawn of books is, of course, important.

But what’s interesting about the Guttenberg Bible, and the dawn of this technology, is not the book.

You see, the book was not driven by reading.

In 1455, nobody could read.

So why did the printing press succeed?

This is an original page of a Guttenberg Bible.

So you’re looking here at one of the first printed books using movable type in the history of man, 550 years ago.

We are living at the age here at the end of the book, where electronic paper will undoubtedly replace it. 

They got you out of purgatory faster.

And when the printing press was invented what they found was they could print indulgences, which was the equivalent of printing money. 

Instead of showing an object from the stage I’m going to do something special for the first time.

We are going to show, actually, what the library looks like, OK?

So, I am married to the most wonderful woman in the world.

You’re going to find out why in a minute, because when I went to see Eileen, this is what I said I wanted to build. 

This is the Library of Human Imagination.

The room itself is three stories tall.

And all throughout the library are different objects, different spaces.

It’s designed like an Escher print.

In the glass panels all along is sort of the history of imagination.

So it’s a leap of imagination. 

How do we create?

And Eileen and I are thrilled to open our home and share it with the TED community.

(Applause) TED is all about patterns in the clouds.

It’s all about connections.

And that’s really what discovery and imagination is all about. 

For example, we can look at a DNA molecule model here.

None of us really have ever seen one, but we know it exists because we’ve been taught to understand this molecule.

Well, this is the code for life, and this is a code for death.

These two molecules code and decode.

And yet, looking at them, you would see a machine and a molecule.

But once you’ve seen them in a new way, you realize that both of these things really are connected.

And they’re connected primarily because of this here. 

You see, this is a human brain model, OK?

And once we create new patterns in this brain, once we shape the brain in a new way, it never returns to its original shape. 

And I’ll give you a quick example.

And we never think about the hidden connection.

So every time you download a file, each megabyte is a lump of coal.

What that means is, a 200-megabyte file looks like this, ladies and gentlemen.

So the next time you download a gigabyte, or two gigabytes, it’s not for free, OK?

