(Laughter) Now, chances are that over the last winter, if you had been a beehive, either you or one of the two people you just nodded at would have died.

Now, that's an awful lot of bees.

Now, that's a lot, a lot of bees, and that's really important.

And most of those losses are because of things we know.

And here we see a picture on top of a hill in Central Valley last December.

And below, you can see all these out yards, or temporary yards, where the colonies are brought in until February, and then they're shipped out to the almonds.

Now, I'm going to sum up a year's worth of work in two sentences to say that we have been trying to figure out what the cause of this is.

And what we know is that it's as if the bees have caught a flu.

And this flu has wiped through the population of bees.

In some cases, and in fact in most cases in one year, this flu was caused by a new virus to us, or newly identified by us, called Israeli Acute Paralysis virus.

But we think this virus is pretty ubiquitous.

We think perhaps it's a combination of factors.

And so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health.

Now of course, if you lose a lot of colonies, beekeepers can replace them very quickly.

And that's why we've been able to recover from a lot of loss.

If we lost one in every three cows in the winter, you know, the National Guard would be out.

And in fact, America was the first country that ever did mail-delivery queens and in fact, it's part of the postal code that you have to deliver queens by mail in order to make sure that we have enough bees in this country.

And you can install this in your hive and replace that dead-out.

So it means that beekeepers are very good at replacing dead-outs, and so they've been able to cover those losses.

So even though we've lost 30 percent of the colonies every year, the same number of colonies have existed in the country, at about 2.4 million colonies. 

(Laughter) And you get all of these people in the same room, and they're all engaged and they're getting along, and they're all there because of the passion for bees.

And these tend to be some of the most independent, tenacious, intuitive, you know, inventive people you will ever meet.

I had the privilege of working in Haiti just for two weeks earlier this year.

And Haiti, if you've ever been there, is just a tragedy.

I mean, there may be 100 explanations for why Haiti is the impoverished nation it is, but there is no excuse to see that sort of squalor.

But you meet this beekeeper, and I met this beekeeper here, and he is one of the most knowledgeable beekeepers I've ever met.

No formal education, but very knowledgeable.

We also have Dave Hackenberg, who is the poster child of CCD.

He's the one who first identified this condition and raised the alarm bells.

And he has a history of these trucks, and he's moved these bees up and down the coast.

And a lot of people talk about trucks and moving bees, and that being bad, but we've done that for thousands of years.

And one of our real worries with Colony Collapse Disorder is the fact that it costs so much money to replace those dead-out colonies.

But if you're losing 50 percent to 80 percent of your colonies, you can't survive three years in a row.

And that's important for many fronts, and one of them is because of that culture that's in agriculture.

And these migratory beekeepers are the last nomads of America.

You know, they pick up their hives; they move their families once or twice in a year.

And if you look at Florida, in Dade City, Florida, that's where all the Pennsylvania beekeepers go.

And then 20 miles down the road is Groveland, and that's where all the Wisconsin beekeepers go.

And if you're ever in Central Valley in February, you go to this café at 10 o'clock in the morning, Kathy and Kate's.

And that's where all the beekeepers come after a night of moving bees into the almond groves.

And we see these families, these nomadic families, you know, father to son, father to son, and these guys are hurting.

If there's one guy who loses all his bees because of a truck overhaul, everyone pitches in and gives 20 hives to help him replace those lost colonies.

And so, it's a very dynamic, and I think, historic and exciting community to be involved with. 

Of course, the real importance for bees is not the honey.

But we estimate that about one in three bites of food we eat is directly or indirectly pollinated by honeybees.

So if we did not have bees, it's not like we would starve, but clearly our diet would be diminished.

It's said that for bees, the flower is the fountain of life, and for flowers bees are the messengers of love. 

So in an apple orchard, for instance, you'll have rows of 10 apples of one variety, and then you have another apple tree that's a different type of pollen.

However, honeybees are a minority.

Honeybees are not native to America; they were introduced with the colonialists.

And there are actually more species of bees than there are mammals and birds combined.

In Pennsylvania alone, we have been surveying bees for 150 years, and very intensely in the last three years.

We have identified over 400 species of bees in Pennsylvania.

We also have the sweat bees, and these are little gems flying around.

They're like tiny little flies and they fly around.

And so, in fact, if you know you have these kleptoparasitic bees, you know that your environment is healthy, because they're top-of-the-food-chain bees.

And in fact, if you guys live on the West Coast, go to these websites here, and they're really looking for people to look for some of these bumblebees, because we think some have gone extinct.

And I'm glad I'm a bee man and not a bat man, because there's no money to research the bat problems.

And bats are dying at an extraordinary rate.

White-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats.

If there's a cave in New York that had 15,000 bats in it, and there are 1,000 left.

And that is that I think that what we have in our society is, we forgot our connection with nature.

And I think if we reconnect to nature, we'll be able to have the resources and that interest to solve these problems.

And I think we have lost our connection, and this is a wonderful way of reconnecting to our environment.

I've had the privilege of living by a meadow for the last little while, and it is terribly engaging.

Americans spent, in 2001 -- 11 percent of all pesticide use was done on lawns.

Five percent of our greenhouse gases are produced by mowing our lawns. 

And so we need to rethink this idea.

I want to say this not because I'm opposed completely to mowing lawns.

That it is amazing that connection we can have with what's there.

You never run out of that companion as you drink this wine, too.

And I encourage you to look at that. 

Bees apparently, can be the gateway to, you know, other things.

So I'm not saying that you should plant a meadow of pot, but a pot in a meadow.

And if we want to cure ourselves of NDD, or Nature Deficit Disorder, I think this is a great way of doing it.

And I hope that you experience it and I hope you tell me about it one day.

