So I understand that this meeting was planned, and the slogan was From Was to Still.

And I am illustrating Still.

Which, of course, I am not agreeing with because, although I am 94, I am not still working.

And anybody who asks me, "Are you still doing this or that?"

I don't answer because I'm not doing things still, I'm doing it like I always did.

So this takes care of my age.

I want to show you my work so you know what I am doing and why I am here.

This was about 1925.

All of these things were made during the last 75 years. 

This is a portrait of my daughter and myself. 

I call myself a maker of things.

I don't call myself an industrial designer because I'm other things.

Industrial designers want to make novel things.

Novelty is a concept of commerce, not an aesthetic concept.

The industrial design magazine, I believe, is called "Innovation."

Innovation is not part of the aim of my work.

Well, to describe our profession otherwise, we are actually concerned with the playful search for beauty.

That means the playful search for beauty was called the first activity of Man.

So how can you, without drying up, make things with the same pleasure, as a gift to others, for so long?

The playful is therefore an important part of our quality as designer.

My work actually took me through many countries, and showed me a great part of the world.

I was incredibly curious to see the world, and I made all these things, which then finally did take me to see many countries and many cultures.

The guild system: that means when I was an apprentice, I had to apprentice myself in order to become a pottery master.

In my shop where I studied, or learned, there was a traditional hierarchy of master, journeyman and learned worker, and apprentice, and I worked as the apprentice.

The work as an apprentice was very primitive.

That means I had to actually learn every aspect of making pottery by hand.

And there I really worked as an apprentice.

My master took me to set ovens because this was part of oven-making, oven-setting, in the time.

And finally, I had received a document that I had accomplished my apprenticeship successfully, that I had behaved morally, and this document was given to me by the Guild of Roof-Coverers, Rail-Diggers, Oven-Setters, Chimney Sweeps and Potters. 

I also got at the time a workbook which explained my rights and my working conditions, and I still have that workbook.

First I set up a shop in my own garden, and made pottery which I sold on the marketplace in Budapest.

However, after a while there was a new factory being built in Budapest, a pottery factory, a large one.

And I visited it with several ladies, and asked all sorts of questions of the director.

Then the director asked me, why do you ask all these questions?

I said, I also have a pottery.

There he made an art department for me where I worked for several months.

However, everybody in the factory spent his time at the art department.

The director there said there were several women casting and producing my designs now in molds, and this was sold also to America. 

I remember that it was quite successful.

So this gave me the possibility because now I was a journeyman, and journeymen also take their satchel and go to see the world.

And that was in Hamburg.

And the first day, I was coming to take my place at the turntable -- there were three or four turntables -- and one of them, behind where I was sitting, was a hunchback, a deaf-mute hunchback, who smelled very bad.

So I doused him in cologne every day, which he thought was very nice, and therefore he brought bread and butter every day, which I had to eat out of courtesy.

The first day I came to work in this shop there was on my wheel a surprise for me.

My colleagues had thoughtfully put on the wheel where I was supposed to work a very nicely modeled natural man's organs.

(Laughter) After I brushed them off with a hand motion, they were very -- I finally was now accepted, and worked there for some six months.

This was my first job.

If I go on like this, you will be here till midnight. 

So I will try speed it up a little 

Moderator: Eva, we have about five minutes. 

Eva Zeisel: Are you sure? 

Moderator: Yes, I am sure. 

EZ: Well, if you are sure, I have to tell you that within five minutes I will talk very fast.

And actually, my work took me to many countries because I used my work to fill my curiosity.

I was finally there, although I had nothing to do -- I was a foreign expert.

So I was arrested quite early in Stalin's purges, and spent 16 months in a Russian prison.

Moderator: Tell me when your last trip to Russia was.

Weren't you there recently? 

And they invited myself to come to the Russian factory last summer, in July, to make some dishes, design some dishes.

