This is Aunt Zip from Sodom, North Carolina.

She was 105 years old when I took this picture.

This is one of her songs.

Let's see if we can get into the flow here and all do this one together.

And I'm going to have Michael Manring play bass with me.

(Applause) 

Well, my true love's a black-eyed daisy; if I don't see her, I go crazy. 

Now you've got to picture Aunt Zip at 105 years old in Sodom, North Carolina.

I'd go up and learn these old songs from her.

She couldn't sing much, couldn't play anymore.

And I'd pull her out on the front porch.

Down below, there was her grandson plowing the tobacco field with a mule.

A double outhouse over here on the side.

Well, she and I went blackberry picking.

She got mad; I took a licking. 

Let's have the banjo. 

(Applause) Thank you, Michael. 

This is Ralph Stanley.

When I was going to college at University of California at Santa Barbara in the College of Creative Studies, taking majors in biology and art, he came to the campus.

This was in 1968, I guess it was.

And he played his bluegrass style of music, but near the end of the concert, he played the old timing style of banjo picking that came from Africa, along with the banjo.

It's called claw-hammer style, that he had learned from his mother and grandmother.

I fell in love with that.

So I went back that very summer.

I just fell in love with the culture and the people.

And you know, I came back to school, I finished my degrees and told my parents I wanted to be a banjo player.

You can imagine how excited they were. 

Just a few of them, but maybe you'll get just a little hint of some of these folks. 

(Applause) Those last few pictures were of Ray Hicks, who just passed away last year.

It is definitely the first stringed instrument ever in the world, and still played in the Southern mountains.

Now, the old timers didn't take a fancy guitar string and make anything like this.

They would just take a stick and a catgut and string it up.

It was hard on the cats, but it made a great little instrument.

It sounds something like this. 

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal.

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal.

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal. 

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal. 

When the Yankees saw them coming, they'd lay down their guns and hide. 

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal.

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal.

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal. 

You take Kate, I'll take Sal; we'll both have a Johnson gal. 

(Applause) 

Well, it was 1954, I guess it was.

We were driving in the car outside of Gatesville, Texas, where I grew up in the early part of my life.

Outside of Gatesville we were coming back from the grocery store.

We were surrounded by thousands of acres of cotton fields.

You see, we'd just been to the grocery store, and my mom refused to buy us the jar of Ovaltine that had the coupon for the Captain Midnight decoder ring in it.

And, buddy, that made us mad.

Well, my mom didn't put up with much either, and she was driving, and she said, "You boys!

We were standing on the edge of thousands of acres of cotton.

So he gave us each a cotton sack, about 10 feet long, about that big around, and we started picking.

Now, cotton is soft but the outside of the plant is just full of stickers.

And if you don't know what you're doing, your hands are bleeding in no time.

She wasn't going to give up. 

Well, the foreman could see he was in over his head, I guess.

We sat there all day picking cotton, without complaining, without crying, while they sang things like: "Oh, Mary, don't you weep, don't you moan" and "Wade in the water," and "I done done," "This little light of mine."

Finally, by the end of the day, we'd each picked about a quarter of a bag of cotton.

But the foreman was kind enough to give us each a check for a dollar, but my mother would never let us cash it.

I'm 57; still have the check.

No, we learned something else.

The first thing I learned that day was that I never ever wanted to work that hard again.

(Laughter) And pretty much never did.

Now, I was just a little eight-year-old boy that day when my mama put me out of the car in that hot Texas cotton field.

I wasn't even aware of music -- not even aware of it.

But that day in the cotton field out there picking, when those people started singing, I realized I was in the very heart of real music, and that's where I've wanted to be ever since. 

It's been a while since you guys have been picking your last bale of cotton, isn't it?

Let's try it one more time. 

It was a few years ago, but I sort of remembered this story, and I told it at a concert.

My mom was in the audience.

(Applause) 

It was originally made by the Dopyera Brothers, who later on made the Dobro, which is a wood-bodied instrument with a metal cone for -- where the sound comes from.

It's usually played flat on your lap.

It was made to play Hawaiian music back in the 1920s, before they had electric guitars, trying to make a loud guitar.

That wine we had yesterday would have been perfect.

Break it off, put it on your finger, and slide into the notes.

This instrument pretty much saved my life. 

And I think I learned a lot about what happiness was by going through such unbelievable grief, just standing on the edge of that abyss and just wanting to jump in.

I had to make lists of reasons to stay alive.

I had to sit down and make lists, because I was ready to go; I was ready to check out of this world.

But then, when I thought about it beyond that, it was very simple things.

And it was the only instrument that, of all the ones that I play, that would really make that connection.

This is a song that came out of that. 

Lord, I hate to hear that news.

If you want to talk about it, you know, I will listen to you through. 

Words no longer say it; let me tell you what I always do.

I just break off another bottleneck and play these steel guitar blues. 

While you can hardly move, they're running around having all kinds of fun. 

Sometimes I think it's better just to sink way down in your funky mood 'til you can rise up humming these steel guitar blues. 

Now, you can try to keep it all inside with drink and drugs and cigarettes, but you know that's not going to get you where you want to get. 

But I got some medicine here that just might shake things loose.

Call me in the morning after a dose of these steel guitar blues.

(Applause) 

We moved to California when Sputnik went up, in 1957.

And we moved across the street from Michael and John Whitney.

They were about my age.

John went on, and Michael did too, to become some of the inventors of computer animation.

Michael's dad was working on something called the computer.

So that Christmas -- maybe I've got time for this -- that Christmas I got the Mister Wizard Fun-o-Rama chemistry set.

Well, I wanted to be an inventor just like my dad; so did Michael.

His great-granddad had been Eli Whitney, the inventor of the cotton gin.

Man, we were only 10, but we knew that made gunpowder.

(Laughter) We weren't stupid: we put up a sheet of plywood about five feet in front of it.

Through the garage.

Two of them landed in the side door of his new Citroen.

(Laughter) We tore everything down and buried it in his backyard.

That was Pacific Palisades; it probably is still there, back there. 

Well, my brother heard that we had made gunpowder.

He and his buddies, they were older, and they were pretty mean.

They said they were going to beat us up if we didn't make some gunpowder for them.

It became Chris Berquist's job to do the melting down.

So I like to invent things too, and I think I'll close out my set with something I invented a good while back.

Now, the drum triggers go out my tail here, into the drum machine, and they can make various sounds, like drums.

(Applause) 

