So I'm a neurosurgeon.

And like most of my colleagues, I have to deal, every day, with human tragedies.

And what is very frustrating for us neurosurgeons is to realize that unlike other organs of the body, the brain has very little ability for self-repair.

And after a major injury of your central nervous system, the patients often remain with a severe handicap.

And that's probably the reason why I've chosen to be a functional neurosurgeon. 

What is a functional neurosurgeon?

It's a doctor who is trying to improve a neurological function through different surgical strategies.

However, neuromodulation does not mean neuro-repair.

And the dream of functional neurosurgeons is to repair the brain.

I think that we are approaching this dream. 

And I would like to show you that we are very close to this.

And that with a little bit of help, the brain is able to help itself. 

So the story started 15 years ago.

At that time, I was a chief resident working days and nights in the emergency room.

I often had to take care of patients with head trauma.

You have to imagine that when a patient comes in with a severe head trauma, his brain is swelling and he's increasing his intracranial pressure.

And in order to save his life, you have to decrease this intracranial pressure.

And to do that, you sometimes have to remove a piece of swollen brain.

So instead of throwing away these pieces of swollen brain, we decided with Jean-François Brunet, who is a colleague of mine, a biologist, to study them. 

It's not an easy task.

Growing cells from a piece of tissue is a bit the same as growing very small children out from their family.

So you need to find the right nutrients, the warmth, the humidity and all the nice environments to make them thrive.

So that's exactly what we had to do with these cells.

And after many attempts, Jean-François did it.

And that's what he saw under his microscope. 

And that was, for us, a major surprise.

Why?

And you may remember from biology class that stem cells are immature cells, able to turn into any type of cell of the body.

The adult brain has stem cells, but they're very rare and they're located in deep and small niches in the depths of the brain.

But these cells behave differently.

They divide slowly, and after a few weeks of culture, they even died.

So we were in front of a strange new cell population that looked like stem cells but behaved differently. 

And it took us a long time to understand where they came from.

They come from these cells.

These blue and red cells are called doublecortin-positive cells.

All of you have them in your brain.

They represent four percent of your cortical brain cells.

They have a very important role during the development stage.

When you were fetuses, they helped your brain to fold itself.

But why do they stay in your head?

This, we don't know.

But it's not so sure.

But there is one clear thing -- that from these cells, we got our stem cell culture.

So to prove it, we decided to design an experimental paradigm.

And then label them, to put color in them in order to be able to track them in the brain.

And the last step was to re-implant them in the same individual.

We call these autologous grafts -- autografts. 

So the first question we had, "What will happen if we re-implant these cells in a normal brain, and what will happen if we re-implant the same cells in a lesioned brain?"

Thanks to the help of professor Eric Rouiller, we worked with monkeys. 

But we could not stop here, of course.

Do these cells also help a monkey to recover after a lesion?

So for that, we trained monkeys to perform a manual dexterity task.

They had to retrieve food pellets from a tray.

They were very good at it.

And when they had reached a plateau of performance, we did a lesion in the motor cortex corresponding to the hand motion.

So the monkeys were plegic, they could not move their hand anymore.

So when we were sure that the monkey had reached his plateau of spontaneous recovery, we implanted his own cells.

So on the left side, you see the monkey that has spontaneously recovered.

He's at about 40 to 50 percent of his previous performance before the lesion.

He's not so accurate, not so quick.

It was also very exciting results for us, I tell you.

Since that time, we've understood much more about these cells.

We know that we can cryopreserve them, we can use them later on.

We know that we can apply them in other neuropathological models, like Parkinson's disease, for example.

But our dream is still to implant them in humans.

And I really hope that I'll be able to show you soon that the human brain is giving us the tools to repair itself. 

Thank you. 

I do, in any case.

And of course the question is, what are the biggest obstacles before you can go into human clinical trials? 

JB: Yes, it is, but it takes a long time and a lot of patience and almost a professional team to do it, you know? 

BG: If you project yourself -- having done the research and having tried to get permission to start the trials, if you project yourself out in time, how many years before somebody gets into a hospital and this therapy is available? 

JB: So, it's very difficult to say.

It depends, first, on the approval of the trial.

Will the regulation allow us to do it soon?

And then, you have to perform this kind of study in a small group of patients.

And then you have to deploy this to a multicentric trial.

You have to really prove first that it's useful before offering this treatment up for everybody. 

BG: Jocelyne, thank you for coming to TED and sharing this.

BG: Thank you. 

