I thought I'd talk a little bit about some just big ideas about this, and then get John back out here so we can talk interactively a little bit more and think and ask questions.

And so, for example -- and it's a great Second Life thing -- I had a bedroom.

I built -- I put a garage-door opener up in the attic that would pull this door up.

You can imagine the amount of time that it took me to do this to the house and the displeasure of my parents.

And so for me that was the thing that was so enticing.

I just wanted this place where you could build things.

I also think that more generally, the use of the Internet and technology as a kind of a space between us for creativity and design is a general trend.

It is a -- sort of a great human progress.

Technology is just generally being used to allow us to create in as shared and social a way as possible.

And I think that Second Life and virtual worlds more generally represent the best we can do to achieve that right now.

You know, another way to look at that, and related to the content and, you know, thinking about space, is to connect sort of virtual worlds to space.

I thought that might be a fun thing to talk about for a second.

If you think about going into space, it's a fascinating thing.

Why do we as people want to do that?

One is that if you went into space you'd be able to begin again.

And in fact, it's going to be so different than what we see here on earth that anything is going to be possible.

Everything that's happening with Second Life and more broadly with virtual worlds, all happened in the early '90s.

To give you an idea of scale, Second Life is about 20,000 CPUs at this point.

The space itself is about 10 times the size of San Francisco, and it's about as densely built out. 

And so of course, radically unlike the real world, and like the Internet, the whole thing is expanding very, very quickly, and historically exponentially.

It was critical with the virtual world that it be this space of truly infinite possibility.

Second Life today is this 20,000 machines, and it's about 100 million or so user-created objects where, you know, an object would be something like this, possibly interactive.

Second Life, by comparison, has about 100 terabytes of user-created data, making it about 25,000 times larger. 

And let me justify that with two statements.

Generically, what we use the Web for is to organize, exchange, create and consume information.

It's kind of like Irene talking about Google being data-driven.

I'd say I kind of think about the world as being information.

Everything that we interact with, all the experiences that we have, is kind of us flowing through a sea of information and interacting with it in different ways.

The Web puts information in the form of text and images.

The topology, the geography of the Web is text-to-text links for the most part.

So when you organize information using the symbols of our memory, using the most common symbols that we've been immersed in all our lives, you maximally both excite, stimulate, are able to remember, transfer and manipulate data.

And I think that's something that people have talked about for 20 years -- you know, that 3D, that lifelike environments are really important in some magical way to us.

But the second thing -- and I think this one is less obvious -- is that the experience of creating, consuming, exploring that information is in the virtual world implicitly and inherently social.

You are always there with other people.

That experience of like, shopping together, just as a simple example, is an example of how as social creatures we want to experience information in that way.

You know, mapping in India -- that's such a great example.

So I think that's another big point.

John Hockenberry: Why is the creation, the impulse to create Second Life, not a utopian impulse?

Like for example, in the 19th century, any number of works of literature that imagined alternative worlds were explicitly utopian. 

JH: The Kremlin was pretty big. 

It was just this idea that you could kind of have a private chat.

I just remember it was one of those examples of data-driven design.

We finally gave up, took it out of the code.

But more generally, you know, one other example I think about this, which is great relative to the utopian idea.

You know, an example of something -- pregnancy.

You can have a baby in Second Life.

This is done entirely using, kind of, the tools that are built into Second Life, so the innate concept of becoming pregnant and having a baby, of course -- Second Life is, at the platform level, at the level of the company -- at Linden Lab -- Second Life has no game properties to it whatsoever.

And of course, the existence of an economy is another idea.

I didn't talk about it, but it's a critical feature.

When people are given the opportunity to create in the world, there's really two things they want.

True on the Web -- also true in Second Life.

And so the existence of an economy is critical. 

Respond, and then we'll get the rest of your question. 

PR: But I don't look like my avatar. 

How many people here know what my avatar looks like?

That's probably not very many. 

JH: And your question? 

JH: The question is, there appears to be a lack of cultural fine-tuning in Second Life.

It doesn't seem to have its own culture, and the sort of differences that exist in the real world aren't translated into the Second Life map. 

So a fair criticism -- is what it is -- of Second Life today is that it's more like the Wild West than it is like Rome, from a cultural standpoint.

JH: What's your demographic?

PR: So, the question is, what's the demographic.

The distribution amongst countries is extremely broad. 

There's users from, you know, virtually every country in the world now in Second Life.

The dominant ones are -- if you take the UK and Europe, together they make up about 55 percent of the usage base in Second Life.

In terms of psychographic -- oh, men and women: men and women are almost equally matched in Second Life, so about 45 percent of the people online right now on Second Life are women.

So that's another demographic fact.

But it's not a bunch of programmers.

It's not easy to describe as a demographic.

I suspect that's possibly a euphemism for C student who spent a lot of time in his room?

Moved around a bunch -- had that experience too.

JH: So you're on your fifth life at this point? 

I wasn't, like, an obsessed -- you know, get A's kind of guy.

JH: You want to paraphrase that? 

PR: Yeah, so let me restate that.

And then that's kind of a horrifying thought, of course.

That's a frightening change, frightening disruption.

JH: What's your response to the people who would say, that's horrifying? 

(Audience: If someone would say to you, I find that disturbing, what would be your response?)

PR: Well, I'd say a couple of things.

One is, it's disturbing like the Internet or electricity was.

That is to say, it's a big change, but it isn't avoidable.

So this change, I believe, is a huge disruptive change. 

I don't think we can get away from those changes.

I think generally, we were talking about this -- I think that generally being present in a virtual world and being challenged by it, being -- surviving there, having a good life there, so to speak, is a challenge because of the multiculturality of it, because of the languages, because of the entrepreneurial richness of it, the sort of flea market nature, if you will, of the virtual world today. 

