This is the realm of the Coast Redwood tree.

Its species name is Sequoia sempervirens.

Sequoia sempervirens is the tallest living organism on Earth.

The range of the species goes up to as much as 380 feet tall.

That's 38 stories tall.

These are trees that would stand out in midtown Manhattan.

But curiously, Redwood rainforests, the fragments that we have left, to this day remain under-explored.

I'm going to do a little Gedanken experiment.

It's a kind loaner from TED.

And Chris, if you could take the end of that tape measure?

Now, let your imagination go upward into space.

Redwood time moves at a more stately pace than human time.

Plant this small seed, wait 2,000 years, and you get this: the Lost Monarch.

It dwells in the Grove of Titans on the north coast, and was discovered in 1998.

And yet, when you look at the base of a Redwood tree, you're not seeing the organism.

I became very interested, and I wrote about a couple.

Steve Sillett, when he was a 19-year-old college student at Reed College, had heard that the Redwood forest canopy is considered to be a so-called Redwood desert.

That is to say, at that time it was believed that there was nothing up there except the branches of Redwood trees.

And with a friend of his, he took it upon himself to free-climb a Redwood without ropes or any equipment to see what was up there.

He climbed up a small tree next to this giant Redwood, and then he leaped through space and grabbed a branch with his hands, and ended up hanging, like catching a bar of a trapeze.

And then, from there, he climbed directly up the bark until he got to the top of the tree. 

His friend, a guy named Marwood Harris, was following behind.

Neither one of them had noticed that there was a Yellow Jacket wasp's nest the size of a bowling ball hanging from the branch that Steve had jumped into.

He would have fallen to his death, being 75 feet above the ground.

After three books on this, it got to be a bit much, in a way.

My wife and I adore our children.

Children are incredibly adept at climbing trees.

That's my son, Oliver.

They don't seem to suffer from the same fear of heights that humans do. 

If ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, then children are somewhat closer to our roots as primates in the arboreal forest.

Humans appear to be the only primates that I know of that are afraid of heights.

She's, by the way, tied in with a rope so she can't fall.

It became a writing project. 

When Steve Sillett gets up into a big Redwood, he fires an arrow, which trails a fishing line, which gets over a branch in the tree, and then you ascend up a rope which has been dragged into the tree by the line.

You ascend 30 stories.

They are only one-seventh of the way up that tree.

You do feel a sense of exposure.

There is a small person right down there on the ground.

You feel like you're climbing a wall of wood.

But then you enter the Redwood canopy, and it's like coming through a layer of clouds.

There are epiphytes, plants that grow on trees.

These are huckleberry bushes.

Many species of mosses, and then all sorts of lichens just plastering the tree.

You're worming your way through branches which are crowded with living things that don't occur near the ground.

And then the trees tend to flare out into platform-like areas at the top.

Maria's sitting on one of them.

These limbs could be five to six hundred years old.

Now, here we see a reiteration in Chronos, one of the older Redwoods.

This reiteration is a huge flying buttress that comes out the tree itself.

This buttress is less than halfway up the tree.

And then it bursts into a forest of Redwoods.

This particular extra trunk is a meter across at the base and extends upward for 150 feet.

This three-dimensional map of the crown structure of a Redwood named Iluvatar, made by Steve Sillett, Marie Antoine and their colleagues, gives you an idea.

And if we were able to reiterate, then the fingers of our hand would be people who looked like us, and they would have people on their hands and so on.

And if we had Redwood-like biology, we would have six layers of people on our hands, as it were.

And it would be a lovely thing to be able to wave to someone and have all our reiterations wave at the same time. 

To reiterate the point, let's go closer into Iluvatar.

We're looking at that yellow box.

And there's also something that I want to show you.

Flying buttresses, just as in a cathedral, help strengthen the crown of the tree and help the tree exist longer through time.

The scientists are doing all kinds of experiments in these trees.

They've wired them like patients in an ICU. 

They also have the ability to put roots anywhere in the tree itself.

If a portion of a Redwood is rotting, the Redwood will send roots into its own form and draw nutrients out of itself as it falls apart.

If we had Redwood-like biology, if we got a touch of gangrene in our arm then we could just, you know, extract the nutrients extract the nutrients and the moisture out of it until it fell off.

Canopy soil can occur up to a meter deep, hundreds of feet above the ground, and there are organisms in this soil that have, as yet, no names. 

These copepods are a major constituent of the oceans, and they are a major part of the diet of grazing baleen whales.

What they're doing in the Redwood forest canopy soil hundreds of feet above the ocean, or how they got there, is completely unknown.

There are some interesting theories that, if I had time, I would tell you about.

This little Japanese garden-like creation probably took 700 years to form in its complexity that we see right now.

As you look at a tree, it takes a magnifying glass to see a giant tree.

I have to show you something unfortunately very sad at the conclusion of this talk.

When it moved into its new host, the Eastern Hemlock tree, it escaped its predators, and the new tree had no resistance to it.

The Eastern Hemlock forest is being considered in some ways the last fragments of primeval rainforest east of the Mississippi River. 

This is Great Smoky Mountains National Park, and the Hemlocks are dead as far as the eye can see.

It's absolutely heartbreaking to see.

What can the Redwoods tell us about ourselves?

Well, I think they can tell us something about human time.

We are human, and we have the capacity to love, we have the capacity to wonder, and we have a sort of boundless curiosity, a restless inquisitiveness that so suits us as primates, I think. 

Exploring with them the forest canopy has been one of the most lovely things of my existence on Earth.

And I think that one of the happiest things is the sense that with my children I've been able to introduce them into the very small circle of humans who are lucky enough, or possibly stupid enough, to still climb trees.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: I think at a previous TED, I think it was Nathan Myhrvold who told me that it was thought that because these trees are like, 2,000 years and older, on many of them there are ecosystems where there are species that are not found anywhere on the Earth except on that one tree.

And I was a member of a climbing team that made the first climb of it, in 2006.

And while we were climbing Hyperion, Marie Antoine spotted an unknown species of golden-brown ant about halfway up the trunk.

We don't know what it is -- we just know it's there. 

CA: So, you have to wonder when, you know, if some other species than us was recording the stories that mattered on Earth, you know, our stories are about Iraq and war and politics and celebrity gossip.

It's an amazing sense of wonder you've given me, and a sense of just how fragile this whole thing is. 

But that's just a very small facet of a much greater problem of invasions of species worldwide, all through the ecosystems, and you know, the Earth itself -- 

CA: Partly caused by us, inadvertently. 

CA: Richard Preston, thank you very much, I think. 

