The best culinary experience of my life.

Because what I saw, I'm convinced, is the future of cooking.

There's not a food today that's more maligned than foie gras, right?

I mean, it's crucified.

It was outlawed in Chicago for a while.

It's pending here in California, and just recently in New York.

It's like if you're a chef and you put it on your menu, you risk being attacked.

Really, it happened here in San Francisco to a famous chef. 

I'm not saying that there's not a rationale for being opposed to foie gras.

The reasons usually just boil down to the gavage, which is the force feeding.

Basically you take a goose or a duck and you force feed a ton of grain down its throat.

More grain in a couple of weeks than it would ever get in a lifetime.

Its liver expands by eight times.

Suffice to say it's like -- it's not the prettiest picture of sustainable farming. 

The problem for us chefs is that it's so freakin' delicious.

(Laughter) I mean, I love the stuff.

It is fatty, it's sweet, it's silky, it's unctuous.

It makes everything else you put it with taste incredible.

Can we produce a menu that's delicious without foie gras?

Yes, sure.

You can also bike the Tour de France without steroids, right?

(Laughter) Not a lot of people are doing it.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So several months ago, a friend of mine sent me this link to this guy, Eduardo Sousa.

Eduardo is doing what he calls natural foie gras.

Natural foie gras.

What's natural about foie gras?

To take advantage of when the temperature drops in the fall, geese and ducks gorge on food to prepare for the harsh realities of winter.

And the rest of the year they're free to roam around Eduardo's land and eat what they want.

And it's shockingly not a new idea.

His great-granddad started -- Patería de Sousa -- in 1812.

And they've been doing it quietly ever since.

That is until last year, when Eduardo won the Coup de Coeur, the coveted French gastronomic prize.

It's like the Olympics of food products.

As he said to me, that really pissed the French off.

(Laughter) He said it sort of gleefully. 

(Laughter) He said it sort of gleefully. 

(Laughter) He said it sort of gleefully. 

"Spanish chef accused ... " -- and the French accused him.

They implicated actually, the Spanish government, amazingly.

Huh, amazing.

A huge scandal for a few weeks.

Couldn't find a shred of evidence.

So by definition, he's lying and should be disqualified. 

As funny as it sounds, articulating it now and reading about it -- actually, if we had talked about it before this controversy, I would have said, "That's kind of true."

Amazing.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

He kept going like this to me.

And finally, by the end of the day I was like, Ed-uar-do, you know like this?

But he was still going like this.

I figured it out.

I was speaking too loudly.

So I hushed my voice.

I kind of like asked these questions and chatted with him through a translator in kind of a half whisper.

And he stopped doing this.

And amazingly, the geese who were on the other side of the paddock when I was around -- "Get the hell away from this kid!"

And fence line was amazing in itself.

The fence -- like this conception of fence that we have it's totally backward with him.

He doesn't.

He electrifies only the outside.

Why?

Because he said to me that he felt like the geese -- and he proved this actually, not just a conceit, he proved this -- the geese felt manipulated when they were imprisoned in their little paddocks.

Even though they were imprisoned in this Garden of Eden with figs and everything else.

He felt like they felt manipulated.

Now, what happened?

They ate, and he showed me on a chart, how they ate about 20 percent more feed to feed their livers.

The landscape is incredible.

I mean, his farm is incredible.

Upgrades the life for these geese.

And they are allowed to take whatever they want. 

He doesn't care.

Part of the income for his farm.

A big part of his income for his farm.

His biggest obstacle, really, was the marketplace, which demands these days bright yellow foie gras.

That's how I've been trained.

Well, because he doesn't force feed, because he doesn't gavage tons of corn, his livers were pretty grey.

Or they were.

But he found this wild plant called the Lupin bush.

The Lupin bush, it's all around Extremadura.

He let it go to seed, he took the seeds, he planted it on his 30 acres, all around.

And the geese love the Lupin bush.

Not for the bush, but for the seeds.

And when they eat the seeds, their foie gras turns yellow.

Radioactive yellow.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So I'm listening to all this, you know, and I'm like, is this guy for real?

So it's like, here I am, I'm on the fence about this guy, but increasingly, eating up his every word.

And we're sitting there, and I hear [clapping] from a distance, so I look over.

And he grabs my arm and the translator's, and ducks us under a bush and says, "Watch this."

"Shush," he says again for the 500th time to me.

And like airport traffic control, as they start to go past us they're called back -- and they're called back and back and back.

And then they circle around.

And I'm just saying, "No way."

(Laughter) No way. 

(Laughter) No way. 

(Laughter) No way. 

He said, "No, no, no.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So how did it taste?

I finally got to taste it before I left.

He took me to his neighborhood restaurant and he served me some of his foie gras, confit de foie gras.

It was incredible.

And the problem with saying that, of course, is that you know, at this point it risks hyperbole really easily.

And I'd like to make a metaphor, but I don't have one really.

I was drinking this guy's Kool-Aid so much, he could have served me goose feathers and I would have been like, this guy's a genius, you know?

I'm really in love with him at this point. 

But it truly was the best foie gras of my life.

So much so that I don't think I had ever really had foie gras until that moment.

And you could taste herbs, you could taste spices.

And I kept -- I said, you know, I swear to God I tasted star anise.

I was sure of it.

There's 100 percent star anise in there.

And he says, "No."

But no.

He takes the liver when he harvests the foie gras, he sticks them in this jar and he confits it.

No salt, no pepper, no oil, no spices.

What? 

We went back out for the final tour of the farm, and he showed me the wild pepper plants and the plants that he made sure existed on his farm for salinity.

(Laughter) And he was right.

He was right. 

Chefs take foie gras and they make it their own.

They create a dish where all the vectors point at us.

With Eduardo it's about the expression of nature.

And as he said, I think fittingly, it's a gift from God, with God saying, you've done good work.

Simple.

I flew home, I'm on the flight with my little black book and I took, you know, pages and pages of notes about it.

I really was moved.

Jews invented foie gras.

By accident.

They were looking for an alternative to schmaltz.

Gotten sick of the chicken fat.

They were looking for an alternative.

And they saw in the fall that there was this natural, beautiful, sweet, delicious fat from geese.

And they slaughtered them, used the fat throughout the winter for cooking.

The Pharaoh got wind of this -- This is true, right off the Internet.

The Pharaoh got -- (Laughter) I swear to God.

(Laughter) The Pharaoh got wind of this and wanted to taste it.

He tasted it and fell in love with it.

He started demanding it. 

And he didn't want it just in the fall, he wanted it all year round.

And he demanded that the Jews supply enough for everyone.

That's the history of foie gras.

Most of what we eat today.

That's also an insult to history.

Whatever it is, it's a mindset that is reminiscent of General Motors.

It's rooted in extraction.

We need now to adopt a new conception of agriculture.

Really new.

We can start by looking to farmers like Eduardo.

Farmers that rely on nature for solutions, for answers, rather than imposing solutions on nature.

Listening as Janine Benyus, one of my favorite writers and thinkers about this topic says, "Listening to nature's operating instructions."

That's what Eduardo does, and does so brilliantly.

And it's also almost always, and I haven't found an example otherwise, but almost always, the most delicious choice.

That's serendipitous.

