What technology can we really apply to reducing global poverty?

And what I found was quite surprising.

But I also, in looking at more powerful technologies and nanotechnology and genetic engineering and other new emerging kind of digital technologies, became very concerned about the potential for abuse.

And to keep the many from tyrannizing the one, we came up with concepts like individual liberty.

It's not the nation-states that have potential access to mass destruction, but individuals.

And this is a consequence of the fact that these new technologies tend to be digital.

We saw genome sequences.

So that this is possible to do this is not deniable. 

And the danger is that they can cause roughly what's a pandemic.

So it's not in our nature to pre-act.

So the solution has to be, as people like Russell and Einstein and others imagine in a conversation that existed in a much stronger form, I think, early in the 20th century, that the solution had to be not just the head but the heart.

You know, public policy and moral progress.

The bargain that gives us civilization is a bargain to not use power.

We get our individual rights by society protecting us from others not doing everything they can do but largely doing only what is legal.

And so to limit the danger of these new things, we have to limit, ultimately, the ability of individuals to have access, essentially, to pandemic power.

And it was quite an experience to be there.

It was always a surprise that it happened then and there, but it wasn't a surprise that it happened at all. 

And everyone then started writing about this.

But I agreed to come and say a few things about this.

So we can't fight the thing with a million-to-one cost, one-to-a-million cost-benefit ratio. 

Things where, you know, a factor of 10 difference can make a factor of 1,000 difference in the outcome.

I've been amazed in the last year at the incredible quality and excitement of the innovations that have come across my desk.

But I wanted to share with you three areas that I'm particularly excited about and that relate to the problems that I was talking about in the Wired article.

And that is to say that there's a lot of legs left in Moore's Law.

And it's only in retrospect, after the better software comes along, and you take it and you run it on a ten-year-old machine, you say, God, the machine was that fast?

I remember when they took the Apple Mac interface and they put it back on the Apple II.

So given that we know and should believe -- because Moore's Law's been, like, a constant, I mean, it's just been very predictable progress over the last 40 years or whatever.

We can know what the computers are going to be like in 2020.

It's great that we have initiatives to say, let's go create the education and educate people in the world, because that's a great force for peace.

And we can give everyone in the world a $100 computer or a $10 computer in the next 15 years. 

We'll hear a lot more about that from Al Gore very shortly.

The thing that we see as the kind of Moore's Law trend that's driving improvement in our ability to address the environmental problem is new materials.

They all need clean water, they need energy, they need transportation, and we want them to develop in a green way.

We're reasonably efficient in the industrial sectors.

But these new materials bring such incredible innovations that there's a strong basis for hope that these things will be so profitable that they can be brought to the market. 

And I want to give you a specific example of a new material that was discovered 15 years ago.

And these are the kinds of things we're going to discover as we start to engineer at the nano scale.

In two dimensions, if you make, like, a fabric out of them, they're 30 times stronger than Kevlar.

And if you make a three-dimensional structure, like a buckyball, they have all sorts of incredible properties.

If you put electricity on them, they emit light.

If you run current through them, you can run 1,000 times more current through one of these than through a piece of metal.

It's a strange place inside a nanotube. 

And so we begin to see, and we've seen business plans already, where the kind of things Lisa Randall's talking about are in there.

I had one business plan where I was trying to learn more about Witten's cosmic dimension strings to try to understand what the phenomenon was going on in this proposed nanomaterial.

So inside of a nanotube, we're really at the limit here.

So what we see is with these and other new materials that we can do things with different properties -- lighter, stronger -- and apply these new materials to the environmental problems.

New materials that can make water, new materials that can make fuel cells work better, new materials that catalyze chemical reactions, that cut pollution and so on.

We believe that Genentech, the Compaq, the Lotus, the Sun, the Netscape, the Amazon, the Google in these fields are yet to be found, because this materials revolution will drive these things forward. 

The third area that we're working on, and we just announced last week -- we were all in New York.

And what we did, over the last few months -- well, a few months ago, Ray Kurzweil and I wrote an op-ed in the New York Times about how publishing the 1918 genome was very dangerous.

We need better surveillance.

We need networks that can find out what's going on.

We need rapid diagnostics so that we can tell if somebody has a strain of flu which we have only identified very recently.

Cocktails, more polyvalent vaccines.

You normally get a trivalent vaccine against three possible strains.

We need -- we don't know where this thing is going.

We believe that if we could fill these 10 gaps, we have a chance to help really reduce the risk of a pandemic.

And the difference between a normal flu season and a pandemic is about a factor of 1,000 in deaths and certainly enormous economic impact.

So we're very excited because we think we can fund 10, or speed up 10 projects and see them come to market in the next couple years that will address this. 

If we let an unlimited amount of power loose, then we will -- a very small number of people will be able to abuse it.

We can't fight at a million-to-one disadvantage.

So what we need to do is, we need better policy.

And for example, some things we could do that would be policy solutions which are not really in the political air right now but perhaps with the change of administration would be -- use markets. 

So if you wanted to put a drug on the market you could put it on.

But it wouldn't have to be approved by regulators; you'd have to convince an actuary that it would be safe.

And if you apply the notion of insurance more broadly, you can use a more powerful force, a market force, to provide feedback.

How could you keep the law?

I think the law would be a really good thing to keep.

Well, you have to hold people accountable.

The law requires accountability.

Today scientists, technologists, businessmen, engineers don't have any personal responsibility for the consequences of their actions.

So if you tie that -- you have to tie that back with the law. 

And finally, I think we have to do something that's not really -- it's almost unacceptable to say this -- which, we have to begin to design the future.

We can't pick the future, but we can steer the future.

Our investment in trying to prevent pandemic flu is affecting the distribution of possible outcomes.

We may not be able to stop it, but the likelihood that it will get past us is lower if we focus on that problem.

Vice President Gore will talk about how we could steer the climate trajectory into a lower probability of catastrophic risk. 

But above all, what we have to do is we have to help the good guys, the people on the defensive side, have an advantage over the people who want to abuse things.

And what we have to do to do that is we have to limit access to certain information.

But that's the price of having a civilization.

The price of retaining the rule of law is to limit the access to the great and kind of unbridled power.

