I thought I would think about changing your perspective on the world a bit, and showing you some of the designs that we have in nature.

How did it get into the form that it had before it got reshaped, and so forth?

What was the whole process in the creation and the evolution of the universe to getting to the point that we have these kinds of materials? 

So that's sort of the part, and let me move on then and show you the Hubble Ultra Deep Field.

If you look at this picture, what you will see is a lot of dark with some light objects in it.

And everything but -- four of these light objects are stars, and you can see them there -- little pluses.

This is a star, this is a star, everything else is a galaxy, OK?

So there's a couple of thousand galaxies you can see easily with your eye in here.

And when I look out at particularly this galaxy, which looks a lot like ours, I wonder if there's an art design college conference going on, and intelligent beings there are thinking about, you know, what designs they might do, and there might be a few cosmologists trying to understand where the universe itself came from, and there might even be some in that galaxy looking at ours trying to figure out what's going on over here. 

Because this represents a very clean fraction of the sky.

This is only 1,000 galaxies.

We think there's on the order -- visible to the Hubble Space Telescope, if you had the time to scan it around -- about 100 billion galaxies.

It's a very large number of galaxies.

And that's roughly how many stars there are in our own galaxy. 

But when you look at some of these regions like this, you'll see more galaxies than stars, which is kind of a conundrum.

And then I'm going to show you it's actually a lot more complicated.

We're going to try and follow it up.

We draw this set of nested spheres cut away so you see it.

Put the Earth at the center of the nested spheres, just because that's where we're making observations.

And the moon is only two seconds away, so if you take a picture of the moon using ordinary light, it's the moon two seconds ago, and who cares.

You'd like to have a little advance warning. 

But if you look out to the nearest set of stars, to the nearest 40 or 50 stars, it's about 10 years.

So if you take a picture of what's going on, it's 10 years ago.

But you go and look to the center of the galaxy, it's thousands of years ago.

If you look at Andromeda, which is the nearest big galaxy, and it's two million years ago.

If you took a picture of the Earth two million years ago, there'd be no evidence of humans at all, because we don't think there were humans yet.

I mean, it just gives you the scale.

With the Hubble Space Telescope, we're looking at hundreds of millions of years to a billion years. 

And so that's the sort of sequence, and so I have a more artistic impression of this.

And behind that are some more modern galaxies. 

And from them in the time sequence we're going to have to go from these tiny variations to these irregular galaxies and first stars to these more advanced galaxies, and eventually the solar system, and so forth. 

So the way these measurements were done, there's been a set of satellites, and this is where you get to see.

So there was the COBE satellite, which was launched in 1989, and we discovered these variations.

And then in 2000, the MAP satellite was launched -- the WMAP -- and it made somewhat better pictures.

And that will be the sequence of understanding the very beginning of the universe. 

And what we saw was, we saw these variations, and then they told us the secrets, both about the structure of space-time, and about the contents of the universe, and about how the universe started in its original motions.

And there's some spectacular things.

And this wastebasket part, that's to represent what the structure of space-time itself is doing during this period.

And so this is a pretty weird model, right?

What kind of evidence do we have for that? 

So let me show you some of nature's patterns that are the result of this.

I always think of space-time as being the real substance of space, and the galaxies and the stars just like the foam on the ocean.

It's a marker of where the interesting waves are and whatever went on.

So here is the Sloan Digital Sky Survey showing the location of a million galaxies.

So there's a dot on here for every galaxy.

Now I'm going to show you this in 3D.

What happens is, you take pictures as the Earth rotates, you get a fan across the sky.

There are some places you can't look because of our own galaxy, or because there are no telescopes available to do it.

So the next picture shows you the three-dimensional version of this rotating around.

Do you see the fan-like scans made across the sky?

There are places where there are no galaxies and there are places where there are thousands of galaxies clumped together, right.

So there's an interesting pattern, but we don't have enough data here to actually see the pattern.

We only have a million galaxies, right?

It's hard to see the pattern in the middle of the audience, it's hard to see the pattern of this.

So we're going to go out and swing around and look back at this.

So again, you can see the extension of this Great Wall of galaxies showing up here. 

Suppose you're the cosmic designer.

How are you going to put galaxies out there in a pattern like that?

It's not just throwing them out at random.

There's a more complicated process going on here.

How are you going to end up doing that?

And so now we're in for some serious play.

What's the kind of technique?

What's the kind of thing you're going to do? 

And that is, you start out with very simple ingredients and some simple rules, but you have to have enough ingredients to make it complicated.

So what I'm going to do is show you the distribution of matter as a function of scales.

We're going to zoom in, but this is a plot of what it is.

And we had to add one more thing to make the universe come out right.

It's called dark matter.

That is matter that doesn't interact with light the typical way that ordinary matter does, the way the light's shining on me or on the stage.

It's transparent to light, but in order for you to see it, we're going to make it white.

So the stuff that's in this picture that's white, that is the dark matter.

It should be called invisible matter, but the dark matter we've made visible.

And the stuff that is in the yellow color, that is the ordinary kind of matter that's turned into stars and galaxies. 

So I'll show you the next movie.

So this -- we're going to zoom in.

Notice this pattern and pay attention to this pattern.

We're going to zoom in and zoom in.

And you'll see there are all these filaments and structures and voids.

And when a number of filaments come together in a knot, that makes a supercluster of galaxies.

This one we're zooming in on is somewhere between 100,000 and a million galaxies in that small region.

So we live in the boonies.

So we're zooming in.

A parsec is 3.26 light years.

So a gigaparsec is three billion light years -- that's the scale.

So it takes light three billion years to travel over that distance.

Now we're into a distance sort of between here and here.

That's the distance between us and Andromeda, right?

These little specks that you're seeing in here, they're galaxies. 

So they're simple building blocks.

There's a very simple fluid to begin with.

And it's just a simple fluid and it, over time, develops into this complicated structure.

And so you know when you first saw this picture, it didn't mean quite so much to you.

There's a framework, which is the dark matter, the invisible matter, that's out there that's actually holding it all together. 

So let's fly through it, and you can see how much harder it is when you're in the middle of something to figure this out.

So here's that same end result.

And then we'll fly in to where the very large cluster is, and you can see what it looks like.

And so from inside, it doesn't look very complicated, right?

It's only when you look at it at a very large scale, and explore it and so forth, you realize it's a very intricate, complicated kind of a design, right?

And it's grown up in some kind of way. 

That's the issue, right?

And so here we are.

You see how the filament -- you see how several filaments are coming together, therefore making this supercluster of galaxies.

We're going to start and realize that the entire visible universe, everything we can see in every direction with the Hubble Space Telescope plus our other instruments, was once in a region that was smaller than an atom.

It started with tiny quantum mechanical fluctuations, but expanding at a tremendous rate.

And those fluctuations were stretched to astronomical sizes, and those fluctuations eventually are the things we see in the cosmic microwave background.

And then we needed some way to turn those fluctuations into galaxies and clusters of galaxies and make these kinds of structures go on. 

So I'm going to show you a smaller simulation.

This simulation was run on 1,000 processors for a month in order to make just this simple visible one.

So I'm going to show you one that can be run on a desktop in two days in the next picture.

And you see how the dark matter lumps up, and the ordinary matter just trails along behind.

So there it is.

At the beginning it's very uniform.

The fluctuations are a part in 100,000.

There are a few peaks that are a part in 10,000, and then over billions of years, gravity just pulls in. 

But the distances on the universe are so large and the time scales are so large that it takes a long time for this to form.

And it keeps forming until the universe is roughly about half the size it is now, in terms of its expansion.

And at that point, the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger-scale structure.

So we're just seeing as large a scale structure as we can see, and then only things that have started forming already are going to form, and then from then on it's going to go on. 

So we're able to do the simulation, but this is two days on a desktop.

We need, you know, 30 days on 1,000 processors to do the kind of simulation that I showed you before.

So we have a model, and we can calculate it, and we can use it to make designs of what we think the universe really looks like.

And that design is sort of way beyond what our original imagination ever was.

Since then we've had WMAP, which just gives us higher angular resolution.

We see the same large-scale structure, but we see additional small-scale structure.

And on the bottom right is if the satellite had flipped upside down and mapped the Earth, what kind of a map we would have got of the Earth.

You can see, well, you can, kind of pick out all the major continents, but that's about it. 

But what we're hoping when we get to Planck, we'll have resolution about equivalent to the resolution you see of the Earth there, where you can really see the complicated pattern that exists on the Earth.

And you can also tell, because of the sharp edges and the way things fit together, there are some non-linear processes.

So that's where we are today, and that's what I wanted to give you a flavor of.

Give you a different view about what the design and what everything else looks like.

