I have a story, a story that I would like to share with you.

And it's an African story.

It is a story of hope, resilience and glamour. 

There was Hollywood.

Then came Bollywood.

Today we have Nollywood, the third-largest film industry in the world.

In 2006 alone, almost 2,000 films were made in Nigeria.

Some estimates put the value of this industry at 250 million dollars.

It has created thousands, if not tens of thousands of jobs.

And it's expanding.

The industry is 15 years old. 

My grandfather lived most of his life and is buried in Zambia.

My father also lived most of his adult life in East Africa.

And I was born in Zambia.

Even though I left when I was only three years old, I really felt that Africa was this big part of my life.

And it really was a place where I learned to walk.

It seemed that for our neighbors and friends, Africa was either this exotic place, this imaginary land that probably exists only in their imagination, or the place of horror, famine.

And so we were always caught in this stereotype.

So when I read in a newspaper in the business page the story of Nollywood, I really felt this is an incredible opportunity to tell a story that goes against all these preconceived notions. 

I have the good fortune of being a filmmaker-in-residence at the Center of Digital Imaging Arts at Boston University.

And we really look how digital technology is changing, and how young, independent filmmakers can make movies at a fraction of the cost.

So when I proposed the story, I really had all the support to make this film.

And not only had the support, I found two wonderful partners in crime in this adventure.

So we went to Lagos in October 2005.

And he had nine days to make it.

We thought this was a good story. 

I would like to show you six minutes.

And these are six minutes they really prepared for the TED audience.

And you shoot in seven days.

Peace Piberesima: We're doing films for the masses.

We're not doing films for the elite and the people in their glass houses.

They can afford to watch their "Robocop" and whatever.

Bond Emeruwa: So while we're entertaining, we should be able to educate. 

I believe in the power of audiovisuals.

I mean, 90 percent of the population will watch Nollywood.

I think it's the most viable vehicle right now to pass information across a dedicated cable.

So if you're making a movie, no matter what your topic is, put in a message in there.

Because nobody believed that Nollywood can come out of Africa.

Lancelot Imasen: But our films, they are stories that our people can relate to themselves.

They are stories about our people, for our people.

It's the blockbuster comedy.

You'll crack your ribs. 

Bernard Pinayon Agbaosi: We have been so deep into the foreign movies.

It's all about the foreign movies.

SMW: You can now walk the street and see a role model.

It’s not just what you see in picture.

He influences you really good, you know.

Saint Obi: I was so fascinated, you know, with those cowboy movies.

But then when I discovered the situation in my country, at that time there was so much corruption.

And I didn't want that, you know.

Roboger Animadu: In big countries, when they do the movies, they have all these things in place.

But here, we improvise these items, like the gunshots.

Kevin Books Ikeduba: What I'm scared of is just the explosion will come up in my face.

Woman: That's why I use enough masking tape.

This ain't going to be my last movie.

You know, this is Nollywood, where the magic lives. 

Franco Sacchi: So many things to say, so little time.

So many themes in this story.

I just can't tell you -- there’s one thing I want to tell you.

The Nigerian filmmakers really, really, are doing what they like.

Incredible cameras cost under 5,000 dollars.

And this has unleashed tremendous energy.

And guess what?

We didn’t have to tell to the Nigerian filmmakers.

I hope that the Nollywood phenomenon will go both ways.

But I really think this is a phenomenon that can inspire us.

I really think it goes both ways. 

And I think this is really the theme of this session.

Try to imagine a world where the only goal is food and a shelter, but no stories.

No novels.

I would like you to hear their voices.

If you have an industry that puts a smile on people's face, that’s Nollywood.

BE: It’s still the same basic themes.

And I really hope that this will happen.

Franco, you described this as the world's third largest film industry.

What does that translate to in terms of numbers of films, really? 

There is scientific data on this. 

And we know that there are more.

So it’s safe to say that there are 2,000 films.

CA: And these aren’t films that are primarily seen in cinemas? 

They are bought in video shops.

They can be rented for pennies. 

CA: On what format? 

They started with VHS.

They actually didn't wait for, you know, the latest technology.

They started in '92, '94.

There is no life without stories. 

CA: Franco, thank you so much. 

