15 years ago, I volunteered to participate in a research study that involved a genetic test.

When I arrived at the clinic to be tested, I was handed a questionnaire.

I wasn't quite sure how to answer the question.

Was it aimed at measuring the diversity of research participants' social backgrounds?

And how could they make scientific findings about my genes if I put down my social identity as a black woman?

After all, I consider myself a black woman with a white father rather than a white woman with a black mother entirely for social reasons.

Which racial identity I check has nothing to do with my genes.

Well, despite the obvious importance of this question to the study's scientific validity, I was told, "Don't worry about it, just put down however you identify yourself."

Well, I found out that race runs deeply throughout all of medical practice.

It shapes physicians' diagnoses, measurements, treatments, prescriptions, even the very definition of diseases.

And the more I found out, the more disturbed I became. 

Sociologists like me have long explained that race is a social construction.

When we identify people as black, white, Asian, Native American, Latina, we're referring to social groupings with made up demarcations that have changed over time and vary around the world.

As a legal scholar, I've also studied how lawmakers, not biologists, have invented the legal definitions of races. 

And it's not just the view of social scientists.

You remember when the map of the human genome was unveiled at a White House ceremony in June 2000?

Doctors are supposed to practice evidence-based medicine, and they're increasingly called to join the genomic revolution.

But their habit of treating patients by race lags far behind. 

Take the estimate of glomerular filtration rate, or GFR.

Doctors routinely interpret GFR, this important indicator of kidney function, by race.

As you can see in this lab test, the exact same creatinine level, the concentration in the blood of the patient, automatically produces a different GFR estimate depending on whether or not the patient is African-American.

Why? 

I've been told it's based on an assumption that African-Americans have more muscle mass than people of other races.

But what sense does it make for a doctor to automatically assume I have more muscle mass than that female bodybuilder?

Wouldn't it be far more accurate and evidence-based to determine the muscle mass of individual patients just by looking at them? 

Well, doctors tell me they're using race as a shortcut.

It's a crude but convenient proxy for more important factors, like muscle mass, enzyme level, genetic traits they just don't have time to look for.

But race is a bad proxy.

In many cases, race adds no relevant information at all.

It's just a distraction.

But race also tends to overwhelm the clinical measures.

It blinds doctors to patients' symptoms, family illnesses, their history, their own illnesses they might have -- all more evidence-based than the patient's race.

Race can't substitute for these important clinical measures without sacrificing patient well-being. 

Doctors also tell me race is just one of many factors they take into account, but there are numerous medical tests, like the GFR, that use race categorically to treat black, white, Asian patients differently just because of their race. 

Race medicine also leaves patients of color especially vulnerable to harmful biases and stereotypes.

A cardiologist developed this drug without regard to race or genetics, but it became convenient for commercial reasons to market the drug to black patients.

The FDA then allowed the company, the drug company, to test the efficacy in a clinical trial that only included African-American subjects.

It speculated that race stood in as a proxy for some unknown genetic factor that affects heart disease or response to drugs.

In the end, the drug company's marketing scheme failed.

For one thing, black patients were understandably wary of using a drug just for black people.

One elderly black woman stood up in a community meeting and shouted, "Give me what the white people are taking!"

He promoted the racial concept of disease, that people of different races suffer from different diseases and experience common diseases differently.

Cartwright argued in the 1850s that slavery was beneficial for black people for medical reasons.

He claimed that because black people have lower lung capacity than whites, forced labor was good for them.

Today, doctors still uphold Cartwright's claim the black people as a race have lower lung capacity than white people.

It's a well-known function called "correcting for race."

The problem with race medicine extends far beyond misdiagnosing patients.

You see, race is not a biological category that naturally produces these health disparities because of genetic difference.

Race is a social category that has staggering biological consequences, but because of the impact of social inequality on people's health.

Yet race medicine pretends the answer to these gaps in health can be found in a race-specific pill.

It's much easier and more lucrative to market a technological fix for these gaps in health than to deal with the structural inequities that produce them. 

The reason I'm so passionate about ending race medicine isn't just because it's bad medicine.

I'm also on this mission because the way doctors practice medicine continues to promote a false and toxic view of humanity.

Despite the many visionary breakthroughs in medicine we've been learning about, there's a failure of imagination when it comes to race.

Suppose they rejected an 18th-century classification system and incorporated instead the most advanced knowledge of human genetic diversity and unity, that human beings cannot be categorized into biological races?

What if, instead of using race as a crude proxy for some more important factor, doctors actually investigated and addressed that more important factor?

What if doctors joined the forefront of a movement to end the structural inequities caused by racism, not by genetic difference? 

It is more urgent than ever to finally abandon this backward legacy and to affirm our common humanity by ending the social inequalities that truly divide us. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

