Welcome to 10,000 feet.

Once upon a time, I did a book called "How Buildings Learn."

It's the first working prototype of the clock.

Well, this was the first solution.

Even the most durable and intactable buildings, like the pyramids of Giza, are in bad shape when you look up close.

They've been looted inside and out.

And they're built to protect things but they don't protect things. 

How about underground with a view?

You don't want just any mountain.

So here's an image of the long view of the search problem.

And we got to thinking for various reasons it ought to be a desert mountain, so we got looking in the dry areas of the Southwest.

We looked at mesas in New Mexico.

We were looking at dead volcanoes in Arizona. 

It's the highest range in the state -- over 13,000 feet.

It's nowhere near any Interstate or railroad.

And it's -- the only thing that goes by is what's called America's loneliest highway, U.S. 50. 

Now, inside the yellow line here, on the right is -- that's all national park.

Inside the green line is national forest.

And then over to the left is Bureau of Land Management land and some private land.

Now, as it happened, that two-mile-long strip right in the middle, this vertical, was available because it was private land.

And thanks to Jay Walker who was here and Mitch Kapor who was here, who started the process, Long Now was able to get that two-mile-long strip of land.

And now let's look at the grand truth of what's there. 

We're in Pole Canyon, looking west up the western escarpment of Mount Washington, which is 11,600 feet on top.

Those white cliffs are a dense Cambrian limestone.

It would be a pilgrimage to get to it; it would be a serious hike to get up to where the clock is.

So last June, the Long Now board, some staff and some donors and advisors, made a two-week expedition to the mountain to explore it and investigate, one, if it's the right mountain, and two, if it's the right mountain, how it might actually work for us. 

Now Danny Hillis sort of framed the problem.

He has a theory of how the overall clock experience should work.

In this case it might well be an image of the clock.

Then there's the point of embarkation, that is, the point of transition from ordinary life to being a pilgrim on a quest.

Then there should always be in sight the draw -- a kind of a beacon that draws you on through the labyrinth to finish the process of getting there. 

And in fact, pretty soon we'll hear the sound.

And then Danny says a really great journey will have a secret payoff.

Something you didn't expect that caps what you did expect.

Then there's the return.

At the end of it there's something physical, a kind of reward that you take away.

It might be a piece of a core drill of the mountain.

Something that's just yours.

This is not a normal building project.

What do you look for?

What are the elements that will most affect your ideas and decisions? 

It turns out that Mount Washington is covered with bristlecone pines.

They're the world's oldest living thing.

People think they're just the size of shrubs, but that's not actually true.

There are trees on that mountain that are 5,000 years old and still living.

The wood is so solid it's like stone, and it lasts for a long time.

So when you do tree ring studies of trunks that are on the mountain, some of them go back 10,000 years.

The stone itself is absolutely beautiful, sculpted by millennia of very tough winters up there.

We had tree ring analysts from the University of Arizona join us on the expedition. 

Now, if you guys have a pine cone handy, now's a good time to put it in your hand and feel it, especially on the end.

Longevity under adversity is a pretty interesting design principle in its own right. 

And we're a non-profit foundation, you can give us the property and take a hell of a tax deduction. 

And shale is not quite completely competent rock.

Competent rock is rock that will hold itself up without any shoring.

The shale would like some shoring, and so parts of it are caved in in there. 

OK, here's another mine that's up on top of the property, and it dates back to 1870.

In fact, it was the highest-operating mine in Nevada, and it ran year round.

You can imagine what it was like in the winter at 10,000 feet.

You may recognize a couple of the miners there.

There's Jeff Bezos on the right and Paul Saville on the left looking for galena, which is the lead-silver thing.

And they also found four species of bats in there.

Way more interesting than Monterey even today. 

And so one Tuesday morning last June, there we were.

Woke up in the morning -- the mountain was covered with snow.

And it's a pretty interesting scene.

We want a temporary use permit for the clock, eventually -- 10,000-year temporary use permit. 

The weather station's pretty interesting.

Kurt Bollacker and Alexander Rose designed a radically wireless station.

And there you see a week of weather at 9,400 feet on Mount Washington.

Let's go to approaches.

As it happens, there are no trails anywhere on Mount Washington, just a few old mining roads like this, so you have to bushwhack everywhere.

But there's no bears, and there's no poison oak, and there's basically no people because this place has been empty for a long time.

You can hike for days and not encounter anybody. 

Well, here's a potential approach.

You need to come up the Lincoln Canyon.

So you can scratch Lincoln Canyon as an approach.

Another possible approach is right up the western front of the mountain.

You can see why we sometimes call it Long Mountain.

So Alexander Rose wanted to explore this route, and he started over here on the left from his pickup truck at 8,900 feet and headed up the mountain.

Now, as you gain elevation your IQ goes down -- 

In fact, Danny Hillis can estimate altitude by how much math he can't do in his head. 

First ascent of the western face to Mount Washington, and a solo ascent at that.

We realized that we had to name this thing that Alexander discovered.

So we finally decided on Alexander's Siq.

And so that maybe becomes part of the draw and part of the labyrinth.

You can get another angle on Danny's porch by going around to the south and looking north at the whole formation there.

So even with the slowing of the rotation of the earth and so on, the clock will keep perfectly good time. 

That's what it looks like looking down it.

We should probably put in a rail or something.

Over on the eastern side it's gentle, as you can see.

And that's not snow -- that's what the white limestone looks like.

You also see there a bighorn sheep.

Their herd was reintroduced from Wyoming.

And they're doing pretty well, but they've got a bit of trouble. 

This is Danny Hillis, and he's figuring out a design problem.

because the real peak is hidden around the corner.

This is what in the infantry we used to call the military crest.

And as it turned out the answer is, yes, that is from down below in the valley it does look like the peak, and that might be conjured with.

We gradually realized we have three serious design domains to work on with this.

One is the experience of the mountain.

Another is the experience in the mountain.

In the front, there are 10 ranches strung right along the base of the mountains using the water from the mountains.

In fact, there are artesian wells where water springs right into the air.

It's a very nice ranch.

And most of these ranches are having trouble keeping going.

This is their view to the west of the Schell Creek range.

And a scheme emerged that Long Now is looking to see if it might be possible to buy up the whole valley, because those 10 ranches with their 17,000 acres dominate a 500 square mile valley with their grazing allotments and so on, and there's a possibility that you could get the whole thing for five million dollars and gradually restore it to its wild condition, and somewhere in the process turn it back over to the National Park, and it would double the size of Great Basin National Park.

OK, let's take one more look at the mountain itself.

The clock experience should be profound, but from the outside it should be invisible.

You excavated from somewhere, came up from inside and deepened it.

And then you could have an entrance which was very rough and narrow as you first went in, that gradually becomes more refined and then actually quite exquisite.

And this stone takes a perfect polish.

You'd have a polished set of passages and chambers in there eventually leading to the 10,000 year clock. 

This is architecture not made by building, but by what you very carefully take away.

So that's what the mountain taught us.

Most of the amazingness of the clock we can borrow from the amazingness of the mountain.

All we have to do is highlight its spectacular features and blend in with them.

It's not a clock in a mountain -- it's a mountain clock.

Now, the Tewa Indians in the Southwest have a saying for what you need to do when you want to think long term about anything.

They say, "pin peya obe" -- welcome to the mountain. 

Thank you. 

