I thought I'd start with telling you or showing you the people who started [Jet Propulsion Lab].

When they were a bunch of kids, they were kind of very imaginative, very adventurous, as they were trying at Caltech to mix chemicals and see which one blows up more.

Well, I don't recommend that you try to do that now.

Naturally, they blew up a shack, and Caltech, well, then, hey, you go to the Arroyo and really do all your tests in there. 

So, that's what we call our first five employees during the tea break, you know, in here.

As I said, they were adventurous people.

As a matter of fact, one of them, who was, kind of, part of a cult which was not too far from here on Orange Grove, and unfortunately he blew up himself because he kept mixing chemicals and trying to figure out which ones were the best chemicals.

So, that gives you a kind of flavor of the kind of people we have there.

We try to avoid blowing ourselves up. 

I tried to come like him this morning, but as I walked out, then it was too cold, and I said, I'd better put my shirt back on.

In our early days we used to work a lot on rockets, but we also used to have a lot of parties, you know.

As you can see, one of our parties, you know, a few years ago.

And that was done over a period of a couple of years, and now we are the leading organization, you know, exploring space on all of your behalf. 

But even when we did that, we had to remind ourselves, sometimes there are setbacks.

So you see, on the bottom, that rocket was supposed to go upward; somehow it ended going sideways.

So that's what we call the misguided missile.

But then also, just to celebrate that, we started an event at JPL for "Miss Guided Missile."

So, we do something a little bit more serious.

These are the Rovers up here that you have on Mars now.

So that kind of tells you about, kind of, the fun things, you know, and the serious things that we try to do.

But I said I'm going to show you a short clip of one of our employees to kind of give you an idea about some of the talent that we have. 

Video: Morgan Hendry: Beware of Safety is an instrumental rock band.

It branches on more the experimental side.

Being able to treat sound as an instrument, and be able to dig for more abstract sounds and things to play live, mixing electronics and acoustics.

Some of the most brilliant engineers I know are the ones who have that sort of artistic quality about them.

You've got to do what you want to do.

And anyone who tells you you can't, you don't listen to them.

Maybe they're right - I doubt it.

Tell them where to put it, and then just do what you want to do.

Charles Elachi: Now, moving from the play stuff to the serious stuff, always people ask, why do we explore?

Why are we doing all of these missions and why are we exploring them?

Well, the way I think about it is fairly simple.

But somehow what strikes everybody's imagination -- or lots of people's imagination -- somehow from that original Big Bang we have this beautiful world that we live in today. 

Why is there a planet on which there is life which have evolved?

Is that very common?

Is there life on every planet that you can see around the stars?

So we literally are all made out of stardust.

We started from those stars; we are made of stardust.

So, next time you are really depressed, look in the mirror and you can look and say, hi, I'm looking at a star here.

You can skip the dust part.

But literally, we are all made of stardust. 

So, what we are trying to do in our exploration is effectively write the book of how things have came about as they are today.

And one of the first, or the easiest, places we can go and explore that is to go towards Mars.

And the reason Mars takes particular attention: it's not very far from us.

You know, it'll take us only six months to get there.

It is like the Grand Canyon on Earth, except a hell of a lot larger. 

And if you look at the height of it and you compare it to Mount Everest, you see, it'll give you an idea of how large that Mount Olympus, you know, is, relative to Mount Everest.

So, it basically dwarfs, you know, Mount Everest here on Earth.

So, that gives you an idea of the tectonic events or volcanic events which have happened on that planet.

Recently from one of our satellites, this shows that it's Earth-like -- we caught a landslide occurring as it was happening.

So it is a dynamic planet, and activity is going on as we speak today. 

So, this is called Victoria Crater, which is about a few football fields in size.

And if you look at the top left, you see a little teeny dark dot.

This picture was taken from an orbiting satellite.

So, specifically what we are doing now is that Rover is going down in that crater.

As I told you, geologists love craters.

And the reason is, many of you went to the Grand Canyon, and you see in the wall of the Grand Canyon, you see these layers.

So if you can read the layers it's like reading your book, and you can learn the history of what happened in the past in that location. 

Now, it's kind of a little bit of a challenge driving down a slope like this.

If you were there you wouldn't do it yourself.

But we really made sure we tested those Rovers before we got them down -- or that Rover -- and made sure that it's all working well. 

Now, when I came last time, shortly after the landing -- I think it was, like, a hundred days after the landing -- I told you I was surprised that those Rovers are lasting even a hundred days.

Well, here we are four years later, and they're still working.

Now you say, Charles, you are really lying to us, and so on, but that's not true.

And now we designed them reasonably well, but that's exactly why they are lasting that long and still providing all the science data.

Now, the two Rovers, each one of them is, kind of, getting old.

But still they are producing a lot of scientific data.

Now, during that whole period, a number of people got excited, you know, outside the science community about these Rovers, so I thought I'd show you a video just to give you a reflection about how these Rovers are being viewed by people other than the science community. 

So let me go on the next short video.

So anyway, let me continue on showing you a little bit about the beauty of that planet.

As I said earlier, it looked very much like Earth, so you see sand dunes.

It looks like I could have told you these are pictures taken from the Sahara Desert or somewhere, and you'd have believed me, but these are pictures taken from Mars.

So it's on May 25 around just before five o'clock our time here on the West Coast, actually we will be landing on another planet.

Video: That's what we call the seven minutes of terror.

So the plan is to dig in the soil and take samples that we put them in an oven and actually heat them and look what gases will come from it.

So this was launched about nine months ago.

Lynn Craig: Where there tends to be water, at least on Earth, there tends to be life, and so it's potentially a place where life could have existed on the planet in the past. 

Erik Bailey: The main purpose of EDL is to take a spacecraft that is traveling at 12,500 miles an hour and bring it to a screeching halt in a soft way in a very short amount of time.

And our lander is safely tucked inside what we call an aeroshell. 

EB: Looks kind of like an ice cream cone, more or less. 

Now, this is really special cork, and this cork is what's going to protect us from the violent atmospheric entry that we're about to experience. 

Rob Grover: Friction really starts to build up on the spacecraft, and we use the friction when it's flying through the atmosphere to our advantage to slow us down.

BC: From this point, we're going to decelerate from 12,500 miles an hour down to 900 miles an hour. 

EB: The outside can get almost as hot as the surface of the Sun. 

RG: The temperature of the heat shield can reach 2,600 degrees Fahrenheit. 

EB: The inside doesn't get very hot.

It probably gets about room temperature.

Richard Kornfeld: There is this window of opportunity within which we can deploy the parachute. 

EB: If you fire the 'chute too early, the parachute itself could fail.

BC: In the first 15 seconds after we deploy the parachute, we'll decelerate from 900 miles an hour to a relatively slow 250 miles an hour.

We no longer need the heat shield to protect us from the force of atmospheric entry, so we jettison the heat shield, exposing for the first time our lander to the atmosphere of Mars. 

LC: After the heat shield has been jettisoned and the legs are deployed, the next step is to have the radar system begin to detect how far Phoenix really is from the ground. 

BC: We've lost 99 percent of our entry velocity.

So, we're 99 percent of the way to where we want to be.

But that last one percent, as it always seems to be, is the tricky part. 

EB: Now the spacecraft actually has to decide when it's going to get rid of its parachute. 

BC: We separate from the lander going 125 miles an hour at roughly a kilometer above the surface of Mars: 3,200 feet.

That's like taking two Empire State Buildings and stacking them on top of one another. 

LC: So it's in a free-fall, but it's also trying to use all of its actuators to make sure that it's in the right position to land. 

EB: And then it has to light up its engines, right itself, and then slowly slow itself down and touch down on the ground safely. 

BC: Earth and Mars are so far apart that it takes over ten minutes for a signal from Mars to get to Earth.

And EDL itself is all over in a matter of seven minutes.

So by the time you even hear from the lander that EDL has started it'll already be over. 

EB: We have to build large amounts of autonomy into the spacecraft so that it can land itself safely. 

BC: EDL is this immense, technically challenging problem.

It's about getting a spacecraft that's hurtling through deep space and using all this bag of tricks to somehow figure out how to get it down to the surface of Mars at zero miles an hour.

It's this immensely exciting and challenging problem. 

CE: Hopefully it all will happen the way you saw it in here.

So now let me talk about the next things that we are doing.

So we are in the process, as we speak, of actually designing the next Rover that we are going to be sending to Mars.

So I thought I would go a little bit and tell you, kind of, the steps we go through.

It's very similar to what you do when you design your product.

As you saw a little bit earlier, when we were doing the Phoenix one, we have to take into account the heat that we are going to be facing.

So we have to study all kinds of different materials, the shape that we want to do.

In general we don't try to please the customer here.

What we want to do is to make sure we have an effective, you know, an efficient kind of machine. 

First we start by we want to have our employees to be as imaginative as they can.

Then we get a little bit more serious, so we have what we call our CAD/CAMs and all the engineers who are involved, or scientists who are involved, who know about thermal properties, know about design, know about atmospheric interaction, parachutes, all of these things, which they work in a team effort and actually design a spacecraft in a computer to some extent, so to see, does that meet the requirement that we need.

So these are kind of some of the little challenges, you know, that we have to face.

To give you an idea of the size, you know, of that parachute relative to the people standing there. 

Next step, we go and actually build some kind of test models and actually test them, you know, in the lab at JPL, in what we call our Mars Yard.

And this next Rover that we're flying is about the size of a car.

That big shield that you see outside, that's a heat shield which is going to protect it.

And that will be basically built over the next year, and it will be launched June a year from now.

Now, in that case, because it was a very big Rover, we couldn't use airbags.

And I know many of you, kind of, last time afterwards said well, that was a cool thing to have -- those airbags.

So we came up with this ingenious idea, which is used here on Earth for helicopters.

Actually, the lander will come down to about 100 feet and hover above that surface for 100 feet, and then we have a sky crane which will take that Rover and land it down on the surface.

Hopefully it all will work, you know, it will work that way.

And that Rover will be more kind of like a chemist.

What we are going to be doing with that Rover as it drives around, it's going to go and analyze the chemical composition of rocks.

So it will have an arm which will take samples, put them in an oven, crush and analyze them.

But also, if there is something that we cannot reach because it is too high on a cliff, we have a little laser system which will actually zap the rock, evaporate some of it, and actually analyze what's coming from that rock.

So it's a little bit like "Star Wars," you know, but it's real.

It's real stuff.

So that's kind of giving you an idea of the kind of, you know, fun things we are doing on Mars.

I thought I'd go to "The Lord of the Rings" now and show you some of the things we have there.

Now, "The Lord of the Rings" has two things played through it.

Some of the scientists believe that the way the Solar System formed, that the Sun when it collapsed and actually created the Sun, a lot of the dust around it created rings and then the particles in those rings accumulated together, and they formed bigger rocks, and then that's how the planets, you know, were formed. 

So, the idea is, by watching Saturn we're actually watching our solar system in real time being formed on a smaller scale, so it's like a test bed for it.

So, let me show you a little bit on what that Saturnian system looks like.

First, I'm going to fly you over the rings.

By the way, all of this is real stuff.

This is not animation or anything like this.

This is actually taken from the satellite that we have in orbit around Saturn, the Cassini.

And you see the amount of detail that is in those rings, which are the particles.

Now, you think that those rings are very large objects.

What you are seeing here is the shadow of the ring on Saturn itself.

And that's one of the satellites which was actually formed on that one.

So, think about it as a paper-thin, huge area of many hundreds of thousands of miles, which is rotating. 

Well, there were two satellites which were particularly interesting.

One of them is called Enceladus.

We saw geysers coming out.

So this is a Yellowstone, you know, of Saturn.

We are seeing geysers of ice which are coming out of that planet, which indicate that most likely there is an ocean, you know, below the surface.

And somehow, through some dynamic effect, we're having these geysers which are being, you know, emitted from it.

That was [unclear] also -- you know, because we were worried about the risk of it, but it worked pretty well.

We flew at the top of it, and we found that there is a fair amount of organic material which is being emitted in combination with the ice.

And over the next few years, as we keep orbiting, you know, Saturn, we are planning to get closer and closer down to the surface and make more accurate measurements. 

And that atmosphere is very -- as dense as our own atmosphere.

So people believe now that Titan is most likely what we call a pre-biotic planet, because it's so cold organic material did not get to the stage of becoming biological material, and therefore life could have evolved on it. 

So it could be Earth, frozen three billion years ago before life actually started on it.

So that's getting a lot of interest, and to show you some example of what we did in there, we actually dropped a probe, which was developed by our colleagues in Europe, we dropped a probe as we were orbiting Saturn.

We dropped a probe in the atmosphere of Titan.

And this is a picture of an area as we were coming down.

Just looked like the coast of California for me.

You see the rivers which are coming along the coast, and you see that white area which looks like Catalina Island, and that looks like an ocean.

So here we have a cycle of a planet which is like our Earth, but is all made of ethane and methane and organic material.

So if you were on Mars -- sorry, on Titan, you don't have to worry about four-dollar gasoline.

You just drive to the nearest lake, stick your hose in it, and you've got your car filled up.

On the other hand, if you light a match the whole planet will blow up.

So in closing, I said I want to close by a couple of pictures.

So as you zoom in, you know, you can see Earth, you know, just in the middle here.

So thank you very much. 

