And it’s the first time I’ve had a job where I’m afraid to go away because of everything that’s going to happen in this week when I’m here.

(Laughter) But in any case, what I’m going to do in my little bit of time is take you on a quick tour of some of the things that we talk about and we think about.

So, we think a lot about what really makes science work?

And this is, by the way, something that a democratic society also has to do. 

So how does it work?

Well, my belief is that it works because scientists are a community bound together by an ethics.

(Laughter) 

But one of the principles is that everybody who is part of the community gets to fight and argue as hard as they can for what they believe.

But we’re all disciplined by the understanding that the only people who are going to decide, you know, whether I’m right or somebody else is right, are the people in our community in the next generation, in 30 and 50 years.

So it’s this combination of respect for the tradition and community we’re in, and rebellion that the community requires to get anywhere, that makes science work.

And being in this process of being in a community that reasons from shared evidence to conclusions, I believe, teaches us about democracy.

Not only is there a relationship between the ethics of science and the ethics of being a citizen in democracy, but there has been, historically, a relationship between how people think about space and time, and what the cosmos is, and how people think about the society that they live in. 

And I want to talk about three stages in that evolution.

The first science of cosmology that was anything like science was Aristotelian science, and that was hierarchical.

And Aristotle’s law of motion was that everything goes to its natural place, which was of course, the rule of the society that Aristotle lived in, and more importantly, the medieval society that, through Christianity, embraced Aristotle and blessed it.

So that is both Aristotelian cosmology, and in a certain sense, medieval society.

Now, in the 17th century there was a revolution in thinking about space and time and motion and so forth of Newton.

And at the same time there was a revolution in social thought of John Locke and his collaborators.

And they were very closely associated.

In fact, Newton and Locke were friends.

Their way of thinking about space and time and motion on the one hand, and a society on the other hand, were closely related. 

And let me show you.

In a Newtonian universe, there’s no center -- thank you.

There are particles and they move around with respect to a fixed, absolute framework of space and time.

Of who else there is, of the history and so forth.

So this is the foundations of what’s called, traditionally, liberal political theory and Newtonian physics.

Now, in the 20th century we had a revolution that was initiated at the beginning of the 20th century, and which is still going on.

It was begun with the invention of relativity theory and quantum theory.

Space is just one aspect, so there’s no meaning to say absolutely where something is.

There’s only where it is relative to everything else that is.

And this network of relations is ever-evolving.

So we call it a relational universe.

All properties of things are about these kinds of relationships.

And also, if you’re embedded in such a network of relationships, your view of the world has to do with what information comes to you through the network of relations.

And there’s no place for an omniscient observer or an outside intelligence knowing everything and making everything.

So this is general relativity, this is quantum theory.

This is also, if you talk to legal scholars, the foundations of new ideas in legal thought.

They’re thinking about the same things.

And not only that, they make the analogy to relativity theory and cosmology often.

So there’s an interesting discussion going on there.

This last view of cosmology is called the relational view. 

So the main slogan here is that there’s nothing outside the universe, which means that there’s no place to put an explanation for something outside.

(Laughter) 

Then you want to know, you’re a person, you want to know how is it made.

And in a relational universe the only possible explanation was, somehow it made itself.

There must be mechanisms of self-organization inside the universe that make things.

Because there’s no place to put a maker outside, as there was in the Aristotelian and the Newtonian universe.

So in a relational universe we must have processes of self-organization. 

That is, natural selection works on properties, like fitness, which are about relationships of some species to some other species.

Darwin wouldn’t make sense in an Aristotelian universe, and wouldn’t really make sense in a Newtonian universe. 

So a theory of biology based on natural selection requires a relational notion of what are the properties of biological systems.

And if you push that all the way down, really, it makes the best sense in a relational universe where all properties are relational.

Now, not only that, but Einstein taught us that gravity is the result of the world being relational.

In the 20th century, we saw the independent development of two big themes in science.

In the biological sciences, they explored the implications of the notion that order and complexity and structure arise in a self-organized way.

That was the triumph of Neo-Darwinism and so forth.

And slowly, that idea is leaking out to the cognitive sciences, the human sciences, economics, et cetera.

At the same time, we physicists have been busy trying to make sense of and build on and integrate the discoveries of quantum theory and relativity. 

And what we’ve been working out is the implications, really, of the idea that the universe is made up of relations.

And also, is that in the 21st century our thinking about space and time and cosmology, and our thinking about society are both going to continue to evolve.

And what they’re evolving towards is the union of these two big ideas, Darwinism and relationalism. 

Now, if you think about democracy from this perspective, a new pluralistic notion of democracy would be one that recognizes that there are many different interests, many different agendas, many different individuals, many different points of view.

Each one is incomplete, because you’re embedded in a network of relationships.

Any actor in a democracy is embedded in a network of relationships.

And I also think that science will never go away and -- I’m finishing on this line.

(Laughter) In fact, I’m finished.

