And in fact, we’re going to do that exercise right now.

You all have a piece of cardboard and a piece of paper.

It’s actually got a bunch of circles on it.

And there should be a pencil.

Come on: those masterpieces ... OK?

Lots of laughter, quite a bit of embarrassment. 

Yup, yup, I think I probably am.

And that’s exactly what happens every time, every time you do this with adults.

McKim found this every time he did it with his students.

He got exactly the same response: lots and lots of sorry’s. 

And this fear is what causes us to be conservative in our thinking.

So we might have a wild idea, but we’re afraid to share it with anybody else. 

And in studies of kids playing, it’s been shown time after time that kids who feel secure, who are in a kind of trusted environment -- they’re the ones that feel most free to play. 

Before founding IDEO, David said that what he wanted to do was to form a company where all the employees are my best friends.

Now, that wasn’t just self-indulgence.

He knew that friendship is a short cut to play.

And so, that decision to work with his friends -- now he has 550 of them -- was what got IDEO started. 

Don’t know the reason for the pink flamingos, but anyway, they’re there in the garden.

So they have the slide, and they even have a fireman’s pole.

Don’t know what they do with that, but they have one. 

So all of these places have these symbols.

Now, our big symbol at IDEO is actually not so much the place, it’s a thing.

It’s a toy; it’s called a "finger blaster."

And I forgot to bring one up with me.

I want to see how many of you can get these things on the stage.

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

There we go. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.

Well, they’re still coming in from the back there; they’re still coming in.

Some of you haven’t fired them yet.

So, ah, that was fun. 

All right, good. 

All right, good. 

But why is it important?

We use it in a pretty pragmatic way, to be honest.

We think playfulness helps us get to better creative solutions.

Helps us do our jobs better, and helps us feel better when we do them. 

I suspect, actually, that the evolutionary biologists probably have lots of reasons [for] why we want to categorize new things very, very quickly.

Well, at least, we did once.

Most of us don’t need to anymore, I suppose. 

Well, not necessarily. 

Kids are more engaged with open possibilities.

And you know, the more creative of them might get to a really interesting example.

And this openness is the beginning of exploratory play.

And you know, from an exploration perspective, this behavior makes complete sense.

Because you can do a lot more with boxes than you can do with a toy.

So again, this is another one of those playful activities that, as we get older, we tend to forget and we have to relearn. 

So what I’m going to do is, I’m going to give you minute, and I want you to adapt as many of those circles as you can into objects of some form.

I want you to do as many of them as you can, in the minute that I’m just about to give you.

I wasn’t actually very interested in whether they were all different.

I just wanted you to fill in as many circles as possible.

And one of the things we tend to do as adults, again, is we edit things.

And in some cases, our desire to be original is actually a form of editing.

And that actually isn’t necessarily really playful.

It’s the plant from which you can create mescaline, one of the psychedelic drugs.

For those of you around in the '60s, you probably know it well. 

McKim published a paper in 1966, describing an experiment that he and his colleagues conducted to test the effects of psychedelic drugs on creativity.

He gave each of them some mescaline, and had them listen to some nice, relaxing music for a while.

And then he did what’s called the Purdue Creativity Test.

You might know it as, "How many uses can you find for a paper clip?"

It’s basically the same thing as the 30 circles thing that I just had you do. 

And then he asked them to go away and work on those problems that they’d brought.

And they’d come up with a bunch of interesting solutions -- and actually, quite valid solutions -- to the things that they’d been working on.

So it was a pretty successful evening. 

In fact, maybe this experiment was the reason that Silicon Valley got off to its great start with innovation.

We don’t know, but it may be.

We need to ask some of the CEOs whether they were involved in this mescaline experiment.

But it’s hard to break our habits, our adult habits. 

At IDEO we have brainstorming rules written on the walls.

Edicts like, "Defer judgment," or "Go for quantity."

And somehow that seems wrong.

I mean, can you have rules about creativity?

Now, of course, many designers, many individual designers, achieve this is in a much more organic way. 

I think the Eameses are wonderful examples of experimentation.

They were exploring following what was interesting to them.

Through constant experimentation with materials, they developed a wide range of iconic solutions that we know today, eventually resulting in, of course, the legendary lounge chair.

Now, if the Eameses had stopped with that first great solution, then we wouldn’t be the beneficiaries of so many wonderful designs today.

So, they’re great examples, I think, of exploration and experimentation in design. 

Now, while the Eameses were exploring those possibilities, they were also exploring physical objects.

And they were doing that through building prototypes.

And building is the next of the behaviors that I thought I’d talk about.

So the average Western first-grader spends as much as 50 percent of their play time taking part in what’s called "construction play."

Construction play -- it’s playful, obviously, but also a powerful way to learn.

When play is about building a tower out of blocks, the kid begins to learn a lot about towers.

It’s classically learning by doing. 

Now, David Kelley calls this behavior, when it’s carried out by designers, "thinking with your hands."

On one of his earliest projects, the team was kind of stuck, and they came up with a mechanism by hacking together a prototype made from a roll-on deodorant.

Now, that became the first commercial computer mouse for the Apple Lisa and the Macintosh. 

So, they learned their way to that by building prototypes.

Another example is a group of designers who were working on a surgical instrument with some surgeons.

They were meeting with them; they were talking to the surgeons about what it was they needed with this device.

And in the end it turned into a real device. 

And so this behavior is all about quickly getting something into the real world, and having your thinking advanced as a result.

At IDEO there’s a kind of a back-to-preschool feel sometimes about the environment.

But the important idea is that everything’s at hand, everything’s around.

So when designers are working on ideas, they can start building stuff whenever they want.

They don’t necessarily even have to go into some kind of formal workshop to do it.

And we think that’s pretty important. 

And then the sad thing is, although preschools are full of this kind of stuff, as kids go through the school system it all gets taken away.

They lose this stuff that facilitates this sort of playful and building mode of thinking.

But by giving project teams and the clients who they’re working with permission to think with their hands, quite complex ideas can spring into life and go right through to execution much more easily. 

This is a nurse using a very simple -- as you can see -- plasticine prototype, explaining what she wants out of a portable information system to a team of technologists and designers that are working with her in a hospital.

And just having this very simple prototype allows her to talk about what she wants in a much more powerful way.

But what about designing something that isn’t physical?

Instead of building play, this can be approached with role-play.

So, if you’re designing an interaction between two people -- such as, I don’t know -- ordering food at a fast food joint or something, you need to be able to imagine how that experience might feel over a period of time.

And I think the best way to achieve that, and get a feeling for any flaws in your design, is to act it out. 

So we do quite a lot of work at IDEO trying to convince our clients of this.

They can be a little skeptical; I’ll come back to that.

And this is another example in a healthcare environment of some doctors and some nurses and designers acting out a service scenario around patient care.

But you know, many adults are pretty reluctant to engage with role-play.

Some of it’s embarrassment and some of it is because they just don’t believe that what emerges is necessarily valid.

They dismiss an interesting interaction by saying, you know, "That’s just happening because they’re acting it out."

Research into kids' behavior actually suggests that it’s worth taking role-playing seriously.

Because when children play a role, they actually follow social scripts quite closely that they’ve learnt from us as adults.

If one kid plays "store," and another one’s playing "house," then the whole kind of play falls down.

So they get used to quite quickly to understanding the rules for social interactions, and are actually quite quick to point out when they’re broken. 

So when, as adults, we role-play, then we have a huge set of these scripts already internalized.

So role-play is actually, I think, quite valuable when it comes to thinking about experiences.

Another way for us, as designers, to explore role-play is to put ourselves through an experience which we’re designing for, and project ourselves into an experience. 

So here are some designers who are trying to understand what it might feel like to sleep in a confined space on an airplane.

Now, this is a real hospital, in a real emergency room.

One of the reasons he chose to take this rather large video camera with him was because he didn’t want the doctors and nurses thinking he was actually sick, and sticking something into him that he was going to regret later.

So anyhow, he went there with his video camera, and it’s kind of interesting to see what he brought back.

Because when we looked at the video when he got back, we saw 20 minutes of this. 

And also, the amazing thing about this video -- as soon as you see it you immediately project yourself into that experience.

And so this notion of using role-play -- or in this case, living through the experience as a way of creating empathy -- particularly when you use video, is really powerful. 

And so sometimes these analogous experiences, analogous role-play, can also be quite valuable. 

So when a kid dresses up as a firefighter, you know, he’s beginning to try on that identity.

He wants to know what it feels like to be a firefighter.

We’re doing the same thing as designers.

We’re trying on these experiences.

And so the idea of role-play is both as an empathy tool, as well as a tool for prototyping experiences.

And you know, we kind of admire people who do this at IDEO anyway.

Not just because they lead to insights about the experience, but also because of their willingness to explore and their ability to unselfconsciously surrender themselves to the experience.

In short, we admire their willingness to play. 

Playful exploration, playful building and role-play: those are some of the ways that designers use play in their work.

And so far, I admit, this might feel like it’s a message just to go out and play like a kid.

And to certain extent it is, but I want to stress a couple of points.

The first thing to remember is that play is not anarchy.

Play has rules, especially when it’s group play.

So, remember the sketching task we did at the beginning?

The kind of little face, the portrait you did?

Well, imagine if you did the same task with friends while you were drinking in a pub.

But everybody agreed to play a game where the worst sketch artist bought the next round of drinks.

That framework of rules would have turned an embarrassing, difficult situation into a fun game.

As a result, we’d all feel perfectly secure and have a good time -- but because we all understood the rules and we agreed on them together. 

But there aren’t just rules about how to play; there are rules about when to play.

Kids don’t play all the time, obviously.

As designers, we need to be able to transition in and out of play also.

I think what’s very different about design is that we go through these two very distinctive modes of operation.

And I think it’s probably in the divergent mode that we most need playfulness.

Perhaps in convergent mode we need to be more serious.

And so being able to move between those modes is really quite important.

It’s not an either/or; it’s an "and."

You can be serious and play.

And there are a series of behaviors that we’ve learnt as kids, and that turn out to be quite useful to us as designers.

