Thank you for being here.

Imagine if you were quiet for 17 years and your mother was out in the audience, say.

But I turned around because I didn’t recognize where my voice was coming from.

It disturbed me so much that I decided that I was going to give up riding and driving in motorized vehicles.

That’s a big thing in California.

And so when I came in and I started walking around, people -- they just knew what was going on.

Because of the oil, everybody talked about the polllution.

And so I argued with people about that, I argued and I argued.

I didn’t know about the environment then.

They’re back in Philadelphia.

And so I did.

I got up in the morning and I didn’t say a word.

Because what I used to do, when I thought I was listening, was I would listen just enough to hear what people had to say and think that I could -- I knew what they were going to say, and so I stopped listening.

Well, that just ended communication. 

So on this first day I actually listened.

I didn’t.

Well, that lasted 17 years. 

I walked up to Ashland, Oregon, where they were offering an environmental studies degree.

It’s only 500 miles.

And I went into the Registrar’s office and -- "What, what, what?"

I had a newspaper clipping.

And in those two years, I graduated with my first degree -- a bachelor’s degree.

I hunched my shoulder, I picked my backpack up again and I started walking.

I had written the University of Montana two years earlier and said I'd like to go to school there.

I said I'd be there in about two years. 

But I use that story because they really wanted to help me.

They saw that I was really interested in the environment, and they really wanted to help me along the way. 

And during that time, I actually taught classes without speaking.

They had to take that class with me.

Two weeks later, everyone was trying to get into our class. 

I just backed out of that, you know, and I just kind of kept the fists from flying.

But what I learned was that sometimes I would make a sign and they said things that I absolutely did not mean, but I should have.

And so what came to me is, if you were a teacher and you were teaching, if you weren’t learning you probably weren’t teaching very well.

And so I went on. 

I spent two years there writing on oil spills.

No one was interested in oil spills.

And on Earth Day, 1990 -- the 20th anniversary of Earth Day -- that’s when I began to speak.

And that’s why I said, "Thank you for being here."

Because it's sort of like that tree in the forest falling; and if there's no one there to hear, does it really make a sound?

Really, very important -- we need to listen to each other.

Well, my journey kept going on.

My dad said, "That’s one," and I still didn’t let that go. 

Well, my time at the Coast Guard was a really good time.

I started talking because I had studied environment.

And environment changed from just being about trees and birds and endangered species to being about how we treated each other.

Because if we are the environment, then all we need to do is look around us and see how we treat ourselves and how we treat each other.

And so that’s the message that I had.

And I said, "Well, I'm going to have to spread that message."

I was walking through El Dorado -- it's a prison town, famous prison, or infamous prison -- in Venezuela, and I don’t know what possessed me, because this was not like me.

What possessed me to say this thing?

The prison that I was in was the fact that I did not drive or use motorized vehicles.

Now how could that be?

Because when I started, it seemed very appropriate to me not to use motorized vehicles.

You know, we can do it.

I was going to have to change.

I was so used to that person that I didn’t want to stop.

I didn’t know who I would be if I changed.

But I know I needed to.

I know I needed to change, because it would be the only way that I could be here today.

And I know that a lot of times we find ourselves in this wonderful place where we’ve gotten to, but there’s another place for us to go.

And we kind of have to leave behind the security of who we’ve become, and go to the place of who we are becoming.

We have to change now.

As our former Vice President said, we have to become activists.

So if my voice can touch you, if my actions can touch you, if my being here can touch you, please let it be.

And I know that all of you have touched me while I’ve been here. 

Because we are the environment, and how we treat each other is really how we’re going to treat the environment.

So I want to thank you for being here and I want to end this in five seconds of silence. 

Thank you. 

