This was in an area called Wellawatta, a prime residential area in Colombo.

No one realized that this was a very bad idea.

Before I could turn around, everyone on the tracks was screaming and running. 

He said he'd lived his whole life there by the beach, and that he would rather die there than run.

A boy broke away from his mother to run back into his house to get his dog, who was apparently afraid.

When the waters subsided, it was as if it had never existed. 

When what was a tranquil sea swallows up people, homes and long-tail boats -- mercilessly, without warning -- and no one can tell you anything reliable about whether another one is coming, I'm not sure you'd want to calm down either.

One of the scariest things about the tsunami that I've not seen mentioned is the complete lack of information.

We think that Phi Phi hospital was destroyed.

We don't think another wave is coming right away. 

At the Phi Phi Hill Resort, I was tucked into the corner furthest away from the television, but I strained to listen for information.

They reported that there was an 8.5 magnitude earthquake in Sumatra, which triggered the massive tsunami.

However, the report focused on what had already occurred and offered no information on what to expect now.

Those were two accounts of the Asian tsunami from two Internet blogs that essentially sprang up after it occurred.

They called me out here. 

And so in some ways the tsunami can be seen as a sort of seminal moment, a moment in which the blogosphere came, to a certain degree, of age.

Because when we think about blogs, I think for most of us who are concerned about them, we're primarily concerned with things like politics, technology, etc.

The first one is, What does it tell us about our ideas, about what motivates people to do things?

OK, the first question: What do they tell us about why people do things?

But instead, what we're finding on the Internet -- and one of the great geniuses of it -- is that people have found a way to work together without any money involved at all.

They have come up with, in a sense, a different method for organizing activity. 

That's a very powerful idea, and it's a very powerful reality.

You know, as Chris mentioned, I wrote a book called "The Wisdom of Crowds."

And the premise of "The Wisdom of Crowds" is that, under the right conditions, groups can be remarkably intelligent.

And they can actually often be smarter than even the smartest person within them.

There may be one or two of you who are brilliant jelly bean guessers, but for the most part the group's guess would be better than just about all of you.

And what's fascinating is that you can see this phenomenon at work in many more complicated situations. 

For instance, if you look at the odds on horses at a racetrack, they predict almost perfectly how likely a horse is to win.

In a sense, the group of betters at the racetrack is forecasting the future, in probabilistic terms.

And this, I think, is one of the real promises of the blogosphere. 

Each blog post, each blog commentary may not, in and of itself, be exactly what we're looking for, but collectively the judgment of those people posting, those people linking, more often than not is going to give you a very interesting and enormously valuable picture of what's going on.

So, that's the positive side of it.

That's the positive side of what is sometimes called participatory journalism or citizen journalism, etc.

It is very easy to fall in love with the decentralized, bottom-up structure of the Internet.

And much of the time it is.

One of the fundamental characteristics of a network is that, once you are linked in the network, the network starts to shape your views and starts to shape your interactions with everybody else.

That's one of the things that defines what a network is.

A network is not just the product of its component parts.

It is something more than that.

It is, as Steven Johnson has talked about, an emergent phenomenon.

But the problem is that groups are only smart when the people in them are as independent as possible.

The metaphor that I like to use is the metaphor of the circular mill.

A lot of people talk about ants.

You know, this is a conference inspired by nature.

So, the ant colony is a great model: you have all these little parts that collectively add up to a great thing.

And what happens is that the ants eventually end up in a circle.

And there's this famous example of one that was 1,200 feet long and lasted for two days, and the ants just kept marching around and around in a circle until they died.

And that, I think, is a sort of thing to watch out for.

That's the thing we have to fear -- is that we're just going to keep marching around and around until we die. 

Now, I want to connect this back, though, to the tsunami, because one of the great things about the tsunami -- in terms of the blogosphere's coverage, not in terms of the tsunami itself -- is that it really did represent a genuine bottom-up phenomenon.

You saw sites that had never existed before getting huge amounts of traffic.

