So I come from the tallest people on the planet -- the Dutch.

It hasn't always been this way.

In fact, all across the globe, people have been gaining height.

In the last 150 years, in developed countries, on average, we have gotten 10 centimeters taller.

Something similar has been going on with milk and eggs.

In every society where incomes have risen, so has protein consumption.

And we know that globally, we are getting richer.

Currently, our ocean serves as the main source of animal protein.

Over 2.6 billion people depend on it every single day.

And another recent report suggests that of our largest predatory species, such as swordfish and bluefin tuna, over 90 percent has disappeared since the 1950s. 

But ultimately, all of these initiatives are working towards keeping current catch constant.

It's unlikely, even with the best-managed fisheries, that we are going to be able to take much more from the ocean than we do today. 

We need to alleviate the pressure on it.

And we are at a point where if we push much harder for more produce, we might face total collapse.

Our current systems are not going to feed a growing global population. 

So how do we fix this?

We could all become vegan.

People are eating animal protein whether we like it or not.

It takes very little imagination to picture a world of global unrest, riots and further malnutrition.

People are hungry, and we are running dangerously low on natural resources.

For so, so many reasons, we need to change our global food production systems. 

But let's back up for a second and talk about why fish is the best food choice.

And aside from being healthy, it's also a lot more exciting and diverse. 

Think about it -- most animal farming is pretty monotonous.

Cow is cow, sheep is sheep, pig's pig, and poultry -- turkey, duck, chicken -- pretty much sums it up.

And then there's 500 species of fish being farmed currently.

not that Western supermarkets reflect that on their shelves, but that's beside that point. 

I know I sound fish-obsessed -- 

Let me explain: My brilliant partner and wife, Amy Novograntz, and I got involved in aquaculture a couple of years ago.

We actually met on Mission Blue I in the Galapagos.

Amy was there as the TED Prize Director; me, an entrepreneur from the Netherlands and concerned citizen, love to dive, passion for the oceans. 

Mission Blue truly changed our lives.

Every single fishing vessel combined, small and large, across the globe, together produce about 65 million tons of wild-caught seafood for human consumption. 

Aquaculture this year, for the first time in history, actually produces more than what we catch from the wild. 

An enormous number. 

And talk about farming -- for farming you need resources.

As a human needs to eat to grow and stay alive, so does an animal.

We need something more efficient to keep humankind alive on this planet. 

And now let's compare that with fish farming.

You can farm one pound of fish with just one pound of feed, and depending on species, even less.

And why is that?

Well, that's because fish, first of all, float.

They don't need to stand around all day resisting gravity like we do.

Fish chills. 

And it needs very little water, which is counterintuitive, but as we say, it swims in it but it hardly drinks it.

This is madness.

Sixty-five percent of these fisheries, globally, are badly managed.

Some of the worst issues of our time are connected to it.

It's destroying our oceans.

Fisheries, aquaculture, deforestation, climate change, food security and so on. 

In the search for alternatives, the industry, on a massive scale, has reverted to plant-based alternatives like soy, industrial chicken waste, blood meal from slaughterhouses and so on. 

If you feed salmon soy with nothing else, it literally explodes.

Salmon is a carnivore, it has no way to digest soy. 

Now, fish farming is by far the best animal farming available to humankind.

But it's had a really bad reputation.

It's not fun.

But the good news is that decades of development and research have led to a lot of new technologies and knowledge that allow us to do a lot better.

We can now farm fish without any of these issues. 

I think of agriculture before the green revolution -- we are at aquaculture and the blue revolution.

Healthy for the people, healthy for the fish, healthy for the planet. 

Microbes, for example, can be a perfect alternative for high-grade fish meal -- at scale. 

And microbes and insects are actually net water producers. 

I imagine, for example, a closed system that's performing more efficiently than insect farming, where you can produce healthy, happy, delicious fish with little or no effluent, almost no energy and almost no water and a natural feed with a minimal footprint.

I think of seaweed growing off the effluent of fish, for example. 

There's great technologies popping up all over the globe.

Software systems that gather data across farms, so we can improve farm practices. 

There's really cool stuff happening all over the globe.

Tomorrow, there will be no excuse for anyone to not do the right thing. 

It's a big task, but not as far-fetched as you might think.

It's possible. 

So we need to take pressure off the ocean.

We want to eat good and healthy.

And if we eat an animal, it needs to be one that had a happy and healthy life. 

We need to have a meal that we can trust, live long lives.

We're all the same. 

You can help speed this up.

Ask questions when you order seafood.

Where does my fish come from?

Who raised it, and what did it eat?

Information about where your fish comes from and how it was produced needs to be much more readily available.

And eventually, they will listen.

And all of us will benefit. 

Thank you. 

