But we’re nowhere near the endgame when it comes to our perception.

We still have one foot in the dark ages.

(Laughter) And it’s all a question of perspective.

You would say -- yeah, yeah, yeah, we all know this; water covers twice the area of the planet than dry land.

The ocean representation would have a depth to it.

And if you hefted those two things you might find that the relative scale of those is 20 to 1. 

It turns out that something more than 94 percent of life on earth is aquatic.

That means that us terrestrials occupy a minority.

The problem we have in believing that is -- you just have to give up this notion that this Earth was created for us.

Because it’s a problem we have.

If this is an ocean planet and we only have a small minority of this planet, it just interferes with a lot of what humanity thinks. 

This, I think, represents one of the most beautiful classic submersibles built.

If you look at that sub, you’ll see a sphere.

This is an acryclic sphere.

This is the envelope, and this is the gondola, the payload.

Also coming up later for criticism are these massive lights.

And this one actually carries two great manipulators.

It actually is a very good working sub -- that’s what it was designed for.

The problem with it is -- and the reason I will never build another one like it -- is that this is a product of two-dimensional thinking.

You notice that Jim Cameron is sitting in a seat.

And then our mothers tell us, "Careful you don’t fall down" -- because you’ll fall over. 

Now, go into the real atmosphere of this planet.

Fish do not sit in seats.

It’s truly a three-dimensional space.

And we’re only just beginning to grasp it.

I don’t know of any other submersible, or even remote, that just takes advantage that this is a three-dimensional space. 

This is the way we should be going into the oceans.

This is a three-dimensional machine.

What we need to do is go down into the ocean with the freedom of the animals, and move in this three-dimensional space.

OK, this is good stuff.

This is man’s first attempt at flying underwater.

Right now, I’m just coming down on this gorgeous, big, giant manta ray.

She has twice the wingspan that I do.

There I’m coming; she sees me.

And just notice how she rolls under and turns; she doesn’t sit there and try and blow air into a tank and kind of flow up or sink down -- she just rolls.

And the craft that I’m in -- this hasn’t been shown before.

Chris asked us to show stuff that hasn’t been shown before.

I put reverse thrust and I try and pull gently down.

I’m trying to do everything very gently.

We spent about three hours together and she’s beginning to trust me.

And this ballet is controlled by this lady here.

She gets about that close and then she pulls away.

She just rolled right away from underneath.

Really that’s the only real dive I’ve ever made in this machine. 

It took 10 years to build.

But this lady here taught me, hah, taught me so much.

We just learned so much in three hours in the water there.

Now, there she goes, right overhead.

This is a wide-angle camera.

She’s just a few inches off the top of my head.

(Applause) 

Trying to fly and keep up with that animal -- it wasn’t the lack of maneuverability that we had.

It was the fact she was going so slow.

But after that encounter I really did want to go back with that animal and dance.

She wanted to dance.

You see the larger wing area here.

Also, clearly, it was such a powerful thing, we wanted to try and bring other people but we couldn't figure out how to do it.

So we opened the world’s first flight school.

So Bob Gelfond's around here -- but somebody in the audience here has license number 20.

They’re one of the first subsea aviators.

So we’ve run two flight schools.

We’ve decided we’re just going to let that go.

It just seems wrong to try and patent -- (Applause) -- the freedom for underwater flight.

(Applause) Thank you. 

