I'm going to try to give you a little bit of a natural history of compassion and the golden rule.

I want to warn you about that. 

At the same time, I think religions don't deserve all the credit.

I think nature gave them a helping hand here.

I'm going to argue tonight that compassion and the golden rule are, in a certain sense, built into human nature.

But I'm also going to argue that once you understand the sense in which they are built into human nature, you realize that just affirming compassion, and affirming the golden rule, is really not enough.

There's a lot of work to be done after that. 

I think it's probably the case that, in the human evolutionary lineage, even before there were homo sapiens, feelings like compassion and love and sympathy had earned their way into the gene pool, and biologists have a pretty clear idea of how this first happened. 

It happened through a principle known as kin selection.

So, from a biologist's point of view, compassion is actually a gene's way of helping itself.

This doesn't bother me so much, that the underlying Darwinian rationale of compassion is kind of self-serving at the genetic level.

The bad news is that this kin selected compassion is naturally confined to the family. 

Again, I know this is not as inspiring a notion of compassion as you may have heard in the past, but from a biologist's point of view, this reciprocal altruism kind of compassion is ultimately self-serving too.

It's not that people think that, when they feel the compassion.

It's not consciously self-serving, but to a biologist, that's the logic.

And so, you wind up most easily extending compassion to friends and allies. 

I'm sure a lot of you, if a close friend has something really terrible happen to them, you feel really bad.

That's just human nature.

So, it's another good news/bad news story.

It's good that compassion was extended beyond the family by this kind of evolutionary logic.

The bad news is this doesn't bring us universal compassion by itself.

So, there's still work to be done. 

Now, there's one other result of this dynamic called reciprocal altruism, which I think is kind of good news, which is that the way that this is played out in the human species, it has given people an intuitive appreciation of the golden rule.

I don't quite mean that the golden rule itself is written in our genes, but you can go to a hunter gatherer society that has had no exposure to any of the great religious traditions, no exposure to ethical philosophy, and you'll find, if you spend time with these people, that, basically, they believe that one good turn deserves another, and that bad deeds should be punished.

And evolutionary psychologists think that these intuitions have a basis in the genes.

So, they do understand that if you want to be treated well, you treat other people well.

And it's good to treat other people well.

That's close to being a kind of built-in intuition. 

So, we think we should treat them differently than we would want to be treated.

Now, we have a rationale for that.

We say they did these bad things that make it just that they should go to prison. 

None of us really extends the golden rule in truly diffuse and universal fashion.

We have the capacity to carve out exceptions, put people in a special category.

We all do that, and you see it all over the world.

They wouldn't want to have missiles fired at them, but they say, "Well, but the Israelis, or some of them have done things that put them in a special category."

The Israelis would not want to have an economic blockade imposed on them, but they impose one on Gaza, and they say, "Well, the Palestinians, or some of them, have brought this on themselves."

So, it's these exclusions to the golden rule that amount to a lot of the world's trouble.

And it's natural to do that.

So, the fact that the golden rule is in some sense built in to us is not, by itself, going to bring us universal love.

It's not going to save the world. 

Are you on the edges of your seats here?

Good, because before I tell you about that good news, I'm going to have to take a little excursion through some academic terrain.

So, I hope I've got your attention with this promise of good news that may save the world. 

It's this non-zero-sumness stuff you just heard a little bit about.

It's about zero-sum and non-zero-sum games.

If you ask what kind of a situation is conducive to people becoming friends and allies, the technical answer is a non-zero-sum situation.

And if you ask what kind of situation is conducive to people defining people as enemies, it's a zero-sum situation. 

So, what do those terms mean?

Basically, a zero-sum game is the kind you're used to in sports, where there's a winner and a loser.

So, their fortunes add up to zero.

So, in tennis, every point is either good for you and bad for the other person, or good for them, bad for you.

That's a non-zero-sum game.

And in real life, there are lots of non-zero-sum games.

In a war, two allies are playing a non-zero-sum game.

It's going to either be win-win or lose-lose for them. 

So, there are lots of non-zero-sum games in real life.

And you could basically reformulate what I said earlier, about how compassion is deployed and the golden rule is deployed, by just saying, well, compassion most naturally flows along non-zero-sum channels where people perceive themselves as being in a potentially win-win situation with some of their friends or allies.

The deployment of the golden rule most naturally happens along these non-zero-sum channels.

So, kind of webs of non-zero-sumness are where you would expect compassion and the golden rule to kind of work their magic.

With zero-sum channels you would expect something else. 

You can go back all the way to the stone age: technological evolution -- roads, the wheel, writing, a lot of transportation and communication technologies -- has just inexorably made it so that more people can be in more non-zero-sum relationships with more and more people at greater and greater distances.

That's the story of civilization.

It's why social organization has grown from the hunter-gatherer village to the ancient state, the empire, and now here we are in a globalized world.

And the story of globalization is largely a story of non-zero-sumness. 

If your fortunes are interdependent with somebody, then you live in a non-zero-sum relationship with them.

And you see this all the time in the modern world.

You saw it with the recent economic crash, where bad things happen in the economy -- bad for everybody, for much of the world.

Good things happen, and it's good for much of the world. 

And, you know, I'm happy to say, I think there's really evidence that this non-zero-sum kind of connection can expand the moral compass.

I mean, if you look at the American attitudes toward Japanese during World War II -- look at the depictions of Japanese in the American media as just about subhuman, and look at the fact that we dropped atomic bombs, really without giving it much of a thought -- and you compare that to the attitude now, I think part of that is due to a kind of economic interdependence. 

Any form of interdependence, or non-zero-sum relationship forces you to acknowledge the humanity of people.

So, I think that's good.

And the world is full of non-zero-sum dynamics.

Environmental problems, in many ways, put us all in the same boat.

And there are non-zero-sum relationships that maybe people aren't aware of. 

If they get less and less happy, that will be bad for Americans. 

So, there's plenty of non-zero-sumness.

And also, sometimes people don't recognize the non-zero-sum dynamics in the world.

In both of these areas, I think politicians can play a role. 

This isn't only about religion.

I think politicians can help foster non-zero-sum relationships, Economic engagement is generally better than blockades and so on, in this regard.

Because, you know, historically, if you're not being respected, you're probably not going to wind up in a non-zero-sum, mutually profitable relationship with people.

So, we need to be aware of what kind of signals we're sending out.

And some of this, again, is in the realm of political work. 

And I'm afraid we have another good news/bad news story, which is that the moral imagination is part of human nature.

That's good, but again we tend to deploy it selectively. 

Once we define somebody as an enemy, we have trouble putting ourselves in their shoes, just naturally.

So, if you want to take a particularly hard case for an American: somebody in Iran who is burning an American flag, and you see them on TV.

Well, the average American is going to resist the moral exercise of putting themselves in that person's head and is going to resist the idea that they have much in common with that person.

And, similarly, the person in Iran: when you try to humanize somebody in America who said that Islam is evil, they'll have trouble with that.

So, it's a very difficult thing to get people to expand the moral imagination to a place it doesn't naturally go.

And I think it's good moral exercise. 

I would say here is where religious leaders come in, because religious leaders are good at reframing issues for people, at harnessing the emotional centers of the brain to get people to alter their awareness and reframe the way they think.

I mean, religious leaders are kind of in the inspiration business.

It's their great calling right now, to get people all around the world better at expanding their moral imaginations, appreciating that in so many ways they're in the same boat. 

I would just sum up the way things look, at least from this secular perspective, as far as compassion and the golden rule go, by saying that it's good news that compassion and the golden rule are in some sense built into human nature.

It's unfortunate that they tend to be selectively deployed.

