This is perfect in that it clearly opposes self-centeredness and selfishness to compassion, the concern for others, and, further, it indicates that those caught in the cycle of self-concern suffer helplessly, while the compassionate are more free and, implicitly, more happy. 

The Dalai Lama often states that compassion is his best friend.

In fact, suffering is so huge and enormous, his own becomes less and less monumental.

And he begins to move beyond his self-concern into the broader concern for others.

And this immediately cheers him up, as his courage is stimulated to rise to the occasion.

Thus, he uses his own suffering as a doorway to widening his circle of compassion.

He is a very good colleague of Einstein's, we must say. 

And he left in disgust.

And as he was leaving, he saw a man -- a funny little man sitting sort of part way down the mountain.

And the man said, "I'm making a needle."

So he said, "Okay, I get the point."

Another three years.

And he becomes interested in this dog because it's so pathetic, and it's trying to attract his attention.

And he sees the maggots, and the maggots are kind of looking a little cute.

So, he had a brilliant idea.

And he took a shard of something, and cut a piece of flesh from his thigh, and he placed it on ground.

So he thought, "I will take the maggots and put them on this piece of flesh, then clean the dog's wounds, and then I'll figure out what to do with the maggots."

So he goes down, and he's sticking his tongue out like this.

And he had to close his eyes, it's so disgusting, and the smell and everything. 

And then, suddenly, there's a pfft, a noise like that.

But, being human, he's immediately thinking of his next complaint. 

"Maitreya" means love, "the loving one," in Sanskrit. 

And so he looked very dubious, Asanga did.

So that encouraged him, and he went with Maitreya. 

And then I thought I would share with you what that method is, or one of them.

A famous one, it's called the "Sevenfold Causal Method of Developing Compassion."

And then, among them, you think of your friends and loved ones, the circle at the table.

And also, actually, I've been your mother.

So, that's the way the Buddhists do it.

A theist Christian can think that all beings, even my enemies, are God's children.

So, in that sense, we're related. 

So, they first create this foundation of equality.

So, we sort of reduce a little of the clinging to the ones we love -- just in the meditation -- and we open our mind to those we don't know.

And then the next thing we do is what is called "mother recognition."

And we see the mother in every being.

He has his little ears and he smiles and he rocks you in his arms.

And you think of him as nursing you.

And you do that for a while, until you really feel that.

And you begin to get very sentimental; you cultivate sentimentality intensely.

You will even weep, perhaps, with gratitude and kindness.

And then you connect that with your feeling that everyone has that motherly possibility.

Every being, even the most mean looking ones, can be motherly. 

And then, third, you step from there to what is called "a feeling of gratitude."

You want to repay that kindness that all beings have shown to you.

And then the fourth step, you go to what is called "lovely love."

In each one of these you can take some weeks, or months, or days depending on how you do it, or you can do them in a run, this meditation.

And then you think of how lovely beings are when they are happy, when they are satisfied.

And so you see beings in their potential happiness.

And you feel a love toward them and you want them to be happy, even the enemy. 

He does say that, and we think he's being unrealistic and sort of spiritual and highfalutin.

But, actually, that's practical.

If you love your enemy that means you want your enemy to be happy.

If your enemy was really happy, why would they bother to be your enemy?

So it makes sense to want your enemy to be happy, because they'll stop being your enemy because that's too much trouble. 

But anyway, that's the "lovely love. "

And then finally, the fifth step is compassion, "universal compassion."

And that is where you then look at the reality of all the beings you can think of.

And you look at them, and you see how they are.

And you realize how unhappy they are actually, mostly, most of the time.

You see that furrowed brow in people.

And then you realize they don't even have compassion on themselves.

And they think of it as somehow macho, hard discipline on themselves.

But actually they are cruel to themselves.

And, of course, they are cruel and ruthless toward others.

And they, then, never get any positive feedback.

And the more they succeed and the more power they have, the more unhappy they are.

And this is where you feel real compassion for them. 

Some bad guy is making himself more and more unhappy being more and more mean to other people and getting punished in the future for it in various ways.

And in Buddhism, they catch it in the future life.

Of course in theistic religion they're punished by God or whatever.

And materialism, they think they get out of it just by not existing, by dying, but they don't.

And so they get reborn as whatever, you know. 

But "kindness" means "universal responsibility."

One thing we mustn't think is that compassion makes you miserable.

Compassion makes you happy.

The first person who is happy when you get great compassion is yourself, even if you haven't done anything yet for anybody else.

And that uncompassionate clock has just showed me that it's all over. 

So, practice compassion, read the charter, disseminate it and develop it within yourself.

And then, not only will God smile and the eternal mama will smile, but Karen Armstrong will smile. 

