The truth of the matter is otherwise. 

For us human beings, and certainly for us as Muslims, whose mission, and whose purpose in following the path of the prophet is to make ourselves as much like the prophet.

For the answer to this, we turn to our spiritual path.

And these doctors or these masters, these spiritual masters of the Sufi tradition, refer to teachings and examples of our prophet that teach us where the source of our problems lies. 

In one of the battles that the prophet waged, he told his followers, "We are returning from the lesser war to the greater war, to the greater battle."

"It's me," or, more grammatically correctly, "It is I," as we might say in English. 

The voice says, "Go away."

After many years of training, of disciplining, of search and struggle, he comes back.

With much greater humility, he knocks again on the door. 

He said, "It is you, O heartbreaker."

And Rumi's stories are metaphors for the spiritual path.

In the presence of God, there is no room for more than one "I," and that is the "I" of divinity.

And those of you who are employers know exactly what I mean.

But don't ignore what you've asked them to do. 

It is this merging of our self with divinity that is the lesson and purpose of our spiritual path and all of our faith traditions. 

Muslims regard Jesus as the master of Sufism, the greatest prophet and messenger who came to emphasize the spiritual path.

When he says, "I am the spirit, and I am the way," and when the prophet Muhammad said, "Whoever has seen me has seen God," it is because they became so much an instrument of God, they became part of God's team -- so that God's will was manifest through them, and they were not acting from their own selves and their own egos.

Compassion on earth is given, it is in us.

All we have to do is to get our egos out of the way, get our egotism out of the way. 

I'm sure, probably all of you here, or certainly the very vast majority of you, have had what you might call a spiritual experience, a moment in your lives when, for a few seconds, a minute perhaps, the boundaries of your ego dissolved.

You are the one whom we should all be towards, for whose purpose we live, and for whose purpose we shall die, and for whose purpose we shall be resurrected again to account to God to what extent we have been compassionate beings."

Our message today, and our purpose today, and those of you who are here today, and the purpose of this charter of compassion, is to remind.

We know it all.

We have access to it all.

Jung may have called it "the subconscious."

We travel beyond the limitations of space as we know it, and beyond the limitations of time as we know it.

But all this is for us to glorify the name of the creator whose primary name is the compassionating, the compassionate. 

The language differs, but the objective is the same. 

One is asking for angur -- one is, say, an Englishman -- one is asking for eneb, and one is asking for grapes.

And they have a fight and an argument because -- "I want grapes."

There's this absolute concentration of being, the absolute concentration of consciousness, awareness, an absolute locus of compassion and love that defines the primary attributes of divinity. 

And these should also be the primary attributes of what it means to be human.

For what defines humanity, perhaps biologically, is our physiology, but God defines humanity by our spirituality, by our nature. 

This is also expressed in biblical vocabulary when we are taught that we were created in the divine image.

What is the imagery of God?

The imagery of God is absolute being, absolute awareness and knowledge and wisdom and absolute compassion and love. 

And therefore, for us to be human -- in the greatest sense of what it means to be human, in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human -- means that we too have to be proper stewards of the breath of divinity within us, and seek to perfect within ourselves the attribute of being, of being alive, of beingness; the attribute of wisdom, of consciousness, of awareness; and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings. 

And I believe, personally, that we're on the verge and that, with the presence and help of people like you here, we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah.

For he foretold of a period when people shall transform their swords into plowshares and will not learn war or make war anymore. 

