Compassion: what does it look like?

Come with me to 915 South Bloodworth Street in Raleigh, North Carolina, where I grew up.

For when one is honored, all are honored. 

And, of course, sometimes there was a bonus for going.

In fact, she indicated that if we would do that, not only would we have the joy of receiving the gratitude from the members of the extended family, but she said, "Even God will smile, and when God smiles, there is peace, and justice, and joy."

So, at the table at 915, I learned something about compassion.

Of course, it was a minister's family, so we had to add God into it.

And if we had been faithful in caring and sharing, we had the sense that justice and peace would have a chance in the world. 

Now, it was not always wonderful at that table.

There was a member of his staff who did not have any place on that particular Christmas to celebrate.

And daddy brought Elder Revels to the Christmas family celebration.

We are sisters and brothers united together.

And whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves."

Now that's compassion. 

I see pictures, and something says, "Now, that's compassion."

I see -- always, it stirs my heart -- a picture of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. walking arm in arm with Andy Young and Rabbi Heschel and maybe Thich Nhat Hanh and some of the other saints assembled, walking across the bridge and going into Selma.

Just a photograph.

Arm in arm for struggle.

You heard about riots all across the land.

Twelve in their ecclesiastical or cultural or tribal attire affirming one message.

We are so connected that we must treat each other as if an action toward you is an action toward myself. 

My faith has constantly lifted up the ideal, and challenged me when I fell beneath it.

Many people think of it primarily in terms of charity, random acts of kindness.

But for those who really study that text a little more thoroughly, you will discover that a question has been raised that leads to this parable. 

The question was: "What is the greatest commandment?"

And, according to Jesus, the word comes forth, "You must love yourself, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind and soul, and your neighbor as yourself."

This always seemed to me to be a deepening of the sense of what it means to be a Good Samaritan.

I recall that my work as a pastor has always involved caring for their spiritual needs; being concerned for housing, for healthcare, for the prisoners, for the infirm, for children -- even the foster care children for whom no one can even keep a record where they started off, where they are going.

To be a pastor is to care for these individual needs. 

We are one people together. 

The reason it's important is because this is a very special time in history.

It is the time that, biblically, we would speak of as the day, or the year, of God's favor.

This is a season of grace.

Unusual things are beginning to happen.

And so I want to close with a little song.

And if mama eternal has taught us correctly, this song will make sense, not only to those of us who are a part of this gathering, but to all who sign the charter for compassion.

And this is why we do it. 

