A human child is born, and for quite a long time is a consumer.

It cannot be consciously a contributor.

It is helpless.

It doesn't know how to survive, even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive.

It needs the help of mother, or a foster mother, to survive.

It can't afford to doubt the person who tends the child.

It has to totally surrender.

That implies a lot of trust.

That implies the trusted person won't violate the trust.

It doesn't know even the word "violation."

To be compassionate is not a joke.

It's not that simple.

One has to discover a certain bigness in oneself.

Otherwise, compassion is just a word and a dream. 

Thank God we are empathetic.

When somebody's in pain, we pick up the pain. 

In a Wimbledon final match, these two guys fight it out.

Each one has got two games.

It can be anybody's game.

What they have sweated so far has no meaning.

One person wins.

The tennis etiquette is, both the players have to come to the net and shake hands.

(Laughter) And this guy has to come to the net.

When he comes to the net, you see, his whole face changes.

It looks as though he's wishing that he didn't win.

That's human heart.

No human heart is denied of that empathy.

No religion can demolish that by indoctrination.

Compassion is not defined in one form.

There's no Indian compassion.

There's no American compassion.

It's experienced by people occasionally. 

By mandate, you cannot make a person compassionate.

You can't say, "Please love me."

Love is something you discover.

I will come to it later. 

So one has got to discover a certain wholeness.

In spite of a very tragic life, one is happy in moments which are very few and far between.

And the one who is happy, even for a slapstick joke, accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself. 

That experience confirms that, in spite of all your limitations -- all your wants, desires, unfulfilled, and the credit cards and layoffs and, finally, baldness -- you can be happy.

Compassion is going to be limited.

You express yourself because you have compassion. 

To discover compassion, you need to be compassionate.

And, therefore, what I say, you have to fake it and make it.

(Laughter) You need to.

My predecessor meant that.

You have to act it out.

You have to act compassionately. 

There is no verb for compassion, but you have an adverb for compassion.

That's interesting to me.

You fake it and make it.

