One of my favorite cartoon characters is Snoopy.

I love the way he sits and lies on his kennel and contemplates the great things of life.

We all, I think, believe in compassion.

If you look at all the world religions, all the main world religions, you'll find within them some teaching concerning compassion.

So in Judaism, we have, from our Torah, that you should love your neighbor as you love yourself.

And within Jewish teachings, the rabbinic teachings, we have Hillel, who taught that you shouldn't do to others what you don't like being done to yourself.

And all the main religions have similar teachings.

And again, within Judaism, we have a teaching about God, who is called the compassionate one, Ha-rachaman.

After all, how could the world exist without God being compassionate?

Sometimes, of course, being compassionate can produce feelings within us that are very difficult to control. 

I know there are many times when I've gone and conducted a funeral, or when I have been sitting with the bereaved, or with people who are dying, and I am overwhelmed by the sadness, by the difficulty, the challenge that is there for the family, for the person.

And I'm touched, so that tears come to my eyes.

And yet, on the other hand, if I didn't feel this compassion, then I feel that it would be time for me to hang up my robe and give up being a rabbi. 

And these same feelings are there for all of us as we face the world.

Who cannot be touched by compassion when we see the terrible horrors of the results of war, or famine, or earthquakes, or tsunamis?

There are others who feel they can't confront compassion anymore, and so they turn off the television and don't watch.

In Judaism, though, we tend to always say, there has to be a middle way. 

So part of compassion has to be an understanding of what makes people tick.

And, of course, you can't do that unless you understand yourself a bit more. 

Because, after all, God is just.

Therefore, there should be justice throughout the world.

And then God looked to the future and realized, if the world was created just with justice, the world couldn't exist. 

There had to be limits to all things.

The rabbis describe this as being like a king who has a beautiful, fragile glass bowl.

If you put too much cold water in, it will shatter.

And so God put both of these possibilities into the world. 

There is something more though that has to be there.

And that is the translation of the feelings that we may have about compassion into the wider world, into action.

So, like Snoopy, we can't just lie there and think great thoughts about our neighbors.

We actually have to do something about it.

And so there is also, within Judaism, this notion of love and kindness that becomes very important: "chesed."

All these three things, then, have to be melded together.

You know, there's no way that you can do anything for anyone if you overdo things.

What does this compassion entail?

It entails understanding the pain of the other.

But even more than that, it means understanding one's connection to the whole of creation: understanding that one is part of that creation, that there is a unity that underlies all that we see, all that we hear, all that we feel.

I call that unity God.

And that unity is something that connects all of creation. 

And I have to understand that my needs sometimes have to be sublimated to other needs. 

Because at Passover, when we have to eat unleavened bread, the rabbis say, what is the difference between dough that is made into bread, and dough that is made into unleavened bread, or "matzah"?

And they say "It's 18 minutes."

Because that's how long they say it takes for this dough to become leaven.

What does it mean, "dough becomes leaven"?

It means it gets filled with hot air.

So we try and get rid of those, and so doing, try to get rid of the habits, the emotions, the ideas that enslave us, that make our eyes closed, give us tunnel vision so we don't see the needs of others -- and free ourselves and free ourselves from that.

And that too is a basis for having compassion, for understanding our place in the world. 

Now there is, in Judaism, a gorgeous story of a rich man who sat in synagogue one day.

And, as many people do, he was dozing off during the sermon.

And as he was dozing off, they were reading from the book of Leviticus in the Torah.

And they were saying that in the ancient times in the temple in Jerusalem, the priests used to have bread, which they used to place into a special table in the temple in Jerusalem.

The man was asleep, but he heard the words bread, temple, God, and he woke up.

Then he went home. 

This went on for years.

Every week, the man would bring bread with raisins, with all sorts of good things, put it into the ark.

The rabbi came in and saw what was going on.

I have to reevaluate them, try and separate out the material things and my emotions that may be enslaving me, so that I can see the world clearly. 

And then I have to try to see in what ways I can make these the hands of God.

And so try to bring compassion to life in this world. 

