The previous speaker has, I think, really painted a very good background as to the impulse behind my work and what drives me, and my sense of loss, and trying to find the answer to the big questions. 

What have you done with so many years of being away?

And he sort of, he showed a handful of figurines.

In a way, I feel like that.

I feel like I’m coming home to talk about what I’ve been away doing for 20 years.

So, we’ll go with the first piece. 

(Video) Woman: "I destroy lives," mum said.

Boy: What do you do all day?

And how come you ain't got a job anyway?

And it particularly don't feed your spliff habit.

Marcus: It feeds my mind and my soul.

Boy: Arguing with you is a waste of time, Marcus.

Marcus: When a man resorts to profanities, it’s a sure sign of his inability to express himself.

Boy: See man, you’re just taking the piss out of me now.

Ass kickin' guys who were fed up with all that white supremacist, powers-that-be bullshit, and just went in there and kicked everybody's arse.

These are the sentiments of someone that's been away from home.

I've been away 20 years in total.

So, for this girl to have these dreams is simply how we preserve a sense of what home is.

But I lived in England for 18 years.

There's a young director, Hollywood director, with his friends -- fellow filmmakers -- talking about what cinema means.

So that whole thing, that whole childhood echoes and takes me into the next piece. 

(Video) Voice: Onicha, off to school with your brother.

You must get -- ?

Child Soldiers: Ready and willing to die.

C: Success, the change is only coming through the barrel of the gun.

CS: The barrel of the gun!

I don’t remember how we got there.

Witness: We walked and walked for two days.

The injection made us not to have mind.

God will forgive us.

Committee Chairman: Do you remember January 6th, 1999?

Ezra: I don’t remember. 

Committee Chairman: We hope that, with your help and the help of others, that this commission will go a long way towards understanding the causes of the rebel war.

Mr. Ezra Gelehun, please stand.

State your name and age for the commission.

(Sister: 16.)

CC: Mr. Gelehun, I’d like to remind you you’re not on trial here for any crimes you committed.

E: We were fighting for our freedom.

You too are a retired General, not so?

CC: Yes, correct.

E: So you too must stand trial then.

Our government was corrupt.

Lack of education was their way to control power.

If I may ask, do you pay for school in your country?

CC: No, we don’t.

E: You are richer than us.

But we pay for school.

Ask if anyone in this room have ever seen real diamond before?

No.

CC: Mr. Gelehun, I'd like to remind you, you're not on trial here today.

You are not on trial.

E: Then let me go.

CC: I can't do that, son.

E: So you are a liar. 

Thank you. 

Emeka Okafor: Thank you, Newton. 

One of the themes that comes through very strongly in the piece we just watched is this sense of the psychological trauma of the young that have to play this role of being child soldiers.

NA: In the process of my research, I actually spent a bit of time in Sierra Leone researching this.

I met psychosocial workers who worked with them.

I met psychiatrists who spent time with them, aid workers, NGOs, the whole lot.

But I’m just saying to factor that in, factor that in with all this great advancement, all this pronouncement of great achievement.

That’s really my thinking. 

EO: Well, we thank you again for coming to the TED stage.

That was a very moving piece. 

NA: Thank you. 

NA: Thank you. 

EO: Thank you. 

