So I became interested in understanding what contributed to a life that was worth living.

And I tried, as a child, as a teenager, to read philosophy and to get involved in art and religion and many other ways that I could see as a possible answer to that question.

And finally I ended up encountering psychology by chance. 

And the man who talked at that evening lecture was very interesting.

And this seemed very interesting to me.

And I started reading his books after that lecture.

And that was Carl Jung, whose name or work I had no idea about. 

Then I came to this country to study psychology and I started trying to understand the roots of happiness.

But this, for instance, shows that about 30 percent of the people surveyed in the United States since 1956 say that their life is very happy.

And that hasn't changed at all.

Whereas the personal income, on a scale that has been held constant to accommodate for inflation, has more than doubled, almost tripled, in that period.

And to start those studies about 40 years ago, I began to look at creative people -- first artists and scientists, and so forth -- trying to understand what made them feel that it was worth essentially spending their life doing things for which many of them didn't expect either fame or fortune, but which made their life meaningful and worth doing. 

This was one of the leading composers of American music back in the '70s.

And the interview was 40 pages long.

But this little excerpt is a very good summary of what he was saying during the interview.

And it describes how he feels when composing is going well.

And he says by describing it as an ecstatic state. 

Now, "ecstasy" in Greek meant simply to stand to the side of something.

And then it became essentially an analogy for a mental state where you feel that you are not doing your ordinary everyday routines.

So ecstasy is essentially a stepping into an alternative reality.

We are participating in a reality that is different from that of the everyday life that we're used to.

But this man doesn't need to go there.

Now he says also that this is so intense an experience that it feels almost as if he didn't exist.

And that sounds like a kind of a romantic exaggeration.

But actually, our nervous system is incapable of processing more than about 110 bits of information per second.

And in order to hear me and understand what I'm saying, you need to process about 60 bits per second.

That's why you can't hear more than two people.

You can't understand more than two people talking to you. 

Well, when you are really involved in this completely engaging process of creating something new, as this man is, he doesn't have enough attention left over to monitor how his body feels, or his problems at home.

He can't feel even that he's hungry or tired.

So existence is temporarily suspended.

And he says that his hand seems to be moving by itself.

Now, I could look at my hand for two weeks, and I wouldn't feel any awe or wonder, because I can't compose.

So what it's telling you here is that obviously this automatic, spontaneous process that he's describing can only happen to someone who is very well trained and who has developed technique.

And it has become a kind of a truism in the study of creativity that you can't be creating anything with less than 10 years of technical-knowledge immersion in a particular field.

Now, when that happens, he says the music just flows out.

And it happens in different realms. 

For instance, a poet describes it in this form.

This is by a student of mine who interviewed some of the leading writers and poets in the United States.

But it happens in other activities.

For instance, this is another student of mine, Susan Jackson from Australia, who did work with some of the leading athletes in the world.

And you see here in this description of an Olympic skater, the same essential description of the phenomenology of the inner state of the person.

You don't think; it goes automatically, if you merge yourself with the music, and so forth. 

It happens also, actually, in the most recent book I wrote, called "Good Business," where I interviewed some of the CEOs who had been nominated by their peers as being both very successful and very ethical, very socially responsible.

You see that these people define success as something that helps others and at the same time makes you feel happy as you are working at it.

She is the founder of Body Shop, the natural cosmetics king.

It's kind of a passion that comes from doing the best and having flow while you're working. 

And the idea he had was to establish a place of work where engineers can feel the joy of technological innovation, be aware of their mission to society and work to their heart's content.

I couldn't improve on this as a good example of how flow enters the workplace. 

And regardless of the culture, regardless of education or whatever, there are these seven conditions that seem to be there when a person is in flow.

And once the conditions are present, what you are doing becomes worth doing for its own sake. 

In our studies, we represent the everyday life of people in this simple scheme.

And we can measure this very precisely, actually, because we give people electronic pagers that go off 10 times a day, and whenever they go off you say what you're doing, how you feel, where you are, what you're thinking about.

And two things that we measure is the amount of challenge people experience at that moment and the amount of skill that they feel they have at that moment.

So for each person we can establish an average, which is the center of the diagram.

That would be your mean level of challenge and skill, which will be different from that of anybody else.

But you have a kind of a set point there, which would be in the middle. 

If we know what that set point is, we can predict fairly accurately when you will be in flow, and it will be when your challenges are higher than average and skills are higher than average.

And then the other areas become less and less positive. 

Arousal is still good because you are over-challenged there.

Your skills are not quite as high as they should be, but you can move into flow fairly easily by just developing a little more skill.

It's not very challenging any more.

And if you want to enter flow from control, you have to increase the challenges.

So those two are ideal and complementary areas from which flow is easy to go into. 

Unfortunately, a lot of people's experience is in apathy.

The largest single contributor to that experience is watching television; the next one is being in the bathroom, sitting.

Even though sometimes watching television about seven to eight percent of the time is in flow, but that's when you choose a program you really want to watch and you get feedback from it. 

So the question we are trying to address -- and I'm way over time -- is how to put more and more of everyday life in that flow channel.

And that is the kind of challenge that we're trying to understand.

Thank you. 

