And you all sort of know it, but it's hard to get it so that you really understand it.

And I've tried to put together something that's a good start for this.

This is unprecedented, and it's big.

And the biggest problem came in the last 25 years: it went from 25 percent up to that 97 percent.

And this really is a sobering picture upon realizing that we, humans, are in charge of life on earth; we're like the capricious Gods of old Greek myths, kind of playing with life -- and not a great deal of wisdom injected into it. 

Now, the third curve is information technology.

There's no need to see the little detailed words on it.

It's just going up through the roof.

Let me just rush very quickly through things that we've done.

Here's a giant flying replica of a pterosaur that has no tail.

This was the full size of the original creature.

With that preamble, let's show the first two-minute videotape, which shows a little airplane for surveillance and moving to a giant airplane.

It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator.

With onboard GPS, it can navigate autonomously, and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage.

The modern sailplane is superbly efficient.

Some can glide as flat as 60 feet forward for every foot of descent.

They are powered only by the energy they can extract from the atmosphere -- an atmosphere nature stirs up by solar energy.

(Music) The Solar Challenger was made to serve as a symbol that photovoltaic cells can produce real power and will be part of the world's energy future.

In 1981, it flew 163 miles from Paris to England, solely on the power of sunbeams, and established a basis for the Pathfinder.

It's part of a long-term program NASA sponsored.

And we worked very closely with the whole thing being a team effort, and with wonderful results like that flight.

Ray Morgan: We'd just ended a seven-month deployment of Hawaii.

For those who live on the mainland, it was tough being away from home.

The friendly support, the quiet confidence, congenial hospitality shown by our Hawaiian and military hosts -- (Music) this is starting -- made the experience enjoyable and unforgettable.

But now let's look at the other end.

MK: Can you bring up the house lights?

PM: Yeah, the house lights and we'll see you all better and be able to fly the plane better.

MK: All right, we'll try to do a few laps around and bring it back in.

Here we go.

Oh, that was only a minute, but I think you'd be safe to have that near the end of the flight, perhaps.

If this hits you, it will not hurt you.

(Laughter) OK. (Applause) Thank you very much.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

But like any basic research, when you're really forced to do things that are way beyond existing technology, you can get there with micro-technology, nanotechnology.

We should have nothing but success stories from nature, for you or for birds, and we're learning a lot from its fascinating subjects. 

Over billions of years on a unique sphere, chance has painted a thin covering of life -- complex, improbable, wonderful and fragile.

And that time when this is happening is not 100 years or 500 years.

I personally think the surviving intelligent life form on earth is not going to be carbon-based; it's going to be silicon-based.

And so where it all goes, I don't know. 

The tube there's hollow, about paper-thin.

So, be gentle, just act like a wooden Indian or something.

And when it comes down -- and we'll see how it goes.

We consider this to be sort of the spirit of TED.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

