You all know this story.

And then he had to clarify that he wasn't talking about them.

He was talking about the space aliens. 

You see, this was only a few years after the supposed flying saucer crash at Roswell, New Mexico.

And even though that turned out to be nothing, nothing at all -- (Laughter) -- merely a downed weather balloon piloted by small hairless men with slits for mouths ...

And the universe is so old that unless we were the very first civilization ever to evolve, we should have some evidence of their existence by now.

And yet, to the best of our knowledge, we are alone. 

"Where is everybody?"

However, with respect, I might point out two possibilities that Enrico Fermi perhaps did not consider.

One is that the aliens might be very far away.

Perhaps, I dare say, even on other planets.

The other possibility -- (Laughter) -- is, perhaps, Enrico Fermi himself was an alien. 

Think about it.

And isn't it a little strange that he required no payment for this?

That he asked for only one thing -- a gift of two healthy sperm whales?

That's -- that's not true.

But it is strange. 

And if Enrico Fermi were indeed a space alien, wouldn't he be the first to have tried to convince his fellow scientists that the space aliens are not already here?

For even in my own life, there are memories I have that are difficult to explain -- happenings that are so odd and unaccountably weird, that it is difficult to imagine they were not the result of prolonged and frequent contact with aliens throughout my life.

For how else will you explain the amazing and absolutely true close encounters that I had and will describe to you now?

And I went on vacation with my parents to the Jersey shore.

Within 12 hours, I was horribly sunburned, just like Richard Dreyfuss in the movie. 

Occasionally, kids would come and join me and watch, but their necks soon got sore, and they would go off to the boardwalk to play video games and mingle with humans.

And that's when it happened.

An elderly couple came walking down the street.

And she was wearing a cardigan, because it was now fully night and a chill was coming in off the ocean.

You have to admit, that's a pretty boss piece of detective work for an old man on a date.

But what was stranger still -- and even I realized it at the time, as a nine-year-old child -- was that they stopped at all.

That this old man would interrupt his moonlight stroll with his sweetheart with the precise reason of making fun of a child.

"There's no such thing as space men," she said.

The street was entirely empty.

I had stopped hearing the sound of the ocean.

It was as though time had stopped.

I did not know why they were teasing me.

And what would be behind those rubber masks, if they were?

It was opening night, naturally.

I went with my friend Tim McGonigal, who sat on my left.

On my right was the girl in question.

She had long, curly black hair, a blue jean jacket.

I didn't know her name, and I never will.

She was sitting with someone who I presume was her mother, and they were talking about the novel, "Dune."

They were talking about how their favorite characters were the giant sandworms.

And then it got stranger.

That's when she turned to me and said, "Are you looking forward to seeing the movie?"

I did not even turn my head.

The movie began.

There was a character called the Third-Stage Guild Navigator, which was a kind of giant, floating fetus-creature that lived in a giant tank with this orange mist of psychedelic spice swirling around him, allowing him to bend space and time.

He could never leave the tank or interact with the outside world.

He had become, in his isolation, so deformed and so sexy, that he had to talk through a kind of old-timey radio to the outside world, and could never touch them.

I mean, I liked him a lot better than the sandworms.

The sandworms were fine, but your favorite character?

Please. 

When the movie ended, everyone seemed very happy to get up and get out of the theatre as soon as possible.

Except for the girl.

As I walked out, her pace slowed.

Perhaps it was the crutches, but it seemed -- (Laughter) -- it seemed as though she might want to talk to me again.

When I say it out loud, it sounds so ridiculous, but I can only come to the conclusion that it was what, in the alien abductee community, they call a "screen memory": a ridiculous false recollection designed by their brain to cover up some trauma -- say, of being kidnapped and flown off to a sex pyramid. 

I sure am glad I never saw her again. 

And would come to the conclusion that that was when the aliens were taking him and giving him rectal probes. 

This book became, naturally, an enormous best-seller.

This image by Ted Joseph was from that book, and was his, sort of, police sketch of what the creatures looked like that Whitley Strieber had described to him.

And it was so successful that they made it into a movie.

And in 1989, the way I remember it, I was in Philadelphia visiting my girlfriend, and we decided, apropos of nothing, to go see this movie.

And the way I remember it, the movie featured these details.

One: Whitley Strieber was played by Christopher Walken.

Two: the alien was played by a rubber puppet. 

Three: there was a surprisingly long sequence of the film in which the rubber puppet gives Christopher Walken a rectal probe.

Four: this was being shown in a regular movie theater in Center City, Philadelphia.

Five: all of which is to say, they made a movie out of the book, "Communion," and it starred Christopher Walken.

And to this day, I have no answer for you.

Our last day in Portugal, we were in the district capital of Faro, and Catherine decided that she wanted to go to the beach one last time.

Now, Faro is a bustling little city, and to get to the beach, she explained, you would have to take a bus and then a boat.

And did I want to come with?

But I was exhausted and dog-bitten, and so I said, "No."

I remember what she looked like before she left.

The freckles had grown and multiplied on her face and shoulders, clustering into a kind of a tan.

Her eyes were extra bright and extra blue, as a result.

She was smiling.

It took me some time to come to my senses.

Nervous, I went down to the street to look for her.

Now, I did not speak Portuguese.

And so I sat down to wait.

And I watched those constellations shift, hoping that they would part and I would see her face.

It was at that moment, in that very small town of 30,000 or so, that I truly appreciated the vastness of the universe and the searching we might do in it.

And that's when the Liberians came along.

Five young men -- all laughing, happy, traveling together, coming back to this hotel where they were staying. 

But he did not seem so very sure, for he sat down to wait with me.

Two hours, they gave me a message.

We are not alone. 

And then, in the middle of a sentence, at the very birth of twilight, I turned and looked down the street.

The stars aligned, and she came back.

And even now, a decade and a half later, even now that we are married, I look for her still, whenever she is not in the room.

And even though, I think you'll agree, it is probable that during the time she was away, she was kidnapped and replaced by an alien clone, I love her and wait for her still. 

Thank you for your kind attention. 

