And so, really, so much of what we do in medicine and life in general is focused on mopping up the floor without also turning off the faucet. 

To me, that’s the real natural wonder. 

So, within that larger context, we can talk about diet, stress management -- which are really these spiritual practices -- moderate exercise, smoking cessation, support groups and community -- which I’ll talk more about -- and some vitamins and supplements.

And it’s not a diet.

And in our studies, what we’ve been able to do is to use very expensive, high-tech, state-of-the-art measures to prove how powerful these very simple and low-tech and low-cost -- and in many ways, ancient -- interventions, can be. 

A year later, it’s not as clogged; normally, it goes the other direction.

These minor changes in blockages caused a 300 percent improvement in blood flow, and using cardiac positron emission tomography, or "PET," scans, blue and black is no blood flow, orange and white is maximal. 

Huge differences can occur without drugs, without surgery.

Clinically, he literally couldn’t walk across the street without getting severe chest pain; within a month, like most people, was pain-free, and within a year, climbing more than 100 floors a day on a Stairmaster.

This is not unusual, and it’s part of what enables people to maintain these kinds of changes, because it makes such a big difference in their quality of life.

Overall, if you looked at all the arteries in all the patients, they got worse and worse, from one year to five years, in the comparison group.

This is the natural history of heart disease, but it’s really not natural because we found it could get better and better, and much more quickly than people had once thought.

We also found that the more people change, the better they got.

It wasn’t a function of how old or how sick they were -- it was mainly how much they changed, and the oldest patients improved as much as the young ones. 

And the following year they sent me this one, which I thought was kind of funny.

(Laughter) You just never know.

And what we found was that 99 percent of the patients start to reverse the progression of their heart disease.

Insurance will cover the bypass, it’ll cover the angioplasty; it won’t, until recently, cover diet and lifestyle. 

So, we began through our nonprofit institute's training hospitals around the country, and we found that most people could avoid surgery, and not only was it medically effective, it was also cost effective.

And the insurance companies found that they began to save almost 30,000 dollars per patient, and Medicare is now in the middle of doing a demonstration project where they’re paying for 1,800 people to go through the program on the sites that we train.

And what doesn’t work is fear of dying, and that’s what’s normally used. 

Well, because it helps them get through the day.

And telling people they’re going to die is too scary to think about, or, they’re going to get emphysema or heart attack is too scary, and so they don’t want to think about it, so they don’t. 

The most effective anti-smoking ad was this one.

You’ll notice the limp cigarette hanging out of his mouth, and "impotence" -- the headline is, "Impotent" -- it’s not emphysema.

So does cocaine, so does a high fat diet, so does emotional stress. 

So the very behaviors that we think of as being so sexy in our culture are the very ones that leave so many people feeling tired, lethargic, depressed and impotent, and that’s not much fun.

But when you change those behaviors, your brain gets more blood, you think more clearly, you have more energy, your heart gets more blood in ways I’ve shown you.

When you eat a big fatty meal, how do you feel?

You feel kind of sleepy afterwards.

On a low-fat meal, the blood flow doesn’t go down -- it even goes up.

Many of you have kids, and you know that’s a big change in your lifestyle, and so people are not afraid to make big changes in lifestyle if they’re worth it.

And the paradox is that when you make big changes, you get big benefits, and you feel so much better so quickly.

For many people, those are choices worth making -- not to live longer, but to live better. 

And just to show you this, this is from the CDC.

These are not election returns; these are the percentage of people who are overweight.

And if you see from '85 to '86 to '87, '88, '89, '90, '91 -- you get a new category, 15 to 20 percent; '92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97 -- you get a new category; '98, '99, 2000, and 2001.

Mississippi, more than 25 percent of people are overweight.

But the problem is, you get hungry, so it’s hard to keep it off.

The other way is to change the type of food.

And fat has nine calories per gram, whereas protein and carbs only have four.

So, when you eat less fat, you eat fewer calories without having to eat less food.

So you can eat the same amount of food, but you’ll be getting fewer calories because the food is less dense in calories.

And it’s the volume of food that affects satiety, rather than the type of food. 

You know, I don’t like talking about the Atkins diet, but I get asked about it every day, and so I just thought I’d spend a few minutes on that.

And these are things like whole foods, or unrefined carbs: fruits, vegetables, whole wheat flour, brown rice, in their natural forms, are rich in fiber.

And the fiber fills you up before you get too many calories, and it slows the absorption so you don’t get that rapid rise in blood sugar.

So, and you get all the disease-protective substances. 

And these are predominantly what are called the Omega-3 fatty acids.

You find these, for example, in fish oil.

And the bad fats are things like trans-fatty acids and processed food and saturated fats, which we find in meat.

It also helps reduce the risk of the most common cancers like breast, prostate and colon cancer.

I mean, there are lots of ways of losing weight that aren’t good for you.

You want to lose weight in a way that enhances your health rather than the one that harms it.

You’ll lose even more weight if you go to whole foods and less fat, and you’ll enhance your health rather than harming it.

Now, what happens to your heart when you go on an Atkins diet?

The red is good at the beginning, and a year later -- this is from a study done in a peer-reviewed journal called Angiology -- there’s more red after a year on a diet like I would recommend, there’s less red, less blood flow after a year on an Atkins-type diet.

So, yes, you can lose weight, but your heart isn’t happy.

And so, you might start to lose weight and start to attract people towards you, but when they get too close it’s going to be a problem. 

And more seriously, there are case reports now of 16-year-old girls who died after a few weeks on the Atkins diet -- of bone disease, kidney disease, and so on.

And that’s how your body excretes waste, is through your breath, your bowels and your perspiration.

So when you go on these kinds of diet, they begin to smell bad.

So, an optimal diet is low in fat, low in the bad carbs, high in the good carbs and enough of the good fats.

And then, again, it’s a spectrum: when you move in this direction, you’re going to lose weight, you’re going to feel better and you’re going to gain health. 

So, there are lots of reasons for eating this way that go beyond just your health. 

What we found was that, after a year, none of the experimental group patients who made these lifestyle changes needed treatment, whereas six of the control-group patients needed surgery or radiation.

When we looked at their PSA levels -- which is a marker for prostate cancer -- they got worse in the control group, but they actually got better in the experimental group, and these differences were highly significant. 

And in order for the PSA to go down, they had to make pretty big changes. 

I then wondered, well, maybe they’re just changing their PSA, but it’s not really affecting the tumor growth.

So we took some of their blood serum and sent it down to UCLA; they added it to a standard line of prostate tumor cells growing in tissue culture, and it inhibited the growth seven times more in the experimental group than in the control group -- 70 versus 9 percent.

And finally, I said, I wonder if there’s any relationship between how much people change and how it inhibited their tumor growth, whichever group they happened to be in.

And finally, we did MRI and MR spectroscopy scans on some of these patients, and the tumor activity is shown in red in this patient, and you can see clearly it’s better a year later, along with the PSA going down.

So, if it’s true for prostate cancer, it’ll almost certainly be true for breast cancer as well.

And whether or not you have conventional treatment, in addition, if you make these changes, it may help reduce the risk of recurrence. 

The last thing I want to talk about, apropos of the issue of the pursuit of happiness, is that study after study have shown that people who are lonely and depressed -- and depression is the other real epidemic in our culture -- are many times more likely to get sick and die prematurely, in part because, as we talked about, they’re more likely to smoke and overeat and drink too much and work too hard and so on.

But also, through mechanisms that we don’t fully understand, people who are lonely and depressed are many times -- three to five to ten times, in some studies -- more likely to get sick and die prematurely.

Now, on the other hand, anything that promotes intimacy is healing.

It can be sexual intimacy – I happen to think that healing energy and erotic energy are just different forms of the same thing.

Friendship, altruism, compassion, service – all the perennial truths that we talked about that are part of all religion and all cultures -- once you stop trying to see the differences, these are the things in our own self-interest, because they free us from our suffering and from disease.

And it’s in a sense the most selfish thing that we can do. 

He took women with metastatic breast cancer, randomly divided them into two groups.

One group of people just met for an hour-and-a-half once a week in a support group.

It was a nurturing, loving environment, where they were encouraged to let down their emotional defenses and talk about how awful it is to have breast cancer with people who understood, because they were going through it too.

They just met once a week for a year.

Five years later, those women lived twice as long, and you can see that the people -- and that was the only difference between the groups.

It was a randomized control study published in The Lancet.

Other studies have shown this as well.

So, these simple things that create intimacy are really healing, and even the word healing, it comes from the root "to make whole."

The word yoga comes from the Sanskrit, meaning "union, to yoke, to bring together."

And the last slide I want to show you is from -- I was -- again, this swami that I studied with for so many years, and I did a combined oncology and cardiology Grand Rounds at the University of Virginia medical school a couple of years ago.

