A magazine?

Sex tips are not glamorous.

And Drew Barrymore, for all her wonderful charm, is not glamorous either.

But there is a glamour of industry.

This is Margaret Bourke-White's -- one of her pictures she did.

Fantastic, glamorous pictures of steel mills and paper mills and all kinds of glamorous industrial places.

And there's the mythic glamour of the garage entrepreneur.

This is the Hewlett-Packard garage.

We know everyone who starts a business in a garage ends up founding Hewlett-Packard.

Glamour was a literal magic spell.

But still, glamour is an illusion.

Glamour is a magic spell.

Well of course, in the 20th century, glamour came to have this different meaning associated with Hollywood.

And this is Hedy Lamarr.

There was a tremendous amount of technical achievement associated with creating this Hollywood glamour.

There were scores of retouchers and lighting experts and make-up experts.

It may be to illuminate the star; it may be to sell a film.

And it involves a great deal of technique.

Even Nicole Kidman doesn't wake up in the morning glamorous.

Glamour doesn't have to be people.

Architectural photography is extremely glamorous.

It puts you into this special, special world.

Except that light doesn't work this way in the real world. 

And I think that that's starting to get at what the core that combines all sorts of glamour is.

This is Filippino Lippi's 1543 portrait of Saint Apollonia.

It's a very glamorous portrait.

Why is it glamorous?

You don't see her eyes; they're looking downward.

She's encouraging you to contemplate this higher world to which she belongs, where she can be completely tranquil while holding the iron instruments of her death by torture.

Mel Gibson's "Passion Of The Christ" -- not glamorous.

Glamour invites us to live in a different world.

In some sense, there has to be something like us.

So as I say, in religious art, you know, God is not glamorous.

What is it about Superman?

Aside from Alex Ross's style, which is very glamorous, one thing about Superman is he makes you believe that a man can fly. 

Glamour is all about transcending this world and getting to an idealized, perfect place.

And this is one reason that modes of transportation tend to be extremely glamorous.

The less experience we have with them, the more glamorous they are.

You can do a glamorized picture of an airplane, but not the inside.

The story is about where you're arriving, or thinking about where you're arriving.

And this sense of being transported is one reason that we have glamour styling.

The same thing -- arches are very glamorous.

Arches with stained glass -- even more glamorous.

Staircases that curve away from you are glamorous.

You know, when you get, actually to this town it has reality.

The horizon, the open road, is very, very glamorous.

In order to pull glamour off, you need this Renaissance quality of sprezzatura, which is a term coined by Castiglione in his book, "The Book Of The Courtier."

There's the not-glamorous version of what it looks like today, after a few centuries. 

And sprezzatura is the art that conceals art.

It makes things look effortless.

And I remember reading, after the Lara Croft movies, how Angelina Jolie would go home completely black and blue.

Glamour is about editing.

How do you create the sense of transcendence, the sense of evoking a perfect world?

We don't tell you all the grubby details. 

Now, this was kindly lent to me by Jeff Bezos, from last year.

This is underneath Jeff's desk.

This is what the real world of computers, lamps, electrical appliances of all kinds, looks like.

But if you look in a catalog -- particularly a catalog of modern, beautiful objects for your home -- it looks like this.

There are no cords.

You have to have mystery and you have to have grace.

And there she is -- Grace.

This is the most glamorous picture, I think, ever.

Here's Hedy Lamarr again.

It invites us into the world but it doesn't give us a completely clear picture.

And of course glass block has that sense of translucence.

So, this session's supposed to be about pure pleasure but glamour's really partly about meaning.

All individuals and all cultures have ideals that cannot possibly be realized in reality. 

And in the life of an individual, we often associate that with some object.

The white picket fence, the perfect house.

The perfect love life -- symbolized by the perfect necklace, the perfect diamond ring.

The perfect getaway in your perfect car.

This is an interior design firm that is literally called Utopia.

The perfect office -- again, no cords, as far as I can tell.

And certainly, no, it doesn't look a thing like my office.

I mean, there's no paper on the desk.

We want this golden world.

And some people get rich enough, and if they have their ideals -- in a sort of domestic sense, they get to acquire their perfect world. 

What is your ideal, and also, what has been edited out?

Is it something important?

"The Matrix" is a movie that is all about glamour.

I could do a whole talk on "The Matrix" and glamour.

I mean, look how happy the people are, and good-looking too.

You know, we're marching toward Utopia. 

I'm not a fan of PETA, but I think this is a great ad.

But actually, what's even more important than remembering what's been edited out is thinking, are the ideals good?

Because glamour can be very totalitarian and deceptive.

And it's not just a matter of glamorizing cleaning your floor.

This is from "Triumph Of The Will" -- brilliant editing to cut together things.

There's a glamour shot.

National Socialism is all about glamour.

It was a very aesthetic ideology.

It was all about cleaning up Germany, and the West, and the world, and ridding it of anything unglamorous.

So glamour can be dangerous. 

I think glamour has a genuine appeal, has a genuine value.

I'm not against glamour.

But there's a kind of wonder in the stuff that gets edited away in the cords of life.

And there is both a way to avoid the dangers of glamour and a way to broaden your appreciation of it.

And here's Hedy Lamarr.

She's very glamorous but, you know, she invented spread-spectrum technology.

And that has a fascination.

It's not necessarily glamorous, but unveiling the glamour has an appeal.

Thank you. 

