If you think about your life today, you go every day through many different scales, many different changes of rhythm and pace.

You work over different time zones, you talk to very different people, you multitask.

I can't get my father in Italy to work on the Internet.

He doesn't want to put high-speed Internet at home.

And that's because there's some little bit of fear, little bit of resistance or just clogged mechanisms.

So designers work on this particular malaise that we have, these kinds of discomforts that we have, and try to make life easier for us.

And before I launch into the display of some of the slides and into the preview, I would like to point out this beautiful detail about scientists and design.

But according to a really great science historian you might know, Peter Galison -- he teaches at Harvard -- what nanotechnology in particular and quantum physics have brought to designers is this renewed interest, this real passion for design. 

So basically, the idea of being able to build things bottom up, atom by atom, has made them all into tinkerers.

Nanophysics and nanotechnology, for instance, have really opened the designer's mind.

In this case I'm showing more the designers' work, because they're the ones that have really been stimulated.

This kind of alphabet soup is a new way to mark proteins -- not only by color but literally by alphabet letters.

So they construct it, and they can construct all kinds of forms 

He's thinking -- of course it's all a concept -- of injecting typefaces into spermatozoa, I don't know how to say it in English -- spermatazoi -- in order to make them become -- to almost have a song or a whole poem written with every ejaculation.

One of the assignments for a year was to work with in-vitro meat.

You know that already you can grow meat in vitro.

In Australia they did it -- this research company, called SymbioticA.

But the problem is that it's a really ugly patty.

So, this is indeed made of human bone tissue. 

So, we'll be able to really not have any excuse to be wearing everything leather in the future. 

One of the most important topics of the show -- you know, as anything in our life today, we can look at it from many, many different viewpoints, and at different levels.

It was a beautiful visualization that he did for Seed magazine.

And then also graphs by scientists, this beautiful diagraph of protein homology.

Scientists are starting to also consider aesthetics.

So they pick the worst background from any kind of PowerPoint presentation, the worst typeface.

Another aspect of contemporary design that I think is mind-opening, promising and will really be the future of design, is the idea of collective design.

You know, the whole XO laptop, from One Laptop per Child, is based on the idea of collaboration and mash and networking.

So the idea of collective design is something that will become even bigger in the future, and this is chosen as an example. 

Related to the idea of collective design and to the new balance between the individual and the collectiveness, collectivity is the idea of existence maximum.

You can be in the subway and you can be completely isolated and have your own room in your iPod. 

And same thing here, Social Tele-presence.

It takes seven days today to manufacture a chair, but you know what?

But here instead are examples, you can already 3D-print textiles, which is very interesting.

This is just a really nice touch -- it's called slow prototyping.

It's a designer that put 10,000 bees at work and they built this vase.

They had a particular shape that they had to stay in. 

Also, we do it in order to share with other people.

Again, this communal sense of experience that seems to be so important today.

So, various ways to map and tag are also the work of many designers nowadays.

Also, the senses -- designers and scientists all work on trying to expand our senses capabilities so that we can achieve more.

And also animal senses in a way. 

Design for Debate is a very interesting new endeavor that designers have really shaped for themselves.

They're still very useful.

They help companies and other designers think better about the future.

Those are a series of robots that are meant to be taken care of.

We always think that robots will take care of us, and instead they designed these robots that are very, very needy.

You need to take one in your arms and look at it in the eyes for about five minutes before it does something.

Another one gets really, really nervous if you get in to the room, and starts shaking, so you have to calm it down.

So it's really a way to make us think more about what robots mean to us.

Noam Toran and "Accessories for Lonely Men": the idea is that when you lose your loved one or you go through a bad breakup, what you miss the most are those annoying things that you used to hate when you were with the other person.

So he designed all these series of accessories.

There's another one that throws plates and breaks them.

So it's just this idea of what we really miss in life. 

Elio Caccavale: he took the idea of those dolls that explain leukemia.

He's working on dolls that explain xenotransplantation, and also the spider gene into the goat, from a few years ago.

So it's a series of dolls that he's working on right now. 

So instead of having only the pictures, you will be able to put this object next to the computer and all of a sudden have, you know, Gertrude's whole life and all of her files and her address book come alive. 

It's quite amazing how these things can make you smile, can make you laugh, can make you cry sometimes.

But I'm hoping that this particular exhibition will be able to trace a new portrait of where design is going -- which is always, hopefully, a portrait a few years in advance of where the world is going.

Thank you very much. 

