Our ability to create and sustain economic growth is the defining challenge of our time. 

In these countries, it is essential that they grow at a minimum of seven percent a year in order to put a dent in poverty and to double per capita incomes in one generation.

And yet today, the largest emerging economies -- countries with at least 50 million people -- continue to struggle to reach that seven percent magic mark.

Economic growth matters.

With economic growth, countries and societies enter into a virtuous cycle of upward mobility, opportunity and improved living standards.

Economic growth matters powerfully for the individual.

The context matters.

And countries in emerging markets do not need to grow at the same rates as developed countries. 

Now, I know some of you in this room find this to be a risky proposition.

You worry about the overpopulation of the planet.

You are also concerned about the degradation of the environment.

And you worry about how man, embodied in the corporate globalist, has become greedy and corrupt. 

But I'm here to tell you today that economic growth has been the backbone of changes in living standards of millions of people around the world.

And more importantly, it's not just economic growth that has been driven by capitalism. 

The definition of capitalism, very simply put, is that the factors of production, such as trade and industry, capital and labor, are left in the hands of the private sector and not the state. 

And to the extent that we need to create economic growth over the long term, we're going to have to pursue it with a better form of economic stance. 

And as I mentioned a moment ago, the core of the capitalist system has been defined by private actors.

And even this, however, is a very simplistic dichotomy.

And we have countries such as China, which have practiced more state capitalism, and we have countries like the Unites States which are more market capitalist. 

The two really critical questions that we need to address is how can we fix capitalism so that it can help create economic growth but at the same time can help to address social ills. 

And only after they've maximized their utility do they then decide it's important to provide support to other social contracts.

But nevertheless, this framework -- this two-stage framework -- is the basis from which we must now start to think about how we can improve the capitalist model. 

But there are also benefits and significant changes underway on left-leaning policies.

Arguments that government should expand its role and responsibility so that it's not so narrowly defined and that government should be much more of an arbiter of the factors of production have become commonplace with the success of China.

Things like the corporate social responsibility programs, albeit small in scale, are moving in that right direction.

Of course, left-leaning policies have also tended to blur the lines between government, NGOs and private sector. 

In order to create sustainable, long-term economic growth and solve the challenges and social ills that continue to plague the world today, we're going to have to be more broad-minded about what might work. 

Ultimately, we have to recognize that ideology is the enemy of growth. 

Thank you. 

There's a lot of work going on around happiness and other metrics being used for measuring people's success and improvements in living standards.

And so I think that we should be open to what could deliver improvements in people's living standards and continue to reduce poverty around the world. 

Do you see that happening? 

DM: Well, I think that I'm more optimistic about human ability and ingenuity.

I think if we start to constrain ourselves using the finite, scarce and depleting resources that we know today, we could get quite negative and quite concerned about the way the world is. 

Is that what you're suggesting? 

DM: I'm suggesting we have to be open-minded.

I think it is absolutely the case that traditional models of economic growth are not working the way we would like them to.

The second largest economy is China.

But in essence, it cannot be a situation where we start ascribing policies to the emerging markets without developed countries themselves also taking quite a swipe at what they're doing both in demand and supply in developed markets. 

