And it's a picture we've seen several times.

Basically, "Emergence" was published on 9/11.

I live right there in the West Village, so the plume was luckily blowing west, away from us.

(Laughter) 

And one of the thoughts that I had dealing with these two separate emergences of a book and a baby, and having this event happen so close -- that my first thought, when I was still kind of in the apartment looking out at it all or walking out on the street and looking out on it just in front of our building, was that I'd made a terrible miscalculation in the book that I'd just written.

Because so much of that book was a celebration of the power and creative potential of density, of largely urban density, of connecting people and putting them together in one place, and putting them on sidewalks together and having them share ideas and share physical space together. 

And it seemed to me looking at that -- that tower burning and then falling, those towers burning and falling -- that in fact, one of the lessons here was that density kills.

And that of all the technologies that were exploited to make that carnage come into being, probably the single group of technologies that cost the most lives were those that enable 50,000 people to live in two buildings 110 stories above the ground.

If they hadn't been crowded -- you compare the loss of life at the Pentagon to the Twin Towers, and you can see that very powerfully.

And I kind of ruminated on that for a couple of days.

And then about two days later, the wind started to change a little bit, and you could sense that the air was not healthy.

And so even though there were no cars still in the West Village where we lived, my wife sent me out to buy a, you know, a large air filter at the Bed Bath and Beyond, which was located about 20 blocks away, north.

And so I went out.

And all the people who lived in the neighborhood, who owned restaurants and bars in the neighborhood, were all out there -- had them all open.

People were out.

There were no cars, so it seemed even better, in some ways.

The city was there.

All the things that make a great city successful and all the things that make a great city stimulating -- they were all on display there on those streets. 

They don't have a center executive branch that you can take out and cause the whole thing to fail.

If they did, it probably was right there at Ground Zero.

I mean, you know, the emergency bunker was right there, was destroyed by the attacks, and obviously the damage done to the building and the lives.

But nonetheless, just 20 blocks north, two days later, the city had never looked more alive.

If you'd gone into the minds of the people, well, you would have seen a lot of trauma, and you would have seen a lot of heartache, and you would have seen a lot of things that would take a long time to recover. 

But the system itself of this city was thriving.

So I took heart in seeing that.

So I wanted to talk a little bit about the reasons why that works so well, and how some of those reasons kind of map on to where the Web is going right now.

The question that I found myself asking to people when I was talking about the book afterwards is -- when you've talked about emergent behavior, when you've talked about collective intelligence, the best way to get people to kind of wrap their heads around that is to ask, who builds a neighborhood?

Who decides that Soho should have this personality and that the Latin Quarter should have this personality?

Well, there are some kind of executive decisions, but mostly the answer is -- everybody and nobody.

Everybody contributes a little bit.

No single person is really the ultimate actor behind the personality of a neighborhood. 

Same thing to the question of, who was keeping the streets alive post-9/11 in my neighborhood?

Well, it was the whole city.

The whole system kind of working on it, and everybody contributing a small little part.

So it's been a very optimistic time, I think, and I want to just talk about a few of those things.

I think that there is effectively a new kind of model of interactivity that's starting to emerge online right now. 

But it's still a very one-to-one kind of relationship.

There's one person putting up the link, and there's another person on the other end trying to decide whether to click on it or not.

The new model is much more like this, and we've already seen a couple of references to this.

This is what happens when you search "Steven Johnson" on Google.

There's some theoretical physicist at MIT named Steven Johnson who has dropped two spots, I'm happy to say. 

(Laughter) 

And, you know, I mean, I'll look at a couple of things like this, but Google is obviously the greatest technology ever invented for navel gazing.

It's just that there are so many other people in your navel when you gaze.

So there's this collective decision-making that's going on.

This page is effectively, collectively authored by the Web, and Google is just helping us kind of to put the authorship in one kind of coherent place. 

And these are looking in the blog world and the world of weblogs.

He's analyzed basically all the weblogs out there that he's tracking.

And so at any given time, on any given page on the Web, actually, you can say, what does the weblog community think about this page?

You can also rank it by the latest posts. 

Well, something like Technorati is supplying that.

And he says, the link to one site didn't just grow on the other page "like a tree fungus."

And in fact, I think that's not entirely true anymore.

I could put up a feed of all those links generated by Technorati on the right-hand side of my page, and they would change as the overall ecology of the Web changes.

That little list there would change.

I wouldn't really be directly in control of it.

So it's much closer, in a way, to a data fungus, in a sense, wrapped around that page, than it is to a deliberate link that I've placed there.

Now, what you're having here is basically a global brain that you're able to do lots of kind of experiments on to see what it's thinking.

And there are all these interesting tools.

And I'm saying a lot of nice things about Google, so I'll be I'll be saying one little critical thing. 

The Columbia blows up, suddenly there are a lot of searches on Columbia.

Well, you know, we should expect to see that.

That's not necessarily something we didn't know already.

So the key thing in terms of these new tools that are kind of plumbing the depths of the global brain, that are sending kind of trace dyes through that whole bloodstream -- the question is, are you finding out something new? 

So basically, the number of pages that mention this term, that also mention this page, the percentage of those pages is that person's Google Share of that term.

So you can do kind of interesting contests.

(Laughter) 

But the interesting thing is, you can broaden the search a little bit.

And it turns out, actually, that 42 percent is the Mola mola fish.

I had no idea.

No, that's not true.

(Laughter) I made that up because I just wanted to put up a slide of the Mola mola fish. 

(Laughter) 

Right below him, 0.5 percent, Steven Pinker.

So Dennett's in the lead a little bit there.

And by the way, Chris, that would've been a really good panel, I think, right there. 

(Laughter) 

Hubbard apparently started to reach, but besides that, I think it would be good next year.

So these are words that suddenly start to appear out of nowhere, so they're kind of, you know, memes that start taking off, that didn't have a lot of historical precedent before.

They're talking about slavery in 1860.

1985, right at the center of the Reagan years -- that's, we're, there's, we've, it's. 

(Laughter) 

You know, 20 years before it was still, "Ask not what you can do," but with Reagan, it's, "that's where, there's Nancy and I," that kind of language.

And so something we kind of knew, but you didn't actually notice syntactically what he was doing.

And I think what happens there will also happen in the wider system.

It follows a power law, so that there are a few extremely well-linked to, popular blogs, and a long tail of blogs with very few links.

So 20 percent of the blogs get 80 percent of the links.

Now this is a very interesting thing.

It's caused a lot of controversy because people thought that this was the ultimate kind of one man, one modem democracy, where anybody can get out there and get their voice heard. 

And basically, the shape appears largely because of a kind of a first-mover advantage.

if you're the first site there, everybody links to you.

If you're the second site there, most people link to you.

And so very quickly you can accumulate a bunch of links, and it makes it more likely for newcomers to link to you in the future, and then you get this kind of shape.

And so what Dave Sifry at Technorati started working on, literally as Shirky started -- after he published his piece -- was something that basically just gave a new kind of priority to newcomers.

And he started looking at interesting newcomers that don't have a lot of links, that suddenly get a bunch of links in the last 24 hours. 

So in a sense, bursty weblogs coming from new voices.

So he's working on a tool right there that can actually change the overall system.

And it creates a kind of planned emergence.

So the most amazing thing about this -- and I'll end on this note -- is, most emergent systems, most self-organizing systems are not made up of component parts that are capable of looking at the overall pattern and changing their behavior based on whether they like the pattern or not.

So the most wonderful thing, I think, about this whole debate about power laws and software that could change it is the fact that we're having the conversation.

I hope it continues here.

Thanks a lot. 

