So, indeed, I have spent my life looking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive.

Waking up with Abraham Lincoln in the morning, thinking of Franklin Roosevelt when I went to bed at night.

But when I try and think about what I've learned about the meaning in life, my mind keeps wandering back to a seminar that I took when I was a graduate student at Harvard with the great psychologist Erik Erikson. 

Whereas to pursue all three with equal dedication, is to make possible a life filled not only with achievement, but with serenity. 

He had a huge ambition.

But it wasn't simply for office or power or celebrity or fame -- what it was for was to accomplish something worthy enough in life so that he could make the world a little better place for his having lived in it. 

Even as a child, it seemed, Lincoln dreamed heroic dreams.

He somehow had to escape that hard-scrabble farm from which he was born.

No schooling was possible for him, except a few weeks here, a few weeks there.

But he read books in every spare moment he could find.

It was said when he got a copy of the King James Bible or "Aesop's Fables," he was so excited he couldn't sleep.

He couldn't eat.

Though he never would travel to Europe, he went with Shakespeare's kings to merry England, he went with Lord Byron's poetry to Spain and Portugal.

Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings.

But there were so many losses in his early life that he was haunted by death.

Moreover, when his mother lay dying, she did not hold out for him the hope that they would meet in an afterworld.

Your honor and your reputation would outlive your earthly existence.

And that worthy ambition became his lodestar.

It carried him through the one significant depression that he suffered when he was in his early 30s. 

Three things had combined to lay him low.

He had broken his engagement with Mary Todd, not certain he was ready to marry her, but knowing how devastating it was to her that he did that.

His one intimate friend, Joshua Speed, was leaving Illinois to go back to Kentucky because Speed's father had died.

And his political career in the state legislature was on a downward slide.

He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal.

So fueled by that ambition, he returned to the state legislature.

He eventually won a seat in Congress.

He then ran twice for the Senate, lost twice.

And then when he won the general election, he stunned the nation even more by appointing each of these three rivals into his Cabinet.

(Laughter) 

But it soon became clear that Abraham Lincoln would emerge as the undisputed captain of this unruly team.

He repaired injured feelings that might have escalated into permanent hostility.

He shared credit with ease, assumed responsibility for the failure of his subordinates, constantly acknowledged his errors and learned from his mistakes.

These are the qualities we should be looking for in our candidates in 2008.

(Applause) He refused to be provoked by petty grievances.

He never submitted to jealousy or brooded over perceived slights.

And he expressed his unshakeable convictions in everyday language, in metaphors, in stories.

And with a beauty of language -- almost as if the Shakespeare and the poetry he had so loved as a child had worked their way into his very soul. 

So he put the pen down.

But even in his wildest dreams, Lincoln could never have imagined how far his reputation would reach. 

I was so thrilled to find an interview with the great Russian writer, Leo Tolstoy, in a New York newspaper in the early 1900s.

Knowing that Tolstoy was in their midst, they asked him to tell stories of the great men of history.

So in the end that powerful ambition that had carried Lincoln through his bleak childhood had been realized.

That ambition that had allowed him to laboriously educate himself by himself, to go through that string of political failures and the darkest days of the war.

His story would be told.

So as for that second sphere, not of work, but of love -- encompassing family, friends and colleagues -- it, too, takes work and commitment.

The Lyndon Johnson that I saw in the last years of his life, when I helped him on his memoirs, was a man who had spent so many years in the pursuit of work, power and individual success, that he had absolutely no psychic or emotional resources left to get him through the days once the presidency was gone. 

My relationship with him began on a rather curious level.

I was selected as a White House Fellow when I was 24 years old.

We had a big dance at the White House.

President Johnson did dance with me that night.

Not that peculiar -- there were only three women out of the 16 White House Fellows.

But he did whisper in my ear that he wanted me to work directly for him in the White House.

But it was not to be that simple.

(Laughter) So I was certain he would kick me out of the program.

I like to believe it was because I was a good listener.

He was a great storyteller.

Fabulous, colorful, anecdotal stories.

But they were great, nonetheless.

(Laughter) So I think that part of his attraction for me was that I loved listening to his tall tales.

So I constantly chatted to him about boyfriends, even when I didn't have any at all. 

Everything was working perfectly, until one day he said he wanted to discuss our relationship.

And there was wine and cheese and a red-checked tablecloth -- all the romantic trappings.

(Laughter) 

It was pretty embarrassing, given what was going on in my mind.

But I must say, the older I've gotten, the more I realize what an incredible privilege it was to have spent so many hours with this aging lion of a man.

A victor in a thousand contests, three great civil rights laws, Medicare, aid to education.

And yet, roundly defeated in the end by the war in Vietnam.

And I'd like to believe that the privilege fired within me the drive to understand the inner person behind the public figure, that I've tried to bring to each of my books since then. 

It was almost as if the hole in his heart was so large that even the love of a family, without work, could not fill it.

As his spirits sagged, his body deteriorated until, I believe, he slowly brought about his own death.

He spoke with immense sadness in his voice, saying maybe he should have spent more time with his children, and their children in turn.

But it was too late.

Despite all that power, all that wealth, he was alone when he finally died -- his ultimate terror realized. 

So deep, for instance, was Abraham Lincoln's love of Shakespeare, that he made time to spend more than a hundred nights in the theater, even during those dark days of the war.

He said, when the lights went down and a Shakespeare play came on, for a few precious hours he could imagine himself back in Prince Hal's time. 

His storytelling powers had first been recognized when he was on the circuit in Illinois.

The lawyers and the judges would travel from one county courthouse to the other, and when anyone was knowing Lincoln was in town, they would come from miles around to listen to him tell stories.

He would stand with his back against a fire and entertain the crowd for hours with his winding tales.

And all these stories became part of his memory bank, so he could call on them whenever he needed to.

And they're not quite what you might expect from our marble monument. 

One of his favorite stories, for example, had to do with the Revolutionary War hero, Ethan Allen.

They figured he'd be upset about the indignity of George Washington being in an outhouse.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

So between his nightly treks to the theater, his story telling, and his extraordinary sense of humor and his love of quoting Shakespeare and poetry, he found that form of play which carried him through his days.

In my own life, I shall always be grateful for having found a form of play in my irrational love of baseball.

Which allows me, from the beginning of spring training to the end of the fall, to have something to occupy my mind and heart other than my work. 

But he made me feel I was telling him a fabulous story.

It makes you think there's something magic about history to keep your father's attention. 

In fact, I'm convinced I learned the narrative art from those nightly sessions with my father.

Because at first, I'd be so excited I would blurt out, "The Dodgers won!"

Which took much of the drama of this two-hour telling away.

(Laughter) So I finally learned you had to tell a story from beginning to middle to end.

I must say, so fervent was my love of the old Brooklyn Dodgers in those days that I had to confess in my first confession two sins that related to baseball. 

The first occurred because the Dodgers' catcher, Roy Campanella, came to my hometown of Rockville Centre, Long Island, just as I was in preparation for my first Holy Communion.

And I was so excited -- first person I'd ever see outside of Ebbets Field.

But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church.

(Laughter) And there were no indulgences around that I could buy.

So I had this sin on my soul when I went to my first confession.

And then came my second sin.

I tried to sandwich it in between talking too much in church, wishing harm to others, being mean to my sisters.

And he said, "To whom did you wish harm?"

(Laughter) 

Well, though my father died of a sudden heart attack when I was still in my 20s, before I had gotten married and had my three sons, I have passed his memory -- as well as his love of baseball -- on to my boys.

Though when the Dodgers abandoned us to come to L.A., I lost faith in baseball until I moved to Boston and became an irrational Red Socks fan.

I must say there is magic in these moments.

Which is why, in the end, I shall always be grateful for this curious love of history, allowing me to spend a lifetime looking back into the past.

Allowing me to learn from these large figures about the struggle for meaning for life.

Allowing me to believe that the private people we have loved and lost in our families, and the public figures we have respected in our history, just as Abraham Lincoln wanted to believe, really can live on, so long as we pledge to tell and to retell the stories of their lives.

Thank you for letting me be that storyteller today.

(Applause) Thank you. 

