This was me running around in the back garden mid-summer. 

I couldn't pick a career.

My mother wanted me to be a dentist.

But the problem was that people kept blowing everything up.

And this was a pretty common sight.

The school I went to was pretty boring.

So I cleverly chose rowing, which I got very good at. 

And that was the finishing post right there. 

So this was extremely embarrassing.

And so students like myself with nothing to do, we would learn how to program it.

So I brought a picture with big hair. 

I just want to get that out of the way.

So after the Sinclair ZX80 came along the very cleverly named Sinclair ZX81. 

And -- you see the picture at the bottom?

There's a picture of a guy doing homework with his son.

That's what they thought they had built it for.

The reality is we got the programming manual and we started making games for it.

The graphics were just horrible.

They started making their own video games.

And if you're wondering how much 16K is, this eBay logo here is 16K.

And in that amount of memory someone programmed a full flight simulation program.

And that's what it looked like.

Here's Clive Sinclair now launching his color computer.

He's recognized as being the father of video games in Europe.

So I went on for the next 20 years or so making a lot of different games.

Some of the highlights were things like "The Terminator," "Aladdin," the "Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles."

Now, Chris did ask me to bring some statistics with me, so I've done that.

The video game industry in 2005 became a 29 billion dollar business.

By 2008, we're going to kick the butt of the music industry.

By 2010, we're going to hit 42 billion.

43 percent of gamers are female.

So there's a lot more female gamers than people are really aware. 

The average age of gamers?

And interestingly, the people who buy the most games are 37.

So 37 is our target audience.

It makes about 80 million bucks a month in subscriptions.

A player in a game called "Project Entropia" actually bought his own island for 26,500 dollars.

You have to remember that this is not a real island.

He didn't actually buy anything, just some data.

But he got great terms on it.

This market is now estimated at over 800 million dollars annually.

And what's interesting about it is the market was actually created by the gamers themselves.

So as far as popularity of games, what do you think these people are doing here?

It turns out they're actually in Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles listening to the L.A. Philharmonic playing video game music.

That's what the show looks like.

You would expect it to be cheesy, but it's not.

It's very, very epic and a very beautiful concert.

And the people that went there absolutely loved it. 

What do you think these people are doing?

They're actually bringing their computers so they can play games against each other.

And this is happening in every city around the world.

I wanted to update that video and give you a new look at it.

But what I want you to do is to try to understand it.

We're on this curve, and the graphics are getting so ridiculously better.

And I'm going to show you up to maybe 2007.

But I want you to try and think about what games could look like 10 years from now.

So we're going to start that video. 

Video: Throughout human history people have played games.

As man's intellect and technology have evolved so too have the games he plays. 

David Perry: The thing again I want you to think about is, don't look at these graphics and think of that's the way it is.

Think about that's where we are right now, and the curve that we're on means that this is going to continue to get better.

This is an example of the kind of graphics you need to be able to draw if you wanted to get a job in the video game industry today.

You need to be really an incredible artist.

And once we get enough of those guys, we're going to want more fantasy artists that can create places we've never been to before, or characters that we've just never seen before. 

So the obvious thing for me to talk about today is graphics and audio.

But if you were to go to a game developers conference, what they're all talking about is emotion, purpose, meaning, understanding and feeling.

You'll hear about talks like, can a video game make you cry?

And these are the kind of topics we really actually care about. 

I came across a student who's absolutely excellent at expressing himself, and this student agreed that he would not show his video to anybody until you here at TED had seen it.

So I'd like to play this video.

So this is a student's opinion on what his experience of games are. 

Video: I, like many of you, live somewhere between reality and video games.

Some part of me -- a true living, breathing person -- has become programmed, electronic and virtual.

The boundary of my brain that divides real from fantasy has finally begun to crumble.

I'm a video game addict and this is my story. 

In the year of my birth the Nintendo Entertainment System also went into development.

I played in the backyard, learned to read, and even ate some of my vegetables.

Most of my childhood was spent playing with Legos.

But as was the case for most of my generation, I spent a lot of time in front of the TV.

Mr. Rogers, Walt Disney, Nick Junior, and roughly half a million commercials have undoubtedly left their mark on me. 

When my parents bought my sister and I our first Nintendo, whatever inherent addictive quality this early interactive electronic entertainment possessed quickly took hold of me.

At some point something clicked. 

With the combination of simple, interactive stories and the warmth of the TV set, my simple 16-bit Nintendo became more than just an escape.

It became an alternate existence, my virtual reality. 

From an early age I learned to invest myself emotionally in what unfolded before me on screen.

I am just one of a new generation that is growing up.

And while my sense of free will in these virtual worlds may still be limited, what I do learn applies to my real life.

Play enough video games and eventually you will really believe you can snowboard, fly a plane, drive a nine-second quarter mile, or kill a man.

I know I can. 

Unlike any pop culture phenomenon before it, video games actually allow us to become part of the machine.

They allow us to sublimate into the culture of interactive, downloaded, streaming, HD reality.

We are interacting with our entertainment.

I have come to expect this level of interaction.

Without it, the problems faced in the real world -- poverty, war, disease and genocide -- lack the levity they should.

Their importance blends into the sensationalized drama of prime time TV. 

But the beauty of video games today lies not in the lifelike graphics, the vibrating joysticks or virtual surround sound.

It lies in that these games are beginning to make me emotional.

The people who create these games are smart.

They know what makes me scared, excited, panicked, proud or sad.

Then they use these emotions to dimensionalize the worlds they create.

A well-designed video game will seamlessly weave the user into the fabric of the virtual experience.

As one becomes more experienced the awareness of physical control melts away.

I know what I want and I do it.

I know violent video games make my mother worry.

These are all troubles outside of myself.

I, however, have a problem very close to home.

Something has happened to my brain. 

Perhaps there is a single part of our brain that holds all of our gut instincts, the things we know to do before we even think.

These instincts are essential for survival in both real and virtual worlds.

Only in recent years has the technology behind video games allowed for a true overlap in stimuli.

As gamers we are now living by the same laws of physics in the same cities and doing many of the same things we once did in real life, only virtually.

In all my driving games, I've driven a total of 31,459 miles.

To some degree I've learned how to drive from the game.

The sensory cues are very similar.

It's a funny feeling when you have spent more time doing something on the TV than you have in real life.

When I am driving down a road at sunset all I can think is, this is almost as beautiful as my games are. 

Today I believe Big Brother would find much more success brainwashing the masses with video games rather than just simply TVs.

Video games are fun, engaging, and leave your brain completely vulnerable to re-programming.

But maybe brainwashing isn't always bad. 

There is a potential to do good as well.

It is critical, as these virtual worlds continue to mirror the real world we live in, that game developers realize that they have tremendous responsibilities before them.

I'm not sure what the future of video games holds for our civilization.

But as virtual and real world experiences increasingly overlap there is a greater and greater potential for other people to feel the same way I do. 

What I have only recently come to realize is that beyond the graphics, sound, game play and emotion it is the power to break down reality that is so fascinating and addictive to me.

I know that I am losing my grip.

Video games give an awful lot of other things too, and that's why people get so addicted.

The most important one being fun. 

The name of this track is "The Magic To Come."

Who is that going to come from?

Is it going to come from the best directors in the world as we thought it probably would?

I don't think so.

They're going to do it their way, using the tools that we've created.

The same with students or highly creative people, writers and people like that. 

As far as colleges go, there's about 350 colleges around the world teaching video game courses.

That means there's literally thousands of new ideas.

Some of the ideas are really dreadful and some of them are great.

There's nothing worse than having to listen to someone try and pitch you a really bad video game idea. 

DP: I've just got a little tiny bit more if you'll indulge me. 

I'm sitting at the front of the class, and they're actually pitching their ideas.

You know, we have the technology.

She's never going to know a world where the graphics just aren't stunning and really immersive.

And as the student video showed, we can impact and move.

She's never going to know a world where video games aren't incredibly emotional and will probably make her cry.

I just hope she likes video games. 

So, my closing thought.

Where better to challenge those minds than here at TED? 

Thank you. 

