Aside from keeping the rain out and producing some usable space, architecture is nothing but a special-effects machine that delights and disturbs the senses. 

From urban planning and master planning to theater and all sorts of stuff.

The thing that all the work has in common is that it challenges the assumptions about conventions of space.

And these are everyday conventions, conventions that are so obvious that we are blinded by their familiarity.

And I've assembled a sampling of work that all share a kind of productive nihilism that's used in the service of creating a particular special effect.

And that is something like nothing, or something next to nothing.

And we wanted to use the water not only as a context, but as a primary building material.

We wanted to make an architecture of atmosphere.

So, no walls, no roof, no purpose -- just a mass of atomized water, a big cloud.

So this is how we sought to do it.

And it's a responsive system that's trained on actual weather.

So, this is just in construction, and there's a tensegrity structure.

These are the fog nozzles, the interface, and basically the system is kind of reading the real weather, and producing kind of semi-artificial and real weather.

Unlike entering any normal space, entering Blur is like stepping into a habitable medium.

It's formless, featureless, depthless, scaleless, massless, purposeless and dimensionless.

All references are erased, leaving only an optical whiteout and white noise of the pulsing nozzles.

And this is very much like how the Victorian novel used fog in this way.

So here the world is put out of focus, while our visual dependence is put into focus.

And so it is sort of a theme, but it goes a little bit, you know, deeper than that.

Anyway, it's a temporary structure that was ultimately destroyed, and so it's now a memory of an apparition, actually, but it continues to live in edible form.

And this is the highest honor to be bestowed upon an architect in Switzerland -- to have a chocolate bar. 

Anyway, moving along.

And we did a lot of media work, also a lot of experimental theater projects.

"Master/Slave" at the MOMA, the project series, a piece called "Parasite."

And so there were many, many of these kinds of projects. 

Anyway, they gave us the whole fourth floor, and, you know, the problem of the retrospective was something we were very uncomfortable with.

It's a kind of invention of the museum that's supposed to bring a kind of cohesive understanding to the public of a body of work.

And our work doesn't really resolve itself into a body in any way at all.

And we actually had to install white walls to separate these pieces, which didn't belong together.

But these white walls became a kind of target and weapon at the same time.

We used the wall to partition the 13 installations of the project and produce a kind of acoustic and visual separation. 

They weren't doing their primary work, which was for the government, while they were helping us with this.

In any case, the way it works is that an intelligent navigator basically maps the entire surface of these walls.

So, unfolded it's about 300 linear feet.

And it randomly generates points within a three-dimensional matrix.

Initially these holes were lone blemishes, and as the exhibition continued the walls became increasingly perforated. 

So eventually holes on both sides of the wall aligned, opening views from gallery to gallery.

Clusters of holes randomly opened up sections of wall.

So rather than securing a neutral background for the artworks on display, the wall now actively competed for attention.

And this acoustical nuisance and visual nuisance basically exposed the discomfort of the work to this encompassing nature of the retrospective.

It was really great when it started to break up all of the curatorial text. 

Moving along to a project that we finished about a year ago.

It's the ICA -- the Institute of Contemporary Art -- in Boston, which is on the waterfront.

Then you come up in this glass elevator right near the curtain wall.

This elevator's about the size of a New York City studio apartment. 

And many musicians choose to use the theater glass walls totally open.

The view is denied in the galleries where we receive just natural light, and then exposed again in the north gallery with a panoramic view.

The architect lost here. 

But culminating -- and that's where this hooks into the theme of my little talk -- is this Mediatheque, which is suspended from the cantilevered portion of the building.

So this is an 80-foot cantilever -- it's quite substantial.

So, it's already sticking out into space enough, and then from that is this, is this small area called the Mediatheque.

And here is where we really felt that there was a great convergence of the technological and the natural in the project.

But there is just no information, it's just -- it's just hypnosis. 

Moving along to Lincoln Center.

These are the guys that did the project in the first place, 50 years ago.

But we're doing it with a lot less testosterone.

This is the extent of the work that's to be completed by 2010.

And this building, which is just naturally hermetic, we stripped.

But what I wanted to do was take a couple of seconds that I have left to just talk about the hall itself, which is kind of where we're really doing a massive amount of work.

So, the hall is a multi-purpose hall.

The clients have asked us to produce a great chamber music hall.

Now, that's really tough to do with a hall that has 1,100 seats.

How do you bring an intimacy into a hall?

One thing is that the subway is running and rumbling right under the hall.

Another thing that could be fixed is the shape of the hall.

It's like a coffin, it basically sends all the sound, like a gutter-ball effect, down the aisles.

The walls are made of absorptive surface, half absorptive, half reflective, which is not very good for concert sound. 

This is Avery Fisher Hall, but the notion of junk -- visual junk -- was very, very important to us, to get rid of visual noise.

Because we can't eliminate a single seat, the architecture is restricted to 18 inches.

So it's a very, very thin architecture.

Just everything is lined, it incorporates -- every single thing that you could possibly imagine is tucked into this high-performance skin.

But one more added feature. 

We very strongly believe that the theatrics of a concert hall is as much in the space of intermission and the space of arrival as it is when the concert starts.

And this is a guy from Salt Lake City, this is what they look like out there.

(Laughter) And for us, I mean it's really kind of a very strange thing, but the moments in the hall that the buzz kind of dies down when the audience is waiting for the performance to begin, very similar to the parting of curtains or the raising of a chandelier, the walls will just exude this glow, temporarily stealing attention from the stage.

And this is Tully in construction now. 

I have no ending to say, except that I'm a couple of minutes over. 

