I want to argue to you that in fact, politics and religion, which are the two primary factors -- not the sole, but overwhelmingly, the primary factors -- which are driving towards a war which looks extremely likely -- bordering on the inevitable at this point, whether one is in favor of that or not -- that politics and religion are, in fact, themselves better conceptualized as kinds of technology, and subject to kinds of questions that we regularly consider in the space of conceptual design. 

The famous ones -- despotism is a good one; anarchy is a way to not deploy the power in any organized way, to do it in a radically diffused fashion; and democracy is a set of technologies, which have the effect of, in principle, diffusing the power source to a large number of people and then re-concentrating it in a smaller group of people who govern, and who themselves are, in principle, authorized to govern by virtue of what the broader public has done. 

I would put it in the following equation: no 9/11, no war.

At the beginning of the Bush administration, when President Bush, now President Bush, was running for president, he made it very clear that he was not interested in intervening broadly in the world.

In fact, the trend was for disengagement with the rest of the world.

That's why we heard about the backing away from the Kyoto protocol, for example.

After 9/11, the tables were turned.

And the president decided, with his advisors, to undertake some kind of an active intervention in the world around us.

Now, how is Islam a technology in this conceptual apparatus?

Well, it's a technology for, first, salvation in its most basic sense.

Islam represents a way of engaging the world through which one can achieve certain desirable goals.

And I ran immediately into a conceptual problem: you can't show a picture of democracy.

You can show a slogan, or a symbol, or a sign that stands for democracy.

You can show the Capitol -- I had the same problem when I was designing the cover of my forthcoming book, in fact -- what do you put on the cover to show democracy?

And the same problem with respect to Islam.

You can show a mosque, or you can show worshippers, but there's not a straightforward way of depicting Islam.

That's because these are the kinds of concepts that are not susceptible to easy representation. 

Now, it follows from that, that they're deeply contestable.

It follows from that that all of the people in the world who say that they are Muslims can, in principle, subscribe to a wide range of different interpretations of what Islam really is, and the same is true of democracy.

In other words, unlike the word hope, which one could look up in a dictionary and derive origins for, and, perhaps, reach some kind of a consensual use analysis, these are essentially contested concepts.

They're ideas about which people disagree in the deepest possible sense.

Well, so says George W. Bush.

Other people would say it means something else.

Some people would say that Islam means submission.

Now, if Islam and democracy are at present in a moment of great confrontation, what does that mean?

Well, you could fit it into a range of different interpretative frameworks.

And I think that that's, in fact, probably the first appropriate response. 

What I want to suggest to you, though, in the next couple of minutes is that there's also a hopeful response to this.

And they're manipulable in ways that can produce some extremely positive outcomes.

What do I have in mind?

That's an academic question.

It may be that there was a great war to be fought between West and East, and it was necessary on the axis of democracy against communism.

And it was necessary in some way for these to contradict each other, and as a consequence you have to make friends wherever you can get them.

I'm here to tell you that many, many Muslims believe -- the vast majority, in fact -- in fact I think I would go so far as to say that many Muslims in Saudi Arabia believe that the core values of Islam, namely acknowledgement of God's sovereignty and basic human equality before God, are themselves compatible with liberty, equality and free political choice.

And there are Muslims, many Muslims out there, who are saying precisely this.

And they're making this argument wherever they're permitted to make it.

But their governments, needless to say, are relatively threatened by this.

And for the most part try to stop them from making this argument. 

So, for example, a group of young activists in Egypt try to form a party known as the Center Party, which advocated the compatibility of Islam and democracy.

They weren't even allowed to form a party.

Because they would have done extraordinarily well.

In the most recent elections in the Muslim world -- which are those in Pakistan, those in Morocco and those in Turkey -- in each case, people who present themselves to the electorate as Islamic democrats were far and away the most successful vote-getters every place they were allowed to run freely.

So in Morocco, for example, they finished third in the political race but they were only allowed to contest half the seats.

So had they contested a larger number of the seats, they would have done even better.

Now what I want to suggest to you is that the reason for hope in this case is that we are on the edge of a real transformation in the Muslim world.

And that's a transformation in which many sincerely believing Muslims -- who care very, very deeply about their traditions, who do not want to compromise those values -- believe, through the malleability of the technology of democracy and the malleability and synthetic capability of the technology of Islam, that these two ideas can work together. 

Now what would that look like?

What does it mean to say that there's an Islamic democracy?

That may be a good thing, in light of some of the criticisms we've heard today -- for example, in the regulatory context -- of what democracy produces.

It will be transformative of Islam as well.

And as a result of this convergence, this synthetic attempt to make sense of these two ideas together, there's a real possibility that, instead of a clash of Islamic civilization -- if there is such a thing -- and democratic civilization -- if there is such a thing -- we'll in fact have close compatibility. 

And one furthermore has the impulse to generalize, as much as possible, in defining who that enemy is.

So the risks are very great. 

On the other hand, the capacities for positive results in the aftermath of a war are also not to be underestimated, even by, and I would say especially by, people who are deeply skeptical about whether we should go to war in the first place.

You face the circumstances you have in front of you and you go forward. 

Thanks. 

