The book is called "The Blank Slate," based on the popular idea that the human mind is a blank slate, and that all of its structure comes from socialization, culture, parenting, experience.

The "blank slate" was an influential idea in the 20th century.

As many people have told me over the years, anyone who's had more than one child knows that kids come into the world with certain temperaments and talents; it doesn't all come from the outside.

And anyone who's ever been in a heterosexual relationship knows that the minds of men and the minds of women are not indistinguishable.

There are also, I think, increasing results from the scientific study of humans that, indeed, we're not born blank slates.

One of them, from anthropology, is the study of human universals.

If you've ever taken anthropology, you know that it's a -- kind of an occupational pleasure of anthropologists to show how exotic other cultures can be, and that there are places out there where, supposedly, everything is the opposite to the way it is here.

But if you instead look at what is common to the world's cultures, you find that there is an enormously rich set of behaviors and emotions and ways of construing the world that can be found in all of the world's 6,000-odd cultures.

The anthropologist Donald Brown has tried to list them all, and they range from aesthetics, affection and age statuses all the way down to weaning, weapons, weather, attempts to control, the color white and a worldview. 

Also, genetics and neuroscience are increasingly showing that the brain is intricately structured.

This is a recent study by the neurobiologist Paul Thompson and his colleagues in which they -- using MRI -- measured the distribution of gray matter -- that is, the outer layer of the cortex -- in a large sample of pairs of people.

Well, this is what happens when you pair people up at random.

By definition, two people picked at random can't have correlations in the distribution of gray matter in the cortex.

This is what happens in people who share half of their DNA -- fraternal twins.

And here's what happens if you get a pair of people who share all their DNA -- namely, clones or identical twins.

And you can see huge areas of cortex where there are massive correlations in the distribution of gray matter. 

Now, the cartoon is not such an exaggeration, because studies of identical twins who were separated at birth and then tested in adulthood show that they have astonishing similarities.

And this happens in every pair of identical twins separated at birth ever studied -- but much less so with fraternal twins separated at birth.

My favorite example is a pair of twins, one of whom was brought up as a Catholic in a Nazi family in Germany, the other brought up in a Jewish family in Trinidad.

When they walked into the lab in Minnesota, they were wearing identical navy blue shirts with epaulettes; both of them liked to dip buttered toast in coffee, both of them kept rubber bands around their wrists, both of them flushed the toilet before using it as well as after, and both of them liked to surprise people by sneezing in crowded elevators to watch them jump.

Now -- the story might seem to good to be true, but when you administer batteries of psychological tests, you get the same results -- namely, identical twins separated at birth show quite astonishing similarities. 

Now, given both the common sense and scientific data calling the doctrine of the blank slate into question, why should it have been such an appealing notion?

Well, there are a number of political reasons why people have found it congenial.

Whereas, if we're born with certain instincts, then perhaps some of them might condemn us to selfishness, prejudice and violence.

Well, in the book, I argue that these are, in fact, non sequiturs.

And just to make a long story short: first of all, the concept of fairness is not the same as the concept of sameness.

And so when Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence, "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal," he did not mean "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are clones."

Rather, that all men are equal in terms of their rights, and that every person ought to be treated as an individual, and not prejudged by the statistics of particular groups that they may belong to.

Also, even if we were born with certain ignoble motives, they don't automatically lead to ignoble behavior.

That is because the human mind is a complex system with many parts, and some of them can inhibit others.

For example, there's excellent reason to believe that virtually all humans are born with a moral sense, and that we have cognitive abilities that allow us to profit from the lessons of history.

So even if people did have impulses towards selfishness or greed, that's not the only thing in the skull, and there are other parts of the mind that can counteract them. 

In the book, I go over controversies such as this one, and a number of other hot buttons, hot zones, Chernobyls, third rails, and so on -- including the arts, cloning, crime, free will, education, evolution, gender differences, God, homosexuality, infanticide, inequality, Marxism, morality, Nazism, parenting, politics, race, rape, religion, resource depletion, social engineering, technological risk and war.

And needless to say, there were certain risks in taking on these subjects.

Well, the book came out in October, and nothing terrible has happened.

There are many cases, some of which I talk about in the book, of people who have been slandered, called Nazis, physically assaulted, threatened with criminal prosecution for stumbling across or arguing about controversial findings.

And you never know when you're going to come across one of these booby traps.

It's not clear, by the way, since then, whether that is an accurate generalization, but the data at the time seemed to support that.

But what I wanted to talk about are two of these hot buttons that have aroused the strongest response in the 80-odd reviews that The Blank Slate has received.

They are: the arts and parenting.

Let me start with the arts.

I note that among the long list of human universals that I presented a few slides ago are art.

There is no society ever discovered in the remotest corner of the world that has not had something that we would consider the arts.

Visual arts -- decoration of surfaces and bodies -- appears to be a human universal.

Now, on the other hand, in the second half of the 20th century, the arts are frequently said to be in decline.

And I have a collection, probably 10 or 15 headlines, from highbrow magazines deploring the fact that the arts are in decline in our time.

I don't think this will as a surprise to anyone in this room, but by any standard they have never been flourishing to a greater extent.

There are, of course, entirely new art forms and new media, many of which you've heard over these few days.

The only grain of truth to this complaint that the arts are in decline come from three spheres.

And the humanities and arts programs in the universities, which by many measures, indeed are in decline.

Students are staying away in droves, universities are disinvesting in the arts and humanities. 

They didn't ask me, but by their own admission, they need all the help that they can get.

And I would like to suggest that it's not a coincidence that this supposed decline in the elite arts and criticism occurred in the same point in history in which there was a widespread denial of human nature.

But it's very clear, looking at these syllabuses, that -- it's used now as a way of saying that all forms of appreciation of art that were in place for centuries, or millennia, in the 20th century were discarded.

The beauty and pleasure in art -- probably a human universal -- were -- began to be considered saccharine, or kitsch, or commercial.

Barnett Newman had a famous quote that "the impulse of modern art is the desire to destroy beauty" -- which was considered bourgeois or tacky.

And here's just one example.

And, as you can see, there -- something has changed in the way the elite arts appeal to the senses. 

Indeed, in movements of modernism and post-modernism, there was visual art without beauty, literature without narrative and plot, poetry without meter and rhyme, architecture and planning without ornament, human scale, green space and natural light, music without melody and rhythm, and criticism without clarity, attention to aesthetics and insight into the human condition.

(Laughter) Let me give just you an example to back up that last statement.

But here, there -- one of the most famous literary English scholars of our time is the Berkeley professor, Judith Butler.

And here is an example of one of her analyses: "The move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure, and marked a shift from the form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects ..." Well, you get the idea.

But it certainly inspired an energetic reaction from many university professors. 

And the starting point is the -- for that discussion was the fact that we have all been subject to the advice of the parenting industrial complex.

And very few of them control for the possibility that parents pass on genes for -- that increase the chances a child will be articulate or violent and so on.

Until the studies are redone with adoptive children, who provide an environment but not genes to their kids, we have no way of knowing whether these conclusions are valid. 

The genetically controlled studies have some sobering results.

You might think, well, then they'd be even more similar, because not only would they share their genes, but they would also share their environment.

Everything that happens to you in a given home over all of those years appears to leave no permanent stamp on your personality or intellect.

OK -- two different bodies of research with a similar finding. 

So let me conclude with just a remark to bring it back to the theme of choices.

I think that the sciences of human nature -- behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology, neuroscience, cognitive science -- are going to, increasingly in the years to come, upset various dogmas, careers and deeply-held political belief systems.

And that presents us with a choice.

The choice is whether certain facts about humans, or topics, are to be considered taboos, forbidden knowledge, where we shouldn't go there because no good can come from it, or whether we should explore them honestly.

