(Laughter) It's really cool. 

And they made it into a toy, and then they dropped it like a hot rock.

You know, I said -- I went to Play-Doh, and said, "Look, I can animate this."

They said, "Don't talk to us about Play-Doh."

And then, I made a Lego animator.

Then I started doing animatronics.

I loved dinosaurs.

This is me using [unclear] or 3-D Studio, back in the '80s.

That's David Letterman.

You can see how old this stuff is.

That's my youngest cousin.

This is a segment called, "Dangerous Toys You Won't See at Christmas."

We had my first saw blade launcher and we had a flamethrower chair.

My career basically peaked here.

And in the back are foam-core cutouts of the people who couldn't make it to the show.

This is MEK going through a windshield wiper motor.

So this is a -- I used to kind of be an actor.

And I'm really not very good at it.

But the -- this is a guy named Dr. Yatz, who would take toys apart and show kids about engineering.

And you can see the massively parallel processing Nintendos there.

And over to the left is a view master of the CD-ROM.

And a guy named Stan Reznikov did this as a pilot.

This is a -- you can see the little window there.

You can actually see the Steadicam with a bubble on the bottom.

You see the keyboard strapped to my wrist.

Way ahead of my time here. 

(Video) I'm getting dizzy ... Narrator: I love toys! 

Most of them did not go.

You get one out of 20, one out of 30 products.

Throughout this whole thing, making toys, I think there is a real correlation with innovation and art and science.

There's some kind of a blend that happens that allows, you know, to find innovation.

And so, art and science have a kind of dynamic balance, that's where I think innovation happens.

And actually, this is, to me, how I can come up with great ideas.

And those three together, I think, give you leverage in the world.

So by way of showing you this, you can kind of get an understanding of what it is to, hopefully, try to create robotic life forms, or technology that has an emotional connection with the user.

So this is my family.

All right, there's that robot again.

I came out of the movie business, as I said, and I said, let's make these animatronic robots.

There's another one.

He actually has skeletor legs, I think, he's wearing there.

Oh, this is a little pony, little pony -- very cute little thing. 

The point of showing these is I've always been interested in little artificial life pieces.

So the challenge was -- I worked for Microsoft for a little bit, working on the Microsoft Barney.

And then Microsoft can just fill a, you know, a warehouse full of this stuff and see if they sell.

So it's a really strange business model compared to coming from a toy company.

But anyway, a friend of mine and I, Dave Hampton, decided to see if we could do like a single-cell organism.

What's the fewest pieces we could use to make a little life form?

And that's our little, thirty-cent Mabuchi motor.

And so, I have all these design books, like I'm sure many of you have.

I have the why over here, and the how over there.

I try to do a lot of philosophy, a lot of thinking about all of these projects.

Because they're not just "bing" ideas; you have to really dig deep in these things.

So there's some real pseudo-code over here, and getting the idea of different kind of drives, things like that.

And originally, Furby only had two eyes and some batteries on the bottom.

And then we said, well, you're going to feed him, and he needs to talk, and it got more complicated.

Then I started to get a little more realistic and I have to start drawing the stuff.

So that turned out to be a little more than true.

There's my first exploded view and all the little pieces and the little worm drive and all that stuff.

And then I've got to start building it, so this is the real thing.

I get up and start cutting my finger and gluing things together.

And that's my little workshop.

And there's the first little cam that drove Furby.

And there's Furby on the half shell.

You can see the little BB in the box is my tilt sensor.

I just basically gnawed all this stuff out of plastic.

No, it's a little robot on heroin or something, I think.

(Laughter) So right now, you see, I love little robots.

This is my wife Christi, who is just, you know, my muse and my partner for eternity here.

And she does drawings, right?

She's an actual, you know, artist.

And she starts doing all these different drawings and does color patterns and coloring books.

And I like the guy with the cigar at the bottom there.

He didn't test so well, but I like him.

And then she started doing these other images.

At that time, Beanie Babies was a big hit, and we thought, we'll do a bunch of different ones.

There's my favorite, Demon Furby.

That was a good one.

I actually went to Toys"R"Us, got a little furry cat, ripped it apart and made this.

And since then, every time I come home from Toys"R"Us with dolls or something, they disappear from my desk and they get hidden in the house.

I have three girls and they just, they -- it's like a rescue animal thing they're going there.

So now I have to really figure out all kinds of stuff I don't know how to do.

And I started working with Solid Works and a whole other group to do that.

And we started -- this was way back before there was really much SLA going on, not a lot of rapid prototyping.

We certainly didn't have the money to do this.

And they said, "Yeah, well, we'll run them."

So they ran all the shells for us, which was nice of them.

And the cams I got cut at Hewlett Packard.

We snuck in on the weekend.

And so we just had a disc of the files.

But they have a closed system, so you couldn't print the things out on the machine.

So we actually printed them out on clear and taped them on the monitors.

And on the weekend we ran the parts for that.

So this is how they come out close to the end.

And then they looked like little Garfields there.

Eight months later -- you may remember this, this was a -- total, total, total chaos.

For a while, they were making two million Furbys a month.

They actually wound up doing about 40 million Furbys.

I -- it's unbelievable how -- I don't know how that can be.

And Hasbro made about, you know, a billion and a half dollars.

And I just a little bit on each one. 

So full circle -- why do I do this?

Why do you, you know, try to do this stuff?

And it's, of course, for your kids.

And there's my youngest daughter with her Furbys.

And she still actually has those.

And they said they'd spend all this time.

So I said, "OK, let's try to do this dinosaur project."

The crazy idea is we're going to try to clone a dinosaur as much as we can with today's technology.

And it's not really -- but as close as we can do.

And we're going to try to really pull this off, intentfully try to make something that seems like it's alive.

Not a robot that kind of does, but let's really go for it.

So I picked a Camarasaurus, because the Camarasaurus was the most abundant of the sauropods in North America.

And you could actually find full fossil evidence of these.

That's a juvenile.

And so we actually went in.

There's a book called "Walking on Eggshells," where they found actual sauropod skin in Patagonia.

And the picture from the book, so when I -- I told the sculptor to use this bump pattern, whatever you can to copy that.

Very, very obsessive.

There's a kind of truncated Camarasaurus skeleton, but the geometry's correct.

So there's the motor.

And about this time, you know, all these other people are starting to help.

Here's an example of what we did with the skull.

There's the skull, there's my drawing of a skull.

There's kind of the skin version of the soft tissue.

There's some Solid Works versions of it.

There's the skull, pretty much the same shape as the Camarasaurus.

There's a photorealistic eye behind a lens.

And there's kind of the first exploded view, or see-through view.

And the thing about blending science and art in this multidisciplinary stuff is you can do a robot, and then you go back and do the shape, and then you go back and forth.

The servos in the front legs, we had to shape those like muscles.

They had to fit within the envelope.

There was a tremendous amount of work to get all that working right.

All the neck and the tail are cable, so it moves smoothly and organically.

And then, of course, you're not done yet.

You have to get the look for the skin.

The skin's a whole another thing, probably the hardest part.

And we're still trying to keep with the real character.

So, now you go back and you cover the whole thing with clay.

Now you start doing the sculpture for this.

And you can see we got a guy from -- who's just a fanatic about dinosaurs to do the sculpting for us, down to the spoon-shaped teeth and everything.

John, do you want to bring him up? 

So when you first get them, they're babies.

So this guy's listening to my voice here.

But they have 40 sensors all over their body.

And we think we can help that out by having little creatures that you can love.

Now these are not robots, they're kind of lovebots, you know.

They do change over time.

But mostly they evoke a feeling of caring.

And we have a -- I have a little something here.

Now I do want to say that, you know, Ugobe is not there yet.

We've just opened the door, and it's for all of you to step through it.

We did include some things that are hopefully useful.

This is John over here.

Anyone can take Pleo and they can totally redo his personality.

You can make him bipolar, or as someone said, a -- (Laughter) -- you can change his homeostatic drives, or whatever you want to call them.

Kids can just drag and drop, put in new sounds.

We -- actually, it's very hard to keep people from doing this.

That's why Pleo's soft and gentle and loving.

And so I just -- I hope we all dream well.

