Hello.

By the way, all that is through Special Olympics.

Does that change the way you think of me and my accomplishments? 

The world does not see all people like me as champions.

Not long ago, people like me were shunned and hidden away.

That's the word "retard" or "retarded" used in a derogatory manner.

I am here because there is still a big problem with the way many people see individuals with intellectual disabilities, or, too often, how they don't see them at all. 

Did you know the World Games happened this year?

I am here today to challenge you to look at us as equals. 

For those of you who aren't familiar, Special Olympics is for athletes with intellectual disabilities.

Special Olympics is separate from the Paralympics and Olympics.

We offer high-quality, year round sports programs for people with intellectual disabilities that changes lives and perceptions.

This movement has changed my life and those of so many others.

And it has changed the way the world sees people with intellectual disabilities. 

I was born with epilepsy and an intellectual disability.

Growing up, I played hockey until I was 12 years old.

The older I got, the more I felt it was harder to keep up with everyone else, and I was angry and frustrated.

There was a time when people with intellectual disabilities were hidden away from society.

No one thought they could participate in sports, let alone be a valued member of society.

In the 1960s, Dr. Frank Hayden, a scientist at the University of Toronto, was studying the effects of regular exercise on the fitness levels of children with intellectual disabilities.

Using rigorous scientific research, Dr. Hayden and other researchers came to the conclusion that it was simply the lack of opportunity to participate that caused their fitness levels to suffer. 

When I got there, though, everyone was very encouraging, supportive, and let me be myself without being judged.

I am one of more than four and a half million athletes around the globe, and I've heard so many similar stories.

Being Special Olympics athletes restores our pride and dignity. 

Special Olympics also addresses critical health needs.

Also, our coaches teach us about nutrition and health.

Special Olympics also provides free health screening for athletes who have difficulty communicating with their doctor or accessing health care. 

At the 2015 World Summer Games, my Team Canada teammates and I played the Nigerian basketball team.

The day before our game, the Nigerian basketball team went to the World Games Healthy Athlete screening, where seven of 10 members were given hearing aids for free and got to hear clearly for the first time. 

Special Olympics is transforming their lives off the field.

This year, research findings showed that nearly half of the adults in the US don't know a single person with an intellectual disability, and the 44 percent of Americans who don't have personal contact with intellectual disabilities are significantly less accepting and positive. 

People use it as a casual term or an insult.

It was tweeted more than nine million times last year, and it is deeply hurtful to me and my four and a half million fellow athletes around the planet.

People don't think it's insulting, but it is.

This year, at the 2015 World Summer Games, people lined up for hours to get into the final night of powerlifting competition.

So it was standing room only when my teammate Jackie Barrett, the Newfoundland Moose, deadlifted 655 pounds and lifted 611 pounds in the squat -- 

setting huge new records for Special Olympics.

Jackie was a huge star in LA, and ESPN live-tweeted his record-breaking lifts and were wowed by his performance. 

Fifty years ago, few imagined individuals with intellectual disabilities could do anything like that.

This year, 60,000 spectators filled the famous LA Memorial Coliseum to watch the opening ceremonies of World Games and cheer athletes from 165 countries around the world.

I am no longer hidden, bullied and I am here doing a TED Talk. 

The world is a different place because of Special Olympics, but there is still farther to go.

So the next time you see someone with an intellectual disability, I hope you will see their ability.

The next time someone uses the r-word near you, I hope you will tell them how much it hurts.

I hope you will think about getting involved with Special Olympics. 

I would like to leave you with one final thought.

Nelson Mandela said, "Sports has the power to change the world."

