So here's a list of problems that come up.

One nice problem is, what do we do about health?

The other day, I was reading something, and the person said probably the largest single cause of disease is handshaking in the West.

And there was a little study about people who don't handshake, and comparing them with ones who do handshake.

And the people who avoid that have 30 percent less infectious disease or something.

Or maybe it was 31 and a quarter percent.

And I think the only way to avoid it is to have some horrible visible disease, and then you don't have to explain. 

Well, the single best way is to get them to understand that what they're being told is a whole lot of nonsense.

And then notice that a great many of these problems disappear.

If you had 100 million people properly spread out, then if there's some garbage, you throw it away, preferably where you can't see it, and it will rot.

And it's a sort of choice we have to make. 

Most people are about 60 inches high or more, and there's these cube laws.

That would solve the problem, but I don't see anybody doing any research on making people smaller.

Now, it's nice to reduce the population, but a lot of people want to have children.

Timesharing is a little further off in the future.

And there's this great novel that Arthur Clarke wrote twice, called "Against the Fall of Night" and "The City and the Stars."

They're both wonderful and largely the same, except that computers happened in between.

And Arthur was looking at this old book, and he said, "Well, that was wrong.

The future must have some computers."

And you let a few million of them out at a time.

The plot of the book is that there's not enough diversity, so that the people who designed the city make sure that every now and then an entirely new person is created.

I don't think the solutions that I proposed are good enough or smart enough.

I think the big problem is that we're not smart enough to understand which of the problems we're facing are good enough.

Therefore, we have to build super intelligent machines like HAL.

What I think is that the gene counters don't know what they're doing yet.

And whatever you do, don't read anything about genetics that's published within your lifetime, or something.

And so it might be that if we just fix four or five genes, we can live 200 years.

You know, there's about 400 different parts of the brain which seem to have different functions.

So I see emotions as highly evolved subsets of your capability.

(Laughter) 

