My thing with school lunch is, it's a social justice issue.

I'm the Director of Nutrition Services for the Berkeley Unified School District.

I'm doing 7,100 meals a day and I've been doing it for two years, trying to change how we feed kids in America.

And that's what I want to talk to you a little bit about today.

These are some of my kids with a salad bar.

I put salad bars in all of our schools when I got there.

And that if we don't do that, the antithesis, although we've heard otherwise, is we're really going to become extinct, because we're feeding our children to death.

That's my premise. 

We're seeing sick kids get sicker and sicker.

And the reason this is happening, by and large, is because of our food system and the way the government commodifies food, the way the government oversees our food, the way the USDA puts food on kids' plates that's unhealthy, and allows unhealthy food into schools.

And by -- tacitly, all of us send our kids, or grandchildren, or nieces, or nephews, to school and tell them to learn, you know, learn what's in those schools.

And when you feed these kids bad food, that's what they're learning.

The way we got here is because of big agribusiness.

These are -- 10 companies control much of what's in our grocery stores, much of what people eat.

So when I started thinking about these issues and how I was going to change what kids ate, I really started focusing on what we would teach them.

And clearly, with what's going on with fossil fuel usage, or when -- as the fossil fuel is going away, as oil hits its peak oil, you know, we really have to start thinking about whether or not we should, or could, be moving food 1,500 miles before we eat it.

So we talked to kids about that, and we really start to feed kids regional food. 

We can't keep feeding our kids pesticides and herbicides and antibiotics and hormones.

We can't keep doing that.

You know, it doesn't work.

And the results of that are kids getting sick. 

One of my big soapboxes right now is antibiotics.

Seventy percent of all antibiotics consumed in America is consumed in animal husbandry.

We are feeding our kids antibiotics in beef and other animal protein every day.

Seventy percent -- it's unbelievable.

And the result of it is, we have diseases.

We have things like E. coli that we can't fix, that we can't make kids better when they get sick.

And, you know, certainly antibiotics have been over-prescribed, but it's an issue in the food supply.

One of my favorite facts is that U.S. agriculture uses 1.2 billion pounds of pesticides every year.

That means every one of us, and our children, consumes what would equal a five-pound bag -- those bags you have at home.

Okay, we could talk about Rachel Carson and DDT, but we know it wasn't good for you and me.

And that is what the USDA allows in our food supply.

And that has to change, you know.

The USDA cannot be seen as the be-all and end-all of what we feed our kids and what's allowed.

We cannot believe that they have our best interests at heart.

The antithesis of this whole thing is sustainable food.

It really is just a new idea.

I mean, people toss around sustainability, but we have to figure out what sustainability is. 

In less than 200 years, you know, just in a few generations, we've gone from being 200 -- being 100 percent, 95 percent farmers to less than 2 percent of farmers.

We now live in a country that has more prisoners than farmers -- 2.1 million prisoners, 1.9 million farmers.

And we spend 35,000 dollars on average a year keeping a prisoner in prison, and school districts spend 500 dollars a year feeding a child.

It's no wonder, you know, we have criminals. 

And what's happening is, we're getting sick.

We're getting sick and our kids are getting sick.

It is about what we feed them.

What goes in is what we are.

We really are what we eat.

What's going to happen to our whole medical system?

What's going to happen is, we're going to have kids that have a life less long than our own.

What's going to happen?

Well, the CDC has gone further to say that those children born in the year 2000 could be the first generation in our country's history to die at a younger age than their parents.

And it's because of what we feed them.

They spend 500 dollars for every one dollar -- 500 dollars marketing foods that kids shouldn't eat for every one dollar marketing healthy, nutritious food.

The result of which is kids think they're going to die if they don't have chicken nuggets. 

And the one over there, that's bigger than my head, is what McDonald's and Burger King and those big companies think we should eat.

And why can they serve that much?

Why can we have 29-cent Big Gulps and 99-cent double burgers?

Which is why I say it's a social justice issue. 

This is not even food.

This is the stuff we were feeding our kids: Extremo Burritos, corn dogs, pizza pockets, grilled cheese sandwiches.

Everything came in plastic, in cardboard.

The only kitchen tools my staff had was a box cutter.

The USDA allows this.

The USDA allows all of this stuff.

Now I don't know if any of you out there invented chicken nuggets, but I'm sure you're rich if you did.

But whoever decided that a chicken should look like a heart, a giraffe, a star?

Well, Tyson did, because there's no chicken in the chicken.

And that they could figure it out, that we could sell this stuff to kids.

You know, what's wrong with teaching kids that chicken looks like chicken?

But this is what most schools serve.

We really need to change this whole paradigm with kids and food.

We really have to teach children that chicken is not a giraffe.

There's not a strawberry tree or a carrot bush.

Now, in Berkeley, we've gone totally fresh.

We have no high-fructose corn syrup, no trans fats, no processed foods.

We're cooking from scratch every day.

If they're eating chemicals all the time, they're not going to be able to think.

I came up with these calendars that I sent home to every parent.

And these calendars really started to lay out my program.

Now I'm in charge of all the cooking classes and all the gardening classes in our school district.

And you see these recipes on the side?

Those are the recipes that the kids learn in my cooking classes.

This is available on my website in English and Spanish, and it's a visual way to talk to kids about food.

We have to make kids understand that their food choices make a big difference.

We have cooking classes -- we have cooking classrooms in our schools.

We have recycling in all of our schools.

You know, the things that we maybe do at home and think are so important, we have to teach kids about in school.

One of the things I do a lot is public-private partnerships.

I work with private companies who are willing to do R &amp; D with me, who are willing to do distribution for me, who are really willing to work to go into schools.

Schools are underfunded.

Most schools in America spend less than 7,500 dollars a year teaching a child.

So we're spending less than 5 dollars an hour on the educational system.

And if we're going to change it, and change how we feed kids, we really have to rethink that.

It's going to take more money.

And one of the simple things we can do is put recess before lunch.

It's sort of this "duh" thing.

And then, at one in the afternoon, they're totally crashing.

These are your children and grandchildren that are totally melting down when you pick them up, because they haven't had lunch.

So if the only thing they'd have to do after lunch is go to class, believe me, they're going to sit there and eat their lunch. 

We need to -- we need to educate.

I had 90 employees.

Two were supposed to be cooks -- none could.

And, you know, I'm not that better off now.

But we really have to educate.

There was just a big study done, and so many schools are starting lunch at nine and 10 in the morning.

That is not lunchtime. 

I think if we're going to fix this, one of the things we have to do is really change how we have oversight over the National School Lunch Program.

Instead of the National School Lunch Program being under the USDA, I think it should be under CDC.

The National School Lunch Program spends 8 billion dollars feeding 30 million children a year.

That number probably needs to double.

People say, "Oh my God, where are we going to get 8 billion?"

We spend 100 billion dollars a year on diet aids.

We spend 50 billion dollars on vegetables, which is why we need all the diet aids.

So you know what, when we talk about needing 8 billion more, it's not a lot.

So we're spending less than a dollar, OK, on lunch.

One gourmet coffee, one, is more -- we spend more on than we are spending to feed kids for an entire week in our schools. 

In our country, it's the kids that need it the most, who get this really, really lousy food.

It's the kids who have parents and grandparents and uncles and aunts that can't even afford to pay for school lunch that gets this food.

We can all make a difference.

Sit down and care.

Thank you. 

