(Laughter) I called her up.

Camaguey is a province in Cuba.

My father is at once quick-witted, wickedly funny, and then poignancy turns on a dime and leaves you breathless.

Great story is the art of letting go.

So I'm going to tell you a little story.

Remember, this tradition comes to us not from the mists of Avalon, back in time, but further still, before we were scratching out these stories on papyrus, or we were doing the pictographs on walls in moist, damp caves.

Back then, we had an urge, a need, to tell the story.

When Lexus wants to sell you a car, they're telling you a story.

Have you been watching the commercials?

Because every one of us has this desire, for once -- just once -- to tell our story and have it heard.

And there's stories you tell late at night to a friend, maybe once in your life.

And then there are stories that we whisper into a Stygian darkness.

I'm not telling you that story.

It's about human connection.

My Cuban mother, which I just briefly introduced you to in that short character sketch, came to the United States one thousand years ago.

I was born in 19 -- I forget, and I came to this country with them in the aftermath of the Cuban revolution.

We went from Havana, Cuba to Decatur, Georgia.

And Decatur, Georgia's a small Southern town.

This is the sensory part of the program, people.

Any vehicular outing with that woman from the time I was a young child, guys, naturally included flashing, blue lights.

But she'd become adept at dodging the boys in blue, and when she did meet them, oh, she had wonderful, well, rapport.

There's a historical marker.

But now she was a septuagenarian, she'd stopped driving.

Little picks on the legs, where she does her needlepoint, and leaves little loops.

Rockports -- they're for this.

That's why they call them that.

(Laughter) This is her ensemble.

Of course, they have a carport.

The kind with the corrugated roof, you know.

The Buick's parked outside, and she's jingling, jangling a pair of keys.

I am buckling in seatbelts from the front.

Now, I don't know if she's toying with me, kind of like a cat batting back a mouse, batting back a mouse -- left paw, right paw, left paw, right paw -- but by now, we've reached the mall.

Now, you have all been at a mall during the holidays, yes?

But that doesn't happen most of the time, right?

How many of you once in your -- you were a kid, you were an adult -- you stood in a parking space to hold it for someone?

See, we're a secret club with a secret handshake.

Well, I stood up to her.

She has amazing land speed for a woman her age, too.

A brevity, brevity of everything with this child.

You know, she eats small portions.

She carries a mean spiral notebook and a pen.

She wields great power.

She listens, because that's what people who tell stories do first.

But it isn't like I haven't seen this crime scene before.

Don't you want to look?

We all secretly want our blankie and our Boo Bear.

But in the South, we love a good story.

People have pulled aside, I mean, they've come out of that queue line, they have popped their trunks, pulled out lawn chairs and cool drinks.

Engine's still running -- mine, not the car.

I jump out next to her going, "Don't you move!"

I come out, and there's Esther.

She says this to me.

That's OK, because my mother yells at me, I yell at her.

It's a beautiful hierarchy, and it works.

With her is a young man -- husband, brother, lover, it's not my job.

