(Laughter) 

The truth of the matter is that the Titanic -- even though it's breaking all sorts of box office records -- it's not the most exciting story from the sea.

And the problem, I think, is that we take the ocean for granted.

But when you're standing at the beach, I want you to think that you're standing at the edge of a very unfamiliar world.

Here's a jelly.

It gets up to about 150 feet long.

But see all those different working things?

It's a colonial animal.

These are all individual animals banding together to make this one creature.

Most of the biomass in the ocean is made out of creatures like this.

We couldn't begin to show you our archival stuff from the jellies.

They come in all different sizes and shapes. 

We see those at all depths and even at the greatest depths.

They go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet.

They come right up to the submarine -- they'll put their eyes right up to the window and peek inside the sub. 

This is basically scientific data that you're looking at.

It's footage that we've collected for scientific purposes.

And that's one of the things that Bill's been doing, is providing scientists with this first view of animals like this, in the world where they belong.

They don't catch them in a net.

They're actually looking at them down in that world.

We're going to take a joystick, sit in front of our computer, on the Earth, and press the joystick forward, and fly around the planet. 

And there's tens of thousands of those mountains out there that haven't been mapped yet. 

One of the things we're trying to do at Woods Hole with our partners is to bring this virtual world -- this world, this unexplored region -- back to the laboratory.

We weren't really aware that it would be so rich with sulfides, hydrogen sulfides.

We didn't have any idea about these things, which we call chimneys. 

This is one of these hydrothermal vents.

Six hundred degree F water coming out of the Earth.

BL: The white material is a type of bacteria that thrives at 180 degrees C. 

DG: I think that's one of the greatest stories right now that we're seeing from the bottom of the sea, is that the first thing we see coming out of the sea floor after a volcanic eruption is bacteria.

And we started to wonder for a long time, how did it all get down there?

What we find out now is that it's probably coming from inside the Earth.

Not only is it coming out of the Earth -- so, biogenesis made from volcanic activity -- but that bacteria supports these colonies of life.

The pressure here is 4,000 pounds per square inch.

A mile and a half from the surface to two miles to three miles -- no sun has ever gotten down here.

All the energy to support these life forms is coming from inside the Earth -- so, chemosynthesis.

And you can see how dense the population is.

These are called tube worms. 

But they have two types of gill structures.

One for extracting oxygen out of the deep-sea water, another one which houses this chemosynthetic bacteria, which takes the hydrothermal fluid -- that hot water that you saw coming out of the bottom -- and converts that into simple sugars that the tube worm can digest. 

DG: You can see, here's a crab that lives down there.

BL: These worms live in a real temperature extreme.

(Laughter) 

Everything you see is played out in the pitch black of the deep sea.

There are never any lights there, except the lights that we bring.

Here they go.

DG: Two octopods at about two miles depth.

This pressure thing really amazes me -- that these animals can exist there at a depth with pressure enough to crush the Titanic like an empty Pepsi can.

(Laughter) 

And the same thing's going on over here.

What they're getting at is that -- on the back of this crab -- the foodstuff here is this very strange bacteria that lives on the backs of all these animals.

And what these shrimp are trying to do is actually harvest the bacteria from the backs of these animals.

And the crabs don't like it at all.

These long filaments that you see on the back of the crab are actually created by the product of that bacteria.

So, the bacteria grows hair on the crab.

On the back, you see this again.

The red dot is the laser light of the submarine Alvin to give us an idea about how far away we are from the vents.

Those are all shrimp.

You see the hot water over here, here and here, coming out.

They're clinging to a rock face and actually scraping bacteria off that rock face.

Here's a tiny, little vent that's come out of the side of that pillar.

Those pillars get up to several stories.

So here, you've got this valley with this incredible alien landscape of pillars and hot springs and volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, inhabited by these very strange animals that live only on chemical energy coming out of the ground.

They don't need the sun at all. 

BL: You see this white V-shaped mark on the back of the shrimp?

It's actually a light-sensing organ.

It's how they find the hydrothermal vents.

The vents are emitting a black body radiation -- an IR signature -- and so they're able to find these vents at considerable distances. 

This is the first time we've ever tried this any place.

We're going to try to show you high definition from the Pacific.

We're moving up one of these pillars.

This one's several stories tall.

In it, you'll see that it's a habitat for a lot of different animals.

There's a funny kind of hot plate here, with vent water coming out of it.

So all of these are individual homes for worms. 

Now here's a closer view of that community.

Here's crabs here, worms here.

There are smaller animals crawling around.

Here's pagoda structures.

I think this is the neatest-looking thing.

This stuff is toxic as hell, by the way.

You could never get a permit to dump this in the ocean, and it's coming out all from it.

And animals are thriving -- and we probably came from here.

That's probably where we evolved from. 

BL: This bacteria that we've been talking about turns out to be the most simplest form of life found.

There are a number of groups that are proposing that life evolved at these vent sites.

Although the vent sites are short-lived -- an individual site may last only 10 years or so -- as an ecosystem they've been stable for millions -- well, billions -- of years. 

There's a fish sitting here.

(Laughter) 

BL: The biologists right now cannot explain why these animals are so active.

The worms are growing inches per week! 

DG: I already said that this site, from a human perspective, is toxic as hell.

Not only that, but on top -- the lifeblood -- that plumbing system turns off every year or so.

Their plumbing system turns off, so the sites have to move.

And then there's earthquakes, and then volcanic eruptions, on the order of one every five years, that completely wipes the area out.

Despite that, these animals grow back in about a year's time.

I'll end up with saying one thing.

There's a story in the sea, in the waters of the sea, in the sediments and the rocks of the sea floor.

It's an incredible story.

What we see when we look back in time, in those sediments and rocks, is a record of Earth history.

What we're learning now, it's almost like a symphony.

It's just like music -- it really is just like music.

So, what we've got to learn now is to find out where this planet's going at all these different scales and work with it.

Learn to manage it.

The concept of preservation is futile.

Conservation's tougher, but we can probably get there.

