We really need to put the best we have to offer within reach of our children.

If we don't do that, we're going to get the generation we deserve.

They're going to learn from whatever it is they have around them. 

And we, as now the elite, parents, librarians, professionals, whatever it is, a bunch of our activities are, in fact, in trying to get the best we have to offer within reach of those around us, or as broadly as we can.

I'm going to start and end this talk with a couple things that are carved in stone.

One is what's on the Boston Public Library.

Carved above their door is, "Free to All."

And the idea of using technology is perfect for us.

The problem was you actually had to go to Alexandria to go to it.

On the other hand, if you did, then great things happened.

I think we can one-up the Greeks and achieve something.

So if I'm successful, then you'll actually come away thinking, yeah, we could actually achieve the great vision of everything ever published, everything that was ever meant for distribution, available to anybody in the world that's ever wanted to have access to it. 

Yes, there's issues about how money should be distributed, and that's still being refigured out.

If you wanted to put all of the published works online so that anybody could have it available, well, how big a problem is it?

Well, we don't really know, but the largest print library in the world is the Library of Congress.

It is, by far and away, the largest print library in the world.

26 terabytes fits in a computer system that's about this big, on spinning Linux drives, and it costs about 60,000 dollars.

So for the cost of a house -- or around here, a garage -- you can put, you can have spinning all of the words in the Library of Congress.

That's pretty neat. 

Then the question is, what do you get?

You know, is it worth trying to get there?

Do you actually want it online?

And you can download these things, and look around them in new and different ways.

And you can get at them remotely, if you happen to have a laptop.

I think that's one of the reasons why the Kindle is so great.

I don't have to feel like I'm at work to read a Kindle.

I like the physical book.

And I think we can go and use our technology to go and digitize things, put them on the Net, and then download, print them and bind them, and end up with books again. 

We actually went off to make a bookmobile.

And a bookmobile -- the size of a van with a satellite dish, a printer, binder and cutter, and kids make their own books.

It costs about three dollars to download, print and bind a normal, old book.

And they actually come out kind of nice looking.

You can actually get really good-looking books for on the order of one penny per page, sort of the parts cost for doing this. 

So the idea of -- this technology actually may end up putting books back in people's hands again.

There are some other bookmobiles running around.

This is Eric Eldred making books at Walden Pond -- Thoreau's works.

This is just before he got kicked out by the Parks Services, for competing with the bookstore there.

In India, they've got another couple bookmobiles running around.

It was quite popularly attended.

And kids starting to make their own books, and a happy kid with the first book that he's ever owned.

So the idea of being able to use this technology to end up with paper where I can handle sort of sounds a little retro, but I think it still has its place.

So we actually got some funding from the World Bank to try it out.

And it actually -- so technologically, it works. 

There are some newer technologies for delivering that have happened that are actually quite exciting as well.

It's all conveyor belt, and it makes a book.

Something else I'm quite excited about in this particular domain, beyond these sort of kiosk-y things where you can get books on demand, is some of these new little screens that are coming out.

And one of my favorites in this is the $100 laptop.

And I don't mean to steal any thunder here, but we've gone and used one of these things to be an e-book reader.

At 200 dots per inch, it's kind of the equivalent of a 300 dot print laser printer.

We're in good enough shape.

You actually can go and read scanned books quite easily. 

So the idea of electronic books is starting to come about.

But how do you go about doing all this scanning?

So we thought, okay, well, let's try out this send books to India thing.

So we bought 100,000 books and sent them to India.

And then we learned why you don't want to send books to India.

The lesson we learned out of this is, scan your own books.

But do things that you love.

But the Indians have been scanning a lot of their own books -- about 300,000 now -- doing very well.

The Chinese did over a million, and the Egyptians are about 30,000. 

But we sent -- thought, OK, if we're going to need to do this, let's do it in-library.

How do we go and do this, and how do we get it down so that it's a cost point that we could afford?

And we sort of picked the price point of 10 cents a page.

And we tried these robot things, and they worked pretty well -- sort of these auto-page-turning things.

If we can have Mars Rovers, you'd think you could turn pages.

But it actually turns out to be pretty hard to turn pages, and the volume isn't there.

And we've been able to achieve 10 cents a page if we run things in volume.

This is what it looks like at the University of Toronto.

And actually, it turns out to, you know, pay a living wage.

So 10 cents a page, 300 pages in your average book, 30 dollars a book.

But a million books, I think, actually would be a pretty good start, and that would cost 30 million dollars.

And what we've been able to do is get into libraries.

We've now got eight of these scanning centers in three countries, and libraries are up for having their books scanned.

So we're starting to get the institutional responsibility.

The thing we're missing is the 10 cents.

If we can get the 10 cents, all the rest of it flows.

We've scanned about 200,000 books.

Now we're scanning about 15,000 books a month, and it's starting to gear up another factor of two from there. 

So all in all, that's going very well.

And so we're starting up a program to do out-of-print works, but loaning them.

So all in all, it's possible to do this in large scale.

We're also going back over microfilm and getting that online.

So, we can do 10 cents a page, we're going 15,000 books a month and we've got about 250,000 books online, counting all the other projects that are starting to add in.

So what I wanted to argue is, books are within our grasp.

The idea of taking on the whole ball of wax is not that big a deal.

And then, there's business model issues about how to try to effectively market it and get it to people.

But it is within our grasp, technologically and law-wise, at least for the out of print and out of copyright, we suggest, to be able to get the whole darn thing online. 

Now let's go for audio, and I'm going to go through these.

So how much is there?

But we've found that the rights issues are really quite thorny.

This is a fairly heavily litigated area, so we've found that there are niches in the music world that aren't served terribly well by the classic commercial publishing system.

If you put up a video of your garage band, and it starts getting heavily accessed, you can lose your guitars or your house. 

This doesn't make any sense.

We have about 40,000 concerts, everything the Grateful Dead ever did, up on the Net, so that people can see it and listen to this material.

So audio is possible to put up, but the rights issues are really pretty thorny.

But half of those were Indian.

So we've been starting to make these available and it's grown to be very popular.

Television comes quite a bit larger.

We started recording 20 channels of television 24 hours a day.

It's sort of the biggest TiVo box you've ever seen.

It's about a petabyte, so far, of worldwide television -- Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Iraqi, Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN, ABC, CBS, NBC -- 24 hours a day.

How can we have critical thinking without being able to quote and being able to compare what happened in the past?

So anyway, television is, I would suggest, within our grasp.

So 15 dollars per video hour, and also about 100 dollars to 150 dollars per celluloid hour, we're able to go and get materials online very inexpensively and have them up on the Net.

And we've got, now, a lot of these materials.

Mostly the issues there are legal issues and breaking copy protections.

But we've worked through some of those, but we've still got real problems in Washington. 

Well, we're best known as the World Wide Web.

We've been archiving the World Wide Web since 1996.

We take a snapshot of every website and all of the pages on it, every two months.

And actually, it's really been pioneered by Alexa Internet, which donates this collection to the Internet Archive.

And it's been growing along for the last 11 years, and it's a fantastic resource.

And we've made a Wayback Machine that you can then go and see old websites kind of the way they were.

So anyway, you've got basically an idea of where things came from.

Mostly, people want to see their old stuff out of this.

If there's one thing that we want to learn from the Library of Alexandria version one, which is probably best known for burning, is, don't just have one copy.

So we've started to -- we've made another copy of all of this and we actually put it back in the Library of Alexandria.

So this is a picture of the Internet Archive at the Library of Alexandria.

And we now have also another copy building up in Amsterdam.

If we go and put it in a couple more places, I think we'll be in good shape. 

There's some large companies that have seen this vision, that are doing large-scale digitization, but they're locking up the public domain.

The question is, is that the world that we really want to live in?

What's the role of the public versus the private as things go forward?

And as I said before, I'll end with something that's carved above the door of the Carnegie Library.

