First of all, we started off the nuclear age in 1945.

And in 1945, we were the only nuclear power.

We had a few nuclear weapons, two of which we dropped on Japan, in Hiroshima, a few days later in Nagasaki, in August 1945, killing about 250,000 people between those two. 

And for a few years, we were the only nuclear power on Earth.

But by 1949, the Soviet Union had decided it was unacceptable to have us as the only nuclear power, and they began to match what the United States had developed.

And from 1949 to 1985 was an extraordinary time of a buildup of a nuclear arsenal that no one could possibly have imagined back in the 1940s.

And it was an extraordinary time, and I am going to go through some of the mentality that we -- that Americans and the rest of the world were experiencing.

After 1985, and before the break up of the Soviet Union, we began to disarm from a nuclear point of view.

We began to counter-proliferate, and we dropped the number of nuclear warheads in the world to about a total of 21,000.

So I'm going to talk about a nuclear threat story in two chapters.

It was characterized by a nation-versus-nation, very fragile standoff.

And basically, we lived for all those years, and some might argue that we still do, in a situation of being on the brink, literally, of an apocalyptic, planetary calamity.

It's incredible that we actually lived through all that. 

We were totally dependent during those years on this amazing acronym, which is MAD.

It stands for mutually assured destruction.

During this chapter one, there was a high level of public awareness about the potential of nuclear catastrophe, and an indelible image was implanted in our collective minds that, in fact, a nuclear holocaust would be absolutely globally destructive and could, in some ways, mean the end of civilization as we know it.

So this was chapter one. 

Now the odd thing is that even though we knew that there would be that kind of civilization obliteration, we engaged in America in a series -- and in fact, in the Soviet Union -- in a series of response planning.

It was absolutely incredible.

So premise one is we'd be destroying the world, and then premise two is, why don't we get prepared for it?

If you're born after 1950, this is just -- consider this entertainment, otherwise it's memory lane. 

I didn't do all that well in psychiatry in medical school, but I was interested, and I think this was seriously delusional. 

Secondly, we told people to go down in their basements and build a fallout shelter.

Maybe it would be a study when we weren't having an atomic war, or you could use it as a TV room, or, as many teenagers found out, a very, very safe place for a little privacy with your girlfriend.

And actually -- so there are multiple uses of the bomb shelters.

Or you could buy a prefabricated bomb shelter that you could simply bury in the ground.

Now, the bomb shelters at that point -- let's say you bought a prefab one -- it would be a few hundred dollars, maybe up to 500, if you got a fancy one.

Yet, what percentage of Americans do you think ever had a bomb shelter in their house?

What percentage lived in a house with a bomb shelter? 

And one of the greatest governmental delusions of all time was something that happened in the early days of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, as we now know, and are well aware of their behaviors from Katrina.

Here is their first big public announcement.

So the goal was to evacuate the target cities.

We would move people out of the target cities into the countryside. 

And I'm telling you, I actually testified at the Senate about the absolute ludicrous idea that we would actually evacuate, and actually have three or four days' warning.

It was just completely off the wall.

Turns out that they had another idea behind it, even though this was -- they were telling the public it was to save us.

The idea was that we would force the Soviets to re-target their nuclear weapons -- very expensive -- and potentially double their arsenal, to not only take out the original site, but take out sites where people were going.

This was what apparently, as it turns out, was behind all this.

It was just really, really frightening. 

The main point here is we were dealing with a complete disconnect from reality.

The civil defense programs were disconnected from the reality of what we'd see in all-out nuclear war.

So no possibility of medical response to, or meaningful preparedness for all-out nuclear war.

So we had to prevent nuclear war if we expected to survive.

This disconnect was never actually resolved.

Chapter two starts in 1991.

But from 1991 through the present time, emphasized by the attacks of 2001, the idea of an all-out nuclear war has diminished and the idea of a single event, act of nuclear terrorism is what we have instead.

Although the scenario has changed very considerably, the fact is that we haven't changed our mental image of what a nuclear war means.

So I'm going to tell you what the implications of that are in just a second.

So, what is a nuclear terror threat?

And there's four key ingredients to describing that. 

First thing is that the global nuclear weapons, in the stockpiles that I showed you in those original maps, happen to be not uniformly secure.

And it's particularly not secure in the former Soviet Union, now in Russia.

There are many, many sites where warheads are stored and, in fact, lots of sites where fissionable materials, like highly enriched uranium and plutonium, are absolutely not safe.

They're available to be bought, stolen, whatever.

They're acquirable, let me put it that way.

The global stockpile of highly enriched uranium is about 1,300, at the low end, to about 2,100 metric tons.

More than 100 megatons of this is stored in particularly insecure Russian facilities.

How much of that do you think it would take to actually build a 10-kiloton bomb?

Well, you need about 75 pounds of it. 

So, what I'd like to show you is what it would take to hold 75 pounds of highly enriched uranium.

This is what you would need to steal or buy out of that 100-metric-ton stockpile that's relatively insecure to create the type of bomb that was used in Hiroshima.

That -- you'd need 10 to 13 pounds of plutonium.

The second thing is, what about the know-how? 

And there's a lot of controversy about whether terror organizations have the know-how to actually make a nuclear weapon.

Well, there's a lot of know-how out there.

There's an unbelievable amount of know-how out there.

There's detailed information on how to assemble a nuclear weapon from parts.

There's books about how to build a nuclear bomb.

There are plans for how to create a terror farm where you could actually manufacture and develop all the components and assemble it.

All of this information is relatively available.

If you have an undergraduate degree in physics, I would suggest -- although I don't, so maybe it's not even true -- but something close to that would allow you, with the information that's currently available, to actually build a nuclear weapon. 

The third element of the nuclear terror threat is that, who would actually do such a thing?

Well, what we're seeing now is a level of terrorism that involves individuals who are highly organized.

They are very dedicated and committed.

They are stateless.

And they're retaliation-proof.

Here is Sulaiman Abu Ghaith, and Sulaiman was a key lieutenant of Osama Bin Laden.

McVeigh and Nichols, and the Oklahoma City attack in the 1990s was a good example of homegrown terrorists.

What if they had gotten their hands on a nuclear weapon?

The fourth element is that the high-value U.S. targets are accessible, soft and plentiful. 

This would be a talk for another day, but the level of the preparedness that the United States has achieved since 9/11 of '01 is unbelievably inadequate.

What you saw after Katrina is a very good indicator of how little prepared the United States is for any kind of major attack.

Seven million ship cargo containers come into the United States every year.

Five to seven percent only are inspected -- five to seven percent. 

The suitcase can be conveniently dropped in your trunk of your car.

You take it wherever you want to take it, and you can detonate it. 

You can't get an exact number for that kind of probability, but what I'm trying to say is that we have all the elements of that happening.

Anybody who dismisses the thought of a nuclear weapon being used by a terrorist is kidding themselves. 

I don't think we would see an all-out nuclear war any time soon, although even that is not completely off the table.

There's still enough nuclear weapons in the arsenals of the superpowers to destroy the Earth many, many times over.

There are flash points in India and Pakistan, in the Middle East, in North Korea, other places where the use of nuclear weapons, while initially locally, could very rapidly go into a situation where we'd be facing all-out nuclear war.

It's very unsettling. 

We're coming down, and we bring that truck that you just saw somewhere in here, in the Financial District.

An enormous hurricane-like wind, and destruction of buildings almost totally, within this yellow circle here.

And what I'm going to focus on, as I come to conclusion here, is that, what happens to you if you're in here?

My point now, though, is that there is a lot that we could do for you who are in here, if you've survived the initial blast.

You have, when the blast goes off -- and by the way, if it ever comes up, don't look at it. 

If you look at it, you're going to be blind, either temporarily or permanently.

So if there's any way that you can avoid, like, avert your eyes, that would be a good thing.

If you find yourself alive, but you're in the vicinity of a nuclear weapon, you have -- that's gone off -- you have 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the size and exactly where it went off, to get out of the way before a lethal amount of radiation comes straight down from the mushroom cloud that goes up.

And if you're in this vicinity, you've got to get away.

If you don't get out of there, you're going to be exposed to lethal radiation in very short order.

If you can't get out of there, we want you to go into a shelter and stay there.

But basically, you've got to get out of town as quickly as possible.

And if you do that, you actually can survive a nuclear blast. 

The difference between knowing information of what you're going to do personally, and not knowing information, can save your life, and it could mean the difference between 150,000 to 200,000 fatalities from something like this and half a million to 700,000 fatalities. 

But in 2008, there isn't one single American city that has done effective plans to deal with a nuclear detonation disaster.

Part of the problem is that the emergency planners themselves, personally, are overwhelmed psychologically by the thought of nuclear catastrophe.

They are paralyzed.

We can change the survival rates by doing some commonsensical things."

So the goal here is to minimize fatalities.

And I just want to leave you with the personal points that I think you might be interested in.

The key to surviving a nuclear blast is getting out, and not going into harm's way.

That's basically all we're going to be talking about here.

And the farther you are away in distance, the longer it is in time from the initial blast; and the more separation between you and the outside atmosphere, the better.

But let's assume, theoretically, you want to do that.

You want to keep your mouth open, so your eardrums don't burst from the pressures.

If you're very close to what happened, you actually do have to duck and cover, like Bert told you, Bert the Turtle.

And you want to get under something so that you're not injured or killed by objects, if that's at all possible.

You want to get away from the initial fallout mushroom cloud, I said, in just a few minutes.

You know, if you're out there and you see buildings horribly destroyed and down in that direction, less destroyed here, then you know that it was over there, the blast, and you're going this way, as long as you're going crosswise to the wind.

Once you're out and evacuating, you want to keep as much of your skin, your mouth and nose covered, as long as that covering doesn't impede you moving and getting out of there.

And finally, you want to get decontaminated as soon as possible.

And if you're wearing clothing, you've taken off your clothing, you're going to get showered down some place and remove the radiation that would be -- the radioactive material that might be on you.

And then you want to stay in shelter for 48 to 72 hours minimum, but you're going to wait hopefully -- you'll have your little wind-up, battery-less radio, and you'll be waiting for people to tell you when it's safe to go outside.

In conclusion, nuclear war is less likely than before, but by no means out of the question, and it's not survivable.

Nuclear terrorism is possible -- it may be probable -- but is survivable.

And this is Jack Geiger, who's one of the heroes of the U.S. public health community.

And Jack said the only way to deal with nuclear anything, whether it's war or terrorism, is abolition of nuclear weapons.

Thank you. 

