Good afternoon, good evening, whatever.

You hear it going from one side of the valley to the other, from one group of nests to the next. 

And I want to pick up with my talk this evening from where Zeray left off yesterday.

He was talking about this amazing, three-year-old Australopithecine child, Selam.

And we've also been hearing about the history, the family tree, of mankind through DNA genetic profiling.

And it was a paleontologist, the late Louis Leakey, who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees.

And it was pretty extraordinary, way back then.

And of course, behavior doesn't fossilize.

Well, if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution, you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved, based on the behavior of chimpanzees.

So it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us, in certain aspects of their behavior. 

And we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees, just as it is for us, in relation to learning.

As the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals, so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history.

And young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do.

We know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see.

They also kiss, hold hands, pat one another on the back.

And they swagger and they throw rocks.

Unfortunately, they, like us, have a dark side to their nature.

They're capable of extreme brutality, even a kind of primitive war.

And these really aggressive behaviors, for the most part, are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group.

They are very territorially aggressive.

Chimpanzees, I believe, more than any other living creature, have helped us to understand that, after all, there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom. 

It's a very blurry line, and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations.

The study that I began in 1960 is still continuing to this day.

And these chimpanzees, living their complex social lives in the wild, have helped -- more than anything else -- to make us realize we are part of, and not separated from, the amazing animals with whom we share the planet.

So it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees, like so many other creatures around the world, are losing their habitats.

This is just one photograph from the air, and it shows you the forested highlands of Gombe.

This led to a program, which we call TACARE.

There isn't time to go into it, but it's including things like tree nurseries, methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded, almost desert-like land up in these mountains.

Most important of all, I believe, is working with small groups of women, providing them with opportunities for micro-credit loans.

And we've got, as is the case around the world, about 95 percent of all loans returned.

We provide information about family planning and about HIV/AIDS. 

They were interested in health; they were interested in education.

And as time went on, and as their situation began to improve, they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation.

They began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees, so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides. 

Today, we are developing what we call the Greater Gombe Ecosystem.

This is an area way outside the National Park, stretching out into all these very degraded lands.

The problems in Africa, however, as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of TED, are major problems.

There is a great deal of poverty.

You know, the famous scientist, E. O. Wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average European or American, we need three new planets.

As I began traveling around Africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests, I realized more and more how so many of Africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation.

So I began traveling outside Africa, talking in Europe, talking in the United States, going to Asia.

The mangroves are being cut down; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse.

We've talked about the soil erosion.

We have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses, so called, leading to climate change.

Finally, all around the world, people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate. 

It's Africa that already is affected.

In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the droughts are so much worse.

And the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support, who are too poor to buy food, who can't move away because the whole land is degraded.

And so you get desertification -- creeping, creeping, creeping -- as the last of the trees are cut down.

So it wasn't surprising to me that as I was traveling around the world I met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope.

Well, do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain, the kind of brain that the TED technologies exemplify, and the human heart?

And these young people, when I talk to them, basically they were either depressed or apathetic, or bitter and angry.

Shoots seem tiny; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall.

Hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things.

The most important message of Roots and Shoots: every single one of us makes a difference, every single day.

The Roots and Shoots groups all choose three projects.

It depends on how old they are, and which country, whether they're in a city or rural, as to what kinds of projects.

But basically, we have programs now from preschool right through university, with more and more adults starting their own Roots and Shoots groups.

So one of their projects will be to help their own human community.

And then, if they're able, they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world.

One of their projects will be to help animals -- not just wildlife, domestic animals as well.

And one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share.

We not do have more than this one planet. 

It's being used in Uganda to give some psychological help to ex-child soldiers.

Doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves.

Once again, they're useful members of society.

We have this program in prisons as well.

So, there's no time for more Roots and Shoots now.

But -- oh, they're also working on HIV/AIDS.

You can't come to a conference like TED and not have hope, can you?

And I mean, think of the technologies.

And I've just been so thrilled, finally, to come to people talking about compost latrines.

It's one of my hobbyhorses.

We just flush all this water down the lavatory, it's terrible.

And then talking about renewable energy -- desperately important.

Do we care about the planet for our children?

How many of us have children or grandchildren, nieces, nephews?

Do we care about their future?

And that's what TED is helping so well with, and Google who help us, and Esri are helping us with mapping in Gombe National Park.

All of these technologies we can use. 

And the next reason for hope -- nature is amazingly resilient.

I told you, where a seemingly dead tree stump -- if you stop hacking them for firewood, which you don't need to because you have wood lots, then in five years you can have a 30-foot tree.

And animals, almost on the brink of extinction, can be given a second chance.

And just to think of one or two people out of Africa who are just really inspiring.

We could make a very long list, but obviously Nelson Mandela, emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor, 23 years of imprisonment, with this amazing ability to forgive, so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath.

Ken Saro-Wiwa, in Nigeria, who took on the giant oil companies, and although people around the world tried their best, was executed.

People like this are so inspirational.

People like this are the role models we need for young Africans.

And we need some environmental role models as well, and I've been hearing some of them today.

So I'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again, with everyone at TED.

She was in the leadership in Dar es Salaam.

She said it's helped her to do what she's doing.

And it was very, very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people, when they are empowered, given the opportunity to take action, to make the world a better place, truly are our hope for tomorrow.

Thank you. 

