You may never have heard of Kenema, Sierra Leone or Arua, Nigeria.

But I know them as two of the most extraordinary places on earth. 

It can cause a severe fever and can often be fatal.

But these individuals, they risk their lives every day to protect the individuals in their communities, and by doing so, protect us all. 

But one of the most extraordinary things I learned about them on one of my first visits out there many years ago was that they start each morning -- these challenging, extraordinary days on the front lines -- by singing.

And that of course, as you can imagine, becomes extremely important, even essential, as things begin to change.

And that changed a great deal in March of 2014, when the Ebola outbreak was declared in Guinea.

And it was frightening, frightening for us all.

We had actually suspected for some time that Lassa and Ebola were more widespread than thought, and we thought it could one day come to Kenema. 

And so members of my team immediately went out and joined Dr. Humarr Khan and his team there, and we set up diagnostics to be able to have sensitive molecular tests to pick up Ebola if it came across the border and into Sierra Leone.

On May 23, 2014, a woman checked into the maternity ward at the hospital, and the team ran those important molecular tests and they identified the first confirmed case of Ebola in Sierra Leone.

This was an exceptional work that was done.

They were able to diagnose the case immediately, to safely treat the patient and to begin to do contact tracing to follow what was going on.

It could've stopped something.

But by the time that day came, the outbreak had already been breeding for months.

With hundreds of cases, it had already eclipsed all previous outbreaks.

And it came into Sierra Leone not as that singular case, but as a tidal wave. 

We had to work with the international community, with the Ministry of Health, with Kenema, to begin to deal with the cases, as the next week brought 31, then 92, then 147 cases -- all coming to Kenema, one of the only places in Sierra Leone that could deal with this. 

And we worked around the clock trying to do everything we could, trying to help the individuals, trying to get attention, but we also did one other simple thing.

The other thing we can do is, actually, put in a chemical and deactivate it, so just place it into a box and ship it across the ocean, and that's what we did.

We sent it to Boston, where my team works.

We all have one.

It says everything that makes up us, and it tells us so much information. 

The results of this kind of work are simple and they're powerful.

We also could see that as the virus was moving between humans, it was mutating.

And each of those mutations are so important, because the diagnostics, the vaccines, the therapies that we're using, are all based on that genome sequence, fundamentally -- that's what drives it.

And so global health experts would need to respond, would have to develop, to recalibrate everything that they were doing. 

But the way that science works, the position I was in at that point is, I had the data, and I could have worked in a silo for many, many months, analyzed the data carefully, slowly, submitted the paper for publication, gone through a few back-and-forths, and then finally when the paper came out, might release that data.

That's the way the status quo works. 

We had friends on the front lines and to us it was just obvious that what we needed is help, lots of help.

So the first thing we did is, as soon as the sequences came off the machines, we published it to the web.

Before we knew it, we were being contacted from people all over, surprised to see the data out there and released.

Some of the greatest viral trackers in the world were suddenly part of our community.

And there are so many ways that we can form communities like that.

Everybody, particularly when the outbreak started to expand globally, was reaching out to learn, to participate, to engage.

Everybody wants to play a part.

And so many opportunities get missed when that happens.

So in the early part of the epidemic from Kenema, we'd had 106 clinical records from patients, and we once again made that publicly available to the world.

And in our own lab, we could show that you could take those 106 records, we could train computers to predict the prognosis for Ebola patients to near 100 percent accuracy.

And we made an app that could release that, to make that available to health-care workers in the field. 

But 106 is just not enough to make it powerful, to validate it.

It's our lives on the line.

These are just five of many health-care workers at Kenema and beyond that died while the world waited and while we all worked, quietly and separately. 

See, Ebola, like all threats to humanity, it's fueled by mistrust and distraction and division.

When we build barriers amongst ourselves and we fight amongst ourselves, the virus thrives.

But unlike all threats to humanity, Ebola is one where we're actually all the same.

We're all in this fight together.

Ebola on one person's doorstep could soon be on ours.

And so in this place with the same vulnerabilities, the same strengths, the same fears, the same hopes, I hope that we work together with joy. 

A graduate student of mine was reading a book about Sierra Leone, and she discovered that the word "Kenema," the hospital that we work at and the city where we work in Sierra Leone, is named after the Mende word for "clear like a river, translucent and open to the public gaze."

And we have to do that.

And the next time this happens, it could happen in a city of millions, it could start there.

It could be something that's transmitted through the air.

It could even be disseminated intentionally.

But we can only do it if we do it together and we do it with joy. 

So for Dr. Khan and for all of those who sacrificed their lives on the front lines in this fight with us always, let us be in this fight with them always.

And let us not let the world be defined by the destruction wrought by one virus, but illuminated by billions of hearts and minds working in unity. 

Thank you. 

