I'm going to try and explain why it is that perhaps we don't understand as much as we think we do.

I'd like to begin with four questions.

This is not some sort of cultural thing for the time of year.

That's an in-joke, by the way.

But these four questions, actually, are ones that people who even know quite a lot about science find quite hard.

And your next question is, can you light a little torch-bulb with a battery, a bulb and one piece of wire?

And would you be able to, kind of, draw a -- you don't have to draw the diagram, but would you be able to draw the diagram, if you had to do it?

The third question is, why is it hotter in summer than in winter?

Would you be able to do that?

And if you can, just scribble a pattern. 

(Laughter) I'm not quite sure how he died, actually.

Was he beheaded in the end, or hung?

And I -- you know, normally, I would pick people out and humiliate, but maybe not in this instance. 

A little seed weighs a lot and, basically, all this stuff, 99 percent of this stuff, came out of the air.

But, actually, we don't do that.

The mass of this comes out of the air.

(Laughter) And when we gave graduate engineers that question, they said it couldn't be done.

But if you haven't played with a battery and a bulb, if you've only seen a circuit diagram, you might not be able to do that, and that's one of the problems. 

So, why is it hotter in summer than in winter?

By extension, we think to ourselves, "Why it's hotter in summer than in winter must be because we're closer to the Sun."

I promise you that most of you will have got that.

OK, now, the scribble of the diagram of the solar system.

Except, in your -- you're nodding -- now, in your ellipse, have you thought, "Well, what happens during the night?"

Between Australia and here, right, they've got summer and we've got winter, and what -- does the Earth kind of rush towards the Sun at night, and then rush back again?

I hope you notice the coincidence here.

It's a plan, looking down from above.

We do this, of course, with matters of race, and politics, and everything else, and we do it in science as well.

So, being I'm in the United States, I'll have a dig at the Europeans.

And I know that if the graduates at MIT and in the Imperial College in London had had the battery and the wire and the bit of stuff, and you know, been able to do it, they would have learned how it actually works, rather than thinking that they follow circuit diagrams and can't do it.

And it's amateur, but amateur in the best sense, in other words, the root of the word being of love and passion. 

But this applies, equally, to matters of trying to sell new technology.

For example, we are, in Britain, we're trying to do a digital switchover of the whole population into digital technology [for television].

Poor teaching actually does more harm than good.

So the most important thing is to get people to articulate their models. 

Your homework is -- you know, how does an aircraft's wing create lift?

Thank you very much.

