My mission in life since I was a kid was, and is, to take the rest of you into space.

In fact, I think it is a moral imperative that we open the space frontier.

You know, it's the first time that we're going to have a chance to have planetary redundancy, a chance to, if you would, back up the biosphere.

And if you think about space, everything we hold of value on this planet -- metals and minerals and real estate and energy -- is in infinite quantities in space. 

We valued it as the number of seal pelts we could kill.

We are on the verge of the greatest exploration that the human race has ever known. 

You know, it's funded NASA's budget up until now.

Some images from Mars, 1997.

In fact, I think in the next decade, without any question, we will discover life on Mars and find that it is literally ubiquitous under the soils and different parts of that planet. 

The stronger motivator, the much stronger motivator, is fear.

My plan is to actually buy puts on the precious metal market, and then actually claim that I'm going to go out and get one.

And that will fund the actual mission to go and get one.

But fear, curiosity and greed have driven us.

And Apollo was one of the greatest motivators ever.

And we knew nothing about going to space.

They didn't know what couldn't be done.

They had to make up everything.

And that, my friend, is amazing motivation.

But I put forward here, the government is not going to get us there.

The government is unable to take the risks required to open up this precious frontier.

We shouldn't be happy in standing for that.

One of the things that we did with the Ansari X PRIZE was take the challenge on that risk is OK, you know.

As we are going out there and taking on a new frontier, we should be allowed to risk.

The entrepreneurs in the space business are the furry mammals, and clearly the industrial-military complex -- with Boeing and Lockheed and NASA -- are the dinosaurs.

The ability for us to access these resources to gain planetary redundancy -- we can now gather all the information, the genetic codes, you know, everything stored on our databases, and back them up off the planet, in case there would be one of those disastrous situations. 

Arguably, it's about 100 million dollars a person on the space shuttle.

You know, one -- we have a very unique period in time today.

Let's go back to high school physics here.

It's about 5.7 gigajoules of energy.

If you expended that over an hour, it's about 1.6 megawatts.

How much will it cost you and your spacesuit to go to orbit?

But guys, if history has taught us anything, it's that if you can imagine it, you will get there eventually.

I have no question that the physics, the engineering to get us down to the point where all of us can afford orbital space flight is around the corner.

The difficulty is that there needs to be a real marketplace to drive the investment.

And in fact, the large corporations, the governments, can't take the risk.

So we need what I call an exothermic economic reaction in space.

Today's commercial markets worldwide, global commercial launch market?

Twenty-six teams from seven countries entered the competition, spending between one to 25 million dollars each.

And of course, we had beautiful SpaceShipOne, which made those two flights and won the competition.

(Video) Pilot: Release our fire. 

Richard Searfoss: Good luck. 

RS: We've got an altitude call of 368,000 feet. 

RS: So in my official capacity as the chief judge of the Ansari X PRIZE competition, I declare that Mojave Aerospace Ventures has indeed earned the Ansari X PRIZE. 

Well, people are going to die, how can you possibly going to put this forward?"

So, they took a bet that no one would win by January of '05, and I took a bet that someone would win. 

So -- and the best thing is they paid off and the check didn't bounce. 

Today, you can go and experience weightless flights.

By '08, suborbital flights, the price tag for that, you know, on Virgin, is going to be about 200,000.

And then I truly believe, once a group is in orbit around the Earth -- I know if they don't do it, I am -- we're going to stockpile some fuel, make a beeline for the moon and grab some real estate. 

Quick moment for the designers in the audience.

And turns out 7-Up has just done a little commercial that's airing this month.

If we can get the audio up? 

(Video) Narrator: For a chance to win the first free ticket to space, look for specially marked packages of Diet 7-Up.

When you want the taste that won't weigh you down, the only way to go is up. 

We're based down in Florida.

I had the pleasure of borrowing from the Longitude Prize and the Orteig Prize that put Lindbergh forward.

And this is something that we're very excited about.

I showed this slide to Larry Page, who just joined our board. 

And you know, when you give to a nonprofit, you might have 50 cents on the dollar.

If you have a matching grant, it's typically two or three to one.

So, we have actually -- are looking to turn the X PRIZE into a world-class prize institute.

And the benefit to the sponsors is the sum of the publicity and societal benefits over the long term.

That's our value proposition in a prize. 

So, prizes work great.

You know, innovators, the entrepreneurs out there, you know that when you're going for a goal, the first thing you have to do is believe that you can do it yourself.

Then, you've got to, you know, face potential public ridicule of -- that's a crazy idea, it'll never work.

Well, it must be a good idea.

Someone's offering 10 million dollars to go and do this thing. 

And each of these areas was something that we found the Ansari X PRIZE helped short-circuit these for innovation.

We are looking at a number of energy prizes.

