I have a tough job to do.

In order to do that in 20 minutes, I have to bring out four ideas -- it's like four pieces of a puzzle.

And if I succeed in doing that, maybe you would go back with the thought that you could build on, and perhaps help me do my work. 

The first piece of the puzzle is remoteness and the quality of education.

Now, by remoteness, I mean two or three different kinds of things.

Of course, remoteness in its normal sense, which means that as you go further and further away from an urban center, you get to remoter areas.

What happens to education?

The graph was interesting, although you need to consider it carefully.

When you take education and technology, then I find in the literature that, you know, things like websites, collaborative environments -- you've been listening to all that in the morning -- it's always piloted first in the best schools, the best urban schools, and, according to me, biases the result.

The literature -- one part of it, the scientific literature -- consistently blames ET as being over-hyped and under-performing.

The teachers always say, well, it's fine, but it's too expensive for what it does.

You put in this new super-duper technology, and now they get 83 percent.

If you took the same technology and piloted it into one of those remote schools, where the score was 30 percent, and, let's say, took that up to 40 percent -- that will be a completely different thing.

So I came to this conclusion that ET should reach the underprivileged first, not the other way about.

And finally came the question of, how do you tackle teacher perception?

Whenever you go to a teacher and show them some technology, the teacher's first reaction is, you cannot replace a teacher with a machine -- it's impossible.

I don't know why it's impossible, but, even for a moment, if you did assume that it's impossible -- I have a quotation from Sir Arthur C. Clarke, the science fiction writer whom I met in Colombo, and he said something which completely solves this problem.

He said a teacher than can be replaced by a machine, should be.

So, you know, it puts the teacher into a tough bind, you have to think.

Anyway, so I'm proposing that an alternative primary education, whatever alternative you want, is required where schools don't exist, where schools are not good enough, where teachers are not available or where teachers are not good enough, for whatever reason.

There are such areas, but -- anyway, I'd never heard that anywhere else. 

I'm going to talk about children and self-organization, and a set of experiments which sort of led to this idea of what might an alternative education be like.

And what we did over there was pretty much simple.

I had an office in those days which bordered a slum, an urban slum, so there was a dividing wall between our office and the urban slum.

About eight hours later, we found this kid.

To the right is this eight-year-old child who -- and to his left is a six-year-old girl, who is not very tall.

And what he was doing was, he was teaching her to browse.

He came there and he started to fiddle around with the touchpad.

And then, as he was doing that, he made an accidental click by hitting the touchpad -- you'll see him do that.

He did that, and the Internet Explorer changed page.

Eight minutes later, he looked from his hand to the screen, and he was browsing: he was going back and forth.

When that happened, he started calling all the neighborhood children, like, children would come and see what's happening over here.

And by the evening of that day, 70 children were all browsing.

So eight minutes and an embedded computer seemed to be all that we needed there. 

At this time there was a -- the main question was about English.

So, it has to be the other way about.

But let's see, how do the children tackle the English language?

I took the experiment out to northeastern India, to a village called Madantusi, where, for some reason, there was no English teacher, so the children had not learned English at all.

And I built a similar hole-in-the-wall.

One big difference in the villages, as opposed to the urban slums: there were more girls than boys who came to the kiosk.

And as soon as they saw me they said, "We need a faster processor and a better mouse."

(Laughter) I was real surprised.

You know, how on earth did they know all this?

And they said, "Well, we've picked it up from the CDs."

So I said, "But how did you understand what's going on over there?"

So they said, "Well, you've left this machine which talks only in English, so we had to learn English."

India is a good place to do such an experiment in, because we have all the ethnic diversities, all the -- you know, the genetic diversity, all the racial diversities, and also all the socio-economic diversities.

So, I could actually choose samples to cover a cross section that would cover practically the whole world.

And you see here a little clip of -- one of these villages -- the first thing that these children did was to find a website to teach themselves the English alphabet. 

And this happens very often with these computers, that the younger children are found teaching the older ones. 

So if they have access to the computer, they will teach themselves, including intelligence.

I couldn't find a single correlation with anything, but it had to be in groups.

And that may be of great, you know, interest to this group, because all of you are talking about groups.

So here was the power of what a group of children can do, if you lift the adult intervention. 

But we got a clean learning curve, almost exactly the same as what you would get in a school.

What could they learn to do?

Basic Windows functions, browsing, painting, chatting and email, games and educational material, music downloads, playing video.

In short, what all of us do.

And over 300 children will become computer literate and be able to do all of these things in six months with one computer. 

So, how do they do that?

If you calculated the actual time of access, it would work out to minutes per day, so that's not how it's happening.

If you test them, all four will get the same scores in whatever you ask them.

Around these four are usually a group of about 16 children, who are also advising, usually wrongly, about everything that's going on on the computer.

And all of them also will clear a test given on that subject.

So they are learning as much by watching as they learn by doing.

It seems counter-intuitive to adult learning, but remember, eight-year-olds live in a society where most of the time they are told, don't do this, you know, don't touch the whiskey bottle.

So what does the eight-year-old do?

He observes very carefully how a whiskey bottle should be touched.

And if you tested him, he would answer every question correctly on that topic.

So, they seem to be able to acquire very quickly. 

So what was the conclusion over the six years of work?

It was that primary education can happen on its own, or parts of it can happen on its own.

It does not have to be imposed from the top downwards.

These were areas where the children were clearly confused, because half said yes and half said no.

A typical example being, "Sometimes it is necessary to tell lies."

They don't have a way to determine which way to answer this question; perhaps none of us do.

So I leave you with this third question.

Can technology alter the acquisition of values?

Finally, self-organizing systems, about which, again, I won't say too much because you've been hearing all about it.

Natural systems are all self-organizing: galaxies, molecules, cells, organisms, societies -- except for the debate about an intelligent designer.

But at this point in time, as far as science goes, it's self-organization.

But other examples are traffic jams, stock market, society and disaster recovery, terrorism and insurgency.

And you know about the Internet-based self-organizing systems. 

So here are my four sentences then.

Remoteness affects the quality of education.

Educational technology should be introduced into remote areas first, and other areas later.

Values are acquired; doctrine and dogma are imposed -- the two opposing mechanisms.

And learning is most likely a self-organizing system.

If you put all the four together, then it gives -- according to me -- it gives us a goal, a vision, for educational technology.

Thank you. 

