Ninety-nine percent of us have the dream of listeners.

Not being the musicians -- the listeners, right?

And we go to live concerts, and we get that as much as we can.

But then we listen to the other 99 percent of our stuff recorded.

And it turns out the further back you go in history, the little rougher it sounds.

And so we said, there's a solution to this.

You know, the thing with microphones in the room and all that day.

But the performance itself was how the musicians worked their fingers, and what instruments they were using.

And it's the data hidden inside the recording.

In order to do this, it's a lot of hardware and software that runs in a very high resolution.

And this just didn't work until we could cross this line that says high-definition.

We have a process where we, you know, kind of put it into the computer and digitize it, and then a whole lot of analysis.

And we look at every single note, and all the attributes of those notes: how hard they were struck, and how they were held down, and how you move the fingers.

So we had to develop a whole new science of how you move your fingers.

And, you know, it's a thing your piano teacher teaches you, but we never had a science behind these kinds of things. 

I'm going to start with Glenn Gould.

He died 25 years ago this year, and was born 75 years ago this year.

Was a beloved pianist, maybe the great cult pianist of the twentieth century.

So he stepped back, and did nothing but the crafting of his work.

And Gould's specialty was playing Bach.

His maybe most famous recording was something called "The Goldberg Variations."

Bach only wrote themes and variations one time.

And Gould recorded it in two major recordings that you may know about, one in mono, and one in stereo.

Glenn Gould, 1955.

(Music) How about that?

(Applause) 

So let me tell you a little bit how this was done.

First of all, let me get you to the end step.

We can play the original in one ear, and a new recording in the other.

So I'm going to do this for you right now, what you just heard.

(Music) 

(Music) 

Before "Jurassic Park," there was no science for how skin hung off of muscle, right?

So, in the video world, we've been able to invent, in our lifetimes, natural behavior.

And then you heard the original.

Ultimately, I started with the experience.

And the experience is: I want to be in the room and hear the musicians.

Lots of you can afford to buy one of these.

But, if not, there is now high-definition surround sound.

Here's now something we know in spectacular quality.

The whole process is very sensitive to temperature and humidity.

What you heard today was not perfect.

So when you go into the recording session, you get to stop after every piece and rebuild the piano if you need to.

And audio came very late because our ears are so hard to fool -- they're high-resolution, and they're wired straight to our emotions, and you can't trick them very easily.

Your eyes are pretty happy with some color and movement, you know. 

All right, there's this episode of "Star Trek."

(Laughter) I get it -- it was all just laid in for me yesterday there.

I want to hear the waltzes Brahms didn't write.

I want to hear the pieces that Horowitz didn't play.

It's now coming in this world.

The transition will be this one.

It says right now, we think music is notes and how they're played.

But yet, it was human.

And I believe you'll get to the next step, the real dream of listeners.

Wouldn't it be cool if every time you listened, it could be different?

You want to hear it played by different musicians.

You want to hear it in different rooms and whatever. 

We've seen all these "Star Treks," and they're all holodeck episodes as well.

Every time I listen to that, I get goose bumps.

It's so amazing, it's so exciting.

And lastly, I will wrap up with one minute of Art Tatum.

So I've really overshot my budget here.

We made a new recording of him playing in the Shrine Auditorium in September.

It was a concert he recorded in the Shrine Auditorium in 1949.

And as the president of the company, I didn't feel real comfortable about where we were.

And we captured all that data all over again.

It's one minute long.

It's an Irish jig, and I want you to hear his humor.

(Music) (Applause) And that's just what the live audience did.

(Applause) So thank you very much, Michael, thank you for the opportunity. 

