Dogs have interests.

They have interest sniffing each other, chasing squirrels.

And if we don't make that a reward in training, that will be a distraction.

I mean, you lose.

Now, I'm here largely because there's kind of a rift in dog training at the moment that -- on one side, we have people who think that you train a dog, number one, by making up rules, human rules.

His one mistake is he's a Tibetan mastiff, and a few months later, he weighs, you know, 80 pounds.

Every time he jumps up, he gets all sorts of abuse.

I mean, it is really very, very scary the abuse that dogs get. 

And they take this stuff seriously.

Male dogs are very serious about a hierarchy, because it prevents physical fights.

Of course, female dogs, bitches, on the other hand, have several bitch amendments to male hierarchical rule.

Dogs get so abused.

Dogs, horses and humans -- these are the three species which are so abused in life.

The poor puppy jumps up, you open the dog book, what does it say?

Well, I've got news for you.

The dog doesn't speak English, or American, or Spanish, or French. 

And the dog can take a note, and I've got my own little search-and-rescue dog.

He'll find Jamie wherever he is, you know, wherever kids are, crushing rocks by a stream or something, and take him a little message that says, "Hey, dinner's ready.

So, at this point, the dog knows what we want it to do.

Will it do it?

Not necessarily, no.

As I said, if he's in the park and there's a rear end to sniff, why come to the owner?

So the second stage in training is to teach the dog to want to do what we want him to do, and this is very easy.

We use the Premack principle.

Yes, we put "sniff butt" on queue.

"Sit," sniff butt. 

So now all of these distractions that worked against training now become rewards that work for training.

And what we're doing, in essence, is we're teaching the dog, kind of like -- we're letting the dog think that the dog is training us.

And this, to me, is always what training is.

This is a life-or-death thing.

You leave this, the sanctity of your house, and you could be hit on the street.

So some things we have to let the dog know, "You mustn't do this."

And so we have to enforce, but without force.

People here get very confused about what a punishment is.

They think a punishment is something nasty.

I bet a lot of you do, right?

You think it's something painful, or scary, or nasty.

It doesn't have to be.

It does not have to be nasty, scary or painful.

And I would say, if it doesn't have to be, then maybe it shouldn't be. 

I was working with a very dangerous dog about a year ago.

And this was a dog that put both his owners in hospital, plus the brother-in-law, plus the child.

And I only agreed to work with it if they promised it would stay in their house, and they never took it outside.

And he was kept there by the owner's calm insistence.

The breaks got fewer and fewer.

You see, the punishment was working.

The behavior problem was going away.

She never raised her voice.

If she did, she would have got bitten.

It's not a good dog you shout at.

This is crazy. 

This is crazy. 

So, where do we go from here?

We want a better way.

Dogs deserve better.

But for me, the reason for this actually has to do with dogs.

Not just with their puppy, but with the rest of the family at class.

You know, I puppy-train my child.

The father leans over, grabs him like this and gives him ugly face.

He kicked a child, grabs the child like this and I let it go. 

And this is what it's all about.

These relationship skills are so easy.

I mean, we as humans, our shallowness when we choose a life-mate based on the three Cs -- coat color, conformation, cuteness.

You know, kind of like a little robot.

This is how we go into a relationship, and it's hunky-dory for a year.

And then, a little behavior problem comes up.

No different from the dog barking.

And it then starts, and we get into this thing, and our personal feedback -- there's two things about it.

When you watch people interacting with animals or other people, there is very little feedback, it's too infrequent.

And when it happens, it's bad, it's nasty.

You see it's especially in families, especially with spouses, especially with children, especially with parents.

You see it especially in the workplace, especially from boss to employee.

And this, I would say, is the biggest human foible that we have.

It really is.

We take the good for granted, and we moan and groan at the bad.

And I think this whole notion of these skills should be taught.

You know, calculus is wonderful.

When I was a kid, I was a calculus whiz.

But they don't save marriages and they don't raise children. 

Your kids are easy to train.

This should be taught in schools.

So, that would be my wish to the future.

