When I was first learning to meditate, the instruction was to simply pay attention to my breath, and when my mind wandered, to bring it back. 

I'd take naps every chance I got because it was really hard work.

Actually, it was exhausting.

The instruction was simple enough but I was missing something really important. 

So why is it so hard to pay attention?

So what's going on here?

It turns out that we're fighting one of the most evolutionarily-conserved learning processes currently known in science, one that's conserved back to the most basic nervous systems known to man. 

We see some food that looks good, our brain says, "Calories!

Trigger, behavior, reward. 

Simple, right?

We thank our brains for the great idea, try this and quickly learn that if we eat chocolate or ice cream when we're mad or sad, we feel better. 

Same process, just a different trigger.

Instead of this hunger signal coming from our stomach, this emotional signal -- feeling sad -- triggers that urge to eat. 

The Marlboro Man wasn't a dork, and that was no accident.

And each time we do this, we learn to repeat the process and it becomes a habit.

So later, feeling stressed out triggers that urge to smoke a cigarette or to eat something sweet. 

Now, with these same brain processes, we've gone from learning to survive to literally killing ourselves with these habits.

Obesity and smoking are among the leading preventable causes of morbidity and mortality in the world. 

What if instead we just got really curious about what was happening in our momentary experience? 

In my lab, we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking.

Now, just like trying to force myself to pay attention to my breath, they could try to force themselves to quit smoking.

And the majority of them had tried this before and failed -- on average, six times. 

Now, with mindfulness training, we dropped the bit about forcing and instead focused on being curious.

In fact, we even told them to smoke.

And what did they notice?

Well here's an example from one of our smokers.

Now, she moved from knowledge to wisdom.

She moved from knowing in her head that smoking was bad for her to knowing it in her bones, and the spell of smoking was broken.

She started to become disenchanted with her behavior. 

Now, the prefrontal cortex, that youngest part of our brain from an evolutionary perspective, it understands on an intellectual level that we shouldn't smoke.

And it tries its hardest to help us change our behavior, to help us stop smoking, to help us stop eating that second, that third, that fourth cookie.

We call this cognitive control.

We're using cognition to control our behavior.

Now, we can all relate to this in our own experience.

We just can't help ourselves. 

We're just less interested in doing it in the first place. 

This isn't to say that, poof, magically we quit smoking.

But over time, as we learn to see more and more clearly the results of our actions, we let go of old habits and form new ones. 

The paradox here is that mindfulness is just about being really interested in getting close and personal with what's actually happening in our bodies and minds from moment to moment.

This willingness to turn toward our experience rather than trying to make unpleasant cravings go away as quickly as possible.

And this willingness to turn toward our experience is supported by curiosity, which is naturally rewarding. 

What does curiosity feel like?

It feels good.

And what happens when we get curious?

These are bite-size pieces of experiences that we can manage from moment to moment rather than getting clobbered by this huge, scary craving that we choke on. 

In other words, when we get curious, we step out of our old, fear-based, reactive habit patterns, and we step into being.

We become this inner scientist where we're eagerly awaiting that next data point. 

Now, this might sound too simplistic to affect behavior.

But in one study, we found that mindfulness training was twice as good as gold standard therapy at helping people quit smoking.

So it actually works. 

In contrast, when we let go -- step out of the process just by being curiously aware of what's happening -- this same brain region quiets down. 

Now, remember that bit about context-dependent memory?

We can deliver these tools to peoples' fingertips in the contexts that matter most.

So we can help them tap into their inherent capacity to be curiously aware right when that urge to smoke or stress eat or whatever arises. 

Instead of see text message, compulsively text back, feel a little bit better -- notice the urge, get curious, feel the joy of letting go and repeat. 

Thank you. 

