Let's just start by looking at some great photographs.

Oh, the wrath of Photoshop. 

This is a jet landing at San Francisco, by Bruce Dale.

He mounted a camera on the tail.

A poetic image for a story on Tolstoy, by Sam Abell.

A polar bear swimming in the Arctic, by Paul Nicklen.

These are camels moving across the Rift Valley in Africa, photographed by Chris Johns.

Shot straight down, so these are the shadows of the camels.

This is a rancher in Texas, by William Albert Allard, a great portraitist.

And Jane Goodall, making her own special connection, photographed by Nick Nichols.

This is a soap disco in Spain, photographed by David Alan Harvey.

And David said that there was lot of weird stuff happening on the dance floor.

But, hey, at least it's hygienic.

Here's an example.

We got back on shore; he was fine.

We were a little bit rattled.

And this is what a photograph taps into when it makes its own powerful connection to a viewer. 

(Laughter) I thought I was a hero.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

The quality of these amateur photographs can, at times, be amazing.

But to be a great photojournalist, you have to have more than just one or two great photographs in you.

You've got to be able to make them all the time.

But even more importantly, you need to know how to create a visual narrative.

You need to know how to tell a story.

So I'm going to share with you some coverages that I feel demonstrate the storytelling power of photography. 

Photographer Nick Nichols went to document a very small and relatively unknown wildlife sanctuary in Chad, called Zakouma.

The original intent was to travel there and bring back a classic story of diverse species, of an exotic locale.

And that is what Nick did, up to a point.

This is a serval cat.

He's actually taking his own picture, shot with what's called a camera trap.

There's an infrared beam that's going across, and he has stepped into the beam and taken his photograph.

These are baboons at a watering hole.

Nick -- the camera, again, an automatic camera took thousands of pictures of this.

And Nick ended up with a lot of pictures of the rear ends of baboons.

And a crocodile walks up a riverbank toward its den.

I love this little bit of water that comes off the back of his tail. 

But the centerpiece species of Zakouma are the elephants.

It's one of the largest intact herds in this part of Africa.

It was with the elephants that this story pivoted.

Nick, along with researcher Dr. Michael Fay, collared the matriarch of the herd.

But once the annual rains began, the herd would begin migrating to feeding grounds outside the park. 

And that's when they ran into trouble.

For outside the safety of the park were poachers, who would hunt them down only for the value of their ivory tusks.

The matriarch that they were radio tracking, after weeks of moving back and forth, in and out of the park, came to a halt outside the park.

Annie had been killed, along with 20 members of her herd.

And they only came for the ivory.

This is actually one of the rangers.

Instead of just knowledge of this park, he created an understanding and an empathy for the elephants, the rangers and the many issues surrounding human-wildlife conflicts. 

Now let's go over to India.

Sometimes you can tell a broad story in a focused way.

We were looking at the same issue that Richard Wurman touches upon in his new world population project.

For the first time in history, more people live in urban, rather than rural, environments.

And most of that growth is not in the cities, but in the slums that surround them.

What Jonas did was not just go and do a surface look at the awful conditions that exist in such places.

He saw that this was a living and breathing and vital part of how the entire urban area functioned.

By staying tightly focused in one place, Jonas tapped into the soul and the enduring human spirit that underlies this community.

And he did it in a beautiful way. 

Sometimes, though, the only way to tell a story is with a sweeping picture.

We teamed up underwater photographer Brian Skerry and photojournalist Randy Olson to document the depletion of the world's fisheries.

But here, Brian captured a unique view by positioning himself underneath the boat when they threw the waste overboard.

And Brian then went on to even greater risk to get this never-before-made photograph of a trawl net scraping the ocean bottom. 

And here in China, Randy shot a jellyfish market.

As prime food sources are depleted, the harvest goes deeper into the oceans and brings in more such sources of protein.

This is called fishing down the food chain. 

We also want to look for solutions.

Photography can also compel us to confront issues that are potentially distressing and controversial.

James Nachtwey, who was honored at last year's TED, took a look at the sweep of the medical system that is utilized to handle the American wounded coming out of Iraq.

It is like a tube where a wounded soldier enters on one end and exits back home, on the other.

Here is in the field hospital.

The soldier on the right has the name of his daughter tattooed across his chest, as a reminder of home.

From here, the more severely wounded are transported back to Germany, where they meet up with their families for the first time.

And then back to the States to recuperate at veterans' hospitals, such as here in Walter Reed.

And finally, often fitted with high-tech prosthesis, they exit the medical system and attempt to regain their pre-war lives.

Jim took what could have been a straight-up medical science story and gave it a human dimension that touched our readers deeply. 

Now, these stories are great examples of how photography can be used to address some of our most important topics.

But there are also times when photographers simply encounter things that are, when it comes down to it, just plain fun.

Photographer Paul Nicklin traveled to Antarctica to shoot a story on leopard seals.

They have been rarely photographed, partly because they are considered one of the most dangerous predators in the ocean.

In fact, a year earlier, a researcher had been grabbed by one and pulled down to depth and killed.

So you can imagine Paul was maybe a little bit hesitant about getting into the water.

Now, what leopard seals do mostly is, they eat penguins.

And then everybody kind of runs out and goes out. 

Well, this one female came up to him.

(Laughter) Then Paul thinks that she simply took pity on him.

To her, here was this big, goofy creature in the water that for some reason didn't seem to be interested in chasing penguins.

She dropped them off, and then they would swim away.

She'd kind of look at him, like "What are you doing?"

Go back and get them, and then bring them back and drop them in front of him.

And she did this over the course of a couple of days, until the point where she got so frustrated with him that she started putting them directly on top of his head.

(Laughter) Which just resulted in a fantastic photograph.

(Laughter) Eventually, though, Paul thinks that she just figured that he was never going to survive.

This is her just puffing out, you know, snorting out in disgust.

(Laughter) And lost interest with him, and went back to what she does best. 

(Laughter) And lost interest with him, and went back to what she does best. 

(Laughter) And lost interest with him, and went back to what she does best. 

Paul set out to photograph a relatively mysterious and unknown creature, and came back with not just a collection of photographs, but an amazing experience and a great story.

It is these kinds of stories, ones that go beyond the immediate or just the superficial that demonstrate the power of photojournalism.

