And the opportunity to make a whirlwind tour of the world like that is utterly amazing, for lots of reasons.

You see some incredible stuff.

There is so much diversity around the globe.

How do we explain that diversity?

Now, the problem of human diversity, like all big scientific questions -- how do you explain something like that -- can be broken down into sub-questions.

And you can ferret away at those little sub-questions. 

First one is really a question of origins.

When did we originate as a species?

How long have we been divergent from each other? 

Well, the question of origins, as with so many other questions in biology, seems to have been answered by Darwin over a century ago.

And it is quite clear that apes originated on the African continent.

Around 23 million years ago, they appear in the fossil record.

Bumped into Eurasia around 16 million years ago, and then we had the first African exodus, as we call it.

The apes that left at that time ended up in Southeast Asia, became the gibbons and the orangutans.

And the ones that stayed on in Africa evolved into the gorillas, the chimpanzees and us.

So, yes, if you're talking about our common ancestry with apes, it's very clear, by looking at the fossil record, we started off here. 

But that's not really the question I'm asking.

How do we study that? 

The field of paleoanthropology, I'll argue, gives us lots of fascinating possibilities about our ancestry, but it doesn't give us the probabilities that we really want as scientists.

What do I mean by that?

You're looking at a great example here.

These are three extinct species of hominids, potential human ancestors.

All dug up just west of here in Olduvai Gorge, by the Leakey family.

And they're all dating to roughly the same time.

From left to right, we've got Homo erectus, Homo habilis, and Australopithecus -- now called Paranthropus boisei, the robust australopithecine.

That means that not all three could be my direct ancestor.

Which one of these guys am I actually related to?

Possibilities about our ancestry, but not the probabilities that we're really looking for. 

You think you've got a tough job?

And he did a pretty good job.

What we're trying to do is construct a family tree for everybody alive today.

You start in the present, with relationships you're certain about.

You and your siblings, you have a parent in common.

You and your cousins share a grandparent in common.

Written in our DNA, in our genetic code -- we have a historical document that takes us back in time to the very earliest days of our species.

Now, a quick primer on DNA.

I suspect that not everybody in the audience is a geneticist.

And the whole thing, if you add it all together, is over six billion nucleotides long.

If you take all the DNA out of one cell in your body, and stretch it end to end, it's around two meters long.

If you take all the DNA out of every cell in your body, and you stretch it end to end, it would reach from here to the moon and back, thousands of times.

And so when you're copying this DNA molecule to pass it on, it's a pretty tough job.

And imagine copying that by hand.

These are two pieces of DNA that we use quite widely in our work.

Mitochondrial DNA, tracing a purely maternal line of descent.

Everybody in this room, everybody in the world, falls into a lineage somewhere on these trees.

Every piece of DNA we look at has greater diversity within Africa than outside of Africa.

And at some point in the past, a sub-group of Africans left the African continent to go out and populate the rest of the world. 

Now, how recently do we share this ancestry?

That tells us we were all still living in Africa at that time.

We're all effectively part of an extended African family. 

And so when all else fails, talk about the weather.

What was going on to the world's weather around 60,000 years ago?

Well, we were going into the worst part of the last ice age.

The last ice age started roughly 120,000 years ago.

Rather, Africa was drying out at that time.

The Sahara was much bigger then than it is now.

Now, at the risk of offending any paleoanthropologists or physical anthropologists in the audience, basically there's not a lot of change between these two stone tool groups.

The ones on the left are pretty similar to the ones on the right.

The tool styles don't change that much.

The evidence is that the human way of life didn't change that much during that period. 

But then 50, 60, 70 thousand years ago, somewhere in that region, all hell breaks loose.

The stone tools become much more finely crafted.

Probably, according to what many linguists believe, fully modern language, syntactic language -- subject, verb, object -- that we use to convey complex ideas, like I'm doing now, appeared around that time.

We've been talking at this conference about African success stories.

An early coastal migration along the south coast of Asia, leaving Africa around 60,000 years ago, reaching Australia very rapidly, by 50,000 years ago.

A slightly later migration up into the Middle East.

These would have been savannah hunters. 

So those of you who are going on one of the post-conference tours, you'll get to see what a real savannah is like.

And it's basically a meat locker.

An amazing story, and it happened first in Africa.

And I said, "Well, you know, what I've sketched out here is just that.

And that was the genesis of the Genographic Project.

So my ancestors come from all over northern Europe.

But there are people who retain that link to their ancestors that allows us to contextualize the DNA results. 

We've just awarded the first Legacy Grants totaling around 500,000 dollars.

