As a particle physicist, I study the elementary particles and how they interact on the most fundamental level.

For most of my research career, I've been using accelerators, such as the electron accelerator at Stanford University, just up the road, to study things on the smallest scale.

But more recently, I've been turning my attention to the universe on the largest scale.

Because, as I'll explain to you, the questions on the smallest and the largest scale are actually very connected.

So, recently, we have realized that the ordinary matter in the universe -- and by ordinary matter, I mean you, me, the planets, the stars, the galaxies -- the ordinary matter makes up only a few percent of the content of the universe.

Almost a quarter, or approximately a quarter of the matter in the universe, is stuff that's invisible.

We know it's there by its gravitational effects.

What about the rest of the pie?

The rest of the pie is a very mysterious substance called dark energy.

In these galaxies, especially in a spiral galaxy like this, most of the mass of the stars is concentrated in the middle of the galaxy.

This huge mass of all these stars keeps stars in circular orbits in the galaxy.

So we have these stars going around in circles like this.

As you can imagine, even if you know physics, this should be intuitive, OK -- that stars that are closer to the mass in the middle will be rotating at a higher speed than those that are further out here, OK. 

So what you would expect is that if you measured the orbital speed of the stars, that they should be slower on the edges than on the inside.

In other words, if we measured speed as a function of distance -- this is the only time I'm going to show a graph, OK -- we would expect that it goes down as the distance increases from the center of the galaxy.

When those measurements are made, instead what we find is that the speed is basically constant, as a function of distance.

If it's constant, that means that the stars out here are feeling the gravitational effects of matter that we do not see.

In fact, this galaxy and every other galaxy appears to be embedded in a cloud of this invisible dark matter.

So we see the galaxy and fixate on that, but it's actually a cloud of dark matter that's dominating the structure and the dynamics of this galaxy. 

And this is an example of a very, actually, famous cluster, the Coma cluster.

And there are thousands of galaxies in this cluster.

They're the white, fuzzy, elliptical things here.

So these galaxy clusters -- we take a snapshot now, we take a snapshot in a decade, it'll look identical.

But these galaxies are actually moving at extremely high speeds.

They're moving around in this gravitational potential well of this cluster, OK.

So all of these galaxies are moving.

We can measure the speeds of these galaxies, their orbital velocities, and figure out how much mass is in this cluster. 

And again, what we find is that there is much more mass there than can be accounted for by the galaxies that we see.

Or if we look in other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, we see that there's a lot of gas in this cluster, as well.

But that cannot account for the mass either.

In fact, there appears to be about ten times as much mass here in the form of this invisible or dark matter as there is in the ordinary matter, OK.

It would be nice if we could see this dark matter a little bit more directly.

I'm just putting this big, blue blob on there, OK, to try to remind you that it's there.

And so let me lead you through how we can do this.

And suppose there's a galaxy out here in the universe.

How do we see that galaxy?

A ray of light leaves the galaxy and travels through the universe for perhaps billions of years before it enters the telescope or your eye.

Now, how do we deduce where the galaxy is?

And that was that the gravitational field, due to mass, will deflect not only the trajectory of particles, but will deflect light itself. 

We extrapolate backwards and say the galaxy is up here.

So a ray of light could go down, be bent up into the observer's eye, and the observer sees a ray of light here. 

So there's a whole ray of light -- rays of light on a cone -- that will all be bent by that cluster and make it into the observer's eye.

If they're slightly skewed, we'll see a different image. 

Now, you can do an experiment tonight over the reception, OK, to figure out what that image will look like.

Because it turns out that there is a kind of lens that we can devise, that has the right shape to produce this kind of effect.

We call this gravitational lensing.

It's the base that I want you to concentrate, OK.

So, actually, at home, whenever we break a wineglass, I save the bottom, take it over to the machine shop.

We shave it off, and I have a little gravitational lens, OK.

So it's got the right shape to produce the lensing.

Do we see arcs in the sky when we look at, say, a cluster of galaxies?

And the answer is yes.

And so, here's an image from the Hubble Space Telescope.

Many of the images you are seeing are earlier from the Hubble Space Telescope.

Well, first of all, for the golden shape galaxies -- those are the galaxies in the cluster.

They're the ones that are embedded in that sea of dark matter that are causing the bending of the light to cause these optical illusions, or mirages, practically, of the background galaxies.

So the streaks that you see, all these streaks, are actually distorted images of galaxies that are much further away. 

So what we can do, then, is based on how much distortion we see in those images, we can calculate how much mass there must be in this cluster.

And it's an enormous amount of mass.

And also, you can tell by eye, by looking at this, that these arcs are not centered on individual galaxies.

So this is the closest you can get to kind of seeing at least the effects of the dark matter with your naked eye. 

OK, so, a quick review then, to see that you're following.

So to understand the evidence for dark energy, we need to discuss something that Stephen Hawking referred to in the previous session.

And that is the fact that space itself is expanding.

If you could do this, what you would find that with each passing day, each passing year, each passing billions of years, OK, the distance between galaxies is getting greater.

And it's not because galaxies are moving away from each other through space.

They're not necessarily moving through space.

So they're moving further apart. 

Now, what Stephen Hawking mentioned, as well, is that after the Big Bang, space expanded at a very rapid rate.

But because gravitationally attracting matter is embedded in this space, it tends to slow down the expansion of the space, OK.

So the expansion slows down with time.

The startling answer to this question, OK, from these experiments, was that space is expanding at a faster rate today than it was a few billion years ago, OK.

So the expansion of space is actually speeding up.

This was a completely surprising result.

It was the opposite of what was expected.

So we need something to be able to explain that.

But we don't have a good motivation for putting it in there at this point, OK.

So it's really unexplained as to why we need to put it in. 

Now, so at this point, then, what I want to really emphasize to you, is that, first of all, dark matter and dark energy are completely different things, OK.

There are really two mysteries out there as to what makes up most of the universe, and they have very different effects.

Dark matter, because it gravitationally attracts, it tends to encourage the growth of structure, OK.

So clusters of galaxies will tend to form, because of all this gravitational attraction.

So by looking at things like clusters of galaxies, and how they -- their number density, how many there are as a function of time -- we can learn about how dark matter and dark energy compete against each other in structure forming. 

We have well-motivated candidates for the dark matter.

Now, what do I mean by well motivated?

They just pass through anything.

So one way to look for them is to build detectors that are extremely sensitive to a dark matter particle coming through and bumping it.

So a crystal that will ring if that happens.

So one of my colleagues up the road and his collaborators have built such a detector.

The Large Hadron Collider, a particle physics accelerator, that we'll be turning on later this year.

It is possible that dark matter particles might be produced at the Large Hadron Collider. 

So in terms of the big questions: what is dark matter?

The big questions facing physics.

