My talk is "Flapping Birds and Space Telescopes."

And that is what origami used to be.

But it's become something else.

It's become an art form, a form of sculpture. 

If you look close, it's this shape, called a crane.

Every Japanese kid learns how to fold that crane.

And that might have been the case. 

But in the twentieth century, a Japanese folder named Yoshizawa came along, and he created tens of thousands of new designs.

But even more importantly, he created a language, a way we could communicate, a code of dots, dashes and arrows.

And where it has led in origami is to things like this.

That is, people applied mathematical principles to the art, to discover the underlying laws.

And that leads to a very powerful tool.

The secret to productivity in so many fields -- and in origami -- is letting dead people do your work for you. 

Because what you can do is take your problem, and turn it into a problem that someone else has solved, and use their solutions.

And I want to tell you how we did that in origami.

Origami revolves around crease patterns.

The crease pattern shown here is the underlying blueprint for an origami figure.

And you can't just draw them arbitrarily.

Nothing else.

If you look at the angles around the fold, you find that if you number the angles in a circle, all the even-numbered angles add up to a straight line, all the odd-numbered angles add up to a straight line.

All of origami comes from that. 

If we obey these laws, we can do amazing things.

And if you don't want to fold 400 scales, you can back off and just do a few things, and add plates to the back of a turtle, or toes.

Or you can ramp up and go up to 50 stars on a flag, with 13 stripes.

And if you want to go really crazy, 1,000 scales on a rattlesnake.

And this guy's on display downstairs, so take a look if you get a chance. 

We take an idea, combine it with a square, and you get an origami figure. 

What matters is what we mean by those symbols.

And then once I have that folded shape that we call the base, you can make the legs narrower, you can bend them, you can turn it into the finished shape. 

Take an idea, draw a stick figure.

The last step is not so hard, but that middle step -- going from the abstract description to the folded shape -- that's hard.

But that's the place where the mathematical ideas can get us over the hump.

And I'm going to show you all how to do that so you can go out of here and fold something.

But we're going to start small.

This base has a lot of flaps in it.

We're going to learn how to make one flap.

I could use that for a leg, an arm, anything like that. 

What paper went into that flap?

So that's the flap, and all the rest of the paper's left over.

I can use it for something else.

Well, there are other ways of making a flap.

There are other dimensions for flaps.

If I make the flaps skinnier, I can use a bit less paper.

If I make the flap as skinny as possible, I get to the limit of the minimum amount of paper needed.

And you can see there, it needs a quarter-circle of paper to make a flap.

There's other ways of making flaps.

So, no matter how I make a flap, it needs some part of a circular region of paper.

And in the 1990s, origami artists discovered these principles and realized we could make arbitrarily complicated figures just by packing circles.

I can rely on that vast history of mathematicians and artists looking at disc packings and arrangements.

And I can use those patterns now to create origami shapes.

And it's so simple. 

It's so simple that a computer could do it.

So I wrote a computer program a bunch of years ago called TreeMaker, and you can download it from my website.

And you just draw a stick figure, and it calculates the crease pattern.

And if you take this crease pattern, you fold on the dotted lines, you'll get a base that you can then shape into a deer, with exactly the crease pattern that you wanted.

Or you could do a moose.

Or, really, any other kind of deer.

These techniques revolutionized this art.

We found we could do insects, spiders, which are close, things with legs, things with legs and wings, things with legs and antennae.

And if folding a single praying mantis from a single uncut square wasn't interesting enough, then you could do two praying mantises from a single uncut square.

She's eating him.

I call it "Snack Time."

And you can do more than just insects.

This -- you can put details, toes and claws.

This tree frog has toes.

You can make multiple subjects.

So these are a couple of instrumentalists.

The guitar player from a single square, the bass player from a single square.

And what this has allowed is the creation of origami-on-demand.

So now people can say, "I want exactly this and this and this," and you can go out and fold it.

And sometimes you create high art, and sometimes you pay the bills by doing some commercial work.

But I want to show you some examples.

Everything you'll see here, except the car, is origami. 

Just to show you, this really was folded paper.

Computers made things move, but these were all real, folded objects that we made.

And we can use this not just for visuals, but it turns out to be useful even in the real world.

Surprisingly, origami and the structures that we've developed in origami turn out to have applications in medicine, in science, in space, in the body, consumer electronics and more. 

And I want to show you some of these examples.

It's an artist's rendition, but it flew in a Japanese telescope in 1995.

They certainly didn't need to talk to origami artists. 

But if you want to go higher and go larger than this, then you might need some origami.

Engineers at Lawrence Livermore National Lab had an idea for a telescope much larger.

They called it the Eyeglass.

The design called for geosynchronous orbit 25,000 miles up, 100-meter diameter lens.

So, imagine a lens the size of a football field.

How do you make a large sheet of glass smaller?

Well, about the only way is to fold it up somehow.

So you have to do something like this.

This was a small model. 

Folded lens, you divide up the panels, you add flexures.

But this pattern's not going to work to get something 100 meters down to a few meters.

And we developed a pattern together that scales to arbitrarily large size, but that allows any flat ring or disc to fold down into a very neat, compact cylinder.

And they adopted that for their first generation, which was not 100 meters -- it was a five-meter.

But this is a five-meter telescope -- has about a quarter-mile focal length.

And it works perfectly on its test range, and it indeed folds up into a neat little bundle. 

Now, there is other origami in space.

The problem that's being solved here is something that needs to be big and sheet-like at its destination, but needs to be small for the journey.

And that works whether you're going into space, or whether you're just going into a body.

And this example is the latter.

This is a heart stent developed by Zhong You at Oxford University.

It holds open a blocked artery when it gets to its destination, but it needs to be much smaller for the trip there, through your blood vessels.

And this stent folds down using an origami pattern, based on a model called the water bomb base. 

Airbag designers also have the problem of getting flat sheets into a small space.

And the algorithms that we developed to do insects turned out to be the solution for airbags to do their simulation.

And so they can do a simulation like this.

And that leads to a really interesting idea. 

You know, where did these things come from?

Well, the heart stent came from that little blow-up box that you might have learned in elementary school.

It's the same pattern, called the water bomb base.

The airbag-flattening algorithm came from all the developments of circle packing and the mathematical theory that was really developed just to create insects -- things with legs.

The thing is, that this often happens in math and science.

When you get math involved, problems that you solve for aesthetic value only, or to create something beautiful, turn around and turn out to have an application in the real world.

And as weird and surprising as it may sound, origami may someday even save a life.

Thanks. 

