I read about how the CPU is constantly shuffling data back and forth between the memory, the RAM and the ALU, the arithmetic and logic unit.

And I thought to myself, this CPU really has to work like crazy just to keep all this data moving through the system. 

But nobody was really worried about this.

What people didn't realize, and I'm just beginning to realize right now, is that we pay a huge price for the speed that we claim is a big advantage of these computers.

Let's take a look at some numbers.

This is Blue Gene, the fastest computer in the world.

So that would be really great, if you could add that to the production capacity in Tanzania.

It would really boost the economy.

Now, let's compare this with the brain.

This is a picture of, actually Rory Sayres' girlfriend's brain.

(Laughter) So that's true love, right there.

Now, how much computation does the brain do?

And it's actually as much as your laptop computer: it's just 10 watts.

So what we are doing right now with computers with the energy consumed by 1,200 houses, the brain is doing with the energy consumed by your laptop. 

How is the brain able to do this?

So, this clip is from the PBS series, "The Secret Life of the Brain."

It shows you these cells that process information.

They are called neurons.

They send little pulses of electricity down their processes to each other, and where they contact each other, those little pulses of electricity can jump from one neuron to the other.

That process is called a synapse.

You've got this huge network of cells interacting with each other -- about 100 million of them, sending about 10 quadrillion of these pulses around every second.

And that's basically what's going on in your brain right now as you're watching this. 

How does that compare with the way computers work?

It's really a network in the literal sense of the word.

The net is doing the work in the brain.

If you just look at these two pictures, these kind of words pop into your mind.

Information processing is very dynamic and adaptive. 

And I'll just take you through that a little bit in the next few slides. 

This is -- it's actually really this remarkable convergence between the devices that we use to compute in computers, and the devices that our brains use to compute.

The devices that computers use are what's called a transistor.

This electrode here, called the gate, controls the flow of current from the source to the drain -- these two electrodes.

And that current, electrical current, is carried by electrons, just like in your house and so on.

And what you have here is, when you actually turn on the gate, you get an increase in the amount of current, and you get a steady flow of current.

And when you turn off the gate, there's no current flowing through the device.

Now, what's happening is that as transistors are getting smaller and smaller and smaller, they no longer behave like this.

In fact, they are starting to behave like the device that neurons use to compute, which is called an ion channel.

And this is a little protein molecule.

I mean, neurons have thousands of these.

And it sits in the membrane of the cell and it's got a pore in it.

Now, this pore can open and close.

Now, this is starting to happen in transistors.

And the reason why that's happening is that, right now, in 2007 -- the technology that we are using -- a transistor is big enough that several electrons can flow through the channel simultaneously, side by side.

In fact, there's about 12 electrons can all be flowing this way.

And that means that a transistor corresponds to about 12 ion channels in parallel.

Now, in a few years time, by 2015, we will shrink transistors so much.

But what's happening now is that in 2015, the transistor is going to become so small, that it corresponds to only one electron at a time can flow through that channel, and that corresponds to a single ion channel.

And you start having the same kind of traffic jams that you have in the ion channel.

And that means your computer is going to get its ones and zeros mixed up, and that's going to crash your machine. 

So, we are at the stage where we don't really know how to compute with these kinds of devices.

And the only kind of thing -- the only thing we know right now that can compute with these kinds of devices are the brain. 

That's the red path that's highlighted.

The way brains work, I told you all, you have got all these neurons.

So you have all these pieces of data distributed throughout the network.

So you set up these connections such that the input pattern just flows and generates the output pattern. 

What you see here is that there's these redundant connections.

So even when you go to these crappy devices where sometimes you want a one and you get a zero, and it doesn't show up, there's redundancy in the network that can actually recover the missing information.

It makes the brain inherently robust.

What I want to basically talk about is my dream, which is to build a computer that works like the brain.

This is something that we've been working on for the last couple of years.

We didn't do this by actually writing code, like you do in a computer.

Instead of doing this in software, or doing those kinds of algorithms, we went and talked to neurobiologists who have actually reverse engineered that piece of brain that's called the retina.

And these transistors are behaving essentially just like ion channels behave in the brain.

It will give you the same kind of robust architecture that I described. 

And it extracts regions with white or light contrast, which will show up on the video as green. 

This is Kareem's dark eyes and that's the white background that you see here.

And then it also extracts movement.

And these four types of information -- your optic nerve has about a million fibers in it, and 900,000 of those fibers send these four types of information.

So we are really duplicating the kind of signals that you have on the optic nerve. 

It doesn't light up green everywhere in the background, only on the edges, and then in the hair, and so on.

But the point that I want to make -- I'll show you up here.

And so, here you go.

Yes, so that's the idea.

When you stand still, you just see the light and dark contrasts.

But when it's moving back and forth, the retina picks up these changes.

And that's why, you know, when you're sitting here and something happens in your background, you merely move your eyes to it.

So those are very important for catching somebody who's trying to sneak up on you. 

Let me just end by saying that this is what happens when you put Africa in a piano, OK.

And what I would like us to do is put Africa in the computer, and come up with a new kind of computer that will generate thought, imagination, be creative and things like that.

It was very brute force; it was very inelegant.

I was coming at it from a different perspective, where I was bringing that different perspective to bear on the problem.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

