The Internet, the Web as we know it, the kind of Web -- the things we're all talking about -- is already less than 5,000 days old.

It's really amazing that all this stuff is here.

(Laughter) It's in 5,000 days, all this stuff has come.

And I know that 10 years ago, if I had told you that this was all coming, you would have said that that's impossible.

There's simply no economic model that that would be possible.

And yet it's here. 

And it turns out that that's not what it was.

First of all, it was impossible, and it's not what it was.

It's impossible in theory, but possible in practice.

So, I'm curious about what's going to happen in the next 5,000 days.

But if that's happened in the last 5,000 days, what's going to happen in the next 5,000 days?

If there is only one machine, and our little handhelds and devices are actually just little windows into those machines, but that we're basically constructing a single, global machine. 

And so I began to think about that.

And it turned out that this machine happens to be the most reliable machine that we've ever made.

It has not crashed; it's running uninterrupted.

So, I was trying to basically make measurements.

What are the dimensions of this machine?

And there's 55 trillion links between all the Web pages of the world. 

There's two million emails per second.

So it's a very big number.

A quadrillion transistors is almost the same as the number of neurons in your brain.

So to a first approximation, we have these things -- twenty petahertz synapse firings.

Of course, the memory is really huge.

But to a first approximation, the size of this machine is the size -- and its complexity, kind of -- to your brain.

Because in fact, that's how your brain works -- in kind of the same way that the Web works.

However, your brain isn't doubling every two years.

So if we say this machine right now that we've made is about one HB, one human brain, if we look at the rate that this is increasing, 30 years from now, there'll be six billion HBs.

So by the year 2040, the total processing of this machine will exceed a total processing power of humanity, 

And the second thing is, we're going to restructure its architecture.

And thirdly, we're going to become completely codependent upon it. 

So let me go through those three things.

These are all basically portals into that one machine.

The second thing is that -- some people call this the cloud, and you're kind of touching the cloud with this.

And so in some ways, all you really need is a cloudbook.

So the machine is computing. 

And in some ways, it's sort of back to the kind of old idea of centralized computing.

But everything, all the cameras, and the microphones, and the sensors in cars and everything is connected to this machine.

And if you imagine what, say, just as an example, what Google Labs has in terms of experiments with Google Docs, Google Spreadsheets, blah, blah, blah -- all these things are going to become Web based.

They're going through the machine.

They're going to speak the Web language.

They're going to talk to the machine.

A lot of people think about the new economy as something that was going to be a disembodied, alternative, virtual existence, and that we would have the old economy of atoms.

But in fact, what the new economy really is is the marriage of those two, where we embed the information, and the digital nature of things into the material world.

And so one of the consequences of that, I believe, is that where we have this sort of spectrum of media right now -- TV, film, video -- that basically becomes one media platform.

Those are the effects that we're going to see.

Attention is the currency. 

So those laws are going to kind of spread throughout all media.

And the other thing about this embodiment is that there's kind of what I call the McLuhan reversal.

So we have a trillion eyes, and ears, and touches, through all our digital photographs and cameras.

In a certain sense, the machine is seeing through the pixels of individual cameras. 

And I have to warn you, that what we'll talk about is -- I'm going to give my explanation of a term you're hearing, which is a "semantic Web."

So first of all, the first stage that we've seen of the Internet was that it was going to link computers.

And that's what we called the Net; that was the Internet of nets.

The second stage that we're in now is the idea of linking pages.

So in the old one, if I wanted to go on to an airline Web page, I went from my computer, to an FTP site, to another airline computer.

So that's what we were doing. 

So we're going from machine to machine, from page to page, and now data to data.

So the difference is, is that rather than linking from page to page, we're actually going to link from one idea on a page to another idea, rather than to the other page.

So every idea is basically being supported -- or every item, or every noun -- is being supported by the entire Web.

It's being resolved at the level of items, or ideas, or words, if you want.

So besides physically coming out again into this idea that it's not just virtual, it's actually going out to things.

So something will resolve down to the information about a particular person, so every person will have a unique ID.

Every person, every item will have a something that will be very specific, and will link to a specific representation of that idea or item.

So now, in this new one, when I link to it, I would link to my particular flight, my particular seat.

And so, giving an example of this thing, I live in Pacifica, rather than -- right now Pacifica is just sort of a name on the Web somewhere.

So here are some of the technical terms, all three-letter things, that you'll see a lot more of.

All these things are about enabling this idea of linking to the data.

So I'll give you one kind of an example.

There's like a billion social sites on the Web.

All this data about you should just be conveyed, and you should do it once and that's all that should happen.

A semantic Web, Web 3.0, giant global graph -- we're kind of trying out what we want to call this thing.

But what's it's doing is sharing data.

So you have to be open to having your data shared, which is a much bigger step than just sharing your Web page, or your computer.

And all these things that are going to be on this are not just pages, they are things.

Everything we've described, every artifact or place, will be a specific representation, will have a specific character that can be linked to directly.

So we have this database of things.

And so we are in the middle of this thing that's completely linked, down to every object in the little sliver of a connection that it has. 

So, the last thing I want to talk about is this idea that we're going to be codependent.

It's always going to be there, and the closer it is, the better.

If you allow Google to, it will tell you your search history.

And I found out by looking at it that I search most at 11 o'clock in the morning.

So I am open, and being transparent to that.

And I think total personalization in this new world will require total transparency.

That is going to be the price.

And we kind of object at first, saying, "Oh, that's awful."

We cannot imagine ourselves without the alphabet and writing.

And so in the same way, we're going to not imagine ourselves without this other machine being there.

We are going to be the machine.

So the next 5,000 days, it's not going to be the Web and only better.

And I think it's going to be smarter.

And again, the price of that will be transparency.

And all these devices will be portals into that. 

But we can also think about it as kind of a large organism.

So we might respond to it more as if this was a whole system, more as if this wasn't a large organism that we are going to be interacting with.

But there's a unity of some sort that's starting to emerge.

