And you're on the inside, and it's everything you hoped it would be.

And you want to go back and do it again.

And if you put creation and optimism together, you've got two choices that you can talk about.

But any kind of conversation about architecture -- which is, in fact, what you were just talking about, what was going on here, setting up TED, small-scale architecture -- at the present time can't really happen without a conversation about this, the World Trade Center, and what's been going on there, what it means to us. 

This has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time.

I think that the World Trade Center in, rather an unfortunate way, brought architecture into focus in a way that I don't think people had thought of in a long time, and made it a subject for common conversation.

I don't remember, in my 20-year career of practicing and writing about architecture, a time when five people sat me down at a table and asked me very serious questions about zoning, fire exiting, safety concerns and whether carpet burns.

These are just not things we talked about very often.

And yet, now, it's talked about all the time.

At the point where you can weaponize your buildings, you have to suddenly think about architecture in a very different way.

There's the World Trade Center site, on the front cover.

Let's bring in some real architects for a change.

This was a scheme by a team called THINK, a New York-based team, and then there was that one, which was the Libeskind scheme.

But that's what we're going to do.

But I want you to think about these things in terms of a kind of ongoing struggle that American architecture represents, and that these two things talk about very specifically.

And that is the wild divergence in how we choose our architects, in trying to decide whether we want architecture from the kind of technocratic solution to everything -- that there is a large, technical answer that can solve all problems, be they social, be they physical, be they chemical -- or something that's more of a romantic solution. 

Now, I don't mean romantic as in, this is a nice place to take someone on a date.

I mean romantic in the sense of, there are things larger and grander than us.

So, in the American tradition, the difference between the technocratic and the romantic, would be the difference between Thomas Jefferson's Cartesian grids spreading across the United States, that gives us basically the whole shape of every western state in the United States, as a really, truly, technocratic solution, a bowing to the -- in Jefferson's time -- current, popular philosophy of rationalism.

I mean, it goes on in our private lives, too, every single day.

We all want to go out and buy an Audi TT, don't we?

Everyone here must own one, or at least they craved one the moment they saw one.

And then they hopped in it, turned the little electronic key, rather than the real key, zipped home on their new superhighway, and drove straight into a garage that looks like a Tudor castle. 

It's in our nature to go ricocheting back and forth between this technocratic solution and a larger, sort of more romantic image of where we are.

So we're going to go straight into this.

Can I have the lights off for a moment?

And these are two of the top architectural practices in the United States today.

One very young, one a little more mature.

Does everybody know what a camera obscura is?

The computer revolution, the technocratic, technological revolution, has allowed us to jettison normal-shaped buildings, traditionally shaped buildings, in favor of non-orthogonal buildings such as this.

What makes the building expensive, in the traditional sense, is making individual parts custom, that you can't do over and over again.

That's why we all live in developer houses.

They all want to save money by building the same thing 500 times.

That's because it's cheaper. 

Mass customization works by an architect feeding into a computer, a program that says, manufacture these parts.

You're underneath it, looking up into the lens of the camera obscura.

And they said, well, it's summer, what do you do?

So let's make architectural sand dunes and a beach cabana.

So they went out and they modeled a computer model of a sand dune.

These are the pieces, and here's a little of that blown up. 

What you can see is there's about six different colors, and each color represents a type of wood to be cut, a piece of wood to be cut.

Only one of whom had ever seen the plans before.

They were able to create that.

They were able to create something wonderful.

They're now building a 16-story building on the side of New York, using the same technology.

The current king of the romantics, who approaches his work in a very different fashion.

"When it's all said and done, it's got to look like seaweed," said the owner.

Or his restaurant, Pod, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

I want you to know the room you're looking at is stark white.

Every single surface of this restaurant is white.

Let's see it one more time.

Okay, just to make sure that you've enjoyed it.

And finally, it's about comfort, it's about making you feel good in places that you wouldn't have felt good before.

It's about bringing nature to the inside. 

In the Guardian Tower of New York, converted to a W Union Square -- I'm sorry I'm rushing -- where we had to bring in the best horticulturists in the world to make sure that the interior of this dragged the garden space of the court garden of the Union Square into the building itself.

It's about stimulation.

