Anyway, it was a time when I was mainly interested in collecting imaginary stories.

So this is a picture of me holding one of the first watercolor paintings I ever made.

And recently I've been much more interested in collecting stories from reality -- so, real stories.

And specifically, I'm interested in collecting my own stories, stories from the Internet, and then recently, stories from life, which is kind of a new area of work that I've been doing recently.

I have many of these books, and I've been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years.

And in these books, you can find these short, little glimpses of moments and experiences and people that I meet.

And that idea of a partial glimpse is something that will come back in a lot of the work I'll be showing later today.

So, around this time I was studying computer science at Princeton University, and I noticed that it was suddenly possible to collect these sorts of personal artifacts, not just from street corners, but also from the Internet.

And that suddenly, people, en masse, were leaving scores and scores of digital footprints online that told stories of their private lives.

Blog posts, photographs, thoughts, feelings, opinions, all of these things were being expressed by people online, and leaving behind trails.

So, I started to write computer programs that study very, very large sets of these online footprints.

One such project is about a year and a half old.

It's called "We Feel Fine."

So, their gender, their age, their geographic location and what the weather conditions were like when they wrote that sentence.

It collects about 20,000 such sentences a day and it's been running for about a year and a half, having collected over 10 and a half million feelings now.

This is, then, how they're presented.

And the color of each dot corresponds to the type of feeling inside, so the bright ones are happy, and the dark ones are sad.

And the diameter of each dot corresponds to the length of the sentence inside.

So the small ones are short, and the bigger ones are longer.

This provides a slightly more statistical look at things.

This is showing the world's most common feelings overall right now, dominated by better, then bad, then good, then guilty, and so on.

You can also stop a raindrop and open the feeling inside.

So I'll show you now some of my favorite montages from "We Feel Fine."

These are the images that are automatically constructed.

Sometimes, stories as short as two or three words.

So, really even challenging the notion of what can be considered a story.

And recently, I've become interested in diving much more deeply into a single story.

And that's led me to doing some work with the physical world, not with the Internet, and only using the Internet at the very last moment, as a presentation medium.

So these are some newer projects that actually aren't even launched publicly yet.

The first such one is called "The Whale Hunt."

Last May, I spent nine days living up in Barrow, Alaska, the northernmost settlement in the United States, with a family of Inupiat Eskimos, documenting their annual spring whale hunt.

This is the whaling camp here, we're about six miles from shore, camping on five and a half feet of thick, frozen pack ice.

And that water that you see there is the open lead, and through that lead, bowhead whales migrate north each springtime.

And the Eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here, waits for a whale to come close enough to attack.

And that would provide the community's food supply for a long time.

So I went up there, and I lived with these guys out in their whaling camp here, and photographed the entire experience, beginning with the taxi ride to Newark airport in New York, and ending with the butchering of the second whale, seven and a half days later.

I photographed that entire experience at five-minute intervals.

So every five minutes, I took a photograph.

And then in moments of high adrenaline, like when something exciting was happening, I would up that photographic frequency to as many as 37 photographs in five minutes.

So what this created was a photographic heartbeat that sped up and slowed down, more or less matching the changing pace of my own heartbeat.

That was the first concept here.

The second concept was to use this experience to think about the fundamental components of any story.

And in the case of the whale hunt, also this idea of an excitement level.

We're very used to this.

But if you think about real life, it's not like that at all.

I mean, in real life, things are much more nuanced and complex, and there's all of these overlapping stories intersecting and touching each other.

So, how to extract this order of narrative from this larger story?

I built a web interface for viewing "The Whale Hunt" that attempts to do just this.

You can start to see some of the story here, told by color.

So this red strip signifies the color of the wallpaper in the basement apartment where I was staying.

And things go white as we move out onto the Arctic Ocean.

Introduction of red down here, when whales are being cut up.

You can see a timeline, showing you the exciting moments throughout the story.

These are organized chronologically.

Wheel provides a slightly more playful version of the same, so these are also all the photographs organized chronologically.

And any of these can be clicked, and then the narrative is entered at that position.

So here I am sleeping on the airplane heading up to Alaska.

That's "Moby Dick."

This is the food we ate.

Cigarette break outside -- I don't smoke.

This is a really exciting sequence of me sleeping.

This is out at whale camp, on the Arctic Ocean.

And we could do something as arbitrary as, say, extract the story of Rony, involving the concepts of blood and whales and tools, taking place on the Arctic Ocean, at Ahkivgaq camp, with the heartbeat level of fast.

And now we've whittled down that whole story to just 29 matching photographs, and then we can enter the narrative at that position.

And you can see Rony cutting up the whale here.

Skipping ahead a bit more here, this is Rony on the whale carcass.

They use no chainsaws or anything; it's entirely just blades, and an incredibly efficient process.

And I was doing a project there about happiness, interviewing a lot of local people.

So Bhutan has this really wacky thing where they base most of their high-level governmental decisions around the concept of gross national happiness instead of gross domestic product, and they've been doing this since the '70s.

And it leads to just a completely different value system.

It's an incredibly non-materialistic culture, where people don't have a lot, but they're incredibly happy.

I would start by asking people to rate their happiness between one and 10, which is kind of inherently absurd.

And then when they answered, I would inflate that number of balloons and give them that number of balloons to hold.

So, you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons, and some really sad soul holding one balloon.

But you know, even holding one balloon is like, kind of happy.

(Laughter) And then I would ask them a number of questions like what was the happiest day in their life, what makes them happy.

And then finally, I would ask them to make a wish.

And when they made a wish, I would write their wish onto one of the balloons and take a picture of them holding it.

So I'm going to show you now just a few brief snippets of some of the interviews that I did, some of the people I spoke with.

This is an 11-year-old student.

He was playing cops and robbers with his friends, running around town, and they all had plastic toy guns.

She thinks that women have a pretty tough go of things in Bhutan, and it's a lot easier if you're a boy.

A 28-year-old cell phone shop owner.

If you knew what Paro looked like, you'd understand how amazing it is that there's a cell phone shop there.

She wanted to keep farming until she dies.

You can really start to see the stories told by the hands here.

She was wearing this silver ring that had the word "love" engraved on it, and she'd found it in the road somewhere.

A 16-year-old quarry worker.

He wanted to live a long life at the monastery.

He had this amazing series of hairs growing out of a mole on the left side of his face, which I'm told is very good luck.

He was kind of too shy to make a funny face.

A 16-year-old student.

She wanted to become an independent woman.

She'd built a little fire to keep warm, right next to the road.

Her wish was to marry someone with a car.

She wanted a change in her life.

She lives in a little worker's camp right next to the road, and she wanted a different lot on things.

An 81-year-old itinerant farmer.

I saw this guy on the side of the road, and he actually doesn't have a home.

He travels from farm to farm each day trying to find work, and then he tries to sleep at whatever farm he gets work at.

So his wish was to come with me, so that he had somewhere to live.

He had this amazing knife that he pulled out of his gho and started brandishing when I asked him to make a funny face.

It was all good-natured.

A 10-year-old.

He wanted to join a school and learn to read, but his parents didn't have enough money to send him to school.

He was eating this orange, sugary candy that he kept dipping his fingers into, and since there was so much saliva on his hands, this orange paste started to form on his palms.

(Laughter) A 37-year-old road worker.

One of the more touchy political subjects in Bhutan is the use of Indian cheap labor that they import from India to build the roads, and then they send these people home once the roads are built.

So these guys were in a worker's gang mixing up asphalt one morning on the side of the highway.

Finally, this is a 26-year-old nun I spoke to.

Her wish was to make a pilgrimage to Tibet.

I asked her how long she planned to live in the nunnery and she said, "Well, you know, of course, it's impermanent, but my plan is to live here until I'm 30, and then enter a hermitage."

And I said, "Wow, and how long will you live in the cave?"

But here she had been living in a nunnery for the last seven years.

I asked her a little bit more about the cave and what she planned would happen once she went there, you know.

What if she saw the truth after just one year, what would she do for the next 35 years in her life?

Woman: Yes, not maybe one, 10 years, maybe I can die within one year, or something like that.

JH: Are you hoping to?

JH: Well, I wish you the best of luck with it.

Woman: Thank you.

JH: I hope it's everything that you hope it will be.

So thank you again, so much.

Woman: You're most welcome.

And up there, there are thousands of prayer flags that people have spread out over the years.

And we re-inflated all of the balloons, put them up on a string, and hung them up there among the prayer flags.

And they're actually still flying up there today.

We said a Buddhist prayer so that all these wishes could come true.

You can start to see some familiar balloons here.

"To make some money and to open a store" was the Indian road worker.

