Stories that offer transformation, that lean into transcendence, but that are never sentimental, that never look away from the darkest things about us.

Because I really believe that we're never more beautiful than when we're most ugly.

Because that's really the moment we really know what we're made of.

Ubuntu comes out of a philosophy that says, the only way for me to be human is for you to reflect my humanity back at me.

But if you're like me, my humanity is more like a window.

It's usually when I'm cussing in traffic at someone who is trying to drive their car and drink coffee and send emails and make notes.

So what Ubuntu really says is that there is no way for us to be human without other people.

It's really very simple, but really very complicated. 

So, I thought I should start with some stories.

I should tell you some stories about remarkable people, so I thought I'd start with my mother.

(Laughter) And she was dark, too.

My mother was English.

(Laughter) 

But her Igbo wasn't too good.

So she took me along to translate.

I was seven.

(Laughter) So, here are these women, who never discuss their period with their husbands, and here I am telling them, "Well, how often do you get your period?"

(Laughter) So, here are these women, who never discuss their period with their husbands, and here I am telling them, "Well, how often do you get your period?"

(Laughter) And, "Do you notice any discharges?"

(Laughter) And, "Do you notice any discharges?"

(Laughter) And, "How swollen is your vulva?"

(Laughter) And, "How swollen is your vulva?"

(Laughter) 

It takes her one year, through refugee camp after refugee camp, to make her way to an airstrip where we can fly out of the country.

At every single refugee camp, she has to face off soldiers who want to take my elder brother Mark, who was nine, and make him a boy soldier.

Can you imagine this five-foot-two woman, standing up to men with guns who want to kill us?

All through that one year, my mother never cried one time, not once.

The old women in my father's village, after this war had happened, memorized the names of every dead person, and they would sing these dirges, made up of these names.

Dirges so melancholic that they would scorch you.

And then the next planting season, when they sang the dirge, they would remove as many names of the dead that equaled as many people that were born.

And in this way, these women enacted a lot of transformation, beautiful transformation. 

Did you know, that before the genocide in Rwanda, the word for rape and the word for marriage was the same one?

But today, women are rebuilding Rwanda.

Did you also know that after apartheid, when the new government went into the parliament houses, there were no female toilets in the building?

Which would seem to suggest that apartheid was entirely the business of men.

All of this to say, that despite the horror, and despite the death, women are never really counted.

Their humanity never seems to matter very much to us. 

Men were taught to be men in the ways in which we are not women, that's essentially what it is.

And I was this weird, sensitive kid, who couldn't really do it, but I had to do it.

And I was supposed to do this alone.

But a friend of mine, called Emmanuel, who was significantly older than me, who'd been a boy soldier during the Biafran war, decided to come with me.

Which sort of made me feel good, because he'd seen a lot of things.

My friend Brad Kessler says that we didn't become human until we started keeping goats.

Anyway, a goat's eyes are like a child's eyes.

It didn't seem like a lot, for this guy who'd seen so much, and to whom the killing of a goat must have seemed such a quotidian experience, still found it in himself to try to protect me.

I was a wimp.

I cried for a very long time.

(Laughter) 

So, I was born two days after Christmas.

(Laughter) So, I blew it up and ran into the living room, my finger where it shouldn't have been, I was waving this buzzing sheep around, and my mother looked like she was going to die of shock.

(Laughter) So, I blew it up and ran into the living room, my finger where it shouldn't have been, I was waving this buzzing sheep around, and my mother looked like she was going to die of shock.

(Laughter) And Father McGetrick was completely unflustered, just stirred his tea and looked at my mother and said, "It's all right Daphne, I'm Scottish."

(Laughter) And Father McGetrick was completely unflustered, just stirred his tea and looked at my mother and said, "It's all right Daphne, I'm Scottish."

(Laughter) (Applause) 

My last days in prison, the last 18 months, my cellmate -- for the last year, the first year of the last 18 months -- my cellmate was 14 years old.

The name was John James, and in those days, if a family member committed a crime, the military would hold you as ransom till your family turned themselves in.

So, here was this 14-year-old kid on death row.

And not everybody on death row was a political prisoner.

There were some really bad people there.

He was obsessed.

And so, I remember night after night, you'd hear all these men, these really hardened criminals, huddled around John James, reciting, "Take that, Spidey!"

(Laughter) It's incredible.

I was really worried.

He didn't know what death row meant.

I'd been there twice, and I was terribly afraid that I was going to die.

The Igbo used to say that they built their own gods.

They would come together as a community, and they would express a wish.

But if the god became unruly and began to ask for human sacrifice, the Igbos would destroy the god.

They would knock down the shrine, and they would stop saying the god's name.

This is how they came to reclaim their humanity.

It doesn't require a tremendous thing.

All it requires is to recognize among us, every day -- the few of us that can see -- are surrounded by people like the ones I've told you. 

There are some of you in this room, amazing people, who offer all of us the mirror to our own humanity.

I want to end with a poem by an American poet called Lucille Clifton.

The poem is called "Libation," and it's for my friend Vusi who is in the audience here somewhere.

I imagine an old man crying here, out of the sight of the overseer.

He pushes his tongue through a hole where his tooth would be, if he were whole.

He wipes sorrow from his face, and puts his thirsty finger to his thirsty tongue, and tastes the salt.

I call a name that could be his.

