I want to say why psychology was good, why it was not good and how it may become, in the next 10 years, good enough.

And by parallel summary, I want to say the same thing about technology, about entertainment and design, because I think the issues are very similar. 

So, why was psychology good?

Well, for more than 60 years, psychology worked within the disease model.

And now, when I tell people what I do, they move toward me. 

And now, 14 of the disorders are treatable, two of them actually curable. 

That we found out that we could take fuzzy concepts -- like depression, alcoholism -- and measure them with rigor.

That we could create a classification of the mental illnesses.

That we could understand the causality of the mental illnesses.

And best of all, we were able, in the last 50 years, to invent drug treatments and psychological treatments.

But what was not good, the consequences of that were three things. 

And we forgot that people made choices and decisions.

The second cost was that we forgot about you people.

We forgot about improving normal lives.

No one works on that. 

So that was not good.

The first is that psychology should be just as concerned with human strength as it is with weakness.

It should be just as concerned with building strength as with repairing damage.

It should be interested in the best things in life.

And it should be just as concerned with making the lives of normal people fulfilling, and with genius, with nurturing high talent. 

And any of you, for free, can go to that website and take the entire panoply of tests of happiness.

And starting about six years ago, we asked about extremely happy people.

And how do they differ from the rest of us?

And it turns out there's one way.

The one way in which they differ: they're extremely social.

They don't sit in seminars on Saturday morning.

(Laughter) They don't spend time alone.

Each of them is in a romantic relationship and each has a rich repertoire of friends. 

And I'm going to suggest to you that's not nearly enough, in just a moment.

The first happy life is the pleasant life.

This is a life in which you have as much positive emotion as you possibly can, and the skills to amplify it.

That's what Aristotle was talking about.

And third, the meaningful life.

So I want to say a little bit about each of those lives and what we know about them. 

And, as I said, it's not particularly malleable. 

And this leads to the second life.

And I have to tell you about my friend, Len, to talk about why positive psychology is more than positive emotion, more than building pleasure.

By the time he was 20, he was an options trader.

But in the third great arena of life, love, Len is an abysmal failure.

Len is an introvert.

But it turned out there wasn't any sexual trauma.

When the first card is played, until 10 days later, the tournament is over, time stops for Len. 

You have intense concentration.

And this is indeed the characteristic of what we think of as the good life.

And we think there's a recipe for it, and it's knowing what your highest strengths are.

Hated the job.

She's working her way through college.

But what she did was to take her highest strengths, and re-craft work to use them as much as possible.

What you get out of that is not smiley-ness.

The second path is eudaimonian flow. 

And the third path is meaning.

It's being done in a rigorous manner.

It's being done in the same way that we test drugs to see what really works.

So we do random assignment, placebo controlled, long-term studies of different interventions.

And what happens is when we test people one week later, a month later, three months later, they're both happier and less depressed. 

And what you find is when you do something fun, it has a square wave walk set.

When you do something philanthropic to help another person, it lasts and it lasts.

So those are examples of positive interventions. 

And we ask the question as a function of the three different lives, how much life satisfaction do you get?

It turns out the pursuit of pleasure has almost no contribution to life satisfaction.

The pursuit of meaning is the strongest.

The pursuit of engagement is also very strong.

Which is to say, the full life -- the sum is greater than the parts, if you've got all three.

Conversely, if you have none of the three, the empty life, the sum is less than the parts. 

And what we're asking now is does the very same relationship, physical health, morbidity, how long you live and productivity, follow the same relationship?

That is, in a corporation, is productivity a function of positive emotion, engagement and meaning?

Is health a function of positive engagement, of pleasure, and of meaning in life?

And there is reason to think the answer to both of those may well be yes. 

But I found that the problems of psychology seemed to be parallel to the problems of technology, entertainment and design in the following way.

We all know that technology, entertainment and design have been and can be used for destructive purposes.

We also know that technology, entertainment and design can be used to relieve misery.

And by the way, the distinction between relieving misery and building happiness is extremely important.

But they were empty. 

And it turns out the skills of happiness, the skills of the pleasant life, the skills of engagement, the skills of meaning, are different from the skills of relieving misery.

And so, the parallel thing holds with technology, entertainment and design, I believe.

That is, it is possible for these three drivers of our world to increase happiness, to increase positive emotion, and that's typically how they've been used.

But once you fractionate happiness the way I do -- not just positive emotion, that's not nearly enough -- there's flow in life, and there's meaning in life.

As Laura Lee told us, design, and, I believe, entertainment and technology, can be used to increase meaning engagement in life as well. 

So in conclusion, the eleventh reason for optimism, in addition to the space elevator, is that I think with technology, entertainment and design, we can actually increase the amount of tonnage of human happiness on the planet.

And if technology can, in the next decade or two, increase the pleasant life, the good life and the meaningful life, it will be good enough.

If entertainment can be diverted to also increase positive emotion, meaning, eudaimonia, it will be good enough.

