As a clergyman, you can imagine how out of place I feel.

I feel like a fish out of water, or maybe an owl out of the air. 

And I was so stimulated.

I was to address a conference at a hotel.

I hope that you won't feel that these few moments with me is not a -- is an anticlimax, after all these tremendous talks that you've heard, and addresses, which I intend to listen to every one of them.

And I suppose that that's true with thousands of people. 

But this is not the first time that we've had a technological revolution.

We've had others.

And there's one that I want to talk about.

In one generation, the nation of the people of Israel had a tremendous and dramatic change that made them a great power in the Near East.

A man by the name of David came to the throne, and King David became one of the great leaders of his generation.

He was a man of tremendous leadership.

He had the favor of God with him.

He was a brilliant poet, philosopher, writer, soldier -- with strategies in battle and conflict that people study even today. 

But about two centuries before David, the Hittites had discovered the secret of smelting and processing of iron, and, slowly, that skill spread.

But they wouldn't allow the Israelis to look into it, or to have any.

Now, instead of crude tools made of sticks and stones, Israel now had iron plows, and sickles, and hoes and military weapons.

And in the course of one generation, Israel was completely changed.

The introduction of iron, in some ways, had an impact a little bit like the microchip has had on our generation.

And David found that there were many problems that technology could not solve. 

And David found that there were many problems that technology could not solve. 

And David found that there were many problems that technology could not solve. 

And they're still with us, and you haven't solved them, and I haven't heard anybody here speak to that.

How do we solve these three problems that I'd like to mention?

The first one that David saw was human evil.

Where does it come from?

How do we solve it?

And yet he says, "He restores my soul."

Have you ever thought about what a contradiction we are?

But on the other hand, something is wrong.

Our battleships, our soldiers, are on a frontier now, almost ready to go to war with Iraq.

Now, what causes this?

We can't get along with other people, even in our own families.

We find ourselves in the paralyzing grip of self-destructive habits we can't break.

Racism and injustice and violence sweep our world, bringing a tragic harvest of heartache and death.

Even the most sophisticated among us seem powerless to break this cycle.

I would like to see Oracle take up that, or some other technological geniuses work on this.

But he made this statement.

The Oklahoma City bombing was simple technology, horribly used.

The problem is not technology.

The problem is the person or persons using it.

King David said that he knew the depths of his own soul.

He couldn't free himself from personal problems and personal evils that included murder and adultery.

That's the part of us that yearns for God, or something more than we find in technology.

Your soul is that part of you that yearns for meaning in life, and which seeks for something beyond this life.

It's the part of you that yearns, really, for God.

I'm going to Harvard in about three or four -- no, it's about two months from now -- to give a lecture.

And I'll be asked the same questions that I was asked the last few times I've been there.

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from?

Even if you have no religious belief, there are times when you wonder that there's something else.

And I'd been to Russia several times under the Communists, and they'd given me marvelous freedom that I didn't expect.

And afterward, she said, "You know, I'm an atheist, but I know that there's something up there higher than we are."

And afterward, she said, "You know, I'm an atheist, but I know that there's something up there higher than we are."

And afterward, she said, "You know, I'm an atheist, but I know that there's something up there higher than we are."

The second problem that King David realized he could not solve was the problem of human suffering.

But I'm -- in a few months, I'll be 80 years of age.

I admit that I'm very grateful for all the medical advances that have kept me in relatively good health all these years.

My doctors at the Mayo Clinic urged me not to take this trip out here to this -- to be here.

I haven't given a talk in nearly four months.

And when you speak as much as I do, three or four times a day, you get rusty.

That's the reason I'm using this podium and using these notes.

I never read a speech or a talk or a lecture.

I talk ad lib.

But even here among us, most -- in the most advanced society in the world, we have poverty.

We have families that self-destruct, friends that betray us.

Unbearable psychological pressures bear down on us.

Yet David again and again said that he would turn to God.

Many commentators have said that death is the forbidden subject of our generation.

Most people live as if they're never going to die.

Technology projects the myth of control over our mortality.

We see people on our screens.

The old stars, they come to life.

And they're -- they're just as great on that screen as they were in person.

But death is inevitable. 

I spoke some time ago to a joint session of Congress, last year.

And we have that in common with all these great men of the past that are staring down at us."

I've talked to them.

I've seen them in those agonizing moments when they were scared to death. 

I talked to a woman this past week whose father was a famous doctor.

Was there a God?

It passes so fast."

But it does not need to have to be that way.

I've done a lot of speaking in Germany and in France, and in different parts of the world -- 105 countries it's been my privilege to speak in.

And I was invited one day to visit Chancellor Adenauer, who was looked upon as sort of the founder of modern Germany, since the war.

And he once -- and he said to me, he said, "Young man."

And he once -- and he said to me, he said, "Young man."

Blaise Pascal asked exactly that question in seventeenth-century France.

Pascal has been called the architect of modern civilization.

He was a brilliant scientist at the frontiers of mathematics, even as a teenager.

Pascal explored in depth our human dilemmas of evil, suffering and death.

Pascal saw us as a remarkable mixture of genius and self-delusion.

On November 23, 1654, Pascal had a profound religious experience.

He wrote in his journal these words: "I submit myself, absolutely, to Jesus Christ, my redeemer."

He experienced it in a way that went beyond scientific observation and reason.

It was he who penned the well-known words, "The heart has its reasons, which reason knows not of."

It was he who penned the well-known words, "The heart has its reasons, which reason knows not of."

The knowledge of God was far beyond anything that ever crossed his mind.

He was ready to face him when he died at the age of 39.

King David lived to be 70, a long time in his era.

Yet he too had to face death, and he wrote these words: "even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me."

This was David's answer to three dilemmas of evil, suffering and death.

It can be yours, as well, as you seek the living God and allow him to fill your life and give you hope for the future.

When I was 17 years of age, I was born and reared on a farm in North Carolina.

I didn't make good grades in high school.

I didn't make them in college, until something happened in my heart. 

I had to make that decision.

I couldn't prove it.

I couldn't take it to a laboratory and experiment with it.

But by faith I said, I believe him, and he came into my heart and changed my life.

Richard Wurman: You did it.

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

