I and my colleagues Art Aron and Lucy Brown and others, have put 37 people who are madly in love into a functional MRI brain scanner.

So, this is the short story of that research. 

In the jungles of Guatemala, in Tikal, stands a temple.

And every spring and autumn, exactly at the equinox, the sun rises behind his temple, and perfectly bathes her temple with his shadow.

And as the sun sets behind her temple in the afternoon, it perfectly bathes his temple with her shadow.

After 1,300 years, these two lovers still touch and kiss from their tomb. 

Around the world, people love.

They sing for love, they dance for love, they compose poems and stories about love.

They tell myths and legends about love.

They pine for love, they live for love, they kill for love, and they die for love.

As Walt Whitman once said, he said, "Oh, I would stake all for you."

Anthropologists have found evidence of romantic love in 170 societies.

They've never found a society that did not have it. 

But love isn't always a happy experience.

And almost 95 percent of both men and women said yes to both.

Almost nobody gets out of love alive. 

There's other love poems that are, of course, just as good, but I don't think this one can be surpassed.

It was told by an anonymous Kwakiutl Indian of southern Alaska to a missionary in 1896, and here it is.

I've never had the opportunity to say it before.

How many people have suffered in all the millions of years of human evolution?

How many people around the world are dancing with elation at this very minute?

Romantic love is one of the most powerful sensations on Earth. 

So, several years ago, I decided to look into the brain and study this madness.

Our first study of people who were happily in love has been widely publicized, so I'm only going to say a very little about it.

We found activity in a tiny, little factory near the base of the brain called the ventral tegmental area.

Indeed, this part, the VTA, is part of the brain's reward system.

It's part of what we call the reptilian core of the brain, associated with wanting, with motivation, with focus and with craving.

In fact, the same brain region where we found activity becomes active also when you feel the rush of cocaine. 

You can't stop thinking about another human being.

Somebody is camping in your head.

And the obsession can get worse when you've been rejected. 

So, right now, Lucy Brown and I, the neuroscientist on our project, are looking at the data of the people who were put into the machine after they had just been dumped.

It was very difficult actually, putting these people in the machine, because they were in such bad shape.

(Laughter) So anyway, we found activity in three brain regions.

We found activity in the brain region, in exactly the same brain region associated with intense romantic love.

What a bad deal.

You know, when you've been dumped, the one thing you love to do is just forget about this human being, and then go on with your life -- but no, you just love them harder.

As the poet Terence, the Roman poet once said, he said, "The less my hope, the hotter my love."

In this case, life's greatest prize: an appropriate mating partner. 

We found activity in other brain regions also -- in a brain region associated with calculating gains and losses.

How, you know, what have I lost?

As a matter of fact, Lucy and I have a little joke about this.

It's also the brain region that becomes active when you're willing to take enormous risks for huge gains and huge losses. 

Last but not least, we found activity in a brain region associated with deep attachment to another individual.

No wonder people suffer around the world, and we have so many crimes of passion.

When you've been rejected in love, not only are you engulfed with feelings of romantic love, but you're feeling deep attachment to this individual.

Moreover, this brain circuit for reward is working, and you're feeling intense energy, intense focus, intense motivation and the willingness to risk it all to win life's greatest prize. 

So, what have I learned from this experiment that I would like to tell the world?

Foremost, I have come to think that romantic love is a drive, a basic mating drive.

I think of all the poetry that I've read about romantic love, what sums it up best is something that is said by Plato, over 2,000 years ago.

And indeed, it has all of the characteristics of addiction.

I've got a girlfriend who's just getting over a terrible love affair.

It's been about eight months, she's beginning to feel better.

And she -- not only did the instant craving come back, but she had to pull over from the side of the road and cry.

So, one thing I would like the medical community, and the legal community, and even the college community, to see if they can understand, that indeed, romantic love is one of the most addictive substances on Earth. 

So, one thing I would like the medical community, and the legal community, and even the college community, to see if they can understand, that indeed, romantic love is one of the most addictive substances on Earth. 

I would also like to tell the world that animals love.

There's not an animal on this planet that will copulate with anything that comes along.

As a matter of fact ethologists know this.

There are over eight words for what they call "animal favoritism:" selective proceptivity, mate choice, female choice, sexual choice.

People have often asked me whether what I know about love has spoiled it for me.

And I just simply say, "Hardly."

Our newest experiment has been hatched by my colleague, Art Aron -- putting people who are reporting that they are still in love, in a long-term relationship, into the functional MRI.

The brain areas associated with intense romantic love still become active, 25 years later. 

There are still many questions to be answered and asked about romantic love.

The question that I'm working on right this minute -- and I'm only going to say it for a second, and then end -- is, why do you fall in love with one person, rather than another?

I never would have even thought to think of this, but Match.com, the Internet-dating site, came to me three years ago and asked me that question.

And I said, I don't know.

I know what happens in the brain, when you do become in love, but I don't know why you fall in love with one person rather than another.

And so, I've spent the last three years on this.

And there are many reasons that you fall in love with one person rather than another, that psychologists can tell you.

And we tend to fall in love with somebody from the same socioeconomic background, the same general level of intelligence, the same general level of good looks, the same religious values.

Your childhood certainly plays a role, but nobody knows how.

So, it began to occur to me that maybe your biology pulls you towards some people rather than another.

I think there's biology to that.

I think we're going to end up, in the next few years, to understand all kinds of brain mechanisms that pull us to one person rather than another. 

These are two women.

Women tend to get intimacy differently than men do.

Women get intimacy from face-to-face talking.

We swivel towards each other, we do what we call the "anchoring gaze" and we talk.

This is intimacy to women.

I think it comes from millions of years of holding that baby in front of your face, cajoling it, reprimanding it, educating it with words.

Men tend to get intimacy from side-by-side doing.

(Laughter) As soon as one guy looks up, the other guy will look away.

(Laughter) As soon as one guy looks up, the other guy will look away.

(Laughter) I think it comes from millions of years of standing behind that -- sitting behind the bush, looking straight ahead, trying to hit that buffalo on the head with a rock.

(Laughter) I think it comes from millions of years of standing behind that -- sitting behind the bush, looking straight ahead, trying to hit that buffalo on the head with a rock.

(Laughter) I think, for millions of years, men faced their enemies, they sat side by side with friends.

So my final statement is: love is in us.

