How will we be remembered in 200 years?

It was the first battle that George Washington won, in fact, and was pretty much of a turning point in the war of independence.

It happened 225 years ago.

And so I agree very emphatically that the pain of childbirth is not remembered.

It's the child that's remembered.

And that's what we're going through at this time. 

(Laughter) What I'm saying is that we should follow the model that has been so successful with the electronic industry, that what really turned computers into a great success, in the world as a whole, is toys.

(Laughter) What I'm saying is that we should follow the model that has been so successful with the electronic industry, that what really turned computers into a great success, in the world as a whole, is toys.

(Laughter) What I'm saying is that we should follow the model that has been so successful with the electronic industry, that what really turned computers into a great success, in the world as a whole, is toys.

That will blow away a lot of the opposition.

When people have this technology in their hands, you have a do-it-yourself biotech kit, grow your own -- grow your dog, grow your own cat.

(Laughter) (Applause) Just buy the software, you design it.

(Laughter) (Applause) Just buy the software, you design it.

(Laughter) (Applause) Just buy the software, you design it.

And I'm interested in searching for life in the universe.

The important fact is, that most of the real estate that's accessible to us -- I'm not talking about the stars, I'm talking about the solar system, the stuff that's within reach for spacecraft and within reach of our earthbound telescopes -- most of the real estate is very cold and very far from the Sun. 

It has a fairly substantial number of asteroids between the orbit of the Earth out through -- to the orbit of Jupiter.

It's not only cold, but very dry.

So the asteroids we don't have much hope for. 

There stand some interesting places a little further out: the moons of Jupiter and Saturn.

So, we believe that on Europa there is, in fact, a deep ocean.

And that makes it extraordinarily interesting as a place to explore.

So, what I'm proposing is that there is where we should be looking for life, rather than on Mars, although Mars is, of course, also a very promising and interesting place.

But we can look outside, very cheaply and in a simple fashion.

And that's what I'm going to talk about.

You can imagine that the plants growing up like kelp through cracks in the ice, growing on the surface.

What would they need in order to grow on the surface?

They'd need, first of all, to have a thick skin to protect themselves from losing water through the skin.

So they would have to have something like a reptilian skin.

But better -- what is more important is that they would have to concentrate sunlight.

The sunlight in Jupiter, on the satellites of Jupiter, is 25 times fainter than it is here, since Jupiter is five times as far from the Sun.

Otherwise, they would be at a temperature of minus 150, which is certainly not favorable for developing life, at least of the kind we know.

None of these things is likely, but my, my philosophy is, look for what's detectable, not for what's probable. 

This was -- originally, when radio astronomy began, Mr. Jansky, at the Bell labs, detected radio waves coming from the sky.

So there's no point in looking."

And that, of course, that set back the progress of radio astronomy by about 20 years.

Since there was nothing there, you might as well not look.

So, the same thing could be true for this kind of life, which I'm talking about, on cold objects: that it could in fact be very abundant all over the universe, and it's not been detected just because we haven't taken the trouble to look. 

So, the last thing I want to talk about is how to detect it.

You see the red glow in their eyes, which is the reflection of the flashlight.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So these creatures will be bright against the cold surroundings.

So, in fact, you can look for these creatures with telescopes from the Earth.

Because it means that -- the way life can live out there, it has enormous advantages as compared with living on a planet.

It's extremely hard to move from one planet to another.

I call these creatures sunflowers.

They look like, maybe like sunflowers.

They have to be all the time pointing toward the Sun, and they will be able to spread out in space, because gravity on these objects is weak.

So they can collect sunlight from a big area.

So they will, in fact, be quite easy for us to detect. 

That would be a fun thing to do.

But in the long run, if there's no life there, we create it ourselves.

So again, we have a big and wonderful future to look forward.

