And a coordination cost is essentially all of the financial or institutional difficulties in arranging group output.

You found an institution, and you use the institution to coordinate the activities of the group. 

So, that's what I want to talk about today.

Some people get less dressed up.

Young and old, dancing in the streets.

Colorful characters, and a good time is had by all.

And the answer is: I got them from Flickr. 

Recently, Flickr has added an additional function called tagging.

Tagging was pioneered by Delicious and Joshua Schachter.

Delicious is a social bookmarking service.

But instead of saying, we need to hire a professional class of librarians to organize these photos once they're uploaded, Flickr simply turned over to the users the ability to characterize the photos.

And I was then able to go and retrieve them to give you that little slideshow. 

Now, what hard problem is being solved here?

How do we get those people together to contribute that work?

The classic answer is to form an institution, right?

To draw those people into some prearranged structure that has explicit goals.

And I want to call your attention to some of the side effects of going the institutional route. 

You have to have legal structure.

Third, forming an institution is inherently exclusionary.

You notice we haven't got everybody who has a photo.

You can't hire everyone in a company, right?

You can't recruit everyone into a governmental organization.

You have to exclude some people.

We've gone from people with photos to photographers.

You lose the institutional imperative.

What Flickr does is it replaces planning with coordination.

And this is a general aspect of these cooperative systems. 

You just said, "I'll call you when I get there."

To say instead of, we must make an advance plan, we must have a five-year projection of where the Wikipedia is going to be, or whatever, you can just say, let's coordinate the group effort, and let's deal with it as we go, because we're now well-enough coordinated that we don't have to take on the problems of deciding in advance what to do. 

These are photos on Flickr tagged "Iraq."

It's taken over a wider geographic area.

The photos are spread out over a longer period of time.

And worst of all, that figure at the bottom, approximately ten photos per photographer, is a lie.

And it's ranked in order of number of photos taken per photographer.

And by the time you get to the middle, you've got hundreds of people who have contributed only one photo each. 

This is called a power-law distribution.

The math behind the power-law distribution is that whatever's in the nth position is doing about one-nth of whatever's being measured, relative to the person in the first position.

So, the head of the curve can be sharper or flatter.

But that basic math accounts both for the steep slope and for the long, flat tail. 

If you go down to five percent, you're still accounting for 60 percent of the photos.

If you go down to one percent, exclude 99 percent of the group effort, you're still accounting for almost a quarter of the photos.

And that sounds strange to our ears, but what ends up happening is that 80 percent of the contributors have contributed a below-average amount.

That sounds strange because we expect average and middle to be about the same, but they're not at all. 

The costs of running the institution mean that you cannot take on the work of those people easily in an institutional frame.

The cooperative infrastructure model says, why do you want to give up a quarter of the value?

So the coordination response asks not, how are these people as employees, but rather, what is their contribution like?

The question is not, is Psycho Milt a good employee? 

And the tension here is between institution as enabler and institution as obstacle.

When you're dealing with the left-hand edge of one of these distributions, when you're dealing with the people who spend a lot of time producing a lot of the material you want, that's an institution-as-enabler world.

But when you're down here, where the Psycho Milts of the world are adding one photo at a time, that's institution as obstacle. 

Institutions hate being told they're obstacles.

One of the first things that happens when you institutionalize a problem is that the first goal of the institution immediately shifts from whatever the nominal goal was to self-preservation.

There's a wonderful, small example going on right now.

You can follow this in the Guardian.

It's actually quite entertaining. 

And institutions, as I've said, are prevented from capturing that.

(Laughter) 

The Psycho Milt question is, was it a good idea?

The inventors don't know what the invention is.

Number one group on Meetup right now, most chapters in most cities with most members, most active?

In the suburbanized, dual-income United States, stay-at-home moms are actually missing the social infrastructure that comes from extended family and local, small-scale neighborhoods.

So they're reinventing it, using these tools.

Meetup is the platform, but the value here is in social infrastructure.

This is so much more important than Xbox, but it's a lot less glitzy. 

I think this is a revolution.

I think that this is a really profound change in the way human affairs are arranged.

And I use that word advisedly.

It's a revolution in that it's a change in equilibrium.

It's a whole new way of doing things, which includes new downsides.

And journalists are in the street rallying to improve the shield laws.

The shield laws are our laws -- pretty much a patchwork of state laws -- that prevent a journalist from having to betray a source.

This is happening, however, against the background of the rise of Web logging.

Web logging is a classic example of mass amateurization.

It has de-professionalized publishing.

Want to publish globally anything you think today?

It is a one-button operation that you can do for free.

That has sent the professional class of publishing down into the ranks of mass amateurization.

Journalism was an answer to an even more important question, which is, how will society be informed?

How will they share ideas and opinions?

And if there is an answer to that that happens outside the professional framework of journalism, it makes no sense to take a professional metaphor and apply it to this distributed class.

So as much as we want the shield laws, the background -- the institution to which they were attached -- is becoming incoherent. 

Here's another example.

Pro-ana, the pro-ana groups.

These are groups of teenage girls who have taken on Web logs, bulletin boards, other kinds of cooperative infrastructure, and have used it to set up support groups for remaining anorexic by choice.

We're used to support groups being beneficial.

We have an attitude that support groups are inherently beneficial.

But it turns out that the logic of the support group is value neutral.

A support group is simply a small group that wants to maintain a way of living in the context of a larger group.

Now, when the larger group is a bunch of drunks, and the small group wants to stay sober, then we think, that's a great support group.

But when the small group is teenage girls who want to stay anorexic by choice, then we're horrified.

Once the infrastructure becomes generically available, the logic of the support group has been revealed to be accessible to anyone, including people pursuing these kinds of goals. 

This is a social map of the hijackers and their associates who perpetrated the 9/11 attack.

It was produced by analyzing their communications patterns using a lot of these tools.

(Laughter) Right.

It takes us from Point A to chaos.

And so the point here is not, "This is wonderful," or "We're going to see a transition from only institutions to only cooperative framework."

It's going to be much more complicated than that.

But the point is that it's going to be a massive readjustment.

And since we can see it in advance and know it's coming, my argument is essentially: we might as well get good at it.

