IW: In Bali, we generate 680 cubic meters of plastic garbage a day.

That's about a 14-story building.

And when it comes to plastic bags, less than five percent gets recycled. 

MW: We know that changes the image you may have of our island.

And those that don't even make it to the ocean, they're either burned or littered. 

IW: So we decided to do something about it.

And we have had some significant successes. 

Walking home that day, we agreed that we also wanted to be significant.

Why should we wait until we were grown up to be significant?

We wanted to do something now. 

MW: Sitting on the sofa that night, we brainstormed and thought of all the issues facing Bali.

But that is a huge problem.

And the idea was born. 

IW: We started researching, and let's just say, the more we learned, there was nothing good about plastic bags.

And you know what?

We don't even need them. 

IW: And so the idea turned into the launch of "Bye Bye Plastic Bags."

The village is already two-thirds along the way of becoming plastic bag free. 

Our first attempts to get the government of Bali on board failed.

MW: Right! 

Someone mentioned that the Bali airport handles 16 million arrivals and departures a year. 

MW: But how do we get into the airport?

IW: In our first hour and a half there, we got almost 1,000 signatures.

How cool is that? 

And thanks to the attraction of Green School, we had access to a steady stream of celebrities.

Ban Ki Moon taught us that Secretary-Generals of the United Nations don't sign petitions -- 

even if kids ask nicely.

But he promised to spread the word, and now we work closely with the United Nations. 

MW: Jane Goodall taught us the power of a people's network.

We are one of them.

She's a real inspiration. 

If you're a fellow Rotarian, nice to meet you.

IW: But we have also learned much about patience, 

IW: friendship, 

MW: we learned more about the Balinese and their culture 

IW: and we learned about the importance of commitment. 

MW: It's not always easy.

Sometimes it does get a little bit hard to walk your talk. 

IW: But last year, we did exactly that.

We went to India to give a talk, and our parents took us to visit the former private house of Mahatma Gandhi.

MW: And you can probably imagine their faces.

Isabel and I were serious about doing this.

IW: Our "mogak makan," as it is called in Bahasa Indonesia, started.

What were these two girls doing?

Twenty-four hours later, we were picked up from school and escorted to the office of the governor. 

MW: And there he was -- 

IW: Also, at the International Airport of Bali, one of our supporters is planning to start a plastic bag-free policy by 2016. 

IW: Our short-term campaign, "One Island / One Voice," is all about this.

And conversely, that highlights those who do not have the sticker. 

MW: So, why are we actually telling you all of this?

Isabel and I were only 10 and 12 years old when we started this.

All we wanted to do was stop those plastic bags from wrapping and suffocating our beautiful home.

Make that difference.

We're not telling you it's going to be easy.

We're telling you it's going to be worth it.

MW: We still have a lot of work to do, but know that we still not stop until the first question asked when arriving at the Bali airports will be 

Both: "Welcome to Bali, do you have nay plastic bags to declare?"

Thank you. 

