I used to be a photographer for many years.

I had never heard the word Amerasian before.

I was 28 years old.

And a man told me, who ran the Pearl Buck Foundation in Korea, that there was a young girl, who was 11 years old, being raised by her grandmother.

And of course, I was immediately intrigued.

I saw photographs of her, and I thought I wanted to go.

I took a translator with me, and went to this village, found the grandmother, sat down with her.

And to my astonishment, she agreed to let me photograph her granddaughter.

And I was paying for this myself, so I asked the translator if it would be OK if I stayed for the week.

I had a sleeping bag.

And then, my translator left.

So there I was, I couldn't speak a word of Korean, and this is the first night I met Hyun-Sook.

Her mother was still alive.

Her mother was not raising her, her grandmother was raising her.

And what struck me immediately was how in love the two of these people were.

The grandmother was incredibly fond, deeply in love with this little girl.

They slept on the floor at night.

I had photographed, as I said, a lot of these kids.

Hyun-Sook was in fact the fifth child that I found to photograph.

And almost universally, amongst all the kids, they were really psychologically damaged by having been made fun of, ridiculed, picked on and been rejected.

And Korea was probably the place I found to be the worst for these kids.

And what struck me immediately in meeting Hyun-Sook was how confident she appeared to be, how happy she seemed to be in her own skin.

I decided to follow her to school.

This is the first morning I stayed with her.

This is on the way to school.

This is the morning assembly outside her school.

And I noticed that she was clowning around.

When the teachers would ask questions, she'd be the first person to raise her hand.

Again, not at all shy or withdrawn, or anything like the other children that I'd photographed.

Again, the first one to go to the blackboard to answer questions.

Getting in trouble for whispering into her best friend's ears in the middle of class.

And one of the other things that I said to her through the translator -- again, this thing about saying stop -- was to not pay attention to me.

And so, she really just completely ignored me most of the time.

I noticed that at recess, she was the girl who picked the other girls to be on her team.

It was very obvious, from the very beginning, that she was a leader.

This is on the way home.

And that's North Korea up along the hill.

This is up along the DMZ.

So there's always this -- the closer you were to North Korea, the more terrifying it was. 

And my best friend had mistakenly one day said something about wishing he had another child.

So here my friends Gene and Gail had not heard from me in about a year, and suddenly I was calling, saying "I'm in Korea, and I've met this extraordinary girl."

So anyway, I left.

And my friends actually said they were very interested in adopting her.

And I said, "Look, I think I'll scare the grandmother to death, if I actually write to her and tell her that you're willing to adopt her, I want to go back and talk to her."

Did I know anything about this?

Because I hadn't told them what I was doing, because I was so upset with the story they'd run.

And the house that I had spent time in was empty.

It was incredibly cold.

And they had no idea about this request that she'd made of me.

So I finally found Myung Sung, her best friend that she used to play with after school every day.

And Myung Sung, under some pressure from me and the translator, gave us an address on the outside of Seoul.

And I went to that address and knocked on the door, and a man answered the door.

And this man came to the door and kind of barked something in Korean.

And I said, "Well, tell him that I am a photographer."

I started explaining who I was, and he interrupted.

And she said, "He says he knows who you are, what do you want?"

I said, "Well, tell him that I was asked by this little girl's grandmother to find a family for her."

And he said, "I'm her uncle, she's fine, you can leave now."

And I had this whole mental picture of, sort of like Cinderella.

And the more I tried talking to him, the less friendly he was getting.

And I knew I had totally blown this whole thing.

I just think that -- what little I know about the situation, she has very little chance here of having the kind of life that you probably would like her to have."

But he invited me to come to a ceremony they were having that day for her grandmother.

And they actually take items of clothing and photographs, and they burn them as part of the ritual.

And you can see how different she looks just in three months.

This was now, I think, February, early February.

And the pictures before were taken in September.

Well, there was an American Marine priest that I had met in the course of doing the story, who had 75 children living in his house.

He had three women helping him take care of these kids.

And so I suggested to the uncle that we go down and meet Father Keene, to find out how the adoption process worked.

Because I wanted him to feel like this was all being done very much above board. 

He had kids from all over Korea living there, and he would find families for these kids.

This is a social worker interviewing Hyun-Sook.

Now, I had always thought she was completely untouched by all of this, because the grandmother, to me, appeared to be sort of the village wise woman, and the person everybody -- throughout the day, I noticed people kept coming to visit her grandmother.

And I always had this mental picture that even though they may have been one of the poorer families in the village, they were one of the most respected families in the village.

And I always felt that the grandmother had kind of demanded, and insisted, that the villagers treat Hyun-Sook with the same respect they treated her.

I kind of said, "Oh God, now what?"

A lot of the kids who had been adopted actually wrote back to the other kids, telling them about what their life was like with their new families.

So, it was a really big deal when the letters showed up.

This is a woman who is now working at the orphanage, whose son had been adopted.

Gene and Gail started studying Korean the moment they had gotten my first letter.

They really wanted to be able to welcome Hyun-Sook into their family.

This may be one of those myth-buster things that we'll have to clear up here, in a minute. 

So, my friend Gene flew over with his son, Tim.

Gail couldn't come.

And they spent a lot of time huddled over a dictionary.

And this was Gene showing the uncle where Atlanta was on the map, where he lived.

This is the uncle signing the adoption papers.

Now, we went out to dinner that night to celebrate.

The uncle went back to his family, and Natasha and Tim and Gene and I went out to dinner.

And Gene was showing Natasha how to use a knife and fork, and then Natasha was returning the utensil lessons.

We went back to our hotel room, and Gene was showing Natasha also where Atlanta was.

This is the third night we were in Korea.

The first night we'd gotten a room for the kids right next to us. 

So, the second night, we didn't keep the kids' room, because we went down and slept on the floor with all the kids at the orphanage.

And the third night, we came back, we'd just gone out to dinner, where you saw the pictures, and we got to the front desk and the guy at the front desk said, "There's no other free rooms on your floor tonight, so if you want to put the kids five floors below you, there's a room there."

And Gene and I looked at each other and said, "No, we don't want two 11-year-olds five floors away."

So, his son said, "Dad, I have a sleeping bag, I'll sleep on the floor."

We're lying in bed, and Gene and I are talking about how cool we are.

I'd been doing this every night I'd been there.

So, I run over to Gene, and I wake him up, and I say, "Gene, don't freak out, I think the hotel's on fire."

And now there's smoke and flames coming by our windows -- we're on the eleventh floor.

And you know what kids are like when they've been asleep for like an hour, it's like they took five Valiums -- you know, they're all over the place.

So, we try to get to the door, and we run to the door, and we open the door and it's like walking into a blast furnace.

There's people screaming, there's the sound of glass breaking, there's these weird thumps.

And the whole room filled with smoke in about two seconds.

And Gene turns around and says, "We're not going to make it."

And he closes the door, and the whole room is now filled with smoke.

We're all choking, and there's smoke pouring through the vents, under the doors.

I just remember this unbelievable, just utter chaos.

I remember sitting near the bed, and I was just so -- I had two overwhelming feelings.

One was absolute terror -- it's like, "Oh, please God, I just want to wake up.

Here I've been, playing God with my friends' lives, my friends' son, with Natasha's life, and this what you get when you try playing God, is you hurt people.

I remember just being so frightened and terrified.

And there, in the building were photographers waiting for people to jump.

Eleven people ended up dying in the fire.

Five people jumped and died, other people were killed by the smoke.

And there's this loud thumping on the door after about 45 minutes in all this, and people were shouting in Korean.

I didn't know who it was, I didn't know what they wanted, and Natasha could tell they were firemen trying to get us out.

I remember a sort of a tussle at the door, trying to get the door open.

People were lying on the floor.

It was one of just the most horrifying nights. 

And then 12 hours later, we rented a car, as we had planned to, and drove back to Natasha's village.

This guy's 60 years old.

So it turned into a dual celebration, because Natasha was the first person from this village ever to go to the United States.

So, these are the greenhouse tents.

This is the last picture before Gene and Tim headed back.

The adoption people told us it was going to take a year for the adoption to go through.

Like, what could you do for a year?

So I found out the name of every official on both the Korean and American side, and I photographed them, and told them how famous they were going to be when this book was done.

And four months later, the adoption papers came through.

This is saying goodbye to everybody at the orphanage.

This is Father Keene with Natasha at the bus stop.

Her great aunt at the airport.

I had a wonderful deal with Cathay Pacific airlines for many years, where they gave me free passes on all their airlines in return for photography.

It was like the ultimate perk.

And the pilot, I actually knew -- because they used to let me sit in the jump seat, to tell you how long ago this was.

This is a Tri-Star, and so they let Natasha actually sit in the jump seat.

And the pilot, Jeff Cowley, actually went back and adopted one of the other kids at the orphanage after meeting Natasha. 

Just to make things even crazier, Gail, Natasha's new mom, was three days away from giving birth to her own daughter.

Gene and Gail know everyone in Atlanta -- they're the most social couple imaginable.

So, at this point, Natasha doesn't speak a word of English, other than what little Father Keene taught her.

This is Kylie, her sister, who's now a doctor, on the right.

This is a deal I had with Natasha, which is that when we got to Atlanta she could take -- she could cut off my beard.

She never liked it very much. 

She learned English in three months.

This is her cooking teacher.

People were always telling Natasha how much she looks like her mother, Gail.

This is a tense moment in the first football game, I think.

And Kylie -- I mean, it was almost like Kylie was her own child.

She's being baptized.

Now, a lot of parents, when they adopt, actually want to erase their children's history.

And Gail and Gene did the complete opposite.

They were studying Korean; they bought Korean clothes.

Gene even did a little tile work in the kitchen, which was that, "Once upon a time, there was a beautiful girl that came from hills of Korea to live happily ever after in Atlanta."

She hates this picture -- it was her first job.

She bought a bright red Karmann Ghia with the money she made working at Burger King.

Used to do their Christmas card every year.

Gene's been restoring this car for a million years. 

And I always thought that was a very Annie Hall kind of outfit.

It's just, you know, it was just so interesting, just to watch -- this is her mother in the background there.

This is Natasha's wedding day.

Gene is looking a little older.

This is Sydney, who's going to be three years old in a couple of days.

And there's Evan. 

I mean, she -- you know, we've looked at the pictures together. 

Natasha: I've seen pictures millions of times, but today was the first time I'm actually seeing him give the whole presentation.

I started crying. 

RS: Anyway, thank you, Mike and Richard, so much for letting us tell the story.

