And he said "If you go to MIT," to which I had been given early admission, "I will pay for every year you're at MIT, in graduate or undergraduate -- as much as you want -- I will pay for an equal number of years for you to live in Paris."

And I thought that was the best deal in town, so I accepted it immediately.

And I decided that if I was good in art, and I was good in mathematics, I'd study architecture, which was the blending of the two. 

He said to me something that just went completely over my head.

He said, "You know, I like grey suits, and I like pin-striped suits, but I don't like grey pin-striped suits."

And I thought, "What a turkey this guy is," and I went off to MIT.

Something that would be important, but also something that would take advantage of all of these privileges that one had."

My career, I mean, I'd done my career.

Never shown this picture before, and probably going to be sued for it.

If you look at the picture, you'll see they're stacked up.

Those are conveyor belts that go around.

This is one of the conveyor belts with the thing going by, but then you'll see the ones up above.

What happens is, they burn into flash memory the software, and then test them for a few hours.

But you've got to have the thing moving on the assembly line, because it's constant.

This picture was taken in 1982, just before the IBM PC was even announced.

Seymour Papert and I were bringing computers to schools and developing nations at a time when it was way ahead of itself.

But one thing we learned was that these kids can absolutely jump into it just the same way as our kids do here. 

What he observed was that kids who write computer programs understand things differently, and when they debug the programs, they come the closest to learning about learning.

That was very important, and in some sense, we've lost that.

This is being launched with three languages in it: Squeak, Logo, and a third, that I've never even seen before.

The point being, this is going to be very, very intensive on the programming side.

This is the same village in Cambodia, just a couple of months ago.

Everybody advised me not to be a nonprofit, but they were all wrong.

And the reason being a nonprofit is important is actually twofold.

And while this machine in some sense is silly, in retrospect, it actually served a very important purpose.

I didn't bring one with me, but they really work much better off-board.

And then, I could tell you lots about the laptop, but I decided on just four things. 

Dual-mode display -- that sunlight display's fantastic.

And of course, "rugged" goes without saying.

And the reason I think design matters isn't because I wanted to go to art school. 

The most important being that it is the best way to make an inexpensive product.

Most people make inexpensive products by taking cheap design, cheap labor, cheap components, and making a cheap laptop.

But if you take a different approach, and you think of very large-scale integration, very advanced materials, very advanced manufacturing -- so you're pouring chemicals in one end, iPods are spewing out the other -- and really cool design, that's what we wanted to do. 

These are his slides, and so I don't have to talk about them.

But it was really, to us, very important as a strategy.

It wasn't just to kind of make it cute, because somebody -- you know, good design is very important.

Yves showed one of the power-generating devices.

They're not going to be near another laptop, so you have to nail these onto a tree, and sort of, get it. 

There is no keyboard standard because there's no market.

And this is the big difference. 

Again, when you're a nonprofit, you look at children as a mission, not as a market.

So we went to Ethiopia, and we helped them make a keyboard.

And this will become the standard Ethiopian keyboard.

And so I went to each of those countries at least six times, met with the head of state probably two or three times.

In each case, got the ministers, went through a lot of the stuff.

This was a period in my life where I was traveling 330 days per year.

Not something you'd envy or want to do.

In the case of Libya, it was a lot of fun meeting Gaddafi in his tent.

The camel smells were unbelievable.

When it was announced that they were going to do every child in Uruguay, the first 100,000, boom, went to OLPC.

The next day -- the next day, not even 24 hours had passed -- in Peru, the president of Peru said, "We'll do 250."

We thought that was a good time to announce it.

And the "Give One, Get One" program is really important because it got a lot of people absolutely interested. 

If everybody in this room goes out tonight and orders one of these things for 400 dollars, whatever it is, 300 people in the room doing it -- yeah, great.

Get your friends to give one, get one.

And if each one of you sends it to 300 or 400 people, that would be fantastic.

I won't dwell on the pricing at all.

We've pledged not to add features, but to bring that price down.

But it was the countries that wanted it to go up, and we let them push it up for all sorts of reasons.

They went to Uruguay, Peru, Mexico.

We're selling a billion cell phones worldwide this year.

But a million a month in laptop-land is a big number.

And if we do that, there are going to be a lot of lucky kids out there.

Thank you. 

