Once upon a time, there was a dread disease that afflicted children.

But the worst thing about it was that you couldn't use it on the youngest children, on infants, and on one-year-olds. 

And so, as a consequence, a few years later, another scientist -- perhaps maybe this scientist not quite as brilliant as the one who had preceded him, but building on the invention of the first one -- came up with a second cure.

And the beauty of the second cure for this disease was that it could be used on infants and one-year-olds.

And the problem with this cure was it was very expensive, and it was very complicated to use.

And although parents tried as hard as they could to use it properly, almost all of them ended up using it wrong in the end.

But what they did, of course, since it was so complicated and expensive, they only used it on the zero-year-olds and the one-year-olds.

And they kept on using the existing cure that they had on the two-year-olds and up. 

And the free cure is adult seatbelts, and the expensive cure -- the 300-million-dollar-a-year cure -- is child car seats.

And then, finally talk a little bit about a third way, about another technology, which is probably better than anything we have, but which -- there hasn't been any enthusiasm for adoption precisely because people are so enamored with the current car seat solution.

It doesn't turn out to be the case when you look at seatbelts versus car seats.

So the United States keeps a data set of every fatal accident that's happened since 1975.

So in every car crash in which at least one person dies, they have information on all of the people.

If you put a child in a car seat, 18.2 percent of the children die.

If they're wearing a lap-and-shoulder belt, in this raw data, 19.4 percent die.

So the yellow bar represents car seats, the orange bar lap-and-shoulder, and the red bar lap-only seatbelts.

So, this is the data I just showed, OK?

And so, you can see that the lap-only seatbelts start to look worse once you do that.

And what you find is that the car seats and the lap-and-shoulder belts, when it comes to saving lives, fatalities look exactly identical.

And I think this isn't just chance.

But when you look at other types of crashes, like rear-impact crashes, indeed, the car seats don't perform as well.

And the other thing you might argue is, "Well, car seats have got a lot better over time.

But indeed, in recent crashes the lap-and-shoulder seatbelts, actually, are doing even better than the car seats.

They say, "Well, that's impossible, that can't be."

But what's interesting is the government telling us to use them is not actually based on very much.

So you can only get so far, I think, in telling your story by using these abstract statistics.

So we actually tried to commission some crash tests.

And then, here's how the crash test works.

So they just have these bench seats, and they strap the car seat and the seatbelt onto it.

So I just wanted you to look at this.

It's hard to believe, when you look at this, that that kid in back is going to do very well when you get in a crash.

So, let me show you what happens.

The car seat's moving all over the place.

Bear in mind there are two things about this.

And also it turned out these bench seats are the very best way to install car seats.

Having a flat back makes it much easier to install them.

And this crash would have been about a 450.

So, I'll show you the six-year-old crashes as well.

So that kid would do fine in the crash.

Nothing about that would have been problematic to the child at all.

And then here's the six-year-old in the seatbelt, and in fact, they get exactly within, you know, within one or two points of the same.

So I wrote him back and I said, "What about an n of 45,004?"

Because I had the other 45,000 other real-world crashes.

And so I think the answer to this puzzle is that there's a much better solution out there, that's gotten nobody excited because everyone is so delighted with the way car seats are presumably working.

I mean, why not start -- who's sitting in the back seat anyway except for kids?

But essentially, do something like this, which I don't know exactly how much it would cost to do, but there's no reason I could see why this should be much more expensive than a regular car seat.

So the question is, is there any hope for adoption of something like this, which would presumably save a lot of lives?

And I think the answer, perhaps, lies in a story.

And these, to me, are the analogy for the car seats.

People would look at these and say, "Man, this thing is so big and so hard to swallow.

And it turned out that never, in all the times my dad gave out this pill, the really tiny pill, did anyone ever come back still complaining of sickness.

Thank you very much. 

Is there any data to show that child seats are actually less effective, or just as effective as seatbelts for serious injury?

So in this data, it's statistically insignificant differences in injury between car seats and lap-and-shoulder belts.

Now, what's interesting, I should say this as a disclaimer, there is medical literature that is very difficult to resolve with this other data, which suggests that car seats are dramatically better. 

But it's obviously a critical question.

Even if they're right, it's not so clear that they're so cost-effective. 

