Pleurobot can walk, as you can see here, and as you'll see later, it can also swim. 

But the more I work in biorobotics, the more I'm really impressed by animal locomotion.

And in fact, our nervous system solves a very, very complex control problem.

And my goal is to understand how this works. 

A third component are central pattern generators.

Now, understanding how this works is very complex, because first of all, recording activity in the spinal cord is very difficult.

The robot can be a wonderful scientific tool as well.

There are some very nice projects where robots are used, like a scientific tool for neuroscience, for biomechanics or for hydrodynamics.

And this is exactly the purpose of Pleurobot.

So what we do in my lab is to collaborate with neurobiologists like Jean-Marie Cabelguen, a neurobiologist in Bordeaux in France, and we want to make spinal cord models and validate them on robots.

And here we want to start simple. 

And here, a robot becomes an interesting tool to validate our models.

And in fact, for me, Pleurobot is a kind of dream becoming true.

But I always knew that my simulations were just approximations.

So among all these animals, one of my favorites is the salamander.

This is amazing.

If you stimulate the spinal cord of a cat, you can switch between walk, trot and gallop.

Or in birds, you can make a bird switch between walking, at a low level of stimulation, and flapping its wings at high-level stimulation.

And this really shows that the spinal cord is a very sophisticated locomotion controller. 

And this is how Pleurobot came to life. 

If you go backwards and slowly, you see it even better.

But even better, we can do swimming.

So for that we have a dry suit that we put all over the robot -- 

Our robot is much bigger than a small animal, so we had to do what's called dynamic scaling of the frequencies to make sure we had the same interaction physics.

So let's go to the spinal cord.

So here what we did with Jean-Marie Cabelguen is model the spinal cord circuits.

And we tested that on board of a robot. 

And this is how it looks.

And we found three important criteria in the properties, basically, of the limbs.

The first one is that a cat limb more or less looks like a pantograph-like structure.

The last final important property is this very elastic behavior of the cat limb, so to handle impacts and forces.

And this is how we designed Cheetah-Cub. 

It looks a bit like a toy, but it was really used as a scientific tool to investigate these properties of the legs of the cat.

It will just jump, in fact.

But what's important here is that just for small perturbation, the mechanics are right.

Now, how does this relate to human locomotion?

And especially the spinal cord is also the key controller for locomotion in humans.

That's why, if there's a lesion of the spinal cord, this has dramatic effects.

The person can become paraplegic or tetraplegic.

Thank you. 

