I get to do this all the time, and it's just incredible.

I want to try to share just a little bit of that with you in this presentation.

The challenge of looking at nature's designs -- and I'll tell you the way that we perceive it, and the way we've used it.

The challenge, of course, is to answer this question: what permits this extraordinary performance of animals that allows them basically to go anywhere?

And if we could figure that out, how can we implement those designs? 

Or think about the fact that if you build an automobile, I'll tell you that you also -- inside it -- have to put a factory that allows you to make another automobile. 

So, organisms have this important history.

Really evolution works more like a tinkerer than an engineer.

And this is really important when you begin to look at animals.

Instead, we believe you need to be inspired by biology.

What we discovered was that two-, four-, six- and eight-legged animals all produce the same forces on the ground when they move.

Well, a human, one of your legs works like two legs of a trotting dog, or works like three legs, together as one, of a trotting insect, or four legs as one of a trotting crab.

And then they alternate in their propulsion, but the patterns are all the same.

Now, what's interesting is the animals, then -- we said -- bounce along the vertical plane this way, and in our collaborations with Pixar, in "A Bug's Life," we discussed the bipedal nature of the characters of the ants.

Nobody in biology ever modeled it this way.

And we were able to create a model where animals are not only bouncing up and down, but they're also bouncing side to side at the same time.

And many organisms fit this kind of pattern.

That's enough! 

Why haven't we been more inspired by nature and these kinds of discoveries?

Think about the typical kind of robot that you see.

And here's one example that's really exciting.

This is a collaboration we have with Stanford.

And they developed this new technique, called Shape Deposition Manufacturing.

It's a technique where they can mix materials together and mold any shape that they like, and put in the material properties.

They can embed sensors and actuators right in the form itself.

For example, here's a leg: the clear part is stiff, the white part is compliant, and you don't need any axles there or anything.

Here's what we do. 

This is an eight-legged scorpion, six-legged ant, forty-four-legged centipede.

Now, I said all these animals are sort of working like pogo sticks -- they're bouncing along as they move.

It goes up to four meters per second when it runs.

Well, we wanted to see if they allowed the animals to have greater stability and maneuverability.

The animal ran over it and it didn't even slow down!

It has six legs -- there are the tuned, springy legs.

Robert Full: It'll go on different surfaces -- here's sand -- although we haven't perfected the feet yet, but I'll talk about that later.

Here's RHex entering the woods. 

One of the animals is going to be running on the level, and the other one's going to be running up a wall.

Here's a legged version and a tractor version, or a bulldozer version.

Let's see some of the geckos move with some video, and then I'll show you a little bit of a clip of the robots.

You can't use regular cameras.

If you have a son or a daughter that wants to come to Berkeley, come to my lab and we'll figure this out.

It's a see-through treadmill with a see-through treadmill belt, so we can watch the animal's feet, and videotape them through the treadmill belt, to see how they move.

Here are the robots that they inspire, the Mecho-Geckos from iRobot.

First we'll see the animals toes peeling -- look at that.

And here's the peeling action of the Mecho-Gecko.

The animal does not use that.

But that's what we're limited to, at the moment. 

And if you zoom in 270 times, you'll see it looks like a rug.

And if you blow those up, they have these little structures on the end.

We were fortunate to work with another group at Stanford that built us a special manned sensor, that we were able to measure the force of an individual hair.

They don't have any glue, and they even stick under water just fine.

If you put their foot under water, they grab on.

What we're doing is, we're taking that inspiration of the hairs, and with another colleague at Berkeley, we're manufacturing them.

We also presented to Nike even. 

So, in conclusion, I think the message is clear.

