And what I mean by that, it's the behaviors that we're in denial about, and the ones that operate below the surface of our daily awareness.

And as individuals, we all do these things, all the time, everyday.

It's like when you're mean to your wife because you're mad at somebody else.

And when we do these kind of things, when 300 million people do unconscious behaviors, then it can add up to a catastrophic consequence that nobody wants, and no one intended.

And that's what I look at with my photographic work. 

And as you get all the way up close, you realize that it's actually made of lots and lots of plastic cups.

We use four million cups a day on airline flights, and virtually none of them are reused or recycled.

They just don't do that in that industry. 

That's 15 minutes of our cup consumption.

And if you could actually stack up that many cups in real life, that's the size it would be.

And there's an hour's worth of our cups.

And there's a day's worth of our cups.

You can still see the little people way down there.

One out of four people, one out of four humans in prison are Americans, imprisoned in our country.

And I wanted to show the number.

The number is 2.3 million Americans were incarcerated in 2005.

And that's gone up since then, but we don't have the numbers yet.

(Laughter) 

I want to show you some pieces now that are about addiction.

And this particular one is about cigarette addiction.

I wanted to make a piece that shows the actual number of Americans who die from cigarette smoking.

More than 400,000 people die in the United States every year from smoking cigarettes.

And so, this piece is made up of lots and lots of boxes of cigarettes.

And, as you slowly step back, you see that it's a painting by Van Gogh, called "Skull with Cigarette."

And do you remember the response?

It reverberated around the world, and will continue to reverberate through time.

It will be something that we talk about in 100 years.

And yet on that same day, 1,100 Americans died from smoking.

And the day after that, another 1,100 Americans died from smoking.

And we aren't talking about it -- we dismiss it.

The tobacco lobby, it's too strong.

We just dismiss it out of our consciousness.

And knowing what we know about the destructive power of cigarettes, we continue to allow our children, our sons and daughters, to be in the presence of the influences that start them smoking.

And this is what the next piece is about. 

This is an image I've made out of lots and lots of Vicodin.

Well, actually, I only had one Vicodin that I scanned lots and lots of times.

A strange phenomenon. 

384,000 women, American women, last year went in for elective breast augmentation surgery.

It's rapidly becoming the most popular high school graduation gift, given to young girls who are about to go off to college.

The vast majority of those are on women under the age of 21.

And strangely enough, the only plastic surgery that is more popular than breast augmentation is liposuction, and most of that is being done by men. 

Now, I want to emphasize that these are just examples.

I'm not holding these out as being the biggest issues.

They're just examples.

They've gone missing; these feelings have gone missing.

Our cultural joy, our national joy is nowhere to be seen.

We can't make meaning out of these enormous statistics.

Because my belief is, if we can feel these issues, if we can feel these things more deeply, then they'll matter to us more than they do now.

That, to me, is the big question that we face as a people right now: how do we change?

And if there are things that we see that we don't like about our culture, then we have a choice.

The degree of integrity that each of us can bring to the surface, to bring to this question, the depth of character that we can summon, as we show up for the question of how do we change -- it's already defining us as individuals and as a nation, and it will continue to do that, on into the future.

And it will profoundly affect the well-being, the quality of life of the billions of people who are going to inherit the results of our decisions.

I'm not speaking abstractly about this, I'm speaking -- this is who we are in this room, right now, in this moment. 

