This year I'm going to tell you the story of the birth of digital computing.

And it was a technology that was inevitable.

If the people I'm going to tell you the story about, if they hadn't done it, somebody else would have.

So, it was sort of the right idea at the right time. 

It's the universe in which these machines are now doing all these things, including changing biology.

And three of the smartest people were Stan Ulam, Richard Feynman and John von Neumann.

(Laughter) 

He said you needed addition and subtraction.

Leibniz, who came a little bit later -- this is 1679 -- showed that you didn't even need subtraction.

You could do the whole thing with addition.

Here, we have all the binary arithmetic and logic that drove the computer revolution.

And then we jump to Von Neumann, 1945, when he sort of reinvents the whole same thing.

And 1945, after the war, the electronics existed to actually try and build such a machine.

The other sort of genesis of what Von Neumann did was the difficulty of how you would predict the weather.

(Laughter) 

The instructions which govern this operation must be given in absolutely exhaustive detail.

If you look at the origins of this, the classic history sort of takes it all back to the ENIAC here.

Such a computer would open up universes, which are, at the present, outside the range of any instruments.

So it opens up a whole new world, and these people saw it.

The guy who was supposed to build this machine was the guy in the middle, Vladimir Zworykin, from RCA.

RCA, in probably one of the lousiest business decisions of all time, decided not to go into computers.

That's where I grew up as a kid.

That's Freeman, a long time ago, and that was me.

And this is Von Neumann and Morgenstern, who wrote the "Theory of Games."

All these forces came together there, in Princeton.

Oppenheimer, who had built the bomb.

The machine was actually used mainly for doing bomb calculations.

These were the prototype geeks, the nerds.

They didn't fit in at the Institute.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter). 

And we take it for granted now, that each of these machines has billions of transistors, doing billions of cycles per second without failing.

They were using vacuum tubes, very narrow, sloppy techniques to get actually binary behavior out of these radio vacuum tubes.

They actually used 6J6, the common radio tube, because they found they were more reliable than the more expensive tubes.

And what they did at the Institute was publish every step of the way.

All the computers now are copies of that machine.

The memory was in cathode ray tubes -- a whole bunch of spots on the face of the tube -- very, very sensitive to electromagnetic disturbances.

(Laughter) 

This is a wire drive, using bicycle wheels.

This is the archetype of the hard disk that's in your machine now.

Then they switched to a magnetic drum.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Twenty-four hours a day, this thing was running, mainly running bomb calculations. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So Von Neumann invited a whole gang of weirdos from all over the world to work on all these problems.

Barricelli, he came to do what we now call, really, artificial life, trying to see if, in this artificial universe -- he was a viral-geneticist, way, way, way ahead of his time.

He's still ahead of some of the stuff that's being done now.

Trying to start an artificial genetic system running in the computer.

Began -- his universe started March 3, '53.

So it's almost exactly -- it's 50 years ago next Tuesday, I guess.

And he saw everything in terms of -- he could read the binary code straight off the machine.

(Laughter) 

When the bomb people went home, he was allowed in there.

It was published in the literature.

And he found all these, sort of -- it was like a naturalist coming in and looking at this tiny, 5,000-byte universe, and seeing all these things happening that we see in the outside world, in biology.

This is some of the generations of his universe.

But they're just going to stay numbers; they're not going to become organisms.

They have to have something.

And they did start to evolve.

And he went around the country after that.

And he saw that evolution itself was an intelligent process.

And there's really no difference between what he was doing in the computer and what nature did billions of years ago.

So there it is, 50 years later, sitting there -- sort of suspended animation.

What's the dividing line between when that is lifelike and when it really is alive?

These cards, now, thanks to me showing up, are being saved.

Do you want to let it loose on the Internet?

He was thinking far ahead, to how this would really grow into a new kind of life.

And that's what's happening!

When Juan Enriquez told us about these 12 trillion bits being transferred back and forth, of all this genomics data going to the proteomics lab, that's what Barricelli imagined: that this digital code in these machines is actually starting to code -- it already is coding from nucleic acids.

It's a world that Von Neumann himself envisioned.

And all our computers have, inside them, the copies of the architecture that he had to just design one day, sort of on pencil and paper.

And we owe a tremendous credit to that.

Thank you very much. 

