You know, culture was born of the imagination, and the imagination -- the imagination as we know it -- came into being when our species descended from our progenitor, Homo erectus, and, infused with consciousness, began a journey that would carry it to every corner of the habitable world.

By the time the last Neanderthal disappeared in Europe, 27,000 years ago, our direct ancestors had already, and for 5,000 years, been crawling into the belly of the earth, where in the light of the flickers of tallow candles, they had brought into being the great art of the Upper Paleolithic. 

And I spent two months in the caves of southwest France with the poet Clayton Eshleman, who wrote a beautiful book called "Juniper Fuse."

And the way Clayton put it was this way.

And the most amazing thing about the Upper Paleolithic art is that as an aesthetic expression, it lasted for almost 20,000 years.

Now, all people share the same raw, adaptive imperatives.

We all have children.

We all have to deal with the mystery of death, the world that waits beyond death, the elders who fall away into their elderly years.

And that is the fact that we are all brothers and sisters.

We are all cut from the same genetic cloth.

All of humanity, probably, is descended from a thousand people who left Africa roughly 70,000 years ago. 

But the corollary of that is that, if we all are brothers and sisters and share the same genetic material, all human populations share the same raw human genius, the same intellectual acuity.

All peoples are simply cultural options, different visions of life itself.

But what do I mean by different visions of life making for completely different possibilities for existence? 

These are men and women who, even today, can name 250 stars in the night sky.

These are men and women who can sense the presence of distant atolls of islands beyond the visible horizon, simply by watching the reverberation of waves across the hull of their vessel, knowing full well that every island group in the Pacific has its unique refractive pattern that can be read with the same perspicacity with which a forensic scientist would read a fingerprint.

Indeed, if you took all of the genius that allowed us to put a man on the moon and applied it to an understanding of the ocean, what you would get is Polynesia. 

And if we slip from the realm of the sea into the realm of the spirit of the imagination, you enter the realm of Tibetan Buddhism.

And I recently made a film called "The Buddhist Science of the Mind."

Why did we use that word, science?

What is science but the empirical pursuit of the truth?

What is Buddhism but 2,500 years of empirical observation as to the nature of mind?

The Buddhist spends all their lifetime trying to understand the nature of existence. 

Our billboards celebrate naked children in underwear.

Their billboards are manuals, prayers to the well-being of all sentient creatures.

And with the blessing of Trulshik Rinpoche, we began a pilgrimage to a curious destination, accompanied by a great doctor.

And the destination was a single room in a nunnery, where a woman had gone into lifelong retreat 55 years before.

It means things happen.

The cause of suffering is ignorance.

By that, the Buddha did not mean stupidity; he meant clinging to the illusion that life is static and predictable.

The third noble truth said that ignorance can be overcome.

And the fourth and most important, of course, was the delineation of a contemplative practice that not only had the possibility of a transformation of the human heart, but had 2,500 years of empirical evidence that such a transformation was a certainty. 

And so, when this door opened onto the face of a woman who had not been out of that room in 55 years, you did not see a mad woman.

You saw a woman who was more clear than a pool of water in a mountain stream.

And of course, this is what the Tibetan monks told us.

And, of course, the human population has its own reciprocal obligations. 

I spent 30 years living amongst the people of Chinchero and I always heard about an event that I always wanted to participate in.

Once each year, the fastest young boy in each hamlet is given the honor of becoming a woman.

And at 48, I was the only outsider ever to go through this, only one to finish it.

I only managed to do it by chewing more coca leaves in one day than anyone in the 4,000-year history of the plant. 

Now, these ideas and these events allow us even to deconstruct iconic places that many of you have been to, like Machu Picchu.

Machu Picchu was never a lost city.

On the contrary, it was completely linked in to the 14,000 kilometers of royal roads the Inca made in less than a century.

But more importantly, it was linked in to the Andean notions of sacred geography.

The intiwatana, the hitching post to the sun, is actually an obelisk that constantly reflects the light that falls on the sacred Apu of Machu Picchu, which is Sugarloaf Mountain, called Huayna Picchu.

If you come to the south of the intiwatana, you find an altar.

Climb Huayna Picchu, find another altar.

So, 500 years after Columbus, these ancient rhythms of landscape are played out in ritual.

These, of course, are the descendants of the ancient Tairona civilization.

Taken from their families, sequestered in a shadowy world of darkness for 18 years -- two nine-year periods deliberately chosen to evoke the nine months they spend in the natural mother's womb.

Values that maintain the proposition that their prayers, and their prayers alone, maintain the cosmic balance.

Now, the measure of a society is not only what it does, but the quality of its aspirations. 

Thank you very much. 

