And unfortunately, I can be a little too honest.

I said, "No, it's -- it's penguin shit."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So, literally, a few minutes before that, I downloaded this scientific paper about calculations on avian defecation, which is really quite interesting, because it turns out you can model this as something called "Poiseuille flow," and you can learn an awful lot about the physics of the avian rectum.

And so, in some sense, this talk today is my answer to that.

(Laughter) 

So, one of the things that I love to do is travel around the world and look at archaeological sites.

The place is 64 square miles.

And somewhere along the line, somebody said, "I know!

(Laughter) 

Where did they get that inspiration?

There's many mysteries, these statues.

Everyone wants to know, how did they make them, how did they transport them?

This woman in the foreground is Jo Anne Van Tilberg.

She's the leading archaeologist working Easter Island today.

The one on the page here is the same that's up there.

One interesting problem is the stone isn't very hard.

So, this used to be completely smooth.

But after 1,000 years out in the weather, they look like this. 

Second, we have these ideas about how you can algorithmically, then, learn a few of the mysteries about them.

How long have they been standing in what positions?

And maybe, indirectly, get at some of the issues of what caused them to be the way they are.

While I was in Easter Island, comet McNaught was there also, so you get a gratuitous picture of a moai with a comet. 

I also have an archaeological project going on in Egypt.

"Going on" is perhaps a little bit strong.

We're trying to get all of the permissions to get everything all set, to get it going.

So, I'll talk about it at a future TED.

But there's some amazing opportunities in Egypt as well.

Another thing I do is I invent stuff.

In fact, I design nuclear reactors.

Not a joke.

This is the conventional nuclear fuel cycle.

Now, this is the normal way it's done.

It's got the huge advantage that it does not create carbon pollution.

Now, it's kind of nuts to work on a new nuclear reactor.

It's the kind of very high-risk, but potentially very high-return thing that we do. 

So, this device here is an invisibility cloak.

It may not seem that, but if you were a microwave, this is how you would view it.

But metamaterials are an incredibly exciting field.

But some day, some day, maybe it's going to work. 

We do a lot of work in biomedical fields.

In this case, we're working with a major medical foundation to develop inexpensive ways of diagnosing diseases in developing countries.

So, they say the eyes are the windows of the soul -- turns out they're a window to a whole lot more stuff.

And these happen to be my eyes, by the way. 

Now, I'm also very interested in cooking.

While I was at Microsoft, I took a leave of absence and went to a chef school in France.

And I'm trying to use a very scientific approach.

So, this is my latest cooker, and if this looks more complicated than the nuclear reactor, that's because it is.

But if you get to play with all those knobs and dials -- and of course, really the controller over there does it all on software -- you can make some terrific ribs. 

(Laughter) 

This is a high-speed centrifuge.

You would not believe it!

Theory is red, black is experiment.

So, I'm either really good at faking it, or this particular model seems to work. 

So, another random thing I do is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, or SETI.

It turns out there are real people who go out and search for extraterrestrials in a very scientific way.

In fact, almost everybody in the movie is based on a real character, a real person.

So, the Jodie Foster character here is actually this woman, Jill Tarter, and Jill has dedicated her life to this.

She is risking her professional life on something that her own calculations show may not work for a thousand years -- may not ever.

So, I like to support people that are risking their lives. 

After the movie came out, of course, there was a lot of interest in SETI.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And I resemble that remark.

Now, to find dinosaurs, you hike around in horrible conditions looking for a dinosaur.

It sounds really dumb, but that's what it is.

Paleontologists pray for erosion. 

You hike around, you see something like this.

Now, this is something I found, so look at it very closely here.

This is what Tyrannosaurus rex looks like in the ground.

You know.

The study of dinosaurs led to the realization that there's a problem with asteroid impact, for example.

The study of dinosaurs may, literally, one day save the planet. 

Study of the ancient climate is very important.

This is actually what most dinosaur research looks like.

Now, I'm also really big on photography.

Here's a picture I took in the Falkland Islands of king penguins on a beach.

Here's a picture I took in Alaska, a few years ago, of Orcas.

And I get lots of pictures like this.

Then, a little bit later, I start getting some pictures like this.

Now, to a human audience, I need to explain that if Penthouse magazine had a marine mammal edition, this would be the centerfold.

It's true.

(Laughter) 

There's a variety of things you can learn from watching whales have sex. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So -- where do you go putting all of these disparate pieces together?

And say, "Yeah, you know, I -- this whole talk has been a mile wide and an inch deep, but that's really what works for me."

