So, can we dare to be optimistic?

What I'm going to offer you is a recipe, a combination of the two forces that changed the world for good, which is the alliance of compassion and enlightened self-interest.

So, what does it mean to get serious about providing hope for the bottom billion?

What can we actually do?

Well, a good guide is to think, "What did we do last time the rich world got serious about developing another region of the world?"

That was post-War Europe. 

Why did America get serious?

It wasn't just compassion for Europe, though there was that.

Europe had to be dragged into economic development. 

Before the war, America had been highly protectionist.

Before the war, your security policy had been isolationist.

Is that easier or harder?

We need to be at least as serious as we were then. 

Now, today I'm going to take just one of those four.

The commodity booms are pumping unprecedented amounts of money into many, though not all, of the countries of the bottom billion.

So, a mass of new discoveries.

Between them, these new revenue flows dwarf aid.

So there's the optimism. 

The question is, how is it going to help their development?

It's a huge opportunity for transformational development.

Will it be taken?

And how about the long run?

Come back 15 years later.

Well, the short run, it's hunky dory, but the long run, it's humpty dumpty.

You go up in the short run, but then most societies historically have ended up worse than if they'd had no booms at all.

In fact, if you've got good enough governance, there is no resource boom.

The resource curse is entirely confined to countries below a threshold of governance.

How can we help improve governance and introduce checks and balances?

That is the very simple idea that governments should report to their citizens what revenues they have.

No sooner was it proposed than reformers in Nigeria adopted it, pushed it and published the revenues in the paper.

Nigerian newspapers circulations spiked.

People wanted to know what their government was getting in terms of revenue. 

I can't go through all of them, but I'll give you an example.

They worked out they were worth two billion pounds.

If the British Treasury can be out by a factor of 10, think what the ministry of finance in Sierra Leone is going to be like.

(Laughter) When I put that to the President of Sierra Leone, the next day he asked the World Bank to send him a team to give expertise on how to conduct auctions. 

If we could do it, we would change the world.

And yet, we've not got these rules.

If you think about it, the cost of promulgating international rules is zilch -- nothing.

Why on Earth are they not there?

And so I realized we had to go through the business of building an informed citizenry. 

That's why I broke all the professional rules of conduct for an economist, and I wrote an economics book that you could read on a beach.

I grew up in a culture of self-effacement.

