Just to put everything in context, and to kind of give you a background to where I'm coming from, so that a lot of the things I'm going to say, and the things I'm going to do -- or things I'm going to tell you I've done -- you will understand exactly why and how I got motivated to be where I am.

Finished university education, got a medical degree, 1986.

This brings us to why a lot of us, who are professionals, are now, as they say, in diaspora.

Now, are we going to make that a permanent thing, where we all get trained, and we leave, and we don't go back?

People getting kidnapped, where the oil comes from, the oil that sometimes I think has driven us all crazy in Nigeria.

Very interesting. 

How many people do you think are on that taxi?

And believe it or not, that is a taxi in Nigeria.

So, when these kind of people -- and, believe me, it's not just the police that use these taxis in Lagos.

And it just reminds me of the thought of what happens when one of us on a taxi like this falls off, has an accident and needs a hospital. 

Believe it or not, some of us do survive.

Some of us do survive malaria; we do survive AIDS.

Where do they go when they need help for this kind of stuff?

I'm not saying instead of, I'm saying as well as, AIDS, TB, malaria, typhoid -- the list goes on.

I'm saying, where do they go when they're like me?

What's the economic impact when one of them dies or becomes disabled? 

You remember all that oil?

Now, if something like this, which has happened in the U.K., that's where they go.

We all went out and did a mission and we've done three of them so far.

Because it's not everyone that's going to benefit from a mission.

Health is wealth, in the words of Hans Rosling.

You get wealthier faster if you are healthy first. 

Open-heart surgery in Nigeria -- big trouble.

That's Mike, Mike comes out from Mississippi.

Yes, let's just go work this thing out.

See, that's one of the problems we have in Nigeria and in Africa generally.

We get a lot of donated equipment.

Equipment that's obsolete, equipment that doesn't quite work, or it works and you can't fix it.

So what we going to do now?

We eventually got it working, is the truth, but it was one of these.

Well, nowadays everything's on PAX anyway.

And we were doing open-heart surgery. 

At 67 percent oxygen saturation, the normal is about 97.

The oxygen tanks didn't quite work right. 

We did 12 open-heart surgical patients successfully.

I'm sure you've all seen or heard this before: "We, the willing, have been doing so much with so little for so long -- 

(Applause) -- we are now qualified to do anything with nothing."

(Applause) 

And that's a perfect example of one.

And currently we're working on oxygen -- oxygen delivery on-site.

The technology for oxygen delivery is not new.

These are the basic features of my device, or our device.

This is what makes it so special.

This picture was taken last year.

These are members of my graduating class, 1986.

It was in this gentleman's house in the Potomac, for those of you who are familiar with Maryland.

And lots and lots of that little bit down there, sacrifice.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

