It was an afternoon in the fall of 2005.

So I wandered down the hallway to my colleague Chris Hansen's office.

Chris had been at the ACLU for more than 30 years, so he had deep institutional knowledge and insights. 

I explained to Chris that I was feeling a little bit stuck.

I had been investigating a number of issues at the intersection of science and civil liberties -- super interesting.

So Chris cut right to the chase, and he says, "Well, of all the issues you've been looking at, what are the top five?"

I went back to my office and sent Chris three articles.

And 20 minutes later, he came bursting in my office.

Now Chris is a really brilliant lawyer, but he knew almost nothing about patent law and certainly nothing about genetics.

I knew something about genetics, but I wasn't even a lawyer, let alone a patent lawyer.

So clearly we had a lot to learn before we could file a lawsuit. 

First, we needed to understand exactly what was patented when someone patented a gene.

Gene patents typically contain dozens of claims, but the most controversial of these are to so-called "isolated DNA" -- namely, a piece of DNA that has been removed from a cell. 

So what does that mean? 

That means that you can't give your gene to your doctor and ask him or her to look at it, say, to see if it has any mutations, without permission of the patent holder.

It also means that the patent holder has the right to stop anyone from using that gene in research or clinical testing.

The company that obtained a patent on two genes associated with this condition developed a test to diagnose the syndrome.

But then they went bankrupt and they never offered it.

So another lab tried to offer the test, but the company that held the patents threatened to sue the lab for patent infringement.

So as a result, for 2 years, no test was available.

During that time, Abigail died of undiagnosed long QT. 

Gene patents clearly were a problem and were harming patients.

But was there a way we could challenge them? 

Turns out that the Supreme Court has made clear through a long line of cases, that certain things are not patent eligible.

These things are just too fundamental and must remain free to all and reserved exclusively to none. 

Most of them agreed that we were right as a matter of policy, and, at least in theory, as a matter of law.

All of them thought our chances of winning a gene-patent challenge were about zero. 

Why is that?

So the bottom line: courts just weren't going to be willing to overturn these patents. 

Now, neither Chris nor I were the type to shy away from a challenge, and hearing, "Being right just isn't enough," seemed all the more reason to take on this fight.

So we set out to build our case. 

Now, patent cases tend to be: Company A sues Company B over some really narrow, obscure technical issue.

We weren't really interested in that kind of case, and we thought this case was much bigger than that.

This was about scientific freedom, medical progress, the rights of patients.

We set out to identify a gene-patent holder that was vigorously enforcing its patents and then to organize a broad coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could tell the court about all the ways that these patents were harming patients and innovation. 

Women with certain mutations along these genes are considered to be at a significantly increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer.

Myriad had used its patents to maintain a complete monopoly on BRCA testing in the United States.

It had forced multiple labs that were offering BRCA testing to stop.

It had stopped sharing its clinical data with the international scientific community.

And perhaps worst of all, for a period of several years, Myriad refused to update its test to include additional mutations that had been identified by a team of researchers in France. 

This is Kathleen Maxian.

The test was negative.

The family was relieved.

But two years later, Kathleen was diagnosed with advanced-stage ovarian cancer.

It turned out that Kathleen's sister was among the 12 percent who received a false-negative test result.

Once we settled on Myriad, we then had to form a coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could illuminate these problems.

One of the major challenges we had in preparing the case was figuring out how best to communicate the science.

How is DNA isolated, and why isn't that an invention? 

So isolating DNA -- it's like extracting gold from a mountain or taking it out of a stream bed.

You might be able to patent the process for mining the gold, but you can't patent the gold itself.

It might've taken a lot of hard work and effort to dig the gold out of the mountain; you still can't patent it, it's still gold.

So now it's 2009, and we're ready to file our case.

We filed in federal court in the Southern District of New York, and the case was randomly assigned to Judge Robert Sweet.

In March 2010, Judge Sweet issued his opinion -- 152 pages -- and a complete victory for our side. 

In reading the opinion, we could not get over how eloquently he described the science in the case.

I mean, our brief -- it was pretty good, but not this good.

How did he develop such a deep understanding of this issue in such a short time?

We just could not comprehend how this had happened.

So it turned out, Judge Sweet's clerk working for him at the time, was not just a lawyer -- he was a scientist.

He was not just a scientist -- he had a PhD in molecular biology. 

What an incredible stroke of luck! 

Myriad then appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

And here things got really interesting. 

So in the district court the government submitted a brief on Myriad's side.

But now in direct opposition to its own patent office, the US government files a brief that states that is has reconsidered this issue in light of the district court's opinion, and has concluded that isolated DNA is not patent eligible.

So even with this remarkable development, we expected to lose.

And we did.

Sort of.

Ends up split decision, 2 to 1.

But the two judges who ruled against us, did so for completely different reasons.

The first one, Judge Lourie, made up his own novel, biological theory -- totally wrong. 

He decided Myriad had created a new chemical -- made absolutely no sense.

Myriad didn't even argue this, so it came out of the blue.

The third, Judge Bryson, agreed with us. 

So now we sought review by the Supreme Court.

And when you petition the Supreme Court, you have to present a question that you want the Court to answer.

We submitted perhaps the shortest question presented ever.

Well, I certainly couldn't argue with that. 

Two breast cancer organizations, Breast Cancer Action and FORCE, had organized a demonstration on the courthouse steps. 

Chris and I sat quietly in the hallway, moments before he was to walk in and argue the most important case of his career.

I was clearly more nervous than he was.

The diversity of the communities represented in this room and the contributions each had made to make this day a reality spoke volumes to what was at stake. 

The argument itself was riveting.

Chris argued brilliantly.

But for me, the most thrilling aspect was watching the Supreme Court justices grapple with isolated DNA, through a series of colorful analogies and feisty exchanges, very much the same way as our legal team had done for the past seven years.

And in one of my absolutely favorite moments, Justice Sotomayor proclaimed isolated DNA to be "just nature sitting there."

Within 24 hours of the decision, five labs had announced that they would begin to offer testing for the BRCA genes.

It clears a significant barrier to biomedical discovery and innovation.

And it helps to ensure that patients like Abigail, Kathleen and Eileen have access to the tests that they need. 

A few weeks after the court issued its decision, I received a small package in the mail.

It was from Bob Cook-Deegan, a professor at Duke University and one the very first people Chris and I went to visit when we started to consider whether to bring this case.

I opened it up to find a small stuffed animal. 

We took a big risk in taking this case.

Part of what gave us the courage to take that risk was knowing that we were doing the right thing.

The process took nearly eight years from the start to finish, with many twists and turns along the way.

Thank you. 

