A few words about how I got started, and it has a lot to do with happiness, actually.

And, kind of as a way of surviving, I would go into my own very personal space, and I would make things.

I would make things for people as a way of, you know, giving, showing them my love.

So, the whole activity of working with my hands and creating objects is very much connected with not only the idea realm, but also with very much the feeling realm.

And the ideas are very disparate. 

When I was a child, I started to explore motion.

I fell in love with the way things moved, so I started to explore motion by making little flipbooks.

And this is one that I did, probably like when I was around seventh grade, and I remember when I was doing this, I was thinking about that little rock there, and the pathway of the vehicles as they would fly through the air, and how the characters -- 

And of course, when you're a little kid, there's always destruction.

So, it has to end with this -- 

gratuitous violence. 

So that was how I first started to explore the way things moved, and expressed it. 

Now, when I went to college, I found myself making fairly complicated, fragile machines.

And this really came about from having many different kinds of interests.

When I was in high school, I loved to program computers, so I sort of liked the logical flow of events.

So, I started taking art courses, and I found a way to make sculpture that brought together my love for being very precise with my hands, with coming up with different kinds of logical flows of energy through a system.

Now, this kind of machine is as close as I can get to painting.

It's really just for the sort of joy of its own triviality.

The connection I have with engineering is the same as any other engineer, in that I love to solve problems.

That's pretty ambiguous. 

Since I'm always liking to solve problems, I gave myself the problem of turning a crank in one direction, and solving all of the mechanical problems for getting this little man to walk back and forth.

And then it was a matter of starting from one point and sort of building to that final point.

That little gear there switches back and forth to change direction.

And that's a little found object. 

So a lot of the pieces that I've made, they involve found objects.

And it really -- it's almost like doing visual puns all the time.

When I see objects, I imagine them in motion.

I imagine what can be said with them. 

And that's the whole piece. 

That's about that big. 

And they would coalesce for just a moment, so you could perceive that there was a chair there.

This whole thing is about four feet wide, and the chair itself is only about a few inches. 

So, we have a motor here on the left, and it goes through a gear train.

Because it could run all the time. 

I'm imagining myself as a machine.

What would I love?

I would love to be bathed in oil. 

So, this machine does nothing but just bathe itself in oil. 

But when she suggested to be in the show, this piece came to mind.

So, it's sort of related, but you can see it's much more overtly erotic.

And, in a case like this, I'm trying to make something which is clear but also not suggestive of any particular kind of animal or plant. 

My life completely changed when I found a spot welder. 

And that was that tool.

It completely changed what I could do.

Now here, I'm going to do a very poor job of silver soldering.

This is not the way they teach you to silver solder when you're in school.

I just like, throw it in.

I mean, real jewelers put little bits of solder in.

So, that's a finished gear. 

When I moved to Boston, I joined a group called the World Sculpture Racing Society. 

And the idea, their premise was that we wanted to show pieces of sculpture on the street, and there'd be no subjective decision about what was the best.

It would be -- whatever came across the finish line first would be the winner. 

This is a piece that, for me, is in some ways the most complete kind of piece.

Because when I was a kid, I also played a lot of guitar.

It's always a struggle, but somehow I manage to sort of get this thought out into an object, and then it's there, OK.

It means nothing at all.

The object itself just means nothing.

Once it's perceived, and someone brings it into their own mind, then there's a cycle that has been completed.

So I'll just let this chair come down. 

Thank you. 

