The first question is this.

Our country has two exploration programs.

And you can see we have Sputnik, and we have Saturn, and we have other manifestations of space exploration.

Well, there's also another program, in another agency within our government, in ocean exploration.

It's in NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

Why are people afraid of the ocean?

Or do they just assume the ocean is just a dark, gloomy place that has nothing to offer? 

And what I'm going to try -- I hope I make the following points.

I'm going to make it right now in case I forget.

Everything I'm going to present to you was not in my textbooks when I went to school.

And most of all, it was not even in my college textbooks.

We learned of Marshall Kay's geosynclinal cycle, which is a bunch of crap.

In today's context, it was a bunch of crap, but it was the law of geology, vertical tectonics.

All the things we're going to walk through in our explorations and discoveries of the oceans were mostly discoveries made by accident.

Mostly discoveries made by accident.

We were looking for something and found something else.

And everything we're going to talk about represents a one tenth of one percent glimpse, because that's all we've seen. 

I have a characterization.

This is a characterization of what it would look like if you could remove the water.

You know, it's just ludicrous.

We are always, constantly playing the zero sum game.

You know, we're going to do this, we're going to take it away from something else.

And as I will point out later in the presentation, 50 percent of the United States of America lies beneath the sea.

I was a body surfer and I thought, "Wow, that was an incredible wave!"

And we almost sank the ship, but I became enraptured with mounting expeditions.

But in the early days, the only way I could get to the bottom was to crawl into a submarine, a very small submarine, and go down to the bottom.

I dove in a whole series of different deep diving submersibles.

Alvin and Sea Cliff and Cyana, and all the major deep submersibles we have, which are about eight.

The mid-ocean ridge runs around like the seam on a baseball.

This is on a Mercator projection.

But if you were to put it on an equal area projection, you'd see that the mid-ocean ridge covers 23 percent of the Earth's total surface area.

Almost a quarter of our planet is a single mountain range and we didn't enter it until after Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin went to the moon.

And our interest in this mountain range, as Earth scientists in those days, was not only because of its tremendous size, dominating the planet, but the role it plays in the genesis of the Earth's outer skin.

Because it's along the axis of the mid-ocean ridge where the great crustal plates are separating.

And like a living organism, you tear it open, it bleeds its molten blood, rises up to heal that wound from the asthenosphere, hardens, forms new tissue and moves laterally. 

Most of our planet does not feel the warmth of the sun.

Most of our planet is in eternal darkness.

And for that reason, you do not have photosynthesis in the deep sea.

Running along this entire 42,000 miles are tens of thousands of active volcanoes.

Tens of thousands of active volcanoes.

And it's then being ripped open. 

But we were dealing with a particular scientific issue back then.

We couldn't understand why you had a mountain under tension.

In plate tectonic theory, we knew that if you had plates collide, it made sense: they would crush into one another, you would thicken the crust, you'd uplift it.

That's why you get, you know, you get seashells up on Mount Everest.

It's not a flood, it was pushed up there.

But the only logical [explanation] was that there were hot springs.

So, there must be underwater hot springs. 

We mounted an expedition to look for the missing heat.

This is what a real one looks like, on the Juan de Fuca Ridge.

What you're looking at is an incredible pipe organ of chemicals coming out of the ocean.

Everything you see in this picture is commercial grade: copper, lead, silver, zinc and gold.

So the Easter Bunny has put things in the ocean floor, and you have massive heavy metal deposits that we're making in this mountain range.

We're making huge discoveries of large commercial-grade ore along this mountain range, but it was dwarfed by what we discovered.

And when we cut them open, they didn't have the anatomy of a clam.

No mouth, no gut, no digestive system.

We did not know about this life system.

We were not predicting it.

We stumbled on it, looking for some missing heat. 

So, we wanted to accelerate this process.

Three hours of bottom time, average distance traveled -- one mile. 

The scientists were off watch and they came across incredible life forms.

They came across new creatures they had not seen before.

But more importantly, they discovered edifices down there that they did not understand.

We went in underneath and tapped it, and we found that it had the pH of Drano.

And the hydrothermal vents were in an acidic environment.

All the way at the other end, in an alkaline environment, at a pH of 11, life existed.

Again, you know, we stop at the water's edge. 

Instead of belching out lava, they were belching out big, big bubbles of methane.

The realization that the deep sea is the largest museum on Earth.

It contains more history than all of the museums on land combined.

And yet we're only now penetrating it.

We've been discovering these along ancient trade routes, where they're not supposed to be.

This shipwreck sank 100 years before the birth of Christ.

This one sank carrying a prefabricated, Home Depot Roman temple.

And then here's one that sank at the time of Homer, at 750 B.C.

More recently, into the Black Sea, where we're exploring.

We expect to start hauling out the bodies in perfect condition with their DNA.

This ship sank 1,500 years ago. 

And we stole recently a ship from the United States Navy.

The Okeanos Explorer on its mission.

Its mission is as good as you could get.

Its mission is to go where no one has gone before on planet Earth.

But we have no idea what we're going find when we go out there with our technology.

But certainly, it's going to be going to the unknown America.

This is that part of the United States that lies beneath the sea.

We have maps of Venus, but not of the western territorial trust.

The way we're going to run this -- we have no idea what we're going to discover.

We have no idea what we're going to discover.

We're going to discover an ancient shipwreck, a Phoenician off Brazil, or a new rock formation, a new life.

So, we're going to run it like an emergency hospital. 

We're going to connect our command center, via a high-bandwidth satellite link to a building we're building at the University of Rhode Island, called the Interspace Center.

A discovery is made, that discovery is instantly seen in the command center a second later.

We can then build a command center.

This is a remote center at the University of Washington.

But the beauty of this, too, is we can then disseminate it to children.

I would not let an adult drive my robot.

You don't have enough gaming experience.

But I will let a kid with no license take over control of my vehicle system. 

This is a young lady, not watching a football game, not watching a basketball game.

Watching exploration live from thousands of miles away, and it's just dawning on her what she's seeing.

This, I hope, will be a future engineer or a future scientist in the battle for truth.

And my final question, my final question -- why are we not looking at moving out onto the sea?

Why do we have programs to build habitation on Mars, and we have programs to look at colonizing the moon, but we do not have a program looking at how we colonize our own planet?

And the technology is at hand. 

Thank you very much. 

