It is about food, but it's not about cooking, per se.

I'm going to start with this picture of a beautiful cow.

Like half the antibiotics in this country are not administered to people, but to animals.

But lists like this become kind of numbing, so let me just say this: if you're a progressive, if you're driving a Prius, or you're shopping green, or you're looking for organic, you should probably be a semi-vegetarian.

And that's the direct result of eating a Western diet.

Our demand for meat, dairy and refined carbohydrates -- the world consumes one billion cans or bottles of Coke a day -- our demand for these things, not our need, our want, drives us to consume way more calories than are good for us.

And those calories are in foods that cause, not prevent, disease.

Now global warming was unforeseen.

We didn't know that pollution did more than cause bad visibility.

Maybe a few lung diseases here and there, but, you know, that's not such a big deal.

The evidence is very clear that plants promote health.

This evidence is overwhelming at this point.

What do they have in common?

One: we don't need either of them for health.

We don't need animal products, and we certainly don't need white bread or Coke.

Three: their production has been supported by government agencies at the expense of a more health- and Earth-friendly diet. 

The sad thing is, when it comes to diet, is that even when well-intentioned Feds try to do right by us, they fail.

Either they're outvoted by puppets of agribusiness, or they are puppets of agribusiness.

So, when the USDA finally acknowledged that it was plants, rather than animals, that made people healthy, they encouraged us, via their overly simplistic food pyramid, to eat five servings of fruits and vegetables a day, along with more carbs.

But with lots of intelligent people focusing on whether food is organic or local, or whether we're being nice to animals, the most important issues just aren't being addressed.

Another red herring might be exemplified by the word "locavore," which was just named word of the year by the New Oxford American Dictionary.

(Laughter). 

The first at least is populist, and the second is elitist.

How we got to this place is the history of food in the United States.

Every family had a cook, usually a mom.

And those moms bought and prepared food.

It was like your romantic vision of Europe.

Margarine didn't exist.

There was no snack food, and until the '20s, until Clarence Birdseye came along, there was no frozen food.

There were no restaurant chains.

And fancy food was entirely French.

(Laughter) 

Vitamins had not been invented.

There were no health claims, at least not federally sanctioned ones.

Fats, carbs, proteins -- they weren't bad or good, they were food.

You ate food.

The cornflake hadn't been invented.

(Laughter) The Pop-Tart, the Pringle, Cheez Whiz, none of that stuff.

Goldfish swam.

(Laughter) It's hard to imagine.

And again, everyone ate local.

From the '30s on, road systems expanded, trucks took the place of railroads, fresh food began to travel more.

Oranges became common in New York.

The South and West became agricultural hubs, and in other parts of the country, suburbs took over farmland.

And the death of family farms is part of this puzzle, as is almost everything from the demise of the real community to the challenge of finding a good tomato, even in summer.

Thus arrived convenience.

Now, I know everybody over the age of, like 45 -- their mouths are watering at this point.

(Laughter) (Applause) If we had a slide of Salisbury steak, even more so, right?

(Laughter) But this may have cut down on housework, but it cut down on the variety of food we ate as well.

What could be easier, more filling or healthier for your family than broiling a steak?

But by then cattle were already raised unnaturally.

Thanks to farm subsidies, the fine collaboration between agribusiness and Congress, soy, corn and cattle became king.

And chicken soon joined them on the throne.

Listen to this, between 1950 and 2000, the world's population doubled.

Meat consumption increased five-fold.

(Laughter) 

It wasn't all bad.

By the '70s, forward-thinking people began to recognize the value of local ingredients.

We weren't all hippies, either.

Many people became fat-phobic.

Instead they were sold on yogurt, yogurt being almost as good as broccoli.

Except, in reality, the way the industry sold yogurt was to convert it to something much more akin to ice cream.

Similarly, let's look at a granola bar.

You think that that might be healthy food, but in fact, if you look at the ingredient list, it's closer in form to a Snickers than it is to oatmeal.

Think of the frozen chicken nugget.

And zapped horribly, pathetically.

At the same time, masses of women were entering the workforce, and cooking simply wasn't important enough for men to share the burden.

So now, you've got your pizza nights, you've got your microwave nights, you've got your grazing nights, you've got your fend-for-yourself nights and so on. 

Leading the way -- what's leading the way?

So, now we clamor for organic food.

That's good.

Let me pose you a question.

And if that salmon's from Chile, and it's killed down there and then flown 5,000 miles, whatever, dumping how much carbon into the atmosphere?

I don't know.

Packed in Styrofoam, of course, before landing somewhere in the United States, and then being trucked a few hundred more miles.

This may be organic in letter, but it's surely not organic in spirit.

We need to start acting.

And this is not only an issue of social justice, as Ann Cooper said -- and, of course, she's completely right -- but it's also one of global survival.

Which bring me full circle and points directly to the core issue, the overproduction and overconsumption of meat and junk food.

As I said, 18 percent of greenhouse gases are attributed to livestock production.

How much livestock do you need to produce this?

70 percent of the agricultural land on Earth, 30 percent of the Earth's land surface is directly or indirectly devoted to raising the animals we'll eat.

And this amount is predicted to double in the next 40 years or so. 

And if the numbers coming in from China are anything like what they look like now, it's not going to be 40 years.

There is no good reason for eating as much meat as we do.

And I say this as a man who has eaten a fair share of corned beef in his life.

The most common argument is that we need nutrients -- even though we eat, on average, twice as much protein as even the industry-obsessed USDA recommends.

But listen: experts who are serious about disease reduction recommend that adults eat just over half a pound of meat per week. 

But don't we need meat to be big and strong?

Isn't meat eating essential to health?

Won't a diet heavy in fruit and vegetables turn us into godless, sissy, liberals?

To suggest that in the interests of personal and human health Americans eat 50 percent less meat -- it's not enough of a cut, but it's a start. 

I've been writing about food more or less omnivorously -- one might say indiscriminately -- for about 30 years.

Ann Cooper's right.

The USDA is not our ally here.

We have to take matters into our own hands, not only by advocating for a better diet for everyone -- and that's the hard part -- but by improving our own.

And that happens to be quite easy.

Eat real food.

We'll reduce not only calories, but our carbon footprint.

We have to choose that path.

Thank you. 

