How many of you have seen the Alfred Hitchcock film "The Birds"?

Any of you get really freaked out by that?

You might want to leave now.

(Laughter) So, this is a vending machine for crows.

And he said that was impossible. 

And I'm sure I'm in good company in finding that tremendously annoying -- when someone tells you it's impossible.

So, I spent the next 10 years reading about crows in my spare time.

But part of the reason that I found this interesting is that I started noticing that we are very aware of all the species that are going extinct on the planet as a result of human habitation expansion, and no one seems to be paying attention to all the species that are actually living -- that are surviving.

And in return, we just tried to kill them all the time.

So, for example, rats are incredibly responsive breeders.

And cockroaches, as anyone who's tried to get rid of them knows, have become really immune to the poisons that we're using.

So, I thought, let's build something that's mutually beneficial.

Well, then let's build something that we can both benefit from, and find some way to make a new relationship with these species.

And so I built the vending machine. 

But the story of the vending machine is a little more interesting if you know more about crows.

It turns out that crows aren't just surviving with human beings -- they're actually really thriving.

So we may not think about them, but they're always around.

So that's no great surprise. 

But what was really interesting to me was to find out that the birds were adapting in a pretty unusual way.

And these crows use sticks in the wild to get insects and whatnot out of pieces of wood.

Here, she's trying to get a piece of meat out of a tube.

But the researchers had a problem.

They messed up and left just a stick of wire in there.

So she adapted. 

No one taught her to bend this into a hook, had shown her how it could happen.

But she did it all on her own.

So keep in mind that she's never seen this done.

Right.

(Laughter) Yeah.

(Laughter) 

So, it turns out we've been finding more and more that crows are really, really intelligent.

Their brains are proportionate, in the same proportion as chimpanzee brains are.

There are all kinds of anecdotes for different kinds of intelligence they have.

It's pretty annoying for the fishermen. 

Some students went out and netted some crows, brought them in, and were -- weighed them, and measured them and whatnot, and then let them back out again.

And were entertained to discover that for the rest of the week, these crows, whenever these particular students walked around campus, these crows would caw at them, and run around and make their life kind of miserable. 

So -- the moral being, don't piss off crows.

So now, students at the University of Washington that are studying these crows do so with a giant wig and a big mask.

(Laughter) It's fairly interesting. 

Video: Crows have become highly skilled at making a living in these new urban environments.

The problem now is collecting the bits, without getting run over.

Wait for the light to stop the traffic.

Then, collect your cracked nut in safety. 

(Laughter) (Applause) Joshua Klein: Yeah, yeah.

So what's significant about this isn't that crows are using cars to crack nuts.

In fact, that's old hat for crows.

This happened about 10 years ago in a place called Sendai City, at a driving school in the suburbs of Tokyo.

If I have a little extra time, I'll tell you about a case of crow infidelity that illustrates that nicely.

The point being that they've developed cultural adaptation.

And as we heard yesterday, that's the Pandora's box that's getting human beings in trouble, and we're starting to see it with them.

So we know that there's lots of crows.

We found out they're really smart, and we found out that they can teach each other.

This is a vending machine for crows.

And it uses Skinnerian training to shape their behavior over four stages.

It's pretty simple.

Basically, what happens is that we put this out in a field, or someplace where there's lots of crows, and we put coins and peanuts all around the base of the machine.

Then you can come back anytime and get yourself a peanut. 

So, when they get really used to that, we move on to the crows coming back.

Now, they're used to the sound of the machine, and they keep coming back, and digging out these peanuts from amongst the pile of coins that's there.

And when they get really happy about this, we go ahead and stymie them. 

And we move to the third stage, where we only give them a coin.

Now, like most of us who have gotten used to a good thing, this really pisses them off.

And they do that here, and that knocks the coins down the slot, and when that happens, they get a peanut.

And this is where we see the difference between crows and other animals.

Squirrels, for example, would show up, look for the peanut, go away.

Come back, look for the peanut, go away.

They do this maybe half a dozen times before they get bored, and then they go off and play in traffic. 

Crows, on the other hand, show up, and they try and figure it out.

They know that this machine's been messing with them, through three different stages of behavior.

(Laughter) They figure it's gotta have more to it.

So, they poke at it and peck at it and whatnot.

And then, we're off to the races.

That crow enjoys a temporary monopoly on peanuts, until his friends figure out how to do it, and then there we go. 

So, what's significant about this to me isn't that we can train crows to pick up peanuts.

I think that crows can be trained to do other things.

For example, why not train them to pick up garbage after stadium events?

Or find expensive components from discarded electronics?

Or maybe do search and rescue?

The main thing, the main point of all this for me is that we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species.

(Applause) 

