And when evolutionary biologists talk about design, they really mean design by natural selection.

And that brings me to the title of the talk, "Using Evolution to Design Disease Organisms Intelligently."

It's really not a very friendly field for evolutionary biologists.

You actually see a great potential, but you see a lot of people who are sort of defending their turf, and may actually be very resistant, when one tries to introduce ideas. 

So, all of the talk today is going to deal with two general questions.

How can we make the harmful organisms more mild?

And I'm going to be talking, to begin with, as I said, about diarrheal disease organisms.

But not always.

Sometimes, you get disease organisms that don't rely on host mobility at all for transmission.

And when you have that, then evolutionary theory tells us that natural selection will favor the more exploitative, more predator-like organisms.

So, natural selection will favor organisms that are more likely to cause damage.

If instead transmission to another host requires host mobility, then we expect that the winners of the competition will be the milder organisms.

So, I'm going to begin by applying this idea to diarrheal diseases.

Diarrheal disease organisms get transmitted in basically three ways.

They can be transmitted from person-to-person contact, person-to-food-then-to-person contact, when somebody eats contaminated food, or they can be transmitted through the water.

And when they're transmitted through the water, unlike the first two modes of transmission, these pathogens don't rely on a healthy host for transmission.

A person can be sick in bed and still infect tens, even hundreds of other individuals.

People will come in to those places where you've got contaminated drinking water, bring things back to the family, may drink right at that point.

The whole point is that a person who can't move can still infect many other individuals. 

And so, the theory tells us that when diarrheal disease organisms are transported by water, we expect them to be more predator-like, more harmful.

And you can test these ideas.

So this suggests we're on the right track.

But this, to me, suggests that we really need to ask some additional questions. 

Now, this suggests that if you could just block waterborne transmission, you could cause disease organisms to shift from the right-hand side of that graph to the left-hand side of the graph.

But it doesn't tell you how long.

I mean, if this would require thousands of years, then it's worthless in terms of controlling of these pathogens.

But if it could occur in just a few years, then it might be a very important way to control some of the nasty problems that we haven't been able to control.

In other words, this suggests that we could domesticate these organisms.

We could make them evolve to be not so harmful to us. 

And so, as I was thinking about this, I focused on this organism, which is the El Tor biotype of the organism called Vibrio cholerae.

And that is the species of organism that is responsible for causing cholera.

And the reason I thought this is a really great organism to look at is that we understand why it's so harmful.

It's harmful because it produces a toxin, and that toxin is released when the organism gets into our intestinal tract.

It causes fluid to flow from the cells that line our intestine into the lumen, the internal chamber of our intestine, and then that fluid goes the only way it can, which is out the other end.

And it flushes out thousands of different other competitors that would otherwise make life difficult for the Vibrios. 

So what happens, if you've got an organism, it produces a lot of toxin.

It's sort of cloudy water.

And if you took a drop of that water, you might find a million diarrheal organisms.

Now, I can think of some possible experiments.

There's a little ethical problem in this experiment.

But anyhow, the laughter makes me feel a little bit better.

And this ethical problem's a big problem.

Just to emphasize this, this is what we're really talking about.

Here's a girl who's almost dead.

So, we don't want to run an experiment like that.

But interestingly, just that thing happened in 1991.

Did the organism evolve to mildness in a place like Chile, which has some of the most well protected water supplies in Latin America?

And did it evolve to be more harmful in a place like Ecuador, which has some of the least well protected?

And Peru's got something sort of in between. 

And so, with funding from the Bosack-Kruger Foundation, I got a lot of strains from these different countries and we measured their toxin production in the lab.

And we found that in Chile -- within two months of the invasion of Peru you had strains entering Chile -- and when you look at those strains, in the very far left-hand side of this graph, you see a lot of variation in the toxin production.

They evolved to produce less toxin.

And to just give you a sense of how important this might be, if we look in 1995, we find that there's only one case of cholera, on average, reported from Chile every two years. 

So, it's controlled.

Well, in Peru it didn't.

In every case there's a lot of variation, but something about the environment the people are living in, and I think the only realistic explanation is that it's the degree of waterborne transmission, favored the harmful strains in one place, and mild strains in another. 

And the idea is very simple.

So, you get this vicious cycle.

The goal is to turn this around.

If you could cause an evolutionary decrease in virulence by cleaning up the water supply, you should be able to get an evolutionary decrease in antibiotic resistance.

So, we can go to the same countries and look and see.

But if we look at the end of the 1990s, just half a decade later, we see that in Ecuador they started having a resistance problem.

Antibiotic sensitivity was going down.

And in Chile, you still had antibiotic sensitivity. 

So, it looks like Chile dodged two bullets.

They got the organism to evolve to mildness, and they got no development of antibiotic resistance.

And the example I want to deal with is, or the idea I want to deal with, the question is, what can we do to try to get the malarial organism to evolve to mildness?

And you can show, just by looking at data from literature, that vector-borne diseases are more harmful than non-vector-borne diseases.

But I think there's a really fascinating example of what one can do experimentally to try to actually demonstrate this.

And the logic's a little more subtle here.

If you mosquito-proof houses, when people get sick, they're sitting in bed -- or in mosquito-proof hospitals, they're sitting in a hospital bed -- and the mosquitoes can't get to them. 

So, if you're a harmful variant in a place where you've got mosquito-proof housing, then you're a loser.

The only pathogens that get transmitted are the ones that are infecting people that feel healthy enough to walk outside and get mosquito bites.

So, if you were to mosquito proof houses, you should be able to get these organisms to evolve to mildness.

And there's a really wonderful experiment that was done that suggests that we really should go ahead and do this.

And that experiment was done in Northern Alabama.

This shows you the positions of some of these dams.

And these are the data.

Every row across here represents one of those 11 zones.

And the asterisks represent the time at which the mosquito proofing was complete.

And so what you can see is that just the mosquito-proofed housing, and nothing else, caused the eradication of malaria.

And this was, incidentally, published in 1949, in the leading textbook of malaria, called "Boyd's Malariology."

But almost no malaria experts even know it exists.

Now, I would suggest that you could do this in a lot of places.

Like, you know, just as you get into the malaria zone, sub-Saharan Africa.

This is a long-term solution. 

So, this table I've given just to emphasize that I've only talked about two examples.

And this links up with a lot of the other ideas that have been talked about.

Will it maybe get lowered if we alter the economy of the area?

It may get lowered if we intervene in ways that encourage people to stay more faithful to partners, and so on. 

And that will just add to the effectiveness of our control efforts.

