We all know the Earth is in trouble.

We have now entered in the 6X, the sixth major extinction on this planet.

I think that vote is occurring right now. 

They generate the humus soils across the landmasses of Earth.

Dusty and I, we like to say, on Sunday, this is where we go to church.

Most of you are familiar with Portobello mushrooms.

So, I hope to pierce that prejudice forever with this group.

We call it mycophobia, the irrational fear of the unknown, when it comes to fungi. 

Mushrooms are very fast in their growth.

Day 21, day 23, day 25.

Mushrooms produce strong antibiotics.

In fact, we're more closely related to fungi than we are to any other kingdom.

A group of 20 eukaryotic microbiologists published a paper two years ago erecting opisthokonta -- a super-kingdom that joins animalia and fungi together.

We share in common the same pathogens.

But here is a mushroom that's past its prime.

After they sporulate, they do rot.

But I propose to you that the sequence of microbes that occur on rotting mushrooms are essential for the health of the forest.

They give rise to the trees, they create the debris fields that feed the mycelium. 

And so we see a mushroom here sporulating.

And the spores are germinating, and the mycelium forms and goes underground.

In a single cubic inch of soil, there can be more than eight miles of these cells.

My foot is covering approximately 300 miles of mycelium. 

This is photomicrographs from Nick Read and Patrick Hickey.

And notice that as the mycelium grows, it conquers territory and then it begins the net.

I've been a scanning electron microscopist for many years, I have thousands of electron micrographs, and when I'm staring at the mycelium, I realize that they are microfiltration membranes.

We exhale carbon dioxide, so does mycelium.

It inhales oxygen, just like we do.

But these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs.

And I present to you a concept that these are extended neurological membranes.

And in these cavities, these micro-cavities form, and as they fuse soils, they absorb water.

These are little wells.

And inside these wells, then microbial communities begin to form.

And so the spongy soil not only resists erosion, but sets up a microbial universe that gives rise to a plurality of other organisms. 

I first proposed, in the early 1990s, that mycelium is Earth's natural Internet.

When you look at the mycelium, they're highly branched.

And if there's one branch that is broken, then very quickly, because of the nodes of crossing -- Internet engineers maybe call them hot points -- there are alternative pathways for channeling nutrients and information.

The mycelium is sentient.

It knows that you are there.

When you walk across landscapes, it leaps up in the aftermath of your footsteps trying to grab debris.

So, I believe the invention of the computer Internet is an inevitable consequence of a previously proven, biologically successful model.

Going way out, dark matter conforms to the same mycelial archetype.

I believe matter begets life; life becomes single cells; single cells become strings; strings become chains; chains network.

And this is the paradigm that we see throughout the universe. 

Most of you may not know that fungi were the first organisms to come to land.

They came to land 1.3 billion years ago, and plants followed several hundred million years later.

How is that possible?

It's possible because the mycelium produces oxalic acids, and many other acids and enzymes, pockmarking rock and grabbing calcium and other minerals and forming calcium oxalates.

Makes the rocks crumble, and the first step in the generation of soil.

And all sorts of other oxalates are also sequestering carbon dioxide through the minerals that are being formed and taken out of the rock matrix. 

This was first discovered in 1859.

The tallest plants on Earth at that time were less than two feet.

Dr. Boyce, at the University of Chicago, published an article in the Journal of Geology this past year determining that Prototaxites was a giant fungus, a giant mushroom.

Across the landscapes of Earth were dotted these giant mushrooms.

The Earth was struck by an asteroid, a huge amount of debris was jettisoned into the atmosphere.

Sunlight was cut off, and fungi inherited the Earth.

Those organisms that paired with fungi were rewarded, because fungi do not need light.

More recently, at Einstein University, they just determined that fungi use radiation as a source of energy, much like plants use light.

So, the prospect of fungi existing on other planets elsewhere, I think, is a forgone conclusion, at least in my own mind. 

The largest organism on the planet is a mycelial mat, one cell wall thick.

The mycelium absorbs the oil.

The mycelium is producing enzymes -- peroxidases -- that break carbon-hydrogen bonds.

These are the same bonds that hold hydrocarbons together.

The enzymes remanufactured the hydrocarbons into carbohydrates -- fungal sugars. 

Some of these mushrooms are very happy mushrooms.

They're very large.

So, we set up a site in Mason County, Washington, and we've seen a dramatic decrease in the amount of coliforms.

And I'll show you a graph here.

This is a logarithmic scale, 10 to the eighth power.

In 48 hours to 72 hours, these three mushroom species reduced the amount of coliform bacteria 10,000 times.

Think of the implications.

So, this one mushroom, in particular, has drawn our interest over time.

It's a mushroom exclusive to the old-growth forest that Dioscorides first described in 65 A.D. as a treatment against consumption.

This mushroom grows in Washington State, Oregon, northern California, British Columbia, now thought to be extinct in Europe.

May not seem that large -- let's get closer.

This is extremely rare fungus.

Our team -- and we have a team of experts that go out -- we went out 20 times in the old-growth forest last year.

We found one sample to be able to get into culture. 

Preserving the genome of these fungi in the old-growth forest I think is absolutely critical for human health.

I've been involved with the U.S. Defense Department BioShield program.

We submitted over 300 samples of mushrooms that were boiled in hot water, and mycelium harvesting these extracellular metabolites.

And a few years ago, we received these results.

We have three different strains of Agarikon mushrooms that were highly active against poxviruses.

Dr. Earl Kern, who's a smallpox expert of the U.S. Defense Department, states that any compounds that have a selectivity index of two or more are active.

10 or greater are considered to be very active.

Our mushroom strains were in the highly active range.

So, encouraged by this, naturally we went to flu viruses.

And we're using a natural extract within the same dosage window as a pure pharmaceutical.

We tried it against flu A viruses -- H1N1, H3N2 -- as well as flu B viruses.

So then we tried a blend, and in a blend combination we tried it against H5N1, and we got greater than 1,000 selectivity index.

(Applause) 

Our house was being destroyed by carpenter ants.

I did something that nobody else had done.

I actually chased the mycelium, when it stopped producing spores.

These are spores -- this is in their spores.

I was able to morph the culture into a non-sporulating form.

And so the industry has spent over 100 million dollars specifically on bait stations to prevent termites from eating your house.

And then -- a delicate dance between dinner and death -- the mycelium is consumed by the ants, they become mummified, and, boing, a mushroom pops out of their head.

(Laughter) Now after sporulation, the spores repel.

So, the house is no longer suitable for invasion.

So, you have a near-permanent solution for reinvasion of termites.

And so my house came down, I received my first patent against carpenter ants, termites and fire ants.

Then we tried extracts, and lo and behold, we can steer insects to different directions.

And so I came up with a Life Box, because I needed a delivery system.

The seeds then are mothered by this mycelium.

And then you put tree seeds in here, and then you end up growing -- potentially -- an old-growth forest from a cardboard box. 

Then you can harvest the kernels, and then you just need a few kernels.

I add mycelium to it, and then I inoculate the corncobs.

Now, three corncobs, no other grain -- lots of mushrooms begin to form.

Too many withdrawals from the carbon bank, and so this population will be shut down.

But watch what happens here.

The mushrooms then are harvested, but very importantly, the mycelium has converted the cellulose into fungal sugars.

And so I thought, how could we address the energy crisis in this country?

And we came up with Econol. 

Generating ethanol from cellulose using mycelium as an intermediary -- and you gain all the benefits that I've described to you already.

So, we build the carbon banks on the planet, renew the soils.

These are a species that we need to join with.

I think engaging mycelium can help save the world.

(Applause) 

