You know, one of the things that I'd like to say upfront is that I'm really here by accident.

And what I mean -- not at TED -- that I'm -- at this point in my life, truly my set of circumstances I would truly consider an accident.

But what I'd like to talk to you about today is perhaps a way in which we could use technology to make those accidents happen often.

Because I really think, when I look back at how I actually ended up in this accident, technology played a big role in that. 

And I think you will see why the two greatest passions in my life today are children and education.

And once I put that in context, I'd like to tell you a little bit about technology: why I believe technology is a tremendous enabler; a very powerful tool to help address some of these challenges.

Then, about the initiative that Chris mentioned, that we decided to launch at AMD that we call 50x15.

And then I'll come back to the beginning, and tell you a little bit more -- hopefully convince you -- that I believe that in today's world, it is really important for business leaders not only to have an idea of what their business is all about, but to have a passion for something that is meaningful. 

So I grew up in a family of women.

I learned a lot about how to deal with that part of the world.

But I was fortunate to be able to have one, and so were my four sisters.

That kind of tells you a little bit of an idea of the emphasis that my parents placed on education.

He explained to me about Johann Strauss, and how he created the waltzes that became so famous in the world.

And even as a child, he was able to instill in me a lot of curiosity.

And I always said that they were really tough on me.

And not tough in the sense that most people think of, where your parents yell at you or hit you or whatever.

And in today's world, being useful, affordable and accessible is not necessarily what happens in a lot of the technology that is done today.

And to me, that is very, very critical. 

Now, technology has changed a lot since the Victrola days.

You know, we now have, of course, incredibly powerful computers.

A tremendous thing that people refer to as a killer app is called the Internet.

Although frankly speaking, we don't believe the Internet is the killer app.

What we believe is that the Internet, frankly, is a connection of people and ideas.

The Internet happens to be just the medium in which those people and ideas get connected.

And the power of connecting people and ideas can be pretty awesome.

And so, we believe that through all the changes that have occurred, that we're faced today with a tremendous opportunity.

If we can connect people and ideas more intensely -- and although you've seen a plethora and a myriad of products that have come to the market today, the key to me is how many of these products are able to provide people connectivity, in a useful way, accessibility, in an easy manner, and also affordability, that regardless of the economic status that a person could have, that they could have the opportunity to afford this technology. 

We knew we couldn't do it by ourselves, and by no means did we ever intend to imply that we at AMD could do it alone.

We always felt that this was something that could be done through partnerships with governments, industry, educational institutions, a myriad of other companies and, frankly, even competitors.

And so when we gave ourselves this scorecard to say well, where are we related to our goal towards 2015, the thing that becomes apparent is three pieces.

One is the Western world, defined mostly by Western Europe and the United States, has made an awful lot of progress.

The connectivity in these parts of the world are really truly phenomenal and continue to increase. 

I had the opportunity to have a discussion with President Mbeki, and one of the things that we talked about is, what is it that's keeping this connectivity goal from moving ahead faster?

And one of the reasons is, in South Africa, it costs 100 dollars a month to have a broadband connectivity.

It is impossible, even in the United States, for that cost, to be able to enable the connectivity that we're all trying to reach.

So, we talked about ways in which perhaps one could partner to be able to bring the cost of this technology down.

We really think it's a phenomenal driver of things, to force us to do things differently, and we look forward to being able to actually, working with so many partners around the world, to be able to reach that goal. 

It is actually a business venture.

When you look at elementary-school children, we have hundreds and hundreds of millions of children around the world that could benefit tremendously from being able to be connected to the Internet.

And when we embarked in this initiative, from the very beginning we said it very clearly: this is not a charity.

This is really a business venture, one that addresses a very challenging segment of the market.

It is an initiative that is focused on simple, accessible and human-centric solutions.

It is still, in most places, a gray or black box, and it looks the same.

So, there has not been a human-centric approach to addressing this segment of the market, so we really believe it is critical to think of it. 

We're talking about something very similar here.

And it has to be based on a geo-sensitive approach.

What I mean by that is that in some parts of the world, the government plays a key role in the development of technology.

In other parts, it doesn't.

It's beginning to grow tremendously.

They have an objective to lowering the cost of connectivity.

They have a computer company that makes computers in South Africa.

They're developing a software-training environment in their universities.

And to be able to meet the needs of this rather complex educational system, it could only be done from inside.

So, we believe that in those regions of the world where the population is large, and there's an infrastructure that can provide it, that a local, integrated, end-to-end system is really critical for its success. 

This is a picture of a classroom that we outfitted with computers in Mexico, in my home country.

This particular classroom happens to be in the state of Michoacan.

Those of you that might be familiar with Mexico -- Michoacan is a very colorful state.

We have now deployed 30 different technologists in 18 different countries, and we have been able to connect millions of people in an effort to continue to learn what this particular segment of the market needs and demands.

And we're learning a tremendous amount about what we believe this segment needs to be able to be effective. 

One example of this has been the One Laptop per Child.

Some of you are familiar with this.

But to give you an idea how creative this group of people can be, one of the objectives of the One Laptop per Child is to be able to achieve a 10-hour battery life.

Because it was felt that a school day would last at least eight hours, and you wanted the child to have the ability to use the laptop for at least one full day without having to recharge it.

And we're really thrilled about the opportunity to be part of this, and can't wait to see what comes out of this exciting, exciting activity. 

Let me come back to the beginning, to end this presentation.

I'll tell you that one of the things that I feel is really critical for us in industry, in business, is to be able to be passionate about solving these problems.

And one of the things that I learned, too, from my parents -- and I'll give you a little anecdote -- especially from my father.

It's got to be that someday I can look back, and this place is truly better through some small contribution that perhaps each of us could make.

