We mistakenly believe that capitalism begets inevitably democracy.

It doesn't. 

At that moment, I felt that there could be no greater vindication of Lee Kuan Yew, or the Chinese Communist Party, indeed of some recalcitrant friends of mine who kept telling me that democracy would be banned if it ever threatened to change anything. 

Tonight, here, I want to present to you an economic case for an authentic democracy.

I want to ask you to join me in believing again that Lee Kuan Yew, the Chinese Communist Party and indeed the Eurogroup are wrong in believing that we can dispense with democracy -- that we need an authentic, boisterous democracy.

Speaking of waste, allow me to point out an interesting paradox that is threatening our economies as we speak.

I call it the twin peaks paradox.

One peak you understand -- you know it, you recognize it -- is the mountain of debts that has been casting a long shadow over the United States, Europe, the whole world.

We all recognize the mountain of debts.

But few people discern its twin.

Now let me give you two numbers.

So a mountain of debt and a mountain of idle cash form twin peaks, failing to cancel each other out through the normal operation of the markets. 

The result is stagnant wages, more than a quarter of 25- to 54-year-olds in America, in Japan and in Europe out of work.

This is my quarrel with capitalism.

Its gross wastefulness, all this idle cash, should be energized to improve lives, to develop human talents, and indeed to finance all these technologies, green technologies, which are absolutely essential for saving planet Earth. 

Am I right in believing that democracy might be the answer?

Aristotle defined democracy as the constitution in which the free and the poor, being in the majority, control government. 

Now, of course Athenian democracy excluded too many.

Women, migrants and, of course, the slaves.

But it would be a mistake to dismiss the significance of ancient Athenian democracy on the basis of whom it excluded. 

What was more pertinent, and continues to be so about ancient Athenian democracy, was the inclusion of the working poor, who not only acquired the right to free speech, but more importantly, crucially, they acquired the rights to political judgments that were afforded equal weight in the decision-making concerning matters of state.

Now, of course, Athenian democracy didn't last long.

Like a candle that burns brightly, it burned out quickly.

And indeed, our liberal democracies today do not have their roots in ancient Athens.

Now, in our democracies today, this separation of the economic from the political sphere, the moment it started happening, it gave rise to an inexorable, epic struggle between the two, with the economic sphere colonizing the political sphere, eating into its power. 

Have you wondered why politicians are not what they used to be?

It's not because their DNA has degenerated. 

Indeed, I spoke about my quarrel with capitalism.

If you think about it, it is a little bit like a population of predators, that are so successful in decimating the prey that they must feed on, that in the end they starve. 

Similarly, the economic sphere has been colonizing and cannibalizing the political sphere to such an extent that it is undermining itself, causing economic crisis.

So the more capitalism succeeds in taking the demos out of democracy, the taller the twin peaks and the greater the waste of human resources and humanity's wealth. 

Now, this is not an original idea.

Capitalism's doing it by replacing low-wage workers with automata, androids, robots.

The more interesting question is whether capitalism will be succeeded by something resembling a Matrix dystopia or something much closer to a Star Trek-like society, where machines serve the humans and the humans expend their energies exploring the universe and indulging in long debates about the meaning of life in some ancient, Athenian-like, high tech agora. 

I think we can afford to be optimistic.

In practical terms, allow me to share just briefly, a couple of examples. 

This is not a new idea.

It's what, effectively, John Maynard Keynes proposed in 1944 at the Bretton Woods Conference.

The problem is that back then, they didn't have the technology to implement it.

But above all else, it is a world in which we will be able to imagine an authentic democracy. 

Will such a world dawn?

Or shall we descend into a Matrix-like dystopia?

The answer lies in the political choice that we shall be making collectively.

It is our choice, and we'd better make it democratically. 

Thank you. 

What is the relevance of Marx's analysis today? 

what Larry Summers refers to as secular stagnation.

With this crisis migrating from one part of the world, as it is now, it will destabilize not only our democracies, but even the emerging world that is not that keen on liberal democracy.

So if this analysis holds water, then Marx is absolutely relevant.

BG: Indeed, and possibly we are too, now. 

BG: That's a very, very Greek philosopher kind of thing to say -- 

YV: That was Einstein, actually -- 

Would you like to share that? 

YV: Well, there's a great degree of hypocrisy.

In our liberal democracies, we have a semblance of democracy.

It's because we have confined, as I was saying in my talk, democracy to the political sphere, while leaving the one sphere where all the action is -- the economic sphere -- a completely democracy-free zone. 

In a sense, if I am allowed to be provocative, China today is closer to Britain in the 19th century.

Liberalism, liberal, it's like John Stuart Mill.

John Stuart Mill was particularly skeptical about the democratic process.

And to be castigating China for doing that which the West did in the 19th century, smacks of hypocrisy. 

BG: I am sure that many people here are wondering about your experience as the Finance Minister of Greece earlier this year. 

YV: I knew this was coming. 

BG: Yes. 

BG: Six months after, how do you look back at the first half of the year? 

Not just Greece, the Eurozone.

To move away from the complacency and the constant denial that there was a massive -- and there is a massive architectural fault line going through the Eurozone, which is threatening, massively, the whole of the European Union process. 

And, unfortunately, the powers in the Eurozone, in the Eurogroup, chose to maintain denial. 

But you know what happens.

This is the experience of the Soviet Union.

When you try to keep alive an economic system that architecturally cannot survive, through political will and through authoritarianism, you may succeed in prolonging it, but when change happens it happens very abruptly and catastrophically. 

BG: What kind of change are you foreseeing? 

YV: Well, there's no doubt that if we don't change the architecture of the Eurozone, the Eurozone has no future. 

BG: Did you make any mistakes when you were Finance Minister? 

YV: Every day. 

No, but seriously.

If there's any Minister of Finance, or of anything else for that matter, who tells you after six months in a job, especially in such a stressful situation, that they have made no mistake, they're dangerous people.

Of course I made mistakes. 

And there wasn't.

They were simply interested in crushing our government, just because they did not want to have to deal with the architectural fault lines that were running through the Eurozone.

And because they didn't want to admit that for five years they were implementing a catastrophic program in Greece.

We lost one-third of our nominal GDP.

This is worse than the Great Depression.

And no one has come clean from the troika of lenders that have been imposing this policy to say, "This was a colossal mistake."

BG: Despite all this, and despite the aggressiveness of the discussion, you seem to be remaining quite pro-European. 

YV: Absolutely.

Look, my criticism of the European Union and the Eurozone comes from a person who lives and breathes Europe.

My greatest fear is that the Eurozone will not survive.

Because if it doesn't, the centrifugal forces that will be unleashed will be demonic, and they will destroy the European Union.

And that will be catastrophic not just for Europe but for the whole global economy. 

We are probably the largest economy in the world.

And if we allow ourselves to fall into a route of the postmodern 1930's, which seems to me to be what we are doing, then that will be detrimental to the future of Europeans and non-Europeans alike. 

BG: We definitely hope you are wrong on that point.

Yanis, thank you for coming to TED. 

YV: Thank you. 

