This is the Large Hadron Collider.

Over 10,000 physicists and engineers from 85 countries around the world have come together over several decades to build this machine.

And we collide them with another beam of protons going in the opposite direction.

We collide them inside giant detectors. 

They're essentially digital cameras.

And this is the one that I work on, ATLAS.

You get some sense of the size -- you can just see these EU standard-size people underneath. 

And if you see those metal bits there -- those are huge magnets that bend electrically charged particles, so it can measure how fast they're traveling.

This is a picture about a year ago.

Those magnets are in there.

And, again, a EU standard-size, real person, so you get some sense of the scale.

Yeah, it's a wonderful achievement.

So, you might be asking, "Why?

Why create the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began?"

Well, particle physicists are nothing if not ambitious.

And the aim of particle physics is to understand what everything's made of, and how everything sticks together.

And by everything I mean, of course, me and you, the Earth, the Sun, the 100 billion suns in our galaxy and the 100 billion galaxies in the observable universe.

Absolutely everything. 

So, way back in the early times of the universe, we believe it was very simple and understandable.

All this complexity, all the way to these wonderful things -- human brains -- are a property of an old and cold and complicated universe.

Back at the start, in the first billionth of a second, we believe, or we've observed, it was very simple. 

So it's in that same sense that we look back in time to understand what the universe is made of.

And, as of today, it's made of these things.

Just 12 particles of matter, stuck together by four forces of nature.

The quarks are stuck together by other things called gluons. 

But, without it, the sun wouldn't shine.

And when the sun shines, you get copious quantities of these things, called neutrinos, pouring out.

And these particles have been discovered over the last century, pretty much.

Just up the road.

Relative to the universe, it's just up the road. 

One of the wonderful things, actually, I find, is that we've discovered any of them, when you realize how tiny they are.

You know, they're a step in size from the entire observable universe.

So, 100 billion galaxies, 13.7 billion light years away -- a step in size from that to Monterey, actually, is about the same as from Monterey to these things.

Absolutely, exquisitely minute, and yet we've discovered pretty much the full set. 

You could stick it on the front of a T-shirt, which is always the sign of elegance.

This is it. 

But there's a problem.

Can anyone see what it is?

Basically, each of these terms refers to some of the particles.

So those Ws there refer to the Ws, and how they stick together.

These carriers of the weak force, the Zs, the same.

So all the exquisitely detailed calculations we can do with that wonderful equation wouldn't be possible without an extra bit.

What does it do?

Well, we had a long time to come up with good analogies.

The analogy is that these people in a room are the Higgs particles.

And that's exactly the way the Higgs mechanism works.

They're interacting with the Higgs field. 

So, that's one of the prime reasons we built this giant machine.

I'm glad you recognize Margaret Thatcher.

One of them you heard about: dark matter, dark energy.

Well, they do change in strength.

So, the electromagnetic force, the force that holds us together, gets stronger as you go to higher temperatures.

It's almost as if there was one beautiful kind of super-force, back at the beginning of time.

But they just miss. 

Also, those super-symmetric particles are very strong candidates for the dark matter.

So a very compelling theory that's really mainstream physics.

And if I was to put money on it, I would put money on -- in a very unscientific way -- that that these things would also crop up at the LHC.

Many other things that the LHC could discover. 

This is a creation story, I think, equally as wonderful. 

The story goes like this: we know that the universe began 13.7 billion years ago, in an immensely hot, dense state, much smaller than a single atom.

It began to expand about a million, billion, billion, billion billionth of a second -- I think I got that right -- after the Big Bang.

In about the first billionth of a second or so, the Higgs field kicked in, and the quarks and the gluons and the electrons that make us up got mass.

The universe continued to expand and cool.

The universe was about 75 percent hydrogen, 25 percent helium.

Then light began to travel through the universe.

They then re-collapsed into another generation of stars and planets. 

As one of my great heroes, Carl Sagan, said, these are the things -- and actually, not only these, but I was looking around -- these are the things, like Saturn V rockets, and Sputnik, and DNA, and literature and science -- these are the things that hydrogen atoms do when given 13.7 billion years. 

So, the right laws of physics -- they're beautifully balanced.

And I think that's a wonderful and significant story.

So that's the LHC.

The LHC is certainly, when it turns on in summer, going to write the next chapter of that book.

And I'm certainly looking forward with immense excitement to it being turned on.

Thanks. 

