He proposed that our universe might actually have more than the three dimensions that we are all aware of.

That is in addition to left, right, back, forth and up, down, Kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of space that for some reason we don't yet see.

Now, when someone makes a bold and bizarre idea, sometimes that's all it is -- bold and bizarre, but it has nothing to do with the world around us.

So, I'd like to tell you something about the story of these extra dimensions.

And in that moment, there are many people around who thought that that project had already been resolved.

And let me show you what it is that he found.

So Einstein found that the medium that transmits gravity is space itself.

Einstein said space is nice and flat, if there's no matter present.

But if there is matter in the environment, such as the Sun, it causes the fabric of space to warp, to curve.

And that communicates the force of gravity.

Even the Earth warps space around it.

Now look at the Moon.

That is this new idea about how gravity actually works. 

And that is what got Kaluza thinking.

He, like Einstein, was in search of what we call a unified theory.

You know, the force responsible for electricity and magnetic attraction and so forth. 

So Kaluza says, maybe I can play the same game and describe electromagnetic force in terms of warps and curves.

That raised a question: warps and curves in what?

So Kaluza said, well, maybe there are more dimensions of space.

He said, if I want to describe one more force, maybe I need one more dimension.

And when he looked at that equation, it was none other than the equation that scientists had long known to describe the electromagnetic force.

Amazing -- it just popped out.

Now clearly, Kaluza was a man who took theory very seriously.

He, in fact -- there is a story that when he wanted to learn how to swim, he read a book, a treatise on swimming -- (Laughter) -- then dove into the ocean.

This is a man who would risk his life on theory.

Now, but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded, two questions immediately arise from his observation.

Number one: if there are more dimensions in space, where are they?

We don't seem to see them.

And number two: does this theory really work in detail, when you try to apply it to the world around us?

Now, the first question was answered in 1926 by a fellow named Oskar Klein.

Let me show you that one visually.

It's very hard to see it, though, from far away.

And I hope you appreciate this.

It took so long to get these ants to do this. 

Let me show you what that would look like.

here is a little shape of a circle -- so small that we don't see them.

But deeply tucked into the fabric of space itself, the idea is there could be more dimensions, as we see there.

Now that's an explanation about how the universe could have more dimensions than the ones that we see.

But what about the second question that I asked: does the theory actually work when you try to apply it to the real world? 

So many people worked on it, but by the '40s, certainly by the '50s, this strange but very compelling idea of how to unify the laws of physics had gone away.

Until something wonderful happened in our age.

And the wonderful thing is that superstring theory has nothing to do at first sight with this idea of extra dimensions, but when we study superstring theory, we find that it resurrects the idea in a sparkling, new form. 

So, let me just tell you how that goes.

Superstring theory -- what is it?

Well, it's a theory that tries to answer the question: what are the basic, fundamental, indivisible, uncuttable constituents making up everything in the world around us?

So we go on a journey deep inside the object and examine the constituents.

So deep inside -- we all know, you go sufficiently far down, you have atoms.

We also all know that atoms are not the end of the story.

They have little electrons that swarm around a central nucleus with neutrons and protons.

Even the neutrons and protons have smaller particles inside of them known as quarks.

That is where conventional ideas stop. 

Here is the new idea of string theory.

Deep inside any of these particles, there is something else.

This something else is this dancing filament of energy.

And just like the vibrating strings that you just saw in a cello can vibrate in different patterns, these can also vibrate in different patterns.

So if these ideas are correct, this is what the ultra-microscopic landscape of the universe looks like.

It's built up of a huge number of these little tiny filaments of vibrating energy, vibrating in different frequencies.

The different frequencies produce the different particles.

The different particles are responsible for all the richness in the world around us. 

So matter and the forces of nature all are put together under the rubric of vibrating strings.

And that's what we mean by a unified theory.

It leads us right back to this idea of Kaluza and Klein -- that our world, when appropriately described, has more dimensions than the ones that we see. 

In the remaining time, I'd like to tell you two features of them.

First is, many of us believe that these extra dimensions hold the answer to what perhaps is the deepest question in theoretical physics, theoretical science.

These are numbers like the mass of the particles, like electrons and quarks, the strength of gravity, the strength of the electromagnetic force -- a list of about 20 numbers that have been measured with incredible precision, but nobody has an explanation for why the numbers have the particular values that they do. 

Now, does string theory offer an answer?

Not yet.

This is a deep question.

So can we explain those 20 numbers?

And string theory suggests that those 20 numbers have to do with the extra dimensions.

And the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like, then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around us would look like this on the tiniest of scales.

So what is the physical implication, though, relevant to those 20 numbers? 

So let me bring some strings into the story.

And if you watch these little fellows vibrating around -- they'll be there in a second -- right there, notice that they way they vibrate is affected by the geometry of the extra dimensions. 

So, if we knew exactly what the extra dimensions look like -- we don't yet, but if we did -- we should be able to calculate the allowed notes, the allowed vibrational patterns.

And if we could calculate the allowed vibrational patterns, we should be able to calculate those 20 numbers.

And if the answer that we get from our calculations agrees with the values of those numbers that have been determined through detailed and precise experimentation, this in many ways would be the first fundamental explanation for why the structure of the universe is the way it is.

Is this just an interesting mathematical structure that might be able to explain some previously unexplained features of the world, or can we actually test for these extra dimensions?

And we think -- and this is, I think, very exciting -- that in the next five years or so we may be able to test for the existence of these extra dimensions. 

The hope is that if the collision has enough energy, it may eject some of the debris from the collision from our dimensions, forcing it to enter into the other dimensions.

And if it drifts away in the right pattern that we can calculate, this will be evidence that the extra dimensions are there. 

Let me show you that idea visually.

So this is the kind of experiment that we'll be looking at in the next five, seven to 10 years or so.

And if this experiment bears fruit, if we see that kind of particle ejected by noticing that there's less energy in our dimensions than when we began, this will show that the extra dimensions are real. 

And now string theory comes along and says, yes, gravity, quantum mechanics, electromagnetism, all together in one package, but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see.

And this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime.

Amazing possibility.

Thank you very much. 

