The Value of Nothing: Out of Nothing Comes Something.

So, I also want to explain, because Dave Eggers said he was going to heckle me if I said anything that was a lie, or not true to universal creativity.

And I've done it this way for half the audience, who is scientific.

When I say we, I don't mean you, necessarily; I mean me, and my right brain, my left brain and the one that's in between that is the censor and tells me what I'm saying is wrong.

And that includes nature, and nurture, and what I refer to as nightmares. 

Now in the nature area, we look at whether or not we are innately equipped with something, perhaps in our brains, some abnormal chromosome that causes this muse-like effect.

Some people would also say that creativity may be a function of some other neurological quirk -- van Gogh syndrome -- that you have a little bit of, you know, psychosis, or depression.

And I will mention that I actually developed temporal lobe seizures a number of years ago, but it was during the time I was writing my last book, and some people say that book is quite different. 

And I had a miniature poodle.

And it wasn't bad, but it wasn't really creative.

Because all I could really do was represent in a very one-on-one way.

And I have a sense that I probably copied this from a book.

And then, I also wasn't really shining in a certain area that I wanted to be, and you know, you look at those scores, and it wasn't bad, but it was not certainly predictive that I would one day make my living out of the artful arrangement of words. 

Also, one of the principles of creativity is to have a little childhood trauma.

And I had the usual kind that I think a lot of people had, and that is that, you know, I had expectations placed on me.

That figure right there, by the way, figure right there was a toy given to me when I was but nine years old, and it was to help me become a doctor from a very early age.

I have some ones that were long lasting: from the age of five to 15, this was supposed to be my side occupation, and it led to a sense of failure. 

And it was discovered that my brother, in 1967, and then my father, six months later, had brain tumors.

My father was a Baptist minister, and he believed in miracles, and that God's will would take care of that.

But, of course, they ended up dying, six months apart.

There was a reason for everything.

And one of the reasons, she thought, was that her mother, who had died when she was very young, was angry at her.

And so, I had this notion of death all around me, because my mother also believed that I would be next, and she would be next.

And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon, you begin to think very much about everything.

You become very creative, in a survival sense. 

And this, then, led to my big questions.

And the one my mother asked: how do I make things happen?

It's a wonderful way to look at these questions, when you write a story.

How do I, as the narrator, as the writer, also influence that?

And it's also one that, I think, many of our scientists have been asking.

It's a kind of cosmology, and I have to develop a cosmology of my own universe, as the creator of that universe. 

And you see, there's a lot of back and forth in trying to make that happen, trying to figure it out -- years and years, oftentimes.

So, when I look at creativity, I also think that it is this sense or this inability to repress, my looking at associations in practically anything in life.

And I got a lot of them during what's been going on throughout this conference, almost everything that's been going on. 

And so I'm going to use, as the metaphor, this association: quantum mechanics, which I really don't understand, but I'm still gonna use it as the process for explaining how it is the metaphor.

So, in quantum mechanics, of course, you have dark energy and dark matter.

And it's the same thing in looking at these questions of how things happen.

There's a lot of unknown, and you often don't know what it is except by its absence.

And that's what I look for in my work, a personal meaning. 

You won't discover anything.

And what you were supposed to find, what you hoped to find in some serendipitous way, is no longer there.

Now, I don't want to ignore the other side of what happens in our universe, like many of our scientists have.

There is also a big question of ambiguity.

And I would link that to something called the cosmological constant.

And you don't know what is operating, but something is operating there.

But, both of these sayings -- saving a fish from drowning, or saving a man from drowning -- to me they had to do with intentions. 

And all of us in life, when we see a situation, we have a response.

And then we have intentions.

There's an ambiguity of what that should be that we should do, and then we do something.

What are we supposed to do?

Do we stay in for life, or do we do something else and justify and say, well, my intentions were good, and therefore I cannot be held responsible for all of it?

That is the ambiguity in my life that really disturbed me, and led me to write a book called "Saving Fish From Drowning."

I got these hints everywhere.

And what I need, in effect, is a focus.

And when I have the question, it is a focus.

And all these things that seem to be flotsam and jetsam in life actually go through that question, and what happens is those particular things become relevant.

And it seems like it's happening all the time.

You think there's a sort of coincidence going on, a serendipity, in which you're getting all this help from the universe.

And it may also be explained that now you have a focus.

And you are noticing it more often. 

But you apply this.

You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions.

I was thinking that I shouldn't go because somebody said, if I did, it would show that I approved of the military regime there.

So I decided that I would go to Burma for my own intentions, and still didn't know that if I went there, what the result of that would be, if I wrote a book -- and I just would have to face that later, when the time came. 

We are all concerned with things that we see in the world that we are aware of.

We come to this point and say, what do I as an individual do?

Not all of us can go to Africa, or work at hospitals, so what do we do, if we have this moral response, this feeling?

Also, I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at, and we talked about today, is genocide.

It seems so obvious, and yet it is not.

We all hate moral ambiguity in some sense, and yet it is also absolutely necessary.

In writing a story, it is the place where I begin.

Sometimes I get help from the universe, it seems.

My mother would say it was the ghost of my grandmother from the very first book, because it seemed I knew things I was not supposed to know.

Instead of writing that the grandmother died accidentally, from an overdose of opium, while having too much of a good time, I actually put down in the story that the woman killed herself, and that actually was the way it happened.

And my mother decided that that information must have come from my grandmother. 

There are also things, quite uncanny, which bring me information that will help me in the writing of the book.

And I needed to find something historically that would match that.

And I took down this book, and I -- first page that I flipped it to was exactly the setting, and the time period, and the kind of character I needed -- was the Taiping rebellion, happening in the area near Guilin, outside of that, and a character who thought he was the son of God. 

What are things that you get from the universe that you can't really explain?

And that goes into the story, too.

These are the things I constantly think about from day to day.

Because, again, I think that when I am aware of them, more of them happen. 

Another chance encounter is when I went to a place -- I just was with some friends, and we drove randomly to a different place, and we ended up in this non-tourist location, a beautiful village, pristine.

And in writing one of the scenes, it happened in that third valley.

For some reason I wrote about cairns -- stacks of rocks -- that a man was building.

And I didn't know exactly why I had it, but it was so vivid.

And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point.

I had so many examples -- I have so many instances like this, when I'm writing a story, and I cannot explain it.

Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidence in writing about these things?

Or is it a kind of serendipity that we cannot explain, like the cosmological constant? 

A big thing that I also think about is accidents.

And as I said, my mother did not believe in randomness.

What is the nature of accidents?

And how are we going to assign what the responsibility and the causes are, outside of a court of law?

And I had a chance to do that, when National Geographic asked me if I wanted to write anything about China.

And I said yes, about this village of singing people, singing minority.

60 homes were destroyed, and 40 were damaged.

Responsibility was assigned to the family.

When I go on a story, I have to let go of those kinds of beliefs.

It takes a while, but I have to let go of them and just go there, and be there.

And so I was there on three occasions, different seasons.

And I began to sense something different about the history, and what had happened before, and the nature of life in a very poor village, and what you find as your joys, and your rituals, your traditions, your links with other families.

Now you, as Westerners, and I, as Westerners, would say well, that's superstition.

So I remained with them, and the more I wrote that story, the more I got into those beliefs, and I think that's important for me -- to take on the beliefs, because that is where the story is real, and that is where I'm gonna find the answers to how I feel about certain questions that I have in life.

It is in the hands of readers, and they interpret it differently.

But I go back to this question of, how do I create something out of nothing?

And how do I create my own life? 

And I think it is by questioning, and saying to myself that there are no absolute truths.

I believe in specifics, the specifics of story, and the past, the specifics of that past, and what is happening in the story at that point.

And I also can find that by imagining fully, and becoming what is imagined -- and yet is in that real world, the fictional world.

And that is how I find particles of truth, not the absolute truth, or the whole truth.

And they have to be in all possibilities, including those I never considered before. 

So, there are never complete answers.

And if there is a partial answer, a more complete answer from me, it is to simply imagine.

And that's how I've discovered that if I feel what is in the story -- in one story -- then I come the closest, I think, to knowing what compassion is, to feeling that compassion.

Because for everything, in that question of how things happen, it has to do with the feeling.

I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that.

There she is.

