It is interesting that in the United States, the most significant health-care budget goes to cardiovascular disease care, whether it's private or public.

There's no comparison at all.

In Africa -- where it is a major killer -- it is totally ignored. 

A health status of a nation parallels development of that nation.

17 million people die every year from heart disease.

32 million heart attacks and strokes occur.

Most of this is in developing countries, and the majority is in Africa.

It's not just the Africans that should be concerned about that.

All friends of Africa, that will have reason to be in Africa at some point in time, should be very concerned about this deplorable situation.

Will you fly back to the U.S., Germany, Europe?

This is what's going on.

In a look at the map of the U.S. -- the graph here, 10 million people here, 10 million here.

And those are the times they're most productive.

The best way to spiral into a cycle of poverty is to kill the parents.

If you cannot secure the parents, you cannot guarantee the security of the African child. 

Right here in Tanzania, 30 percent of individuals have hypertension.

If we can treat hypertension alone in Africa, we'll save 250,000 lives a year.

In eight short years -- we're here talking about HIV, malaria, which is all good.

We cannot make the mistakes we've made with malaria and HIV.

In eight short years, non-communicable diseases will become the leading causes of death in Africa. 

You can't depend on foreign aid alone.

Here is the situation: countries are turning inwards.

Post-9/11, [the] United States has had a lot of trouble to deal with, their own internal issues.

If they have not worked, we have to look for alternative solutions. 

I'm here to talk to you about solutions.

This has been -- what has been a difficult sign to some of us.

We decided that we needed to put our money where our mouth is.

Talk about sustainable investment, no one is interested.

You can't raise money.

[It's] very easy to raise money for health-care ventures.

But start telling them, you know, we're going to try to do it in Nigeria -- everyone runs away.

What we have done is to show that high-quality health care, comparable to the best anywhere in the world, can be done in a developing country environment.

We have 25 positions right now -- all of them trained, board certified in the USA, Canada or Britain.

Additionally, we have a policy that no one is ever turned away because of ability to pay.

We take care of everyone.

(Applause) Whether you have one dollar, two dollars -- it doesn't matter.

And I will tell you how we're able to do it. 

We emphasize training, and we make sure that this process is regenerative.

We made sure that we produced some things ourselves.

We do not buy unit doses of radiopharmaceuticals.

We get the generators from the companies.

We recognize that the only way to bridge the gap between the rich and poor countries is through education and technology.

It's been proved: self-care is cost-effective.

It extends opportunity to the rural centers, and we can use expertise in a very smart way. 

This is the way our centers are set up.

We currently have three locations in the Caribbean, and we're planning a fourth one.

And we have now decided to go into Africa.

And we will do other centers.

This model can be adapted to every disease process.

All the units, all the centers, are linked through a switched hub to a central server, and all the images are populated to review stations.

I can call you in Switzerland and say, "Listen, go into our system.

They'll give me that information, and we'll make the care of the patient better.

The patient doesn't have to travel.

We also use [an] electronic medical record system.

I'm happy to say that the things we have implemented -- 80 percent of U.S. practices do not have them, and yet the technology is there.

But you know, they have that luxury.

When we do it, we will put the cost of care down.

And we'll extend it to the rural centers and make it affordable.

And everyone will get the care they deserve. 

It cannot just be technology, we recognize that.

Prevention must be part of the solution -- we emphasize that.

But, you know, you have to tell people what can be done.

They need to be alive, they need to feed.

We recommend exercise as the most effective, simple, easy thing to do.

We have had walks every year -- every March, April.

We form people into groups and make them go into challenges.

Which group loses the most weight, we give them prizes.

We encourage them to bring children.

That way we start exposing the children from very early on, on what these issues are.

If you don't get this pacemaker, you will be dead.

So we are pleased with that. 

Indirectly, we have saved the government of Jamaica five million dollars from people that would have gone to Miami or Atlanta for care.

And we've hopefully saved a lot of lives.

At least 4,000 rich Jamaicans that were heading to Miami for treatment have self-confessed that they did not go to Miami because of the Heart Institute of the Caribbean.

We have gone further: we have formed a relationship with the University of Technology, Jamaica, where I now have an appointment.

And we are starting a biomedical engineering program, so that we will train people locally, who can repair that equipment.

That way we're not going to deal with obsolescence and all those kinds of issues.

(Video) Dr. Jason Topping: My name is Jason Topping.

I'm a senior resident in anesthesia in intensive care at the University Hospital of the West Indies.

I came to the Heart Institute in 2006, as part of my elective in my anesthesia and intensive care program.

I spent three months at the Heart Institute.

I think this aspect of training in cardiology that the Heart Institute of the Caribbean has introduced in Jamaica is very important in terms of diagnosing cardiac diseases. 

Who are we to decide that poor people cannot get the best care?

