One of the problems of writing, and working, and looking at the Internet is that it's very hard to separate fashion from deep change.

And so, to start helping that, I want to take us back to 1835.

In 1835, James Gordon Bennett founded the first mass-circulation newspaper in New York City.

And it cost about 500 dollars to start it, which was about the equivalent of 10,000 dollars of today.

By 15 years later, by 1850, doing the same thing -- starting what was experienced as a mass--circulation daily paper -- would come to cost two and a half million dollars.

And that's what I want to talk about today, and how that relates to the emergence of social production. 

Starting with newspapers, what we saw was high cost as an initial requirement for making information, knowledge and culture, which led to a stark bifurcation between producers -- who had to be able to raise financial capital, just like any other industrial organization -- and passive consumers that could choose from a certain set of things that this industrial model could produce.

And that meant they were market based, or they were government owned, depending on what kind of system they were in.

All of this completely ignores the fact that throughout this period, there's another supercomputer running in the world -- SETI@home.

Four and a half million users around the world, contributing their leftover computer cycles, whenever their computer isn't working, by running a screen saver, and together sharing their resources to create a massive supercomputer that NASA harnesses to analyze the data coming from radio telescopes. 

They're not radically different from routers inside the middle of the network.

And computation, storage and communications capacity are in the hands of practically every connected person -- and these are the basic physical capital means necessary for producing information, knowledge and culture, in the hands of something like 600 million to a billion people around the planet. 

Any one of you who has taken someone else's job, or tried to give yours to someone else, no matter how detailed the manual, you cannot transmit what you know, what you will intuit under a certain set of circumstances.

In that we're unique, and each of us holds this critical input into production as we hold this machine. 

The critical innovation here is instead of our engineers, or our people saying which is the most relevant, we're going to go out and count what you, people out there on the Web, for whatever reason -- vanity, pleasure -- produced links, and tied to each other.

And again, here, you see Barbie.com, but also, very quickly, Adiosbarbie.com, the body image for every size.

It used to be wireless was one person owned the license, they transmitted in an area, and it had to be decided whether they would be licensed or based on property.

The price system was a market-based and decentralized system.

If things worked better because you actually had somebody organizing them, you had firms, if you wanted to be in the market -- or you had governments or sometimes larger non-profits in the non-market.

That was, in fact, economic. 

But what we're seeing now is the emergence of this fourth system of social sharing and exchange.

It's that it's the first time that it's having major economic impact.

What characterizes them is decentralized authority.

But it's not the only one. 

If you leave a $50 check after dinner with friends, you don't increase the probability of being invited back.

It also requires certain new organizational approaches.

And in particular, what we've seen is task organization.

Just because it gives me a certain sense of meaning, or, in places that are more involved, like Wikipedia, gives me a certain set of social relations. 

So, a new social phenomenon is emerging.

It's creating, and it's most visible when we see it as a new form of competition.

Peer-to-peer networks assaulting the recording industry; free and open source software taking market share from Microsoft; Skype potentially threatening traditional telecoms; Wikipedia competing with online encyclopedias.

But it's also a new source of opportunities for businesses.

You build platforms for self-expression and collaboration.

Like Wikipedia, like the Open Directory Project, you're beginning to build platforms, and you see that as a model.

And you see surfers, people who see this happening, and in some sense build it into a supply chain, which is a very curious one.

You have a belief: stuff will flow out of connected human beings.

That's what IBM does in software services, and they've done reasonably well. 

So, social production is a real fact, not a fad.

It is the critical long-term shift caused by the Internet.

But -- and this is the dark lining -- it is threatened by -- in the same way that it threatens -- the incumbent industrial systems.

So next time you open the paper, and you see an intellectual property decision, a telecoms decision, it's not about something small and technical.

It is about the future of the freedom to be as social beings with each other, and the way information, knowledge and culture will be produced.

Because it is in this context that we see a battle over how easy or hard it will be for the industrial information economy to simply go on as it goes, or for the new model of production to begin to develop alongside that industrial model, and change the way we begin to see the world and report what it is that we see.

Thank you. 

