I have given the slide show that I gave here two years ago about 2,000 times.

Because I've cobbled this together to try to meet the challenge of this session. 

Perhaps we should say the same thing about optimism.

How dare we be optimistic?

Optimism is sometimes characterized as a belief, an intellectual posture.

But, as important as it is to change the lightbulbs, it is more important to change the laws.

In order to solve the climate crisis, we have to solve the democracy crisis.

And we have one. 

I have been trying to tell this story for a long time.

And she said, "You know, if you dyed your hair black, you would look just like Al Gore."

And each level of conflict requires a different allocation of resources, a different approach, a different organizational model.

Environmental challenges fall into the same three categories, and most of what we think about are local environmental problems: air pollution, water pollution, hazardous waste dumps.

This last fall, I went to the Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado, and talked to the researchers here in Monterey at the Naval Postgraduate Laboratory.

This is what's happened in the last 28 years.

To put it in perspective, 2005 was the previous record.

The amount that disappeared in 2005 was equivalent to everything east of the Mississippi.

That puts a lot of pressure on Greenland.

The amount of a moderate-to-severe snow melting of an area equivalent to the size of California. 

They have exactly the same amount of carbon.

It's not because Venus is slightly closer to the Sun.

It's three times hotter than Mercury, which is right next to the Sun.

What is missing is a sense of urgency.

If you agree with the factual analysis, but you don't feel the sense of urgency, where does that leave you?

Well, the Alliance for Climate Protection, which I head in conjunction with Current TV -- who did this pro bono -- did a worldwide contest to do commercials on how to communicate this.

This is the winner. 

But it's not just the developed nations.

If the wealthy countries were completely missing from the picture, we would still have this crisis.

We have the technologies.

In the poor world, we have to integrate the responses to poverty with the solutions to the climate crisis.

Plans to fight poverty in Uganda are mooted, if we do not solve the climate crisis. 

We need to do it for our own economy.

And it is based on an old model.

I have a stake in these, so I'll have a disclaimer there.

But geothermal, concentrating solar, advanced photovoltaics, efficiency and conservation. 

You've seen this slide before, but there's a change.

And there was a campaign in Australia that involved television and Internet and radio commercials to lift the sense of urgency for the people there.

And we trained 250 people to give the slide show in every town and village and city in Australia.

And we have to find a way to create, in the generation of those alive today, a sense of generational mission.

I wish I could find the words to convey this.

We have the capacity to do it. 

That hurts. 

CA: When you look at what the leading candidates in your own party are doing now -- I mean, there's -- are you excited by their plans on global warming? 

The richness and fullness of the dialogue in our democracy has not laid the basis for the kind of bold initiative that is really needed.

So they're saying the right things and they may -- whichever of them is elected -- may do the right thing, but let me tell you: when I came back from Kyoto in 1997, with a feeling of great happiness that we'd gotten that breakthrough there, and then confronted the United States Senate, only one out of 100 senators was willing to vote to confirm, to ratify that treaty.

This challenge is part of the fabric of our whole civilization.

So that's why I began by saying, be optimistic in what you do, but be an active citizen.

We can change things, but we have to actively change.

What's needed really is a higher level of consciousness.

And that's hard to -- that's hard to create -- but it is coming.

A new appreciation for the privilege that we have of undertaking this challenge. 

CA: Al Gore, thank you so much for coming to TED. 

