You're heading towards the Sistine Chapel.

At last -- a long corridor, a stair and a door.

You're at the threshold of the Sistine Chapel. 

Instead, you may ask yourself, what do we have? 

Well, curtains up on the Sistine Chapel.

Churches used tapestries not just to keep out cold during long masses, but as a way to represent the great theater of life.

Five hundred years ago, it was the ultimate ecclesiastical man cave.

So, you may ask, how can it be that today it attracts and delights five million people a year, from all different backgrounds?

Now, this development took place as a great evolution, moving from the beginning of a few elite, and eventually able to speak to audiences of people that come from all over the world.

The first one was rather limited in scope.

It reflected the rather parochial perspective.

The original decoration of this church reflected a smaller world.

There were busy scenes that told the stories of the lives of Jesus and Moses, reflecting the development of the Jewish and Christian people.

The man who commissioned this, Pope Sixtus IV, assembled a dream team of Florentine art, including men like Sandro Botticelli and the man who would become Michelangelo's future painting teacher, Ghirlandaio.

With the addition of images of the Pope's friends and family, this was a perfect decoration for a small court limited to the European continent.

And he had been left with a commission to paint 12 apostles against a decorative background in the Sistine Chapel ceiling, which would look like every other ceiling in Italy. 

But genius rose to the challenge.

In an age when a man dared to sail across the Atlantic Ocean, Michelangelo dared to chart new artistic waters.

Not really an easy sell, stories on a ceiling.

How would you be able to read a busy scene from 62 feet below?

The painting technique that had been handed on for 200 years in Florentine studios was not equipped for this kind of a narrative. 

Instead of being accustomed to filling space with busyness, he took a hammer and chisel and hacked away at a piece of marble to reveal the figure within.

Michelangelo was an essentialist; he would tell his story in massive, dynamic bodies. 

This plan was embraced by the larger-than-life Pope Julius II, a man who was unafraid of Michelangelo's brazen genius.

He left us the Raphael Rooms, the Sistine Chapel.

He left St. Peter's Basilica as well as an extraordinary collection of Greco-Roman sculptures -- decidedly un-Christian works that would become the seedbed of the world's first modern museum, the Vatican Museums.

The encounter between these two giants, Michelangelo and Julius II, that's what gave us the Sistine Chapel.

Michelangelo was so committed to this project, that he succeeded in getting the job done in three and a half years, using a skeleton crew and spending most of the time, hours on end, reaching up above his head to paint the stories on the ceiling. 

So let's look at this ceiling and see storytelling gone global.

No more familiar artistic references to the world around you.

Michelangelo gave us an initial energy when he gave us the separation of light and dark, a churning figure blurry in the distance, compressed into a tight space.

The next figure looms larger, and you see a figure hurtling from one side to the next.

He leaves in his wake the sun, the moon, vegetation.

Or is he looking back over his handiwork, the universe and his treasures, just like Michelangelo must have, looking back over his work in the ceiling and proclaiming, "It is good."

So now the scene is set, and you get to the culmination of creation, which is man.

Adam leaps to the eye, a light figure against a dark background.

But looking closer, that leg is pretty languid on the ground, the arm is heavy on the knee.

Adam lacks that interior spark that will impel him to greatness.

That spark is about to be conferred by the creator in that finger, which is one millimeter from the hand of Adam.

And then Michelangelo threw a curveball.

Who is in that other arm?

And for me, an American art historian from the 21st century, this was the moment that the painting spoke to me.

And the fact is, that when you see them together in the Garden of Eden, they fall together and together their proud posture turns into folded shame. 

You are at critical juncture now in the ceiling.

You are exactly at the point where you and I can go no further into the church.

The remaining scenes in the ceiling, they mirror the crowded chaos of the world around us.

Maybe he's the savior.

Oh, but no, Noah is the one who grew grapes, invented wine, got drunk and passed out naked in his barn.

It is a curious way to design the ceiling, now starting out with God creating life, ending up with some guy blind drunk in a barn.

And so, compared with Adam, you might think Michelangelo is making fun of us. 

They are the motors of this great human engine, driving it forward. 

This is the most important juncture.

Past meets present.

How is a 59-year-old artist who has never been any further than Venice going to speak to this new world?

They start in the lower corner, breaking away from the ground, struggling and trying to rise.

The lion's share of the space goes to the winner's circle.

There you find men and women completely nude like athletes.

So you have men and women flexing and posing in this extraordinary spotlight.

And as Michelangelo proved in his painting, hardship, setbacks and obstacles, they don't limit excellence, they forge it. 

Now, this does lead us to one odd thing.

And so instead of the way of showing virtue such as fortitude or self-mastery, he borrowed from Julius II's wonderful collection of sculptures in order to show inner strength as external power. 

Now, one contemporary did write that the chapel was too beautiful to not cause controversy.

And so it did.

The year he died he saw several of these figures covered over, a triumph for trivial distractions over his great exhortation to glory. 

The Sistine Chapel forces us to look around as if it were a mirror.

Who am I in this picture?

Am I one of the crowd?

Am I the drunk guy?

Am I the athlete?

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Elizabeth Lev, thank you. 

But actually the story is bigger.

Elizabeth Lev: The effect of the Last Judgment was enormous.

The printing press made sure that everybody saw it.

And so, this wasn't something that happened within a couple of weeks.

BG: This, what you just gave us, is not the classic tour that people get today when they go to the Sistine Chapel. 

The experience of art today is encountering problems.

Too many people want to see this there, and the result is five million people going through that tiny door and experiencing it in a completely different way than we just did. 

But also realize, even when you're in those days, with 28,000 people a day, even those days when you're in there with all those other people, look around you and think how amazing it is that some painted plaster from 500 years ago can still draw all those people standing side by side with you, looking upwards with their jaws dropped.

It's a great statement about how beauty truly can speak to us all through time and through geographic space. 

BG: Liz, grazie. 

EL: Grazie a te. 

BG: Thank you. 

