Good morning.

Let's look for a minute at the greatest icon of all, Leonardo da Vinci.

Thousands of books have been written about him, but there's controversy, and it remains, about his looks.

Even this well-known portrait is not accepted by many art historians. 

Let's find out.

Leonardo was a man that drew everything around him.

He drew people, anatomy, plants, animals, landscapes, buildings, water, everything.

But no faces?

I find that hard to believe.

So, surely a passionate drawer like Leonardo must have made self-portraits from time to time.

So let's try to find them. 

I think that if we were to scan all of his work and look for self-portraits, we would find his face looking at us.

So I looked at all of his drawings, more than 700, and looked for male portraits.

There are about 120, you see them here.

Which ones of these could be self-portraits?

Well, for that they have to be done as we just saw, en face or three-quarters.

So we can eliminate all the profiles.

It also has to be sufficiently detailed.

So we can also eliminate the ones that are very vague or very stylized.

And we know from his contemporaries that Leonardo was a very handsome, even beautiful man.

And here they are.

Yes, indeed, the old man is there, as is this famous pen drawing of the Homo Vitruvianus.

And lastly, the only portrait of a male that Leonardo painted, "The Musician."

Before we go into these faces, I should explain why I have some right to talk about them.

(Laughter) But there are 1,100, and very few artists have drawn so many faces.

So I know a little about drawing and analyzing faces.

I couldn't believe my eyes when I first saw that.

There is no reason why these portraits should look alike.

All we did was look for portraits that had the characteristics of a self-portrait, and look, they are very similar.

Now, are they made in the right order?

The young man should be made first.

And as you see here from the years that they were created, it is indeed the case.

They are made in the right order.

But how do we know it's him, and not someone else?

Well, we need a reference.

And here's the only picture of Leonardo that's widely accepted.

It's a statue made by Verrocchio, of David, for which Leonardo posed as a boy of 15.

And if we now compare the face of the statue, with the face of the musician, you see the very same features again.

The statue is the reference, and it connects the identity of Leonardo to those three faces. 

The icon of icons finally has a face.

