I'm delighted to be here.

I'm honored by the invitation, and thanks.

I would love to talk about stuff that I'm interested in, but unfortunately, I suspect that what I'm interested in won't interest many other people.

First off, my badge says I'm an astronomer.

It would be just as much fun to talk about some stuff that happened in 1986 and 1987, when a computer hacker is breaking into our systems over at Lawrence Berkeley Labs.

Get them out of schools, and keep them out of schools.

It probably has lies in it as well. 

Having said that, I outlined my talk about five minutes ago.

(Laughter) And if you look at it over here, the main thing I wrote on my thumb was the future.

In fact, I think that if you really want to know what the future's going to be, if you really want to know about the future, don't ask a technologist, a scientist, a physicist.

No, if you want to know what society's going to be like in 20 years, ask a kindergarten teacher.

They know.

In fact, don't ask just any kindergarten teacher, ask an experienced one.

Certainly, all of us can imagine these cool new things that are going to be there.

But to me, things aren't the future.

It has wonderful properties.

However, the "D" in TED of course stands for design.

Just two weeks ago I made -- you know, I've been making small, medium and big Klein bottles for the trade.

But what I've just made -- and I'm delighted to show you, first time in public here.

And because our universe is only three spatial dimensions, it can hold fluids.

So it's highly -- that one's the cool one.

That was a month of my life.

Could somebody put this guy up?

And I looked over her album and she had collected a picture of me, standing -- well, sitting -- in 1969, in front of a bunch of dials.

And I looked at it, and said, oh my god, that was me, when I was working at the electronic music studio!

This man is Robert Moog, the inventor of the Moog synthesizer, who passed away this past August.

Robert Moog was a generous, kind person, extraordinarily competent engineer.

A musician who took time from his life to teach me, a sophomore, a freshman at SUNY Buffalo.

I've decided that, for me at least, I don't have a big enough head.

So I think locally and I act locally.

I feel that the best way I can help out anything is to help out very, very locally.

(Applause) This is not -- no, no, no, this is not claps.

I strongly suggest that this is a good thing for each of you to do.

Oh, before I even turn that on, one of the things that we did about three weeks ago in my class -- this is through the lens, and one of the things we used a lens for was to measure the speed of light.

In addition to that, we've measured the speed of sound.

I'd love to measure the speed of light here.

And there's no time to do it.

So, next time, maybe, I'll measure the speed of light! 

But meanwhile, let's measure the speed of sound!

Well, the obvious way to measure the speed of sound is to bounce sound off something and look at the echo.

All of you know this from eighth grade, remember?

What they didn't tell you in physics -- in eighth-grade physics -- but they should have, and I wish they had, was that if you multiply the frequency times the wavelength of sound or light, you get a constant.

And that constant is the speed of sound.

All I need now is to flip on another beam, and the bottom beam is me talking, right?

So anytime I talk, you'd see it on the screen.

To measure the wavelength, all I need to do is measure the distance from here -- one full wave -- over to here.

From here to here is the wavelength of sound.

So, I'll put a measuring tape here, measuring tape here, move it back over to here.

I've moved the microphone 20 centimeters.

0.2 meters from here, back to here, 20 centimeters.

OK, let's go back to Mr. Elmo.

And we'll say the frequency is 1.76 kilohertz, or 1760.

The wavelength was 0.2 meters.

Let's figure out what this is.

(Laughter) (Applause) 1.76 times 0.2 over here is 352 meters per second.

If you look it up in the book, it's really 343.

But, here with kludgy material, and lousy drink -- we've been able to measure the speed of sound to -- not bad.

All of which comes to what I wanted to say.

Go back to this picture of me a million years ago.

This cop comes after me with a rifle.

He wants to clunk me over the head!

It's one of these bell-tower buildings.

The cop's chasing me.

The entranceway to the bell tower.

I keep climbing up, go back.

I go to a place where a dowel splits off.

There's a clock, clock, clock, clock.

The time's going backwards because I'm inside of it.

I'm thinking of Lorenz contractions and Einsteinian relativity.

I climb up, and there's this place, way in the back, that you climb up this wooden ladder.

I pop up the top, and there's a cupola.

A dome, one of these ten-foot domes.

Then I remember what my English teacher in high school said.

Namely, that when they cast bells, they write inscriptions on them.

So, I wipe the pigeon manure off one of the bells, and I look at it.

I'm asking myself, "Why am I here?"

