How far you can anticipate, what follows from it, what are the threats, what are the possibilities, the challenges, the opportunities?

I think that -- I've said in the past, many, many years ago, before anybody even invented the concept of a green agenda, that it wasn't about fashion -- it was about survival. 

But what I never said, and what I'm really going to make the point is, that really, green is cool.

He said, "I think the most important thing to happen in 2006 was that living and thinking green hit Main Street.

Hence my motto: green is the new red, white and blue."

It was at that time, with an awareness fired by Bucky's prophecies, his concerns as a citizen, as a kind of citizen of the planet, that influenced my thinking and what we were doing at that time. 

And this probably coincided with the time when you had the planet Earth's sourcebook, and you had the hippie movement.

And there are some of those qualities in this drawing, which seeks to sum up the recommendations.

So, something which in [the] '50s, '60s was very exclusive has now become, interestingly, quite inclusive.

In other words, as I might seek to demonstrate, if you could achieve the impossible, the equivalent of perpetual motion, you could design a carbon-free house, for example.

That would be the answer.

Unfortunately, it's not the answer.

It's only the beginning of the problem.

You cannot separate the buildings out from the infrastructure of cites and the mobility of transit.

For example, if, in that Bucky-inspired phrase, we draw back and we look at planet Earth, and we take a kind of typical, industrialized society, then the energy consumed would be split between the buildings, 44 percent, transport, 34 percent, and industry.

But again, that only shows part of the picture.

So the problems of sustainability cannot be separated from the nature of the cities, of which the buildings are a part.

In other words, you take these comparable examples and the energy leap is enormous. 

So basically, if you wanted to generalize, you can demonstrate that as the density increases along the bottom there, that the energy consumed reduces dramatically.

In the year 2000, a rather interesting thing happened.

You had for the first time mega-cities, [of] 5 million or more, which were occurring in the developing world.

And now, out of typically 46 cities, 33 of those mega-cities are in the developing world.

So you have to ask yourself -- the environmental impact of, for example, China or India.

In other words, if you put onto the roads, as is currently happening, 1,000 new cars every day -- statistically, it's the biggest booming auto market in the world -- and the half a billion bicycles serving one and a third billion people are reducing. 

And that urbanization is extraordinary, accelerated pace.

So, if we think of the transition in our society of the movement from the land to the cities, which took 200 years, then that same process is happening in 20 years.

In other words, it is accelerating by a factor of 10.

How does it affect the design of buildings?

And particularly, how can it lead to the creation of buildings which consume less energy, create less pollution and are more socially responsible? 

That story, in terms of buildings, started in the late '60s, early '70s.

The one example I take is a corporate headquarters for a company called Willis and Faber, in a small market town in the northeast of England, commuting distance with London.

In other words, for this community, they have this garden in the sky.

And nature is part of the generator, the driver for this building.

And symbolically, the colors of the interior are green and yellow.

Now this was 1973. 

In 2001, this building received an award.

And the award was about a celebration for a building which had been in use over a long period of time.

And the people who'd created it came back: the project managers, the company chairmen then.

The image at the top, what it doesn't -- if you look at it in detail, really what it is saying is you can wire this building.

This building was wired for change.

So, in 1975, the image there is of typewriters.

And when the photograph was taken, it's word processors.

In other words, we didn't have the technology to do what would be really interesting on that building.

Notwithstanding the fact that the building, as a green building, is very much a pioneering building.

And if I fast-forward in time, what is interesting is that the technology is now available and celebratory.

The library of the Free University, which opened last year, is an example of that.

And again, the transition from one of the many thousands of sketches and computer images to the reality.

And what is interesting is that this is hugely popular by the people who use it.

Again, coming back to that thing about the lifestyle, and in a way, the ecological agenda is very much at one with the spirit.

So if you cross the border -- just across the border -- a small factory in Germany, and here you can see the guy with his computer screen, and those points in space are communicated.

One quarter of a million of them applied by hand as the final finish.

And again, the way in which that works as a building, for those of us who can enjoy the spaces, to live and visit there.

If I made the leap into these new technologies, then how did we -- what happened before that?

I mean, you know, what was life like before the mobile phone, the things that you take for granted? 

Well, obviously the building still happened.

I mean, this is a glimpse of the interior of our Hong Kong bank of 1979, which opened in 1985, with the ability to be able to reflect sunlight deep into the heart of this space here.

And in the absence of computers, you have to physically model.

So for example, we would put models under an artificial sky.

And the turning point was probably, in our terms, when we had the first computer.

And that was at the time that we sought to redesign, reinvent the airport.

And for a large part of its cycle, not needing electric light -- electric light, which in turn creates more heat, which creates more cooling loads and so on.

And at that particular point in time, this was one of the few solitary computers.

And that's a little image of the tree of Stansted.

Not going back very far in time, 1990, that's our office.

I mean, major transformation. 

Going back in time, there was a lady called Valerie Larkin, and in 1987, she had all our information on one disk.

That reaches 21 kilometers into the sky.

This is the view you would get, if you looked down on that.

So it would be totally renewable.

But here, not having to model it for real.

So really, retranslating that technology and developing something which was so clean, it was virtually pollution-free.

You can measure it again.

But again, very much about the lifestyle, the quality -- something that would be more enjoyable as a place to work.

And again, we can measure the reduction in terms of energy consumption. 

What are the other ways of putting the same amount of space on the site?

If, for example, you seek to do a building which goes right to the edge of the pavement, it's the same amount of space.

So it also has the ability, all the time, regardless of the direction of the wind, to be able to make the building fresh and efficient.

And unlike conventional buildings, the top of the building is celebratory.

It's a viewing place for people, not machinery.

And the base of the building is again about public space.

Comparing it with a typical building, what happens if we seek to use such design strategies in terms of really large-scale thinking?

And our translation of that, using a lot of the thinking built up over the 40 years, is to say, what if that, instead of being just a pipe, what if it is a lifeline?

What if it is the equivalent, depending on where you are, of the Grand Canal, in terms of tourists, habitation, desalination, agriculture?

In other words, water is the lifeblood. 

Infrastructure at that large scale is also inseparable from communication.

And how do we make more legible in this growing world, especially in some of the places that I'm talking about -- China, for example, which in the next ten years will create 400 new airports.

Now what form do they take?

How do you make them more friendly at that scale? 

So what happens when we take that and you expand that further into the Chinese society?

And what is interesting is that that produces in a way perhaps the ultimate mega-building.

It is physically the largest project on the planet at the moment.

250 -- excuse me, 50,000 people working 24 hours, seven days.

Larger by 17 percent than every terminal put together at Heathrow -- built -- plus the new, un-built Terminal Five.

And perhaps these, in the end, as celebratory spaces. 

As Hubert was talking over lunch, as we sort of engaged in conversation, talked about this, talked about cities.

Hubert was saying, absolutely correctly, "These are the new cathedrals."

You know, who is going to say that we cracked this thing of the dependence on fossil fuels, with all that being held to ransom by rogue regimes, and so on.

And that's a concerted platform.

It's more than one device, you know, it's renewable.

