Because, basically, I work as a theoretical physicist.

And so it was simply astonishing to me to find an organization that actually appreciated both those sides. 

Well, I was born in South Africa and my parents were imprisoned for resisting the racist regime.

When they were released, we left and we went as refugees to Kenya and Tanzania.

Both were very young countries then, and full of hope for the future. 

We had fantastic friends and we saw the wonders of the world, like Kilimanjaro, Serengeti and the Olduvai Gorge.

Well, 80 percent of the men in Lesotho worked in the mines over the border, in brutal conditions.

Nevertheless, I -- as I'm sure -- as a rather irritating young, white man coming into their village, I was welcomed with incredible hospitality and warmth.

But the kids were the best part.

The kids were amazing: extremely eager and often very bright.

And I'm just going to tell you one story, which got through to me. 

I used to try to take the kids outside as often as possible, to try to connect the academic stuff with the real world.

And they weren't used to that.

Well, I'm not going to explain this equation, but theoretical physics is really an amazing subject.

We can write down all the laws of physics we know in one line.

And, admittedly, it's in a very shorthand notation.

And she's now in her 80s.

The standard explanation is that the universe somehow sprang into existence, full of a strange kind of energy -- inflationary energy -- which blew it up.

But the puzzle of why the universe emerged in that peculiar state is completely unsolved.

Now, I worked on that theory for a while, with Stephen Hawking and others.

But then I began to explore another alternative.

The alternative is that the Big Bang wasn't the beginning.

Perhaps the universe existed before the bang, and the bang was just a violent event in a pre-existing universe. 

The gap is very tiny, and I've blown it up so you can see it.

But it's really a tiny fraction of the size of an atomic nucleus.

But it's slightly different than in the conventional picture.

The conventional picture of the Big Bang is a point.

No hope of describing that. 

The density of matter is finite, and we have a chance of a consistent set of equations that can describe the whole process.

So, to cut a long story short, we've explored this alternative.

We've shown that it can fit all of the data that we have about the formation of galaxies, the fluctuations in the microwave background.

Furthermore, there's an experimental way to tell this theory, apart from the inflationary explanation that I told you before.

It involves gravitational waves. 

And in this scenario, not only was the Big Bang not the beginning, as you can see from the picture, it can happen over and over again.

It may be that we live in an endless universe, both in space and in time.

And there've been bangs in the past, and there will be bangs in the future.

And maybe we live in an endless universe.

Well, making and testing models of the universe is, for me, the best way I have of enjoying and appreciating the universe.

We need to make the best mathematical models we can, the most consistent ones.

And then we scrutinize them, logically and with data.

And gradually, we hopefully move closer and closer to understanding the world. 

As I pursued my career, something was always gnawing away inside me.

What about Africa?

What about those kids I'd left behind?

Instead of developing, as we'd all hoped in the '60s, things had gotten worse.

Africa was gripped by poverty, disease and war.

This is very graphically shown by the Worldmapper website and project.

And so the idea is to represent each country on a map, but scale the area according to some quantity. 

So here's just the standard area map of the world.

By the way, Africa is very large.

Big changes are happening in the world, but they're not helping Africa. 

It's still going on. 

What about Africa's capacity to do something about these problems?

Well, here's the number of physicians in Africa.

Here's the number of people in higher education.

And here -- most shocking to me -- the number of scientific research papers coming out of Africa.

It just doesn't exist scientifically.

Well, the transition to democracy in South Africa in 1994 was literally a dream come true for many of us.

And in 2001, I took a research leave to visit them.

And while I was busy working -- I was working on these colliding worlds, in the day.

But I learned that there was a desperate shortage of skills, especially mathematical skills, in industry, in government, in education. 

The idea was to set up an African Institute for Mathematical Sciences, or AIMS.

Well, as a Cambridge professor, I had many contacts.

And to my astonishment, they backed me 100 percent.

They said, "Go and do it, and we'll come and lecture."

So we bought a derelict hotel near Cape Town.

Well, the new South Africa is a very exciting country.

And those of you who haven't been there, you should go.

It's very, very interesting what's happening.

The other thing that's happened, which was good for us, is the Internet.

Even though the Internet is very expensive all over Africa, there are Internet cafes everywhere.

They want to be the next Einstein. 

And so when word came out that AIMS was opening, it spread very quickly via e-mail and our website.

And we got lots of applicants.

And that's really exciting.

And AIMS has done extremely well.

And they've all gone on to master's and Ph.D. degrees in excellent places.

Five students can be educated at AIMS for the cost of educating one in the U.S. or Europe.

But more important, the pan-African student body is a continual source of strength, pride and commitment to Africa.

We illustrate AIMS' progress by coloring in the countries of Africa. 

So here is where we were after the first graduation in 2004.

And we set ourselves a goal of turning the continent green.

So there's 2005, -6, -7, -8.

(Applause) We're well on the way to achieving our initial goal. 

My understanding of the course is that it covers quite a lot.

Neil Turok: So Tendai came to AIMS and did very well.

And I'll let her take it from there. 

After leaving AIMS, I went on to do a master's in applied mathematics at the University of Cape Town in South Africa.

After that, I came to the Netherlands where I'm now doing a Ph.D. in theoretical immunology. 

Professor: Tendai is working very independently.

So I'm happy she's here. 

NT: Another student in the first year of AIMS was Shehu.

And he's shown here with his favorite high school teacher.

Shehu: And from there we will be able to, hopefully, make better predictions and then we compare it to the graph and also make some predictions. 

Stephen Hawking: That is nice. 

She's a physicist, and somehow stays smiling, in spite of everything going on back home.

(Applause) 

So now let me get to our TED wish.

Well, it's not my TED wish; it's our wish, as you've already gathered.

Among them will be not only brilliant scientists -- I'm sure of that from what we've seen at AIMS -- they'll also be the African Gates, Brins and Pages of the future. 

AIMS is now a proven model.

And what we need to do is to replicate it.

We want to roll out 15 AIMS centers in the next five years, all over Africa.

Each will have a pan-African student body, but specialize in a different area of science.

And we want to add elements to the curriculum.

We want to add entrepreneurship and policy skills. 

And here are the ones we've selected.

And our partners across Africa are extremely enthusiastic about this.

Everyone wants an AIMS center in their country. 

And last November, the conference of all the African ministers of science and technology, held in Mombasa, called for a comprehensive plan to roll out AIMS.

So we have political support right across the continent.

It won't be easy.

Because we want Africa to be rich.

By unlocking and nurturing their creative potential, we can create a step change in Africa's future.

(Applause) 

