And I'm intensely grateful for the opportunity to speak to you today. 

After I left my convent, I'd finished with religion, frankly.

And I certainly didn't even want to be a writer, particularly.

But then I suffered a series of career catastrophes, one after the other, and finally found myself in television.

And I was doing some rather controversial religious programs.

This went down very well in the U.K., where religion is extremely unpopular.

And so, for once, for the only time in my life, I was finally in the mainstream.

But I got sent to Jerusalem to make a film about early Christianity.

But in that city, that tortured city, where you see the three faiths jostling so uneasily together, you also become aware of the profound connection between them.

And it has been the study of other religious traditions that brought me back to a sense of what religion can be, and actually enabled me to look at my own faith in a different light. 

These doctrines seemed unproven, abstract.

And to my astonishment, when I began seriously studying other traditions, I began to realize that belief -- which we make such a fuss about today -- is only a very recent religious enthusiasm that surfaced only in the West, in about the 17th century.

The word "belief" itself originally meant to love, to prize, to hold dear.

In the 17th century, it narrowed its focus, for reasons that I'm exploring in a book I'm writing at the moment, to include -- to mean an intellectual assent to a set of propositions, a credo.

Indeed, some of the world traditions think very little of religious orthodoxy.

So if religion is not about believing things, what is it about?

What I've found, across the board, is that religion is about behaving differently.

Instead of deciding whether or not you believe in God, first you do something.

You behave in a committed way, and then you begin to understand the truths of religion.

Now, pride of place in this practice is given to compassion.

It is compassion, says the Buddha, which brings you to Nirvana.

And in particular, every single one of the major world traditions has highlighted -- has said -- and put at the core of their tradition what's become known as the Golden Rule.

And this is absolutely crucial to the monotheisms, too.

And "go and study it" was what he meant.

Saint Augustine made exactly the same point.

We have a talent as a species for messing up wonderful things. 

The causes of our present woes are political. 

Between 1914 and 1945, 70 million people died in Europe alone as a result of armed conflict.

And so many of our institutions, even football, which used to be a pleasant pastime, now causes riots where people even die.

And it's not surprising that religion, too, has been affected by this violent ethos. 

There's also a great deal, I think, of religious illiteracy around.

People seem to think, now equate religious faith with believing things.

Now -- but that's not the whole story.

"Do not do to others what you would not have them do to you": an ethos that should now be applied globally.

We should not treat other nations as we would not wish to be treated ourselves. 

And these -- whatever our wretched beliefs -- is a religious matter, it's a spiritual matter.

It's a profound moral matter that engages and should engage us all.

And as I say, there is a hunger for change out there.

With the mosque, with the synagogue, saying, "We must start to speak to one another."

I think it's time that we moved beyond the idea of toleration and move toward appreciation of the other. 

You know the story of "The Iliad," the 10-year war between Greece and Troy.

The Greeks believed that weeping together created a bond between people.

That is the ethos found, too, in all the religions.

It's of great importance that the word for "holy" in Hebrew, applied to God, is "Kadosh": separate, other.

And it is often, perhaps, the very otherness of our enemies which can give us intimations of that utterly mysterious transcendence which is God. 

I'd like to see it -- to give guidelines as to how to interpret the Scriptures, these texts that are being abused.

Also, I would be working with the Alliance of Civilizations at the United Nations.

And the Alliance has told me that they are very happy to work with it.

