Thank you so much everyone from TED, and Chris and Amy in particular.

I cannot believe I'm here.

I have not slept in weeks.

Neil and I were sitting there comparing how little we've slept in anticipation for this.

Back in about 2000, I was living in Brooklyn, I was trying to finish my first book, I was wandering around dazed every day because I wrote from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m.

So I would walk around in a daze during the day.

I had no mental acuity to speak of during the day, but I had flexible hours.

In the Brooklyn neighborhood that I lived in, Park Slope, there are a lot of writers -- it's like a very high per capita ratio of writers to normal people.

Meanwhile, I had grown up around a lot of teachers.

My mom was a teacher, my sister became a teacher and after college so many of my friends went into teaching.

And so I was always hearing them talk about their lives and how inspiring they were, and they were really sort of the most hard-working and constantly inspiring people I knew. 

But I knew so many of the things they were up against, so many of the struggles they were dealing with.

And one of them was that so many of my friends that were teaching in city schools were having trouble with their students keeping up at grade level, in their reading and writing in particular.

Now, I would say, "Well, why don't you just work with them one-on-one?"

And at the same time, I thought about this massive group of people I knew: writers, editors, journalists, graduate students, assistant professors, you name it.

But everyone that I knew had an interest in the primacy of the written word in terms of nurturing a democracy, nurturing an enlightened life.

And so they had, you know, their time and their interest, but at the same time there wasn't a conduit that I knew of in my community to bring these two communities together. 

So when I moved back to San Francisco, we rented this building.

And the idea was to put McSweeney's -- McSweeney's Quarterly, that we published twice or three times a year, and a few other magazines -- we were going to move it into an office for the first time.

It used to be in my kitchen in Brooklyn.

We were going to move it into an office, and we were going to actually share space with a tutoring center.

So we rented this space.

You see, this is sort of a sketch I did on a napkin.

A great carpenter built all this stuff and you see, we made it look sort of pirate supply-like.

So right there is the tutoring center, and then behind the curtain were the McSweeney's offices, where all of us would be working on the magazine and book editing and things like that. 

We set the place up, we opened up, we spent months and months renovating this place.

We had tables, chairs, computers, everything.

I went to a dot-com auction at a Holiday Inn in Palo Alto and I bought 11 G4s with a stroke of a paddle.

Anyway, we bought 'em, we set everything up and then we waited.

And so we waited, we sat at the tables, we waited and waited.

And everybody was becoming very discouraged because it was weeks and weeks that we waited, really, where nobody came in. 

Immediately, she made the inroads with the teachers and the parents and the students and everything, and so suddenly it was actually full every day. 

And what we were trying to offer every day was one-on-one attention.

The goal was to have a one-to-one ratio with every one of these students.

You know, it's been proven that 35 to 40 hours a year with one-on-one attention, a student can get one grade level higher.

And so most of these students, English is not spoken in the home.

They come there, many times their parents -- you can't see it, but there's a church pew that I bought in a Berkeley auction right there -- the parents will sometimes watch while their kids are being tutored.

So that was the basis of it, was one-on-one attention.

And we found ourselves full every day with kids.

If you're on Valencia Street within those few blocks at around 2 p.m., 2:30 p.m., you will get run over, often, by the kids and their big backpacks, or whatever, actually running to this space, 

which is very strange, because it's school, in a way.

But there was something psychological happening there that was just a little bit different.

And the other thing was, there was no stigma.

First of all, it was a pirate supply store, which is insane.

And then secondly, there's a publishing company in the back.

And so our interns were actually working at the same tables very often, and shoulder-to-shoulder, computer-next-to-computer with the students. 

And so it became a tutoring center -- publishing center, is what we called it -- and a writing center.

They go in, and they might be working with a high school student actually working on a novel -- because we had very gifted kids, too.

These adults, they're working in their field.

They can lean over, ask a question of one of these adults and it all sort of feeds on each other.

They're allowed to go home at 5:30 p.m., enjoy their family, enjoy other hobbies, get outside, play.

And that makes a happy family.

A bunch of happy families in a neighborhood is a happy community.

And we make it incredibly easy to volunteer.

So every day, there's a field trip where they together create a book -- you can see it being typed up above.

This is one of the classes getting way too excited about writing.

You just point a camera at a class, and it always looks like this.

So this is one of the books that they do.

So then we still had more tutors to use.

This is a shot of just some of the tutors during one of the events.

The teacher tells them what to do, how to do it, what their training is, what their project is so far.

They work under the teacher's guide, and it's all in one big room.

And that's actually the brunt of what we do is, people going straight from their workplace, straight from home, straight into the classroom and working directly with the students.

This is their newspaper, the "Straight-Up News," that has an ongoing column from Mayor Gavin Newsom in both languages -- English and Spanish.

I think we had about 170 tutors that worked on this book with them and so this worked out incredibly well.

You can see Amy Tan sponsored the next one, "I Might Get Somewhere."

Now we're sort of addicted to the book thing.

The kids will work harder than they've ever worked in their life if they know it's going to be permanent, know it's going to be on a shelf, know that nobody can diminish what they've thought and said, that we've honored their words, honored their thoughts with hundreds of hours of five drafts, six drafts -- all this attention that we give to their thoughts.

And once they achieve that level, once they've written at that level, they can never go back.

We sell all the student books.

Where else would you put them, right?

So it was paying the rent.

And maybe this is just a San Francisco thing -- I don't know, I don't want to judge.

There's the ocean maps you can see on the left. 

And it became a gateway to the community.

So the store actually did really well.

So, it became this sort of weird, happy accident. 

So, knowing the crime-fighting community in New York, they opened the Brooklyn Superhero Supply Company.

This is Sam Potts' great design that did this.

These are all handmade.

These are all sort of repurposed other products, or whatever.

All the packaging is done by Sam Potts. 

Personally, I think it's a problem.

This is a secret identity kit.

So, this is the capery where you get fitted for your cape, and then you walk up these three steel-graded steps and then we turn on three hydraulic fans from every side and then you can see the cape in action.

There's nothing worse than, you know, getting up there and the cape is bunching up or something like that.

So then, the secret door -- this is one of the shelves you don't see when you walk in, but it slowly opens.

But this is -- I just want to emphasize -- locally funded, locally built.

All the designers, all of the builders, everybody was local, all the time was pro-bono.

So it's school, but it's not school.

It's clearly not school, even though they're working shoulder-to-shoulder on tables, pencils and papers, whatever. 

This is one of the students, Khaled Hamdan.

It's an addictive thing to sort of be done with it, and to have it checked, and to know he's going to achieve the next thing and be prepared for school the next day.

So he got hooked on that, and then he started doing other things.

He's now been published in five books.

He co-wrote a mockumentary about failed superheroes called "Super-Has-Beens."

He wrote a series on "Penguin Balboa," which is a fighting -- a boxing -- penguin.

There's four family members that come in every day. 

So, I'll go through really quickly.

So you see everything: it's exactly as a 7-Eleven would be.

Now I'm going to the TED Wish -- is that okay? 

Profound leaps forward!

And these can be things that maybe you're already doing.

I know that so many people in this room are already doing really interesting things.

We hope that you will take the lead in partnering your innovative spirit and expertise with that of innovative educators in your community.

There are a million ways.

You email him, he'll answer any question you possibly want.

And he'll get you inspired and get you going and guide you through the process so that you can affect change. 

Thank you so much. 

