I'm going to go right into the slides.

And all I'm going to try and prove to you with these slides is that I do just very straight stuff.

Let me go right into the slides.

This is in Venice.

I just show it because I want you to know I'm concerned about context.

When people take pictures of these buildings out of that context they look really weird, and my premise is that they make a lot more sense when they're photographed or seen in that space.

And then I did a law school for Loyola in downtown L.A.

They wanted a sense of place.

And so the whole idea here was to create that kind of space in downtown, in a neighborhood that was difficult to fit into.

And it was my theory, or my point of view, that one didn't upstage the neighborhood -- one made accommodations.

We even made flooring, walls and everything, out of cardboard.

And after we failed, I just kept failing. 

So, it was an accidental discovery. 

I got into fish. 

I mean, the story I tell is that I got mad at postmodernism -- at po-mo -- and said that fish were 500 million years earlier than man, and if you're going to go back, we might as well go back to the beginning.

And so I started making these funny things.

I did this building in Japan.

And I made some sketches on napkins -- little boxes and Morandi-like things that I used to do.

And the client said, "Why no fish?"

And so I made a drawing with a fish, and I left Japan.

Three weeks later, I received a complete set of drawings saying we'd won the competition. 

And Oldenburg, who I work with a little once in a while, told me I couldn't do it, and so that made it even more exciting.

But he was right -- I couldn't do the tail.

I started to get the head OK, but the tail I couldn't do.

And I put them together, and you walk between them.

It was a dialog with the context again.

As for craft and technology and all those things that you've all been talking about, I was thrown for a complete loop.

This was built in six months.

The way we sent drawings to Japan: we used the magic computer in Michigan that does carved models, and we used to make foam models, which that thing scanned.

We made the drawings of the fish and the scales.

And when I got there, everything was perfect -- except the tail.

So, I decided to cut off the head and the tail. 

And I made the object on the left for my show at the Walker.

And it's one of the nicest pieces I've ever made, I think.

And then Jay Chiat, a friend and client, asked me to do his headquarters building in L.A. For reasons we don't want to talk about, it got delayed.

Toxic waste, I guess, is the key clue to that one.

And so we built a temporary building -- I'm getting good at temporary -- and we put a conference room in that's a fish. 

I played with it in the evening.

When I went to sleep, the next day it wasn't there.

And the next night, we had gefilte fish. 

And he didn't buy a sculpture, so I made one.

It was a joke. 

And we've started to work on things.

Claes', but those two little boys are my sons, and they were Claes' assistants in the play.

He was the Swiss Army knife.

with a fish hat.

We made it into a sailing craft. 

I've been known to mess with things like chain link fencing.

People hate it.

And I'm always drawn to that.

But Claes made homage to it in the Loyola Law School.

And that chain link is really expensive.

It's in perspective and everything. 

And then we did a camp together for children with cancer.

And you can see, we started making a building together.

Of course, the milk can is his.

But we were trying to collide our ideas, to put objects next to each other.

Like a Morandi -- like the little bottles -- composing them like a still life.

And it seemed to work as a way to put he and I together. 

And Jay asked me what I was going to do with the piece in the middle.

And I still think the Time magazine picture will be of the binoculars, you know, leaving out the -- what the hell. 

I just tell the stories.

It's a way of connecting, at least, with some of those people that are so important to the realization of architecture. 

And Herman Miller has this philosophy of having a place -- a people place.

I mean, it's kind of a trite thing to say, but it is real that they wanted to have a central place where the cafeteria would be, where the people would come and where the people working would interact.

So it's out in the middle of nowhere, and you approach it.

It's copper and galvanize.

I used the galvanize and copper in a very light gauge, so it would buckle.

I spent a lot of time undoing Richard Meier's aesthetic.

And they end up looking like stone.

This is the central area.

There's a ramp. 

And that little dome in there is a building by Stanley Tigerman.

Stanley was instrumental in my getting this job.

And when I was awarded the contract I, at the very beginning, asked the client if they would let Stanley do a cameo piece with me.

And so Stanley did the little dome thing.

And we did it over the phone and by fax.

And so I decided to put him in a depression.

And so then I put this big billboard behind it.

And I call it, "David and Goliath."

And that's my cafeteria. 

In Boston, we had that old building on the left.

Instead of, like, copper in 10 or 15.

I flew in one night and took this picture.

But they made it a third smaller than my model without telling me. 

And then more metal and some chain link in Santa Monica -- a little shopping center. 

It's the support labs, which, by some coincidence, required no windows.

And the shape fit perfectly.

I just joined the points.

In the curved part there's all the mechanical equipment.

This is a small house somewhere.

They've been building it so long I don't remember where it is.

It's in the West Valley.

These are the models.

It's kind of like a whole built town. 

I was asked to do a hospital for schizophrenic adolescents at Yale.

I thought it was fitting for me to be doing that. 

He was too busy.

He didn't recommend me, by the way. 

You've got the idea.

And so we finally ended up making it.

These people are art collectors.

And the building is very sculptural as you walk around it.

It's made of metal and the brown stuff is Fin-Ply -- it's that formed lumber from Finland.

We used it at Loyola on the chapel, and it didn't work.

I keep trying to make it work.

In this case we learned how to detail it. 

In Cleveland, there's Burnham Mall, on the left.

It's never been finished.

Going out to the lake, you can see all those new buildings we built.

And we had the opportunity to build a building on this site.

Burnham had designed a railroad station that was never built, and so we followed.

This owner has a pet peeve about bad automobile entries.

And this would be a hotel.

It's hard to do high-rise.

I feel much more comfortable down here. 

This is a piece of property in Brentwood.

And she came back, I guess wealthier or something -- something happened -- and asked me to design a house for her on this site.

And following that basic idea of the village, we changed it as we got into it.

And that's it, built.

The dome was a request from the client.

But when you're in that room, you feel like you're on a kind of barge on some kind of lake.

And it's very private.

The landscape is being built around to create a private garden.

And then up above there's a garden on this side of the living room, and one on the other side. 

These aren't focused very well.

You come down from this level along the stairway, and you enter the bedroom here, going into the lake.

It looks like I got a Baldessari painting for free.

But the idea is, the windows are all placed so you see pieces of the house outside.

Eventually this will be screened -- these trees will come up -- and it will be very private.

And you feel like you're in your own kind of village. 

This is for Michael Eisner -- Disney.

We're doing some work for him. 

And this is in Anaheim, California, and it's a freeway building.

Kind of a fun thing to do. 

And we struggled with the image.

And you're looking at it from the offices and you create a kind of interaction between these pieces. 

The Minister of Finance -- the guy that moved from the Louvre -- goes in here.

There's a new library across the river.

In a very tight, small -- this is the ground level.

They call it the plan coupe.

These are the models for it.

I was trying to get around this plan coupe -- how do you do it?

And the one on the left is pretty awful.

You can see why I was ready to commit suicide when this one was built.

And it faces into a park.

And the idea was to make this express the energy of this.

And this will be some kind of high-tech billboard.

If any of you guys have any ideas for it, please contact me.

I don't know what to do. 

And it's got a fish.

And I keep thinking, "This is going to be the last fish."

It's like a drug addict.

I say, "I'm not going to do it anymore -- I don't want to do it anymore -- I'm not going to do it."

And then I do it. 

There it is.

But it's the living room.

And this piece here is -- I don't know what it is.

This is Euro Disney, and I've worked with all of the guys that presented to you earlier.

It looks like it's kind of been there, and then crashed all these simpler forms into it.

The light grid will have a light, be lit up at night and give a kind of light ceiling.

In Switzerland -- Germany, actually -- on the Rhine across from Basel, we did a furniture factory and a furniture museum. 

It's plaster and just zinc.

But on the outside it does scream out at you a bit.

I know I'm over time.

See, that skylight goes down and becomes that one.

So it's pretty quiet inside. 

This is the Disney Hall -- the concert hall.

It's a complicated project.

And the plan of this -- it's a concert hall.

This is the foyer, which is kind of a garden structure.

There's commercial at the ground floor.

These are offices, which, really, in the competition, we didn't have to design.

But finally, there's a hotel there.

These were the kind of relationships made to the Chandler, composing these elevations together and relating them to the buildings that existed -- to MOCA, etc. 

And we studied many models.

This was our original model.

And we tried many shapes, trying to get the energy of the original design within an acoustical, acceptable format.

We finally settled on a shape that was the proportion of the Concertgebouw with the sloping outside walls, which the acoustician said were crucial to this and later decided they weren't, but now we have them. 

And our idea is to make the seating carriage very sculptural and out of wood and like a big boat sitting in this plaster room.

That's the idea.

Now, this is not a final design -- these are just on the way to being -- and so I wouldn't take it literally, except the feeling of the space.

But you get the sense of the hall in section.

Most halls come straight down into a proscenium.

In this case we're opening it back up and getting skylights in the four corners.

And so it will be quite a different shape. 

The original building, because it was frog-like, fit nicely on the site and cranked itself well.

When you get into a box, it's harder to do it -- and here we are, struggling with how to put the hotel in.

And this is a teapot I designed for Alessi.

And I was asked to do a fish, and so I did a snake. 

And we split these bridges.

Originally, this was all solid with a hole in it.

We cut them loose and made several bridges and created a kind of a foreground for this hotel.

Time goes on. 

And this is my son working with me on a small fast-food thing.

And the food wasn't as good as the stuff, and so it failed.

It didn't work. 

Thank you very much. 

