And these will be some simple design qualities and they will also be some qualities of, if you will, the intelligence of interaction.

Then the second part will really just be examples of new technologies -- new media falling very much into that mold.

Again, I will go through them as fast as possible.

And then the last one will be some examples I've been able to collect, which I think illustrate this at least as best I can, in the world of entertainment.

Well, it doesn't have to be terrible.

Where you are now, all of a sudden, sitting in front of personal computers and video text -- teletext systems, and somewhat horrified by what you see on the screen?

Now, what are some of the other advantages?

And then when you finally see where it is, then you've got to move it to get the cursor over there, and then -- "Bang" -- you've got to hit a button or do whatever.

That's four separate steps versus typing and then touching and typing and just doing it all in one motion -- or one-and-a-half, depending on how you want to count.

Again, what I'm trying to do is just illustrate the kinds of problems that I think face the designers of new computer systems and entertainment systems and educational systems from the perspective of the quality of that interface. 

And another advantage, of course, of using fingers is you have 10 of them.

And maybe ... (Laughter) maybe a mouse is a new kind of bug.

And it's pressure-sensitive to the forces both in the plane of the screen -- X, Y, and Z at least in one direction; we couldn't figure out how to come in the other direction.

Now, imagine a program where some of those objects are physically heavy and some are light: one is an anvil on a fuzzy rug and the other one is a ping-pong ball on a sheet of glass.

And when you touch it, you have to really push very hard to move that anvil across the screen, and yet you touch the ping-pong ball very lightly and it just scoots across the screen.

And what you can do -- oops, I didn't mean to do that -- what you can do is actually feed back to the user the feeling of the physical properties.

In fact, they funded it for that very reason. 

So it's not simply looking at the quality or, if you will, the luxury of that interface, but it's actually looking at the idea of presenting things that previously couldn't be presented before.

Here, the idea is that you're going to take this book, if you will, and it's going to come alive.

You're going to sort of breathe life into it.

We are so used to doing monologues.

And it sort of nibbles at the core of the whole profession and all the assumptions of that medium.

So, book writing is the same thing. 

One is that this book knows about itself.

Each frame of the movie has information about itself.

Now, that would be, if you will, the top green track, which doesn't mean too much.

And that's a much more elaborate one than you dribble back. 

That's one kind of use of random access.

And the other is where you want to explain the same thing in different ways.

If you're in a classroom situation and somebody asks a question, the last thing you do is repeat what you just said.

There are all sorts of techniques you will use -- and again, this is a different kind of branching.

Narrator: When I find a chapter that I want to see, I just touch the text and the system will format pages for me to read.

I can get a definition of these words just by touching them, and the definition will appear in the illustration corner.

The two-headed slider is a speed control that allows me to watch the movie at various speeds, in forward or reverse.

And the movie is displayed as a full frame movie.

I can go back to the beginning ... and play the movie at full speed.

Here's another step-by-step procedure, only in this case -- 

NN: I suspect that some of you might not even understand that language. 

And there are just a few slides I want to go through, 

He was, and he said, "Let me show you how this works," and they got an absolutely ingenuous, wonderful description of Logo.

And the child was just zipping right through it, showing them all sorts of things until they asked him how to do something which he couldn't explain and so he flipped through the manual, found the explanation and typed the command and got it to do what they asked.

And it really meant something to the child.

And all of a sudden ... You may not call that reading and writing, but a certain bit of typing and reading stuff on the screen has a huge payoff, and it's a lot of fun.

And in fact, it's a powerful educational instrument.

But rooted in that, little did she know how much knowledge she was acquiring about geometry and just math and logic and all the rest.

And again, I could talk for three hours about this subject.

I will come to my last example and then quit.

So if I wanted to call my friend Peter Sprague on the phone, my secretary would get his head out and bring it and set it on the desk, 

and that would be the TV used for the occasion.

And it's uncanny: there's no way I can explain to you the amount of eye contact you get with that physical face projected on a 3D CRT of that sort.

So we said, "Well, these will be on round tables and the order around the table had to be the same, so that at my site, I would be, if you will, real and then at each other's site you'd have these plastic heads.

And the plastic heads, sometimes you want to project them.

And there are a number of schemes, which I don't want to dwell on, 

So if I, all of a sudden, turn to the person to my left and start talking to that person, then at the person to my right's site, he'll see these two plastic heads talking to each other.

