Who would have thought that this plant with round leaves, inflated stems, and showy, lavender flowers would cause such havoc in these communities. 

Interestingly, in Nigeria, the plant is also known by other names, names associated with historical events, as well as myths.

In some places, the plant is called Babangida.

In parts of Nigeria in the Niger Delta, the plant is also known as Abiola.

When you hear Abiola, you remember annulled elections and you think: dashed hopes.

In the southwestern part of Nigeria, the plant is known as Gbe'borun.

Gbe'borun is a Yoruba phrase which translates to "gossip," or "talebearer."

When you think of gossip, you think: rapid reproduction, destruction.

It literally translates to "death to mother and child."

I personally had my encounter with this plant in the year 2009.

It was shortly after I had relocated from the US to Nigeria.

And so here I was in the year 2009, actually, at the end of 2009, in Lagos on the Third Mainland Bridge. 

And I looked to my left and saw this very arresting image.

It was an image of fishing boats that had been hemmed in by dense mats of water hyacinth.

That, I would say, was my spark moment. 

And so I did further research to find out more about the beneficial uses of this weed.

Out of the several, one struck me the most.

It was the use of the plant for handicrafts.

And I thought, "What a great idea."

First step: Get out into the waterways and harvest the water hyacinth.

That way, you create access. 

Secondly, you dry the water hyacinth stems. 

And thirdly, you weave the water hyacinth into products. 

The third step was a challenge.

See, I'm a computer scientist by background and not someone in the creative arts.

And so I began my quest to find out how I can learn how to weave. 

And this quest took me to a community in Ibadan, where I lived, called Sabo.

Sabo translates to "strangers' quarters."

And the community is predominantly made up of people from the northern part of the country.

So I literally took my dried weeds in hand, there were several more of them, and went knocking from door to door to find out who could teach me how to weave these water hyacinth stems into ropes.

And I was directed to the shed of Malam Yahaya.

The problem, though, is that Malam Yahaya doesn't speak English and neither did I speak Hausa.

But some little kids came to the rescue and helped translate.

And that began my journey of learning how to weave and transform these dried water hyacinth stems into long ropes. 

With my long ropes in hand, I was now equipped to make products.

And that was the beginning of partnerships.

Working with rattan basket makers to come up with products.

So with this in hand, I felt confident that I would be able to take this knowledge back into the riverine communities and help them to transform their adversity into prosperity.

So taking these weeds and actually weaving them into products that can be sold.

So we have pens, we have tableware, we have purses, we have tissue boxes.

Thereby, helping the communities to see water hyacinth in a different light.

Seeing water hyacinth as being valuable, being aesthetic, being durable, tough, resilient.

Changing names, changing livelihoods. 

And I'd like to end with a quote by Michael Margolis.

And so, from Makoko community, to Abobiri, to Ewoi, to Kolo, to Owahwa, Esaba, we have changed the story. 

Thank you for listening. 

