(Laughter) He would have a great time.

We go to magic shows in order to be fooled.

It's trying to perceive images into objects rather than seeing what's there."

They measure very, very carefully.

Somehow we have to understand ourselves to get around our flaws.

We can think of ourselves as kind of a noisy channel.

Once you start down at this very humble level, then you can start finding ways to see things.

And yet, it is not taught in any K through 12 curriculum in America that I'm aware of. 

So one of the things that goes from simple to complex is when we do more.

But how simple?

But then I had a thought of, "Boy, maybe it's too simple."

Now let's go to young children.

But the whole point of this thing is for them to look at this chart and fill it out.

"What have you noticed about what you did?"

So that's what Lauren did. 

No matter what the shapes were, the growth law is the same.

So, let's take a look now at how we might use the computer for some of this.

And so the first idea here is just to show you the kind of things that children do.

I'm using the software that we're putting on the $100 laptop.

Each time I click it, car turn.

If I want to make a little script to do this over and over again, I just drag these guys out and set them going.

And I can try steering the car here by ... See the car turn by five here?

If I turn this wheel, you can see that number over there going minus and positive.

And we can reflect here the way Gillian Ishijima did.

So how do the children do science? 

Student 1: Ooh, this is nice. 

Teacher: Do not pay any attention to what anybody else is doing.

Who's got the apple? 

AK: Stopwatches aren't accurate enough. 

Student 3: 0.99 seconds. 

Teacher: So put "sponge ball" ... 

We get one child like that about every classroom of 30 kids who will actually cut straight to the chase. 

And how shall we look and verify that we actually have it?

And I thought I would do just one thing on the $100 laptop here just to prove that this stuff works here.

If I start the little game here that the kids have done, it'll crash the space ship.

But if I oppose gravity, here we go ... Oops!

(Laughter) One more.

But we couldn't create 1,000 new teachers this summer to save our life.

