And I thought the secret of the site was to make the building of the river, part of the river.

Unfortunately, though, the site was separated from the river by McLean Boulevard so I suggested, "Let's reroute McLean," and that gave birth instantly to Friends of McLean Boulevard.

(Laughter) And it took six months to reroute it. 

(Laughter) And it took six months to reroute it. 

The first image I showed the building committee was this astronomic observatory of Jantar Mantar in Jaipur because I talked about what makes a building a building of science.

And it seemed to me that this structure -- complex, rich and yet totally rational: it's an instrument -- had something to do with science, and somehow a building for science should be different and unique and speak of that.

And so my first sketch after I left was to say, "Let's cut the channel and make an island and make an island building."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And so the process began and they said, "You can't put it all on an island; some of it has to be on the mainland because we don't want to turn our back to the community."

If you were cheap you could walk on top of a bridge to the roof, peek in the exhibits and then get totally seduced, come back and pay the five dollars admission.

(Laughter) And the client was happy -- well, sort of happy because we were four million dollars over the budget, but essentially happy. 

(Laughter) And the client was happy -- well, sort of happy because we were four million dollars over the budget, but essentially happy. 

It was, what I would say, compositional complexity, and I felt that if I had to fulfill what I talked about -- a building for science -- there had to be some kind of a generating idea, some kind of a generating geometry.

And this gave birth to the idea of having toroidal generating geometry, one with its center deep in the earth for the landside building and a toroid with its center in the sky for the island building.

A toroid, for those who don't know, is the surface of a doughnut or, for some of us, a bagel.

And finally the building -- this is the model.

And when there were complaints about budget, I said, "Well, it's worth doing the island because you get twice for your money: reflections."

And the bike route's going right through the building, so those traveling the river would see the exhibits and be drawn to the building.

Every wall, every concrete wall is resisting the stresses and supporting the building.

And I felt very troubled.

There's an anteroom with photographs of children who perished and then you come into a large space.

There is a single candle flickering in the center; by an arrangement of reflective glasses, it reflects into infinity in all directions.

You walk through the space, a voice reads the names, ages and place of birth of the children.

This voice does not repeat for six months.

And then you descend to light and to the north and to life. 

And so, you know, it's one of those things that you don't take too seriously.

And I recommended they do it right there, on that hill and this hill, and bridge all the way into the town.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And my proposal was to split the museum into two -- the permanent exhibits at one end, the auditorium, library, and changing exhibitions on the other -- to flood the valley into a series of water gardens and to link it all to the fort and to the downtown.

And as you come from the north, it is all masonry growing out of the sand cliffs as you come from the Himalayas and evoking the tradition of the fortress. 

And I came back and, lo and behold, the little model I'd left behind had been built ten times bigger for public display on site and ... the bridge was built!

(Laughter) Within the working drawings!

And half a million people gathered for the celebrations; you can see them on the site itself as the foundations are beginning.

And Yad Vashem needs to deal with three million visitors a year at this point.

They said, "Let's rebuild the museum."

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And here you see the model: a reception building and some underground parking.

You cross a bridge, you enter this triangular room, 60 feet high, which cuts right into the hill and extends right through as you go towards the north.

And at night, just one line of light cuts through the mountain, which is a skylight on top of that triangle.

And all the galleries, as you move through them and so on, are below grade.

And there are chambers carved in the rock -- concrete walls, stone, the natural rock when possible -- with the light shafts.

This is actually a Spanish quarry, which sort of inspired the kind of spaces that these galleries could be.

And then, coming towards the north, it opens up: it bursts out of the mountain into, again, a view of light and of the city and of the Jerusalem hills. 

I'd like to conclude with a project I've been working on for two months.

It's the headquarters for the Institute of Peace in Washington, the U.S. Institute of Peace.

That too was a competition, and it is something I'm just beginning to work on. 

But one recognized the kind of uniqueness of the site.

And that was a lot of heat to deal with. 

You see the structure as, in the sequence of structures on the Mall, very transparent and inviting and looking in.

And then as you enter it again, looking in all directions towards the city.

And what I felt about that building is that it really was a building that had to do with a lightness of being -- to quote Kundera -- that it had to do with whiteness, it had to do with a certain dynamic quality and it had to do with optimism.

And this is where it is; it's sort of evolving. 

Studies for the structure of the roof, which demands maybe new materials: how to make it white, how to make it translucent, how to make it glowing, how to make it not capricious.

I'd like to conclude by saying something ... (Applause) I'd like to conclude by relating all of what I've said to the term "beauty."

Beauty in the most profound sense of fit.

Nevertheless, beauty as the kind of fit; something that tells us that all the forces that have to do with our natural environment have been fulfilled -- and our human environment -- for that. 

