politics is about your side winning at all costs.

But I think we can see the very beginnings of a new story beginning to emerge.

And the central, but not all-important, role of competition and survival of the fittest shrinks just a little bit to make room. 

In fact, if you look back, human communication media and the ways in which we organize socially have been co-evolving for quite a long time.

Humans have lived for much, much longer than the approximately 10,000 years of settled agricultural civilization 

The form of wealth in those days was enough food to stay alive.

But at some point, they banded together to hunt bigger game.

And again, we have no way of knowing, but it's clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged.

Of course, with agriculture came the first big civilizations, the first cities built of mud and brick, the first empires.

Not too much longer after that, the alphabet was invented.

And this powerful tool was really reserved, for thousands of years, for the elite administrators (Laughter) who kept track of accounts for the empires.

And from literate populations, new forms of collective action emerged in the spheres of knowledge, religion and politics.

We saw scientific revolutions, the Protestant Reformation, constitutional democracies possible where they had not been possible before.

Not created by the printing press, but enabled by the collective action that emerges from literacy.

And again, new forms of wealth emerged. 

But capitalism, as we know it, is only a few hundred years old, enabled by cooperative arrangements and technologies, such as the joint-stock ownership company, shared liability insurance, double-entry bookkeeping. 

Evolution is speeding up.

Now, when I started looking into collective action, the considerable literature on it is based on what sociologists call "social dilemmas."

And there are a couple of mythic narratives of social dilemmas.

Now, when I talked about this with Kevin Kelly, he assured me that everybody in this audience pretty much knows the details of the prisoner's dilemma, so I'm just going to go over that very, very quickly.

Person with the goods, person with the money, because they can't trust each other, are not going to exchange.

If they could only agree, if they could only turn a prisoner's dilemma into a different payoff matrix called an assurance game, they could proceed. 

First player is offered a hundred dollars and is asked to propose a split: 50/50, 90/10, whatever that player wants to propose.

Now, the fundamental basis of neoclassical economics would tell you it's irrational to reject a dollar because someone you don't know in another room is going to get 99.

Yet in thousands of trials with American and European and Japanese students, a significant percentage would reject any offer that's not close to 50/50.

And although they were screened and didn't know about the game and had never played the game before, proposers seemed to innately know this because the average proposal was surprisingly close to 50/50. 

The other major narrative of social dilemmas is the tragedy of the commons.

He had the rather gloomy conclusion that humans will inevitably despoil any common pool resource in which people cannot be restrained from using it. 

So she went out and looked at what data she could find.

She looked at thousands of cases of humans sharing watersheds, forestry resources, fisheries, and discovered that yes, in case after case, humans destroyed the commons that they depended on.

And she said that people are only prisoners if they consider themselves to be.

They escape by creating institutions for collective action.

And again, our notions of individuals as economic beings have been overturned.

Rational self-interest is not always the dominating factor.

In fact, people will act to punish cheaters, even at a cost to themselves. 

And most recently, neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters in economic games show activity in the reward centers of their brain.

Which led one scientist to declare that altruistic punishment may be the glue that holds societies together. 

And yet we see very little talk about how the next form may be emerging.

Eli Lilly -- in, again, the fiercely competitive pharmaceutical world -- has created a market for solutions for pharmaceutical problems.

Open source production has shown us that world-class software, like Linux and Mozilla, can be created with neither the bureaucratic structure of the firm nor the incentives of the marketplace as we've known them.

Google enriches itself by enriching thousands of bloggers through AdSense.

Amazon has opened its Application Programming Interface to 60,000 developers, countless Amazon shops.

They're enriching others, not out of altruism but as a way of enriching themselves.

BitTorrent turns every downloader into an uploader, making the system more efficient the more it is used. 

I don't think we know enough yet.

In El Salvador, both sides that withdrew from their civil war took moves that had been proven to mirror a prisoner's dilemma strategy. 

In the U.S., in the Philippines, in Kenya, around the world, citizens have self-organized political protests and get out the vote campaigns using mobile devices and SMS.

Is an Apollo Project of cooperation possible?

A transdisciplinary study of cooperation?

I believe that the payoff would be very big.

I think we need to begin developing maps of this territory so that we can talk about it across disciplines.

Descartes said we need an entire new way of thinking.

When the scientific method provided that new way of thinking and biology showed that microorganisms caused disease, suffering was alleviated.

What forms of suffering could be alleviated, what forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation?

So I enlist you to help me get the cooperation project started.

