It's a simple idea about nature.

Let me tell you where I got it.

I mean it has evolved a very specific set of traits -- color, scent, flavor, pattern -- that has lured that bee in.

And the bee has been cleverly fooled into taking the nectar, and also picking up some powder on its leg, and going off to the next blossom.

The bee is not calling the shots.

And I realized then, I wasn't either. 

The competition of grasses, right?

And suddenly everything looked different.

And suddenly mowing the lawn that day was a completely different experience. 

So I started looking at things this way and wrote a whole book about it called "The Botany of Desire."

That a certain kind of potato, a certain kind of drug, a sativa-indica Cannabis cross has something to say about us.

And that, wouldn't this be kind of an interesting way to look at the world? 

Now, the test of any idea -- I said it was a literary conceit -- is what does it get us?

And when you're talking about nature, which is really my subject as a writer, how does it meet the Aldo Leopold test?

Which is, does it make us better citizens of the biotic community?

And I would submit that this idea does this.

Looking at the world from other species' points of view is a cure for the disease of human self-importance.

You suddenly realize that consciousness -- which we value and we consider the crowning achievement of nature, human consciousness -- is really just another set of tools for getting along in the world.

And it's kind of natural that we would think it was the best tool.

So what plants have -- while we have consciousness, tool making, language, they have biochemistry.

And they have perfected that to a degree far beyond what we can imagine.

Just to give you grounds for comparison, rice: 35,000 genes.

So who's the more sophisticated species?

So, cure for self-importance, way to sort of make us feel the Darwinian idea.

And the talk you heard about ethanol earlier today, to me, is the final triumph of corn over good sense.

(Laughter) (Applause) It is part of corn's scheme for world domination.

(Laughter) And you will see, the amount of corn planted this year will be up dramatically from last year and there will be that much more habitat because we've decided ethanol is going to help us. 

It's based on this idea that we bend other species to our will and that we are in charge, and that we create these factories and we have these technological inputs and we get the food out of it or the fuel or whatever we want.

Let me take you to a very different kind of farm. 

This is a farm in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia.

So, one day, cattle in a pen.

And the reason he's waited three days is because he knows that on the fourth day or the fifth day, those larvae will hatch and he'll have a huge fly problem.

And within four or five weeks, he can do it again.

He can graze again, he can cut, he can bring in another species, like the lambs, or he can make hay for the winter. 

Now, I want you to just look really close up onto what's happened there.

So, it's a very productive system.

You know, you hear, "Can organic feed the world?"

This is how soil is created.

It's created from the bottom up.

More for us, less for nature.

Here, all this food comes off this farm, and at the end of the season there is actually more soil, more fertility and more biodiversity. 

It's a remarkably hopeful thing to do.

There are a lot of farmers doing this today.

And what it tells you is that if you begin to take account of other species, take account of the soil, that even with nothing more than this perspectival idea -- because there is no technology involved here except for those fences, which are so cheap they could be all over Africa in no time -- that we can take the food we need from the Earth and actually heal the Earth in the process. 

When we really begin to feel Darwin's insights in our bones, the things we can do with nothing more than these ideas are something to be very hopeful about. 

Thank you very much. 

