I draw to better understand things.

Those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for "The Way Things Work," while preparing for part of a panel for called Understanding, spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new CD burner.

Who knew about extension managers?

I decided to go with the latter.

I'm going to talk about Rome.

Now, why would I care about Rome, particularly?

Well, I went to Rhode Island School of Design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture.

So, whenever given an opportunity, I try to do something in it or with it or for it. 

I also make drawings to help people understand things.

Things that I want them to believe I understand.

So, I'm going to show you some pictures of Rome.

All different materials, all different styles, all different times, drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of Rome.

Part of the reason I'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process I go through of trying to figure out what it is I feel about Rome and why I feel it. 

These are sketches of some of the little details.

Rome is a city full of surprises.

And I began to think about how I could communicate this in book form.

How could I share my sense of Rome, my understanding of Rome?

And I'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends, basically.

And here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page.

Here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways.

Maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this.

That seemed like a sort of a cheap shot.

So I thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick.

But one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through Rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of Rome.

Anyways, I went back to the dirigible notion.

Not that you know how long number 11 actually is, but you would be able to compare number 11 against the Pantheon with number 11 against the Baths of Caracalla, and so on and so forth.

She launches this thing above the Spanish Steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city.

A spectacular framework, inside of which you see, usually, extraordinary blue sky.

Over the Pantheon and the 26-foot diameter Oculus.

She parks her dirigible, lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside.

The text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around, and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view -- looking in the hole, getting a different kind of perspective, moving you around the space.

She continues on her way over Piazza Navona.

Anyway, the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff.

Unfortunately, when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto, Ajax makes a lunge for it.

So that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion.

So, the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so.

And Marcello keeps moving in his scooter.

Right through the Piazza della Rotonda, in front of the Pantheon -- again wreaking havoc -- and finally getting to work.

The phone rings anyway, he's called to the palazzo.

He's actually in television repair, which is why people know him.

So they all have his number.

He arrives at the palazzo, arrives at the big front door.

He works his way up, finally, the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic.

He opens the window of the attic, of course, and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna.

And of course, he also solves his own problem.

All he has to do now, with a perfect table, is wait for her to arrive. 

That was the first attempt, but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was I wanted to convey about Rome.

So it becomes slightly three-dimensional.

You wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time.

And I've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages.

But then I thought, maybe I could be simpler here.

Let's look at the Pantheon and the Piazza della Rotonda in front of it.

Here's a book completely wide open.

"Pigeon's Progress" struck me as a catchy title.

He's taught them to spell his name, which is Aldo.

In the old Roman custom, the dead were never buried within the walls.

And sometimes it does focus me enough and I'll even do a title page.

You can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way.

So, we circle around the Coliseum, past the Church of Santa Maria in Cosmedin and the Temple of Hercules towards the river.

The only rule of perspective that I think matters is if it looks believable, you've succeeded.

But into the piazza in front of Santa Maria della Pace, where invariably a soccer game is going on, and we're hit by a soccer ball.

Now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball.

And if you do want to see Santa Maria della Pace, these books are really flexible, incredibly interactive -- just turn it around and look at it the other way. 

Through the alley, we can see the impact is captured in the red line.

Straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic, where somebody is working at the drawing board.

He removes the message from the leg of the bird; this is what it says.

Thank you very much. 

