But we have a very pessimistic approach about the cities.

And when you realize that the casque of the turtle looks like an urban tessitura, and can we imagine, if we cut the casque of the turtle, how sad she's going to be?

And most of the people are leaving the city and living outside of the city. 

So, the other character is Otto, the automobile.

He is invited for a party -- he never wants to leave.

Freeways.

He's a very demanding person.

Curitiba, my city: three million in the metropolitan area, 1,800,000 people in the city itself.

Curitiba, Rio: it's like two birds kissing themselves.

And every city has its own design.

And that's the structure of the city of Curitiba. 

And it's an example of living and working together.

And now there's 83 cities all over the world that they are doing what they call the BRT of Curitiba.

And this is an articulated bus, double-articulated.

And we are very close to my house.

You can come when you are in Curitiba and have a coffee there.

And that's the evolution of the system.

That's why, I'm trying to say, it's like metro-nizing the bus.

And for handicapped, they can use this as a normal system. 

It's not enough, new sources of energy.

Our idea of mobility is trying to make the connections between all the systems.

We started in '83, proposing for the city of Rio how to connect the subway with the bus.

And before you say it's a Norman Foster design, we designed this in '83.

I'm trying to say we have to combine all the systems, and with one condition: never -- if you have a subway, if you have surface systems, if you have any kind of system -- never compete in the same space. 

So, when the only woman in your life is your mother-in-law, you have a problem.

(Laughter) So, all the ideas about how to transform through design -- old quarries and open universities and botanic garden -- all of it's related to how we teach the children.

And now we have 70 percent -- since 20 years, it's the highest rate of separation of garbage in the world.

Try to understand the sectors in the city that could play different roles during the 24 hours. 

Another issue is, a city's like our family portrait.

And these are the references that we have in any city.

And these are the references from our ethnic contribution.

Parks -- old quarries that they were transformed into parks.

Quarries once made the nature, and sometimes we took this and we transformed.

That means me, with some focal ideas to help the normal process of planning.

And I think creativity, innovation is starting.

And we cannot have all the answers.

At the end, I would like if you can help me to sing the sustainable song.

OK?

