Can a computer write poetry?

What is poetry?

What is creativity?

But these are questions that people spend their entire lifetime trying to answer, not in a single TED Talk.

So we're going to have to try a different approach. 

One of them is written by a human, and the other one's written by a computer.

I'm going to ask you to tell me which one's which.

Have a go: 

Poem 1: Little Fly / Thy summer's play, / My thoughtless hand / Has brush'd away.

Hands up if you think Poem 1 was written by a human.

OK, most of you.

Hands up if you think Poem 2 was written by a human.

So let's try another test.

So if you think the first poem was written by a human, put your hand up.

We have, more or less, a 50/50 split here.

It was much harder. 

So what we've just done now is a Turing test for poetry.

So in 2013, my friend Benjamin Laird and I, we created a Turing test for poetry online.

It's called bot or not, and you can go and play it for yourselves.

But basically, it's the game we just played.

And what are the results?

Well, Turing said that if a computer could fool a human 30 percent of the time that it was a human, then it passes the Turing test for intelligence.

We have poems on the bot or not database that have fooled 65 percent of human readers into thinking it was written by a human.

So, I think we have an answer to our question.

According to the logic of the Turing test, can a computer write poetry?

Well, yes, absolutely it can.

Let's play our third and final test.

Again, you're going to have to read and tell me which you think is human. 

And Poem 2 was generated by an algorithm called RKCP.

Now before we go on, let me describe very quickly and simply, how RKCP works.

So, you give RKCP a source text, it analyzes the source text in order to find out how it uses language, and then it regenerates language that emulates that first text. 

But the important thing to know about RKCP is that it doesn't know the meaning of the words it's using.

It's just raw material.

And nevertheless, it's able to create a poem that seems more human than Gertrude Stein's poem, and Gertrude Stein is a human. 

So what we've done here is, more or less, a reverse Turing test.

So Gertrude Stein, who's a human, is able to write a poem that fools a majority of human judges into thinking that it was written by a computer.

Therefore, according to the logic of the reverse Turing test, Gertrude Stein is a computer. 

Feeling confused?

I think that's fair enough. 

So far we've had humans that write like humans, we have computers that write like computers, we have computers that write like humans, but we also have, perhaps most confusingly, humans that write like computers. 

So what do we take from all of this?

Do we take that William Blake is somehow more of a human than Gertrude Stein?

Or that Gertrude Stein is more of a computer than William Blake? 

But what I do have are a bunch of insights about our relationship with technology. 

So my first insight is that, for some reason, we associate poetry with being human.

I also believe that Alan Turing understood this, and that when he devised his test back in 1950, he was doing it as a philosophical provocation. 

What we are doing with the Turing test for poetry, rather, is collecting opinions about what constitutes humanness.

It simply means that the category of the human is unstable.

So my final insight is that the computer, more or less, works like a mirror that reflects any idea of a human that we show it.

We show it Emily Dickinson, it gives Emily Dickinson back to us.

We show it William Blake, that's what it reflects back to us.

We show it Gertrude Stein, what we get back is Gertrude Stein.

More than any other bit of technology, the computer is a mirror that reflects any idea of the human we teach it. 

So I'm sure a lot of you have been hearing a lot about artificial intelligence recently.

And much of the conversation is, can we build it?

Can we build an intelligent computer?

But what we've seen just now is that the human is not a scientific fact, that it's an ever-shifting, concatenating idea and one that changes over time.

So that when we begin to grapple with the ideas of artificial intelligence in the future, we shouldn't only be asking ourselves, "Can we build it?"

Thank you. 

