I'm going to talk about two stories today.

One is how we need to use market-based pricing to affect demand and use wireless technologies to dramatically reduce our emissions in the transportation sector.

I'm really scared.

We need to reduce C02 emissions in ten to fifteen years by 80 percent in order to avert catastrophic effects.

That is not enough. 

But now I'll talk about some more pleasant things.

Here are some ways that we can make some dramatic changes.

So, Zipcar is a company that I founded seven years ago, but it's an example of something called car sharing.

What Zipcar does is we park cars throughout dense urban areas for members to reserve, by the hour and by the day, instead of using their own car.

How does it feel to be a person using a Zipcar?

It means that I pay only for what I need.

All those hours when a car is sitting idle, I'm not paying for it.

It means that I can choose a car exactly for that particular trip.

So, here's a woman that reserved MiniMia, and she had her day.

I can take a BMW when I'm seeing clients.

I can drive my Toyota Element when I'm going to go on that surfing trip. 

And the other remarkable thing is it's, I think, the highest status of car ownership.

It's like the car that you always wanted that your mom said that you couldn't have.

I get all the good stuff and none of the bad. 

So, what is the social result of this?

The social result is that today's Zipcar has 100,000 members driving 3,000 cars parked in 3,000 parking spaces.

So, how is it that people went from the 12,000 miles a year to 500 miles?

It's because they said, "It's eight to 10 dollars an hour and 65 dollars a day.

Maybe I would have bought the ice cream when I did some other errand."

So, people really respond very quickly to it, to prices. 

And the last point I want to make is Zipcar would never be possible without technology.

It required that it was completely trivial: that it takes 30 seconds to reserve a car, go get it, drive it.

And for me, as a service provider, I would never be able to provide you a car for an hour if the transaction cost was anything.

So, without these wireless technologies, this, as a concept, could never happen. 

This will apply to people across all of America.

And I think that we can apply social networks and online payment systems to completely change how people feel about ridesharing and make that trip much more efficient. 

Where can I go today and who can I do it with?

Those are the types of things that you will look at and feel. 

The demand for parking, of course, is down, congestion and the CO2 emissions.

One last piece about this, of course, is that it's enabled by wireless technologies.

And it's the cost of driving that's making people want to be able to do this.

It's when you charge a premium for people to drive on congested roads.

And again, do people like the outcome?

Ken Livingstone was reelected.

So again, we can see that price plays an enormous role in people's willingness to reduce their driving behavior.

We've tripled the miles that we drive since 1970 and doubled them since 1982.

Congestion pricing is being discussed in every major city around the world and is, again, wirelessly enabled.

You weren't going to put tollbooths around the city of London and open and shut those gates.

And what congestion pricing is is that it's a technology trial and a psychological trial for something called road pricing.

And as we get our cars more fuel-efficient, that's going to be reducing the amount of revenue that you get off of those gas taxes, so we need to charge people by the mile that they drive.

Whatever happens with congestion pricing and those technologies will be happening with road pricing. 

Why do we travel too much?

Car travel is underpriced and therefore we over-consumed.

We need to put this better market feedback.

And if we have it, you'll decide how many miles to drive, what mode of travel, where to live and work.

And wireless technologies make this real-time loop possible. 

Because I'm going to say, that is going to be the tool that's going to turn our usage overnight. 

And what kind of wireless technology are we going to use?

This is my big vision.

You guys are going to be the handsome young guy and I'm going to be the wise businessman.

I'm going to give you some examples.

You'll be hearing later today from Alan Kay.

These laptops, when a child opens them up, they communicate with every single child in the classroom, within that school, within that village.

And what is the cost of that communication system?

When the hurricane happened, the only communication system standing was the mesh network.

Volunteers flew in, added a whole bunch of devices, and for the next 12 months, mesh networks were the only wireless that was happening in New Orleans. 

Another example is in Portsmouth, U.K.

They mesh-enabled 300 buses and they speak to these smart terminals.

They're resilient; their redundancy is built into this fabulous decentralized design. 

What are the incredible weaknesses?

This time you will still play the handsome young thing, but I'll be the sexy woman.

These things are going to happen.

Maybe we shouldn't wait for the 10 or 15 years for this to happen.

We should pull it forward. 

What is the point?

We're transferring just a few little data bits when we're doing road controlling, road pricing.

We have this incredible excess capacity.

I think this is a more powerful tool than the Interstate Highway Act, and I think this is as important and world changing to our economy as electrification.

And if I had my druthers, we would have an open-source version in addition to open standards.

And this open-source version means that it could be -- if we did a brilliant job of it -- it could be used around the world very quickly.

