So, I'm just going to grab a chair here. 

Two years ago at TED, I think -- I've come to this conclusion -- I think I may have been suffering from a strange delusion.

It had recently gone public and the market said that it was apparently worth two billion dollars, a number I didn't really understand.

A magazine I'd recently launched called Business 2.0 was fatter than a telephone directory, busy pumping hot air into the bubble.

(Laughter) And I was the 40 percent owner of a dotcom that was about to go public and no doubt be worth billions more.

And all this had come from nothing.

The date was February 2000.

I thought the little graph of my business life that kind of looked a bit like Moore's Law -- ever upward and to the right -- it was going to go on forever.

(Laughter) And I think what disgusts me more than anything, looking back, is how the hell did I let my personal happiness get so tied up with this business thing? 

(Laughter) And I think what disgusts me more than anything, looking back, is how the hell did I let my personal happiness get so tied up with this business thing? 

And the reason I'm telling this story is that I believe, from many conversations, that a lot of people in this room have been through a similar kind of rollercoaster -- emotional rollercoaster -- in the last couple years.

It was at the same TED two years ago when Richard and I reached an agreement on the future of TED.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

You can view it in sort of geopolitical terms and say, why is it that a billion people on this planet are so desperately needy that they have no possibility of happiness, and whereas almost all the rest of them, regardless of how much money they have -- whether it's two dollars a day or whatever -- are almost equally happy on average?

(Laughter) Every mental organ addressed.

(Laughter) Every mental organ addressed.

Number two: I am going to put together an incredible line up of speakers for next year.

Number three: I do want to, if I can, find a way of extending the TED experience throughout the year a little bit.

And one key way that we're going to do this is to introduce this book club.

They may well be by a TED speaker, and so we can get the conversation going during the year and come back next year having had the same intellectual, emotional journey.

I think it will be great. 

And then, fourthly: I want to mention the Sapling Foundation, which is the new owner of TED.

