I'm going to start with how I started with this concept seven years ago, when Princess Diana died.

Momentum was being built.

Was she pregnant when she died?

And this gets shown in art galleries like this, as a sequence.

I'm particularly interested in how you can't rely on your own perception.

And at the same time, it removes us from the real subject matter, 

and this acts as a sort of titillating thing.

Then suddenly, it started to get on front pages.

I was being asked and paid to do front covers.

Suddenly I was becoming sort of acceptable, which I found also fascinating.

But then this changed suddenly. 

I then started to work for magazines and newspapers.

It was an April fool actually, and to this day some people think it's real.

I was sitting next to someone at dinner the other day, and they were saying there's this great image of the Queen sitting outside William Hill.

They thought it was real. 

How they wheedle their way into the collective psyche without us even knowing, and how that should happen.

I explored with actually dressing up as the celebrities myself.

This is the look-alike, so the crafting elements of this is completely enormous.

So, all this work is getting shown in art galleries.

Then I made a book.

I was also making a TV series for the BBC at the time.

Stills from the TV series went into this book. 

Because obviously it's making a comment about our culture right now: that we can't tell what's real.

How do we know when we're looking at something whether it's real or not?

You know, what does Tony Blair get up to in private with his fashion guru?

And also dealing with the perceptions that are put about Bin Laden, Saddam Hussein, the links that were put about pre-Iraq war.

And what is going to happen to the monarchy?

Because obviously the British public, I think, would prefer William to Charles on the throne. 

And it's that wish, or that desire, that I suppose I'm dealing with in my work.

I'm not really interested in the celebrity themselves.

I'm interested in the perception of the celebrity.

And with some look-alikes, they are so good you don't know whether they're real or not. 

I did an advertising campaign for Schweppes, which is Coca-Cola, and so that was very interesting in terms of the legalities.

It's highly commercial.

This image is quite interesting, actually, because I think we made it three years ago.

It's obviously a very big commercial company, and so this little, "Shh -- it's not really them," was put on the side of the imagery.

And Margaret Thatcher visiting Jeffery Archer in jail. 

It's an extremely fast way of getting information.

For example, George Bush target practice -- shooting at Bin Laden and Michael Moore.

And also, commenting on the behind the scenes -- well, as we know now -- what goes on in prisons.

And in fact, George Bush and Tony Blair are having great fun during all of this. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you. 

