But there it is: "Jó napot, pacák" I said somebody here must surely know, because despite the fact that there aren't that many Hungarians to begin with, and the further fact that, so far as I know, there's not a drop of Hungarian blood in my veins, at every critical juncture of my life there has been a Hungarian friend or mentor there beside me.

I even have dreams that take place in landscapes I recognize as the landscapes of Hungarian films, especially the early movies of Miklos Jancso. 

So, how do I explain this mysterious affinity?

Or maybe it's because when I was a teenager back in the '50s, my uncle Henry -- having denounced the Ku Klux Klan and been bombed for his trouble and had crosses burned in his yard, living under death threat -- took his wife and children to Massachusetts for safety and went back to South Carolina to face down the Klan alone.

I went back to South Carolina after some 15 years amid the alien corn at the tail end of the 1960s, with the reckless condescension of that era thinking I would save my people.

He was a puckish widower whose wife and children were dead and whose grandchildren lived far away.

In appearance, he resembled Mahatma Gandhi, minus the loincloth, plus orthopedic boots.

He had been born in 1903 in the provinces of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire, in what later would become Yugoslavia.

He was ostracized as a child, not because he was a Jew -- his parents weren't very religious anyhow -- but because he had been born with two club feet, a condition which, in those days, required institutionalization and a succession of painful operations between the ages of one and 11.

He went to the commercial business high school as a young man in Budapest, and there he was as smart as he was modest and he enjoyed a considerable success.

The night watchman had caught an employee who was stealing socks -- it was a hosiery mill, and he simply backed a truck up to the loading dock and was shoveling in mountains of socks.

Well, maybe he was too trusting, because he stayed where he was long after the Nazi Anschluss in Austria and even after the arrests and deportations began in Budapest.

And then in the late 1950s, in the aftermath of Brown v. Board of Education, when the Klan was resurgent all over the South, Mr. Teszler said, "I have heard this talk before."

Now, you should know that at that time, the textile industry in the South was notoriously segregated.

They were to be his seed group, his future foremen.

He gathered them together after an initial tour of that facility and he asked if there were any questions.

To me, it was immensely reassuring that the presiding spirit of this little Methodist college in upstate South Carolina was a Holocaust survivor from Central Europe.

Wise he was, indeed, but he also had a wonderful sense of humor.

And once for an interdisciplinary class, I was screening the opening segment of Ingmar Bergman's "The Seventh Seal."

As the medieval knight Antonius Block returns from the wild goose chase of the Crusades and arrives on the rocky shore of Sweden, only to find the specter of death waiting for him, Mr. Teszler sat in the dark with his fellow students.

But it was music that was his greatest passion, especially opera.

And on the first occasion that I visited his house, he gave me honor of deciding what piece of music we would listen to.

And I delighted him by rejecting "Cavalleria Rusticana" in favor of Bela Bartok's "Bluebeard's Castle."

He's also a prodigious art collector, beginning as an intern in Budapest by collecting 16th- and 17th-century Dutch art and Hungarian painting, and when he came to this country moving on to Spanish colonial art, Russian icons and finally Mayan ceramics.

He's the author of seven books, six of them on Mayan ceramics.

It was he who broke the Mayan codex, enabling scholars to relate the pictographs on Mayan ceramics to the hieroglyphs of the Mayan script. 

If they didn't like each other, we could all get trampled to death. 

And I realized, in this moment of revelation, that what these two men were revealing was the secret of their extraordinary success, each in his own right.

It is this inextinguishable, undaunted appetite for learning and experience, no matter how risible, no matter how esoteric, no matter how seditious it might seem.

As it does, I suspect, that of everybody here. 

