It's a great honor to be here with you.

And so for the remaining two years of my high school, I cut all my classes.

(Laughter) But I had the presence of mind to give the teachers' classes that I cut the pottery that I made, (Laughter) and they gave me passing grades.

And that's how I got out of high school. 

You remember we used to make steel in Pittsburgh?

And I rebuild them and give them new life. 

Manchester Craftsmen's Guild is named after my neighborhood.

I went out and hired a student of Frank Lloyd Wright, the architect, and I asked him to build me a world class center in the worst neighborhood in Pittsburgh.

And my building was a scale model for the Pittsburgh airport.

Built in a tough neighborhood where people have been given up for dead. 

My view is that if you want to involve yourself in the life of people who have been given up on, you have to look like the solution and not the problem.

As you can see, it has a fountain in the courtyard.

Well, I think that welfare mothers and at-risk kids and ex-steel workers deserve a fountain in their life.

So, from that fountain I built this building. 

That's intentional.

In my view, it is this kind of world that can redeem the soul of poor people. 

We also created a boardroom, and I hired a Japanese cabinetmaker from Kyoto, Japan, and commissioned him to do 60 pieces of furniture for our building.

We have since spun him off into his own business.

He's making a ton of money doing custom furniture for rich people.

Because it sets a tone and an attitude about how you feel about people long before you give them the speech. 

They did all right in the ketchup business.

And most importantly, he loaned me the head of research for the Heinz company.

And we've never looked back. 

I would like to show you now some of the food that these welfare mothers do in this million dollar kitchen.

But the concept was that I wanted to take the stigma out of food.

Because I wanted to let them know every day of their life that they have value at this place I call my center. 

No sophistication, no class, no dignity, no history.

It's all in the way that you think about people that often determines their behavior.

I've actually eaten seven of those baskets and they're very good.

It looks like your average high school cafeteria in your average town in America.

There is absolutely no reason why poor people can't learn world class technology.

What we've discovered is you have to give them flowers and sunlight and food and expectations and Herbie's music, and you can cure a spiritual cancer every time. 

The kid with the red stripe was in the program two years ago -- he's now an instructor.

And I have children with high school diplomas that they can't read.

The reason is that the system gets reimbursed for the kids they spit out the other end, not the children who read.

I can take these children and in 20 weeks, demonstrated aptitude; I can get them high school equivalent.

No big deal.

That's our library with more handcrafted furniture.

And this is the arts program I started in 1968. 

Remember I'm the black kid from the '60s who got his life saved with ceramics.

Well, I went out and decided to reproduce my experience with other kids in the neighborhood, the theory being if you get kids flowers and you give them food and you give them sunshine and enthusiasm, you can bring them right back to life.

I have 400 kids from the Pittsburgh public school system that come to me every day of the week for arts education.

And why we can't institute that policy in every school and in every city and every town remains a mystery to me. 

Let me show you what these people do.

That boy won a four-year scholarship on the strength of that photograph.

This is our gallery.

And there is no statistical difference between the white parents and the black parents.

You have to change the way that people see themselves before you can change their behavior.

And it's worked out pretty good up to this day.

I even stuck another room on the building, which I'd like to show you.

I gave this little slide show at a place called the Silicon Valley and I did all right.

When the Basie band came, the band got so excited about the school they voted to give me the rights to the music.

And I recorded it and we won something called a Grammy.

And like a fool, I didn't go to the ceremony because I didn't think we were going to win.

Then the U.N. Jazz Orchestra dropped by and we recorded them and got nominated for a second Grammy back to back.

And that was our first recording studio, which was the broom closet.

And this is our new facility, which is all video technology.

And that is a room that was built for a woman named Nancy Wilson, who recorded that album at our school last Christmas.

And I can now tell you with absolute certainty that an appearance on Oprah Winfrey will sell 10,000 CDs.

(Laughter) We are currently number four on the Billboard Charts, right behind Tony Bennett.

And I think we're going to be fine. 

And I'm very pleased to tell you that the building's done.

It's also full of anchor tenants at 20 dollars a foot -- triple that in the middle of the inner city.

And there's the fountain.

(Laughter) Every building has a fountain.

(Laughter) And as a result of the association, I'm now a director of the Mellon Financial Corporation that bought Dreyfus. 

(Laughter) And as a result of the association, I'm now a director of the Mellon Financial Corporation that bought Dreyfus. 

And we're going to have high school kids growing Phalaenopsis orchids in the middle of the inner city.

And we have a handshake with one of the large retail grocers to sell our orchids in all 240 stores in six states.

And our partners are Zuma Canyon Orchids of Malibu, California, who are Hispanic.

So, the Hispanics and the black folks have formed a partnership to grow high technology orchids in the middle of the inner city.

And we got the funding and we open in the fall.

And you ought to come and see it -- it's going to be a hell of a story. 

And I built the first building, and guess what happened?

And finally, there's this picture.

This is in a place called San Francisco.

And along the way, I met this real short guy at my slide show in the Silicon Valley.

(Laughter) And Jeff and I did become friends, and he's organized a team of people and we're going to build this center. 

(Laughter) And Jeff and I did become friends, and he's organized a team of people and we're going to build this center. 

And after about 10 pictures they all settled down.

And I've fallen in love with him, as I have with Herbie and with his music.

I want you all to know that I think the world is a place that's worth living.

I believe in you.

It's 40,000 dollars to build the University of Pittsburgh Medical School.

It's 20,000 dollars cheaper to build a medical school than to keep people in jail.

Do the math -- it will never work.

In my business it's very difficult work.

