When I was 14 my parents bought me a chemistry set and I decided to make water.

(Laughter) So, I made a hydrogen generator and I made an oxygen generator, and I had the two pipes leading into a beaker and I threw a match in.

(Laughter) And the glass -- luckily I turned around -- I had it all in my back and I was about 15 feet away.

Richard Saul Wurman: Really? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I'd like to start this session again.

The gentleman to my left is the very famous, perhaps overly famous, Frank Gehry.

You kept moving ahead in a life where you're dependent on working for somebody.

But that's an interesting thing for a creative person.

It's not quite a question but you can comment on it.

It's a big issue. 

I always waited for it to sort of hit me on the head.

But I couldn't do anything else.

That was my response to the people in the time.

And actually, it was responding to clients that I had who didn't have very much money, so they couldn't afford very much.

I think it was circumstantial. 

We bought this tiny little bungalow in Santa Monica and for like 50 grand I built a house around it.

And a few people got excited about it.

I was visiting with an artist, Michael Heizer, out in the desert near Las Vegas somewhere.

Luckily I started to get some clients that had a little more money, so the stuff was a little more permanent.

So where do we go now?

Back to -- everything's so temporary. 

I don't see it the way you characterized it.

For me, every day is a new thing.

When I can predict or plan it, I don't do it.

I discard it.

So I approach it with the same trepidation.

Obviously, over time I have a lot more confidence that it's going to be OK.

And like the playwright said the other day -- I could relate to him: you're not sure.

RSW: What's the status of the New York project? 

FG: I don't really know.

Tom Krens came to me with Bilbao and explained it all to me, and I thought he was nuts.

So, I think he's Icarus and Phoenix all in one guy.

(Laughter) He gets up there and then he ... comes back up.

They're still talking about it.

RSW: The picture on the screen, is that Disney? 

RSW: How much further along is it than that, and when will that be finished? 

Luckily, today most of the people I'm working with are people I really like.

Richard Koshalek is probably one of the main reasons that Disney Hall came to me.

He's been a cheerleader for quite a long time.

There aren't many people around that are really involved with architecture as clients.

He's become the head of Art Center, and there's a building by Craig Ellwood there.

I convinced him to let me bring in another architect from Portugal: Alvaro Siza. 

RSW: Why did you want that? 

FG: I knew you'd ask that question. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Alvaro Siza grew up and lived in Portugal and is probably considered the Portuguese main guy in architecture.

I visited with him a few years ago and he showed me his early work, and his early work had a resemblance to my early work.

I just stopped.

Siza, on the other hand, continued in Portugal where the real stuff was and evolved a modern language that relates to that historic language.

And I always felt that he should come to Southern California and do a building.

I tried to get him a couple of jobs and they didn't pan out.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

FG: Anyway, the Siza thing.

It's a richer experience.

(Laughter) Where you ...

And I think for me, it's a way of trying to understand the city and what might happen in the city. 

Anyway, he's that kind of patron.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

RSW: What's his schedule on that? 

FG: I don't know.

What's the schedule, Richard?

Richard Koshalek: [Unclear] starts from 2004. 

You're not going to defy gravity.

If it leaks -- Bilbao did not leak.

I was so proud.

(Laughter) The MIT project -- they were interviewing me for MIT and they sent their facilities people to Bilbao.

RSW: This is the computer building? 

But you've got to -- yeah, well up until then every building leaked, so this ... (Laughter) 

FG: Ask Miriam! 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

RSW: Didn't get a laugh. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

They're hiring them to get it done, get it on budget, be polite, and they're missing out on the real value of an architect. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

RSW: Did it leak? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

RSW: ... people wanted a Michael Graves building.

Is that a curse, that people want a Bilbao building? 

FG: Yeah.

And I've met with some of these people.

I asked them what kind of building it was.

So four of us went.

And they took us -- they put us up in a great hotel and we were looking over the bay, and then they took us in a boat out in the water and showed us all these sights in the harbor.

Each one was more beautiful than the other.

And then we were going to have lunch with the mayor and we were going to have dinner with the most important people in Malaga.

We sat down, and we had a drink of water and everybody was quiet.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And we get a lot of that.

(Laughter) I don't have my own plane yet. 

(Laughter) I don't have my own plane yet. 

But let me just say a couple words. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I'm going to make it for you! 

