You might think that these plants look dead, but they're not.

Give them water, and they will resurrect, green up, start growing, in 12 to 48 hours. 

Now, why would I suggest that producing drought-tolerant crops will go towards providing food security?

Well, the current world population is around 7 billion.

The food and agricultural organizations of the world have suggested that we need a 70 percent increase in current agricultural practice to meet that demand.

Given that plants are at the base of the food chain, most of that's going to have to come from plants. 

That percentage of 70 percent does not take into consideration the potential effects of climate change. 

The areas in red shown here, are areas that until recently have been very successfully used for agriculture, but cannot anymore because of lack of rainfall.

This is the situation that's predicted to happen in 2050.

Much of Africa, in fact, much of the world, is going to be in trouble.

We're going to have to think of some very smart ways of producing food.

And preferably among them, some drought-tolerant crops. 

The other thing to remember about Africa is that most of their agriculture is rainfed. 

Now, making drought-tolerant crops is not the easiest thing in the world.

And the reason for this is water.

Water is essential to life on this planet.

All living, actively metabolizing organisms, from microbes to you and I, are comprised predominately of water.

All life reactions happen in water.

And loss of a small amount of water results in death.

But we can make behavioral changes to avoid that.

Plants can't.

They're stuck in the ground.

Most of them will either try to resist or avoid water loss.

So extreme examples of resistors can be found in succulents.

Examples of avoidance of water loss are found in trees and shrubs.

The one on the right is called a baobab.

And of course the roots are required for hydration of that plant. 

And probably the most common strategy of avoidance is found in annuals.

Annuals make up the bulk of our plant food supplies.

Up the west coast of my country, for much of the year you don't see much vegetation growth.

The strategy in annuals, is to grow only in the rainy season.

And anything that is that dry and still alive, we call desiccation-tolerant. 

In the desiccated state, what seeds can do is lie in extremes of environment for prolonged periods of time.

It's widely believed that the evolution of desiccation-tolerant seeds allowed the colonization and the radiation of flowering plants, or angiosperms, onto land. 

They grow in the rainy season and they've got a seed to help them survive the rest of the year. 

And so despite concerted efforts in agriculture to make crops with improved properties of resistance, avoidance and tolerance -- particularly resistance and avoidance because we've had good models to understand how those work -- we still get images like this.

Maize crop in Africa, two weeks without rain and it's dead. 

Like seeds, these are desiccation-tolerant.

Like seeds, these can withstand extremes of environmental conditions.

And this is a really rare phenomenon.

There are only 135 flowering plant species that can do this. 

Pretty amazing, huh? 

So I've spent the last 21 years trying to understand how they do this.

How do these plants dry without dying?

And I work on a variety of different resurrection plants, shown here in the hydrated and dry states, for a number of reasons. 

One of them is that each of these plants serves as a model for a crop that I'd like to make drought-tolerant. 

Do they all use the same mechanisms to be able to lose all that water and not die? 

Most genes will code for proteins, so we look at the proteome.

What are the proteins made in response to drying?

Now, this is important because plants are stuck in the ground.

So it's important that we look at the chemical changes involved in drying. 

And that's also important because all biological membranes are made of lipids.

They're held as membranes because they're in water.

Take away the water, those membranes fall apart.

Lipids also act as signals to turn on genes. 

Then we use physiological and biochemical studies to try and understand the function of the putative protectants that we've actually discovered in our other studies.

And then use all of that to try and understand how the plant copes with its natural environment. 

I've always had the philosophy that I needed a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms of desiccation tolerance in order to make a meaningful suggestion for a biotic application. 

If you mean, am I going to put resurrection plant genes into crops, your answer is yes. 

In the essence of time, we have tried that approach.

They're just never turned on under extreme drought conditions.

I leave it up to you to decide whether those should be called GM or not. 

I'm going to now just give you some of the data from that first approach.

And in order to do that I have to explain a little bit about how genes work. 

So you probably all know that genes are made of double-stranded DNA.

It's wound very tightly into chromosomes that are present in every cell of your body or in a plant's body.

If you unwind that DNA, you get genes.

Now, promoters are not simple on-off switches.

They normally require a lot of fine-tuning, lots of things to be present and correct before that gene is switched on.

So what's typically done in biotech studies is that we use an inducible promoter, we know how to switch it on.

We couple that to genes of interest and put that into a plant and see how the plant responds. 

In the study that I'm going to talk to you about, my collaborators used a drought-induced promoter, which we discovered in a resurrection plant.

The nice thing about this promoter is that we do nothing.

The plant itself senses drought.

And we've used it to drive antioxidant genes from resurrection plants.

Why antioxidant genes?

What antioxidants do is stop that damage. 

So here's some data from a maize strain that's very popularly used in Africa.

Now to the final approach.

My research has shown that there's considerable similarity in the mechanisms of desiccation tolerance in seeds and resurrection plants.

Or slightly differently phrased, are resurrection plants using genes evolved in seed desiccation tolerance in their roots and leaves?

Have they retasked these seed genes in roots and leaves of resurrection plants? 

So as maize seeds dried out at the end of their period of development, they switch these genes on.

Resurrection plants switch on the same genes when they dry out.

They only switch them on in seed tissues. 

My plants and I thank you for your attention. 

