And in particular, how the simple parts of organizations interact to create the behavior of the whole organization.

There are many biological systems like that -- brains, cells, developing embryos. 

There are about 10,000 species of ants.

And all ant colonies have in common that there's no central control.

No ant directs the behavior of any other ant.

And I try to figure out how that works.

And I've been working for the past 20 years on a population of seed-eating ants in southeastern Arizona. 

And these ants are called harvester ants because they eat seeds.

This is the nest of the mature colony, and there's the nest entrance.

And by doing this I know how old they all are.

And because of that, I've been able to study how their behavior changes as the colony gets older and larger. 

So I want to tell you about the life cycle of a colony.

Ants never make more ants; colonies make more colonies.

Often the queens mate more than once.

And then the newly mated queens fly off somewhere, drop their wings, dig a hole and go into that hole and start laying eggs.

And they will live for 15 or 20 years, continuing to lay eggs using the sperm from that original mating.

She feeds the larvae by regurgitating from her fat reserves.

So this is a one-year-old colony -- this happens to be 536.

This is about as big as they get, about a meter across.

So it starts out with zero ants, just the founding queen, and it grows to a size of about 10 or 12 thousand ants when the colony is five.

And it's when they reach this stable size, in numbers of ants, that they start to reproduce.

That is, to send more winged queens and males to that year's mating flight.

Really the question that I think about with these ants is what I call task allocation.

That's not just how is the colony organized, but how does it change what it's doing?

How is it that the colony manages to adjust the numbers of workers performing each task as conditions change?

So, things happen to an ant colony.

When it rains in the summer, it floods in the desert.

There's a lot of damage to the nest, and extra ants are needed to clean up that mess.

When extra food becomes available -- and this is what everybody knows about picnics -- then extra ants are allocated to collect the food.

So, with nobody telling anybody what to do, how is it that the colony manages to adjust the numbers of workers performing each task?

And that's the process that I call task allocation. 

They somehow choose the direction that the foragers will go, and by coming back -- just by making it back -- they tell the foragers that it's safe to go out.

That is, that there are chambers inside, they line the walls of the chambers with moist soil and it dries to a kind of an adobe-like surface in it.

It also looks very similar to some of the cave dwellings of the Hopi people that are in that area.

And the nest maintenance workers do that inside the nest, and then they come out of the nest carrying bits of dry soil in their mandibles.

So you see the nest maintenance workers come out with a bit of sand, put it down, turn around, and go back in.

And finally, the midden workers put some kind of territorial chemical in the garbage.

So what you see the midden workers doing is making a pile of refuse.

On one day, it'll all be here, and then the next day they'll move it over there, and then they'll move it back.

So that's what the midden workers do.

And these four groups are just the ants outside the nest.

So that's only about 25 percent of the colony, and they're the oldest ants. 

So, an ant starts out somewhere near the queen.

So there's this whole network of chambers.

The queen's in there somewhere; she just lays eggs.

There's the larvae, and they consume most of the food.

And this is true of most ants -- that the ants you see walking around don't do much eating.

They bring it back and feed it to the larvae.

There are nest maintenance workers working throughout the nest.

And curiously, and interestingly, it looks as though at any time about half the ants in the colony are just doing nothing.

So, despite what it says in the Bible, about, you know, "Look to the ant, thou sluggard," in fact, you could think of those ants as reserves.

That is to say, if something happened -- and I've never seen anything like this happen, but I've only been looking for 20 years -- if something happened, they might all come out if they were needed.

But in fact, mostly they're just hanging around in there. 

And they sort of stand as a buffer in between the ants working deep inside the nest and the ants working outside.

And if you mark ants that are working outside, and dig up a colony, you never see them deep down.

And then eventually they get recruited to join this exterior workforce.

And once they belong to the ants that work outside, they never go back down.

Now ants -- most ants, including these, don't see very well.

They have eyes, they can distinguish between light and dark, but they mostly work by smell.

So that's one way that we know the queen isn't directing the behavior of the colony. 

Does it matter to the foragers what the nest maintenance workers are doing?

Does it matter to the midden workers what the patrollers are doing?"

And instead I wanted to ask, "How are the different task groups interdependent?"

So I did experiments where I changed one thing.

This is what it looks like about 20 minutes later.

Here it is about 40 minutes later.

And the nest maintenance workers just take all the toothpicks to the outer edge of the nest mound and leave them there.

So here's some blue nest maintenance workers.

And lately we've gotten more sophisticated and we have this three-color system.

And we can mark them individually so we know which ant is which.

We started out with model airplane paint and then we found these wonderful little Japanese markers, and they work really well.

And so just to summarize the result, well it turns out that yes, the different tasks are interdependent.

So, if I change the numbers performing one task, it changes the numbers performing another.

So for example, if I make a mess that the nest maintenance workers have to clean up, then I see fewer ants out foraging.

And this was true for all the pair-wise combinations of tasks. 

And the second result, which was surprising to a lot of people, was that ants actually switch tasks.

The same ant doesn't do the same task over and over its whole life.

The nest maintenance workers become foragers.

Like I just said, if there is more food to collect, the patrollers, the midden workers, the nest maintenance workers will all change to forage.

So foraging acts as a sink, and the ants inside the nest act as a source.

And finally, it looks like each ant is deciding moment to moment whether to be active or not. 

But the foragers somehow decide not to come out.

And here was the most intriguing result: the task allocation.

This process changes with colony age, and it changes like this.

Whereas the young, small colonies -- the two-year-old colonies of just 2,000 ants -- are much more variable.

And the amazing thing about this is that an ant lives only a year.

It could be this year, or this year.

So, the ants in the older colony that seem to be more stable are not any older than the ants in the younger colony.

It's not due to the experience of older, wiser ants.

Instead, something about the organization must be changing as the colony gets older.

And the obvious thing that's changing is its size. 

And what I've found out is that ants are using a network of antennal contact.

So anybody who's ever looked at ants has seen them touch antennae.

They smell with their antennae.

And what we're learning is that an ant uses the pattern of its antennal contacts, the rate at which it meets ants of other tasks, in deciding what to do.

And so what the message is, is not any message that they transmit from one ant to another, but the pattern.

So the idea is that ants are coming in and out of the nest entrance.

In the beginning you see the ants just kind of engaging with the fiber optics microscope.

But the idea is that the ants are in there, and each ant is experiencing a certain flow of ants past it -- a stream of contacts with other ants.

And the pattern of these interactions determines whether the ant comes back out, and what it does when it comes back out.

You can also see this in the ants just outside the nest entrance like these.

Each ant, then, as it comes back in, is contacting other ants.

And the ants that are waiting just inside the nest entrance to decide whether to go out on their next trip, are contacting the ants coming in. 

The first is that the experience of the ant -- of each ant -- can't be very predictable.

Because the rate at which ants come back depends on all the little things that happen to an ant as it goes out and does its task outside.

And the second thing is that an ant's ability to assess this pattern must be very crude because no ant can do any sophisticated counting.

So, we do a lot of simulation and modeling, and also experimental work, to try to figure out how those two kinds of noise combine to, in the aggregate, produce the predictable behavior of ant colonies. 

Again, I don't want to say that this kind of haphazard pattern of interactions produces a factory that works with the precision and efficiency of clockwork.

Ants have been around for several hundred million years.

They cover the earth, except for Antarctica.

Something that they're doing is clearly successful enough that this pattern of haphazard contacts, in the aggregate, produces something that allows ants to make a lot more ants.

And one of the things that we're studying is how natural selection might be acting now to shape this use of interaction patterns -- this network of interaction patterns -- to perhaps increase the foraging efficiency of ant colonies. 

So the one thing, though, that I want you to remember about this is that these patterns of interactions are something that you'd expect to be closely connected to colony size.

So this is the kind of rule that, as the colony develops and gets older and larger, will produce different behavior in an old colony and a small young one. 

Thank you. 

