A group of divinity students at the Princeton Theological Seminary were told that they were going to give a practice sermon and they were each given a sermon topic.

Half were given random Bible topics.

Then one by one, they were told they had to go to another building and give their sermon.

As they went from the first building to the second, each of them passed a man who was bent over and moaning, clearly in need.

There's a new field in brain science, social neuroscience.

This studies the circuitry in two people's brains that activates while they interact.

And the new thinking about compassion from social neuroscience is that our default wiring is to help.

That is to say, if we attend to the other person, we automatically empathize, we automatically feel with them.

And if that person is in need, if that person is suffering, we're automatically prepared to help.

And the simple fact is, if we are focused on ourselves, if we're preoccupied, as we so often are throughout the day, we don't really fully notice the other.

And this difference between the self and the other focus can be very subtle. 

Then I realized that what I was getting from giving was a narcissistic hit -- that I felt good about myself.

Then I started to think about the people in the Himalayas whose cataracts would be helped, and I realized that I went from this kind of narcissistic self-focus to altruistic joy, to feeling good for the people that were being helped.

But this distinction between focusing on ourselves and focusing on others is one that I encourage us all to pay attention to.

You can see it at a gross level in the world of dating.

Here at TED there are great opportunities.

At any rate, at one point my brother-in-law, Leonard, decided to write a book about a serial killer.

And before he was arrested, he had murdered his grandparents, his mother and five co-eds at UC Santa Cruz. 

So my brother-in-law goes to interview this killer and he realizes when he meets him that this guy is absolutely terrifying.

For one thing, he's almost seven feet tall.

But there is zero correlation between IQ and emotional empathy, feeling with the other person.

They're controlled by different parts of the brain. 

And the strangler says very matter-of-factly, "Oh no.

When we focus on ourselves in any activity, we do turn that part of ourselves off if there's another person.

Think about going shopping and think about the possibilities of a compassionate consumerism.

Right now, as Bill McDonough has pointed out, the objects that we buy and use have hidden consequences.

We're all unwitting victims of a collective blind spot.

In a sense, the room itself is the elephant in the room, but we don't see it.

There's a wonderful book called Stuff: The Hidden Life of Everyday Objects.

And it talks about the back story of something like a t-shirt.

And it's well known by epidemiologists that kids who live near textile works tend to have high rates of leukemia.

Right now, we don't have the option to choose the virtuous t-shirt over the non-virtuous one.

In other words, at point of purchase, we might be able to make a compassionate choice. 

We don't notice and therefore we don't act. 

And because my urban trance had been somehow weakened, I found myself stopping to find out what was wrong.

The moment I stopped, half a dozen other people immediately ringed the same guy.

And we found out that he was Hispanic, he didn't speak any English, he had no money, he'd been wandering the streets for days, starving, and he'd fainted from hunger.

Thank you very much. 

