So government needs to make us do something painful to fix it.

The new story about climate protection is that it's not costly, but profitable.

That's called a profit. 

If, of course, that were true, there would be no innovation, and nobody could make any money.

This process will also be catalyzed by the military for its own reasons of combat effectiveness and preventing conflict, particularly over oil. 

Now, a bit of economic history, I think, may be helpful here.

Around 1850, one of the biggest U.S. industries was whaling.

And whale oil lit practically every building.

So, very unexpectedly, they ran out of customers before they ran out of whales.

The remnant whale populations were saved by technological innovators and profit-maximizing capitalists. 

And it's funny -- it feels a bit like this now for oil.

So when we did, we found some very surprising things.

Now, there are two big reasons to be concerned about oil.

China has an energy policy based on radical energy efficiency and leap-frog technology.

They're not going to export your uncle's Buick. 

And after that comes India.

The point here is, these cars are going to be made super efficient.

The question is, who will make them?

That seems to make more sense.

The more we keep on using the oil, particularly the imported oil, the more we face a very obvious array of problems.

Our analysis assumes that they all cost nothing, but nothing is not the right number.

It could well be enough to double the oil price, for example.

And one of the worst of these is what it does to our standing in the world if other countries think that everything we do is about oil, if we have to treat countries that have oil differently than countries that don't have oil. 

And our military get quite unhappy with having to stand guard on pipelines in Far-off-istan when what they actually signed up for was to protect American citizens.

They don't like fighting over oil, they don't like being in the sands and they don't like where the oil money goes and what sort of instability it creates.

Now, in order to avoid these problems, whatever you think they're worth, it's actually not that complicated.

And then we can replace the other half with a combination of advanced bio-fuels and safe natural gas.

that will save 70 billion dollars a year, starting quite soon.

And we'll also get returns over 150 billion dollars a year.

So that's a very handsome return.

It's financeable in the private capital market.

You can sort of have it all with these things.

For example, this Opel two-seater does 155 miles an hour at 94 miles a gallon.

This muscle car from Toyota: 408 horsepower in an ultra-light that does zero to 60 in well under four seconds, and still gets 32 miles a gallon.

And in the upper left, a pioneering effort 14 years ago by GM -- 84 miles a gallon without even using a hybrid, in a four-seater.

Well, saving that fuel, 69 percent of the fuel in light vehicles costs about 57 cents per saved gallon.

And we intend to use those numbers to create demand pull, and flip the market. 

But then the next generation of planes saves about half.

Again, much cheaper than buying the fuel.

And if you go over the next 15 years or so to a blended-wing body, kind of a flying wing with internal engines, then you get about a factor three efficiency improvement at comparable or lower cost.

So then of the energy that does get to the wheels, only an eighth of it, half of that, goes to heat the tires on the road, or to heat the air the car pushes aside.

And only this little bit, only six percent actually ends up accelerating the car and then heating the brakes when you stop.

In fact, since 95 percent of the weight you're moving is the car not the driver, less than one percent of the fuel energy ends up moving the driver.

This is not very gratifying after more than a century of devoted engineering effort. 

Moreover, three-fourths of the fuel use is caused by the weight of the car.

And it's obvious from the diagram that every unit of energy you save at the wheels is going to avoid wasting another seven units of energy getting that energy to the wheels.

So there's huge leverage for making the car a lot lighter.

But these objections are now vanishing through advances in materials. 

For example, we use a lot of carbon-fiber composites in sporting goods.

And it turns out that these are quite remarkable for safety.

Here's a handmade McLaren SLR carbon car that got t-boned by a Golf.

The Golf was totaled.

The McLaren just popped off and scratched the side panel.

They'll pop it back on and fix the scratch later.

Because these materials could actually absorb six to 12 times as much energy per pound as steel, and do so a lot more smoothly. 

And this means we've just cracked the conundrum of safety and weight.

We could make cars bigger, which is protective, but make them light.

You can end up saving money, and lives, and oil, all at the same time.

And the process needed to make it is actually coming toward the market quite nicely.

So you got rid of the body shop. 

And if you want, you can lay color in the mold, and get rid of the paint shop.

Those are the two hardest and costliest parts of making a car.

So you end up with at least two-fifths lower capital intensity than the leanest plant in the industry, which GM has in Lansing.

The plant also gets smaller.

We could, of course, buy more efficiency.

Maybe you ought to buy efficiency at 26 bucks instead of 12.

Or wait to capture the second half of it.

But they'll sell it to Japan and China instead, because we have tariff barriers to protect our corn farmers, and they don't. 

So we have lots of options.

And the choice of menu and timing is quite flexible.

This expands choice rapidly in the market, and actually makes more money for automakers as well.

This creates a new million-car-a-year market for Detroit from customers they weren't going to get otherwise, because they weren't creditworthy and could never afford a new car.

And Detroit will make money on every unit.

It turns out that if, say, African-American and white households had the same car ownership, it would cut employment disparity about in half by providing better access to job opportunities.

So this is a huge social win, too. 

Governments buy hundreds of thousands of cars a year.

There are smart ways to buy them and to aggregate that purchasing power to bring very efficient vehicles into the market faster.

And we could even do an X Prize-style golden carrot that's worth stretching further for.

For example, a billion-dollar prize for the first U.S. automaker to sell 200,000 really advanced vehicles, like some you saw earlier.

Those part inefficient planes are worth more to society dead than alive.

We ought to take them out back and shoot them, and put bounty hunters after them.

Then there's an important military role.

And make the transition to more efficient vehicles go faster. 

But here's how the whole thing fits together.

And if we start adding tranches of hydrogen in there, we are rapidly off imports and completely off oil in the 2040s. 

And the one thing I'd like to point out here is that we've done this before.

We could rerun that play a lot better now.

And yet what we proved then is the U.S. has more market power than OPEC.

