What happens to matter if you chop it up very fine?

What is it made of?

And the laws of these particles are valid throughout the universe, and they're very much connected with the history of the universe. 

The main thing I want to talk about is this: that we have this remarkable experience in this field of fundamental physics that beauty is a very successful criterion for choosing the right theory.

And why on earth could that be so? 

Well, here's an example from my own experience.

It's fairly dramatic, actually, to have this happen.

Experiments were all wrong. 

And we published before knowing that, because we figured it was so beautiful, it's gotta be right!

The experiments had to be wrong, and they were.

I'll let you in on the answer to the last one that I offer, and that is, it has nothing to do with human beings.

Somewhere in some other planet, orbiting some very distant star, maybe in a another galaxy, there could well be entities that are at least as intelligent as we are, and are interested in science.

And suppose they have, you know, very different sensory apparatus, and so on.

They have seven tentacles, and they have 14 little funny-looking compound eyes, and a brain shaped like a pretzel.

Would they really have different laws?

There are lots of people who believe that, and I think it is utter baloney.

I think there are laws out there, and we of course don't understand them at any given time very well -- but we try.

We may not even be terribly far from it.

I think that's the main point to be made.

We express these things mathematically.

And when the mathematics is very simple -- when in terms of some mathematical notation, you can write the theory in a very brief space, without a lot of complication -- that's essentially what we mean by beauty or elegance. 

The assumption is that the basic law really takes the form of a unified theory of all the particles.

But the main thing here is that it predicts probabilities.

Now, sometimes those probabilities are near certainties.

And in a lot of familiar cases, they of course are.

But other times they're not, and you have only probabilities for different outcomes.

So what that means is that the history of the universe is not determined just by the fundamental law.

It's the fundamental law and this incredibly long series of accidents, or chance outcomes, that are there in addition. 

Now, it's often said that getting closer and closer to the fundamental laws by examining phenomena at low energies, and then higher energies, and then higher energies, or short distances, and then shorter distances, and then still shorter distances, and so on, is like peeling the skin of an onion.

And we keep doing that, and build more powerful machines, accelerators for particles.

We look deeper and deeper into the structure of particles, and in that way we get probably closer and closer to this fundamental law. 

They require very similar mathematics.

And so what happens is that the new phenomena, the new skins, the inner skins of the slightly smaller skins of the onion that we get to, resemble the slightly larger ones.

And the kind of mathematics that we had for the previous skin is almost the same as what we need for the next skin.

And that's why the equations look so simple.

Because they use mathematics we already have. 

Coulomb, in France, found the same law for electric charges.

Here's an example of this similarity.

It's a very simple example.

There are lots of more sophisticated examples.

They are symmetries of the sphere.

So we say, in general, that there's a symmetry under certain operations if those operations leave the phenomenon, or its description, unchanged. 

Maxwell's equations are of course symmetrical under rotations of all of space.

Doesn't matter if we turn the whole of space around by some angle, it doesn't leave the -- doesn't change the phenomenon of electricity or magnetism.

Then Einstein, with his special theory of relativity, looked at a whole set of symmetries of Maxwell's equations, which are called special relativity.

And those symmetries, then, make the equations even shorter, and even prettier, therefore. 

Then, using vector analysis, you use rotational symmetry, and you get this next set.

The more and more symmetry you have, the better you exhibit the simplicity and elegance of the theory. 

The last two, the first equation says that electric charges and currents give rise to all the electric and magnetic fields.

The next -- second -- equation says that there is no magnetism other than that.

The only magnetism comes from electric charges and currents.

Someday we may find some slight hole in that argument.

But for the moment, that's the case. 

Now, here is a very exciting development that many people have not heard of.

A whole new symmetry.

Mathematics very similar, but there was a whole new symmetry.

And it gave a very beautiful description of the strong force and of the weak force.

So here we say, again, what we said before: that each skin of the onion shows a similarity to the adjoining skins.

So the mathematics for the adjoining skins is very similar to what we need for the new one.

Steps toward unification exhibit the simplicity.

And he realized suddenly that the force that drew the apple down to the earth could be the same as the force regulating the motions of the planets and the moon. 

That was a big unification for those days, although today we take it for granted.

It's the same theory of gravity.

So he said that this principle of nature, consonance: "This principle of nature being very remote from the conceptions of philosophers, I forbore to describe it in that book, lest I should be accounted an extravagant freak ... " That's what we all have to watch out for, (Laughter) especially at this meeting. "

Now, who today would claim that as a mere conceit of the human mind?

It stems from the character of gravity.

And that's true of all the things we're talking about.

They are properties of the fundamental law.

The fundamental law is such that the different skins of the onion resemble one another, and therefore the math for one skin allows you to express beautifully and simply the phenomenon of the next skin. 

They follow from the fundamental theory.

That's what emergence means. 

Life can emerge from physics and chemistry, plus a lot of accidents.

It doesn't diminish the importance of these subjects to know that they follow from more fundamental things, plus accidents.

That's a general rule, and it's critically important to realize that.

You don't need something more in order to get something more.

