You will understand nothing with my type of English.

I mean, I feel useless.

Now after Carolyn, and all the other guys, I feel like shit.

So, so, because I have nothing to show, nothing to say, we shall try to speak about something else.

We can start, if you want, by understanding -- it's just to start, it's not interesting, but -- how I work.

I don't try to design the toothbrush.

I don't try to say, "Oh, that will be a beautiful object," or something like that.

That doesn't interest me. 

Because there is different types of design.

I call that the cynical design. 

What civilization creates this society?

What animal species creates this civilization?

But to come back, where I am at the animal species, there is things to see.

There is things to see, there is the big challenge.

The big challenge in front of us.

The big image is our story, our poetry, our romanticism.

And if we don't deeply understand, if we don't integrate that we are mutants, we completely miss the story.

Because every generation thinks we are the final one.

There is so many things to do; it's so fresh. 

From this level, the more you can raise this angle of view, the more you will be important for the society.

The more you will rise, the more you will be important for the civilization.

It's better, but nobody. 

It's called schizophrenia, and you are dead also. 

It's because we -- if we look from far, we see our line of evolution.

This line of evolution is clearly positive.

It's made of light and shadow.

We can say light is civilization, shadow is barbaria.

And it's very important to know where we are.

Because some cycle, there is a spot in the cycle, and you have not the same duty in the different parts of the cycle. 

In this case, people like me are acceptable.

We can say, "It's luxurious time."

With many, many, many, many face of barbaria.

Because it's not, the barbaria we have today, it's perhaps not the barbaria we think.

There is different type of barbaria.

That's why we must adapt.

You must go back to fight, to battle. 

That's why today I'm so ashamed to make this job.

That's why I am here, to try to do it the best possible.

We have just to finish the story.

That is very, very important.

And when you don't understand really what's happened, you cannot go and fight and work and build and things like that.

No, you must really understand that. 

Because we have almost finished, I'll repeat this story.

We give you the best tools, the best tools, and now, do it.

That's why I continue to work, even if it's for toilet brush. 

