I want to start my story in Germany, in 1877, with a mathematician named Georg Cantor.

And Cantor decided he was going to take a line and erase the middle third of the line, and then take those two resulting lines and bring them back into the same process, a recursive process.

So he starts out with one line, and then two, and then four, and then 16, and so on.

And if he does this an infinite number of times, which you can do in mathematics, he ends up with an infinite number of lines, each of which has an infinite number of points in it.

He was a mathematician on a mission. 

And other mathematicians did the same sort of thing.

A Swedish mathematician, von Koch, decided that instead of subtracting lines, he would add them.

And so he came up with this beautiful curve.

So these all have the property of self-similarity: the part looks like the whole.

It's the same pattern at many different scales. 

And since they went through the iterations an infinite number of times, as the ruler shrinks down to infinity, the length goes to infinity.

And then in 1977, Benoit Mandelbrot, a French mathematician, realized that if you do computer graphics and used these shapes he called fractals, you get the shapes of nature.

You get the human lungs, you get acacia trees, you get ferns, you get these beautiful natural forms.

Your body is covered with fractals.

The mathematicians who were saying these were pathologically useless shapes?

So nature has this self-similar structure.

Nature uses self-organizing systems.

And of course I had to go to Africa and ask folks why.

And it turns out the royal insignia has a rectangle within a rectangle within a rectangle, and the path through that palace is actually this spiral here.

And as you go through the path, you have to get more and more polite.

This is a village in southern Zambia.

The Ba-ila built this village about 400 meters in diameter.

So here's a little fractal model for it.

And of course the spirit people have a little miniature village in their village, right?

So it's just like Georg Cantor said, the recursion continues forever. 

This is in the Mandara mountains, near the Nigerian border in Cameroon, Mokoulek.

I saw this diagram drawn by a French architect, and I thought, "Wow!

So I tried to come up with a seed shape, which, upon iteration, would unfold into this thing.

I came up with this structure here.

Let's see, first iteration, second, third, fourth.

Well, I noticed that line is about where the only square building in the village is at.

And they said, "Well, we can take you there, but you can't go inside because that's the sacred altar, where we do sacrifices every year to keep up those annual cycles of fertility for the fields."

And I started to realize that the cycles of fertility were just like the recursive cycles in the geometric algorithm that builds this.

And the recursion in some of these villages continues down into very tiny scales. 

So here's a Nankani village in Mali.

And you can see, you go inside the family enclosure -- you go inside and here's pots in the fireplace, stacked recursively.

Once again, infinity is important. 

Now, you might ask yourself three questions at this point.

Aren't these scaling patterns just universal to all indigenous architecture?

And that was actually my original hypothesis.

I started collecting aerial photographs of Native American and South Pacific architecture; only the African ones were fractal.

And if you think about it, all these different societies have different geometric design themes that they use.

It is not the same pattern at two different scales. 

Second, you might ask, "Well, Dr. Eglash, aren't you ignoring the diversity of African cultures?"

No, because a widely shared design practice doesn't necessarily give you a unity of culture -- and it definitely is not "in the DNA."

It's a shared technology in Africa. 

And finally, well, isn't this just intuition?

It's not really mathematical knowledge.

Well, it's true that some African fractals are, as far as I'm concerned, just pure intuition.

In some cases, there would actually be algorithms, and very sophisticated algorithms.

And with each iteration of that algorithm, you learn the iterations of the myth.

You learn the next level of knowledge. 

And finally, all over Africa, you see this board game.

Well, you see self-organizing patterns that spontaneously occur in this board game.

And the folks in Ghana knew about these self-organizing patterns and would use them strategically.

So this is very conscious knowledge. 

And of course fences around the world are all Cartesian, all strictly linear.

But here in Africa, you've got these nonlinear scaling fences.

And I measured out the lengths of straw, put it on a log-log plot, got the scaling exponent, and it almost exactly matches the scaling exponent for the relationship between wind speed and height in the wind engineering handbook.

So these guys are right on target for a practical use of scaling technology. 

And the same divination system is found all over Africa.

And they did this very rapidly, and I couldn't understand where they were getting -- they only did the randomness four times -- I couldn't understand where they were getting the other 12 symbols.

And they wouldn't tell me.

And finally, he revealed the truth of the matter.

And it turns out it's a pseudo-random number generator using deterministic chaos.

When you have a four-bit symbol, you then put it together with another one sideways.

It's addition modulo 2, just like in the parity bit check on your computer.

And then you take this symbol, and you put it back in so it's a self-generating diversity of symbols.

They're truly using a kind of deterministic chaos in doing this.

This is a geomantic chart drawn for King Richard II in 1390.

George Boole took Leibniz's binary code and created Boolean algebra, and John von Neumann took Boolean algebra and created the digital computer.

So all these little PDAs and laptops -- every digital circuit in the world -- started in Africa.

So let me end with just a few words about applications that we've found for this.

Actually, the reason that Google was such a success is because they were the first ones to take advantage of the self-organizing properties of the web.

It's in ecological sustainability.

It's in the developmental power of entrepreneurship, the ethical power of democracy.

It's also in some bad things.

So we need to think about, as was spoken earlier, the traditional African methods for doing self-organization.

These are robust algorithms.

These are ways of doing self-organization -- of doing entrepreneurship -- that are gentle, that are egalitarian.

So if we want to find a better way of doing that kind of work, we need look only no farther than Africa to find these robust self-organizing algorithms.

Thank you. 

