I want you to imagine that you're a student in my lab.

What I want you to do is to create a biologically inspired design.

And it is a true challenge, and I do want you to help me.

Of course, in the challenge there is a prize.

Now if we want to design a foot, what do we have to do?

We have to first know what a foot is.

If we go to the dictionary, it says, "It's the lower extremity of a leg that is in direct contact with the ground in standing or walking" That's the traditional definition.

But if you wanted to really do research, what do you have to do?

Maybe you're familiar with this literature.

The problem is, there are many, many feet.

How do you do this?

You need to survey all feet and extract the principles of how they work.

And I want you to help me do that in this next clip.

What would you do?

Now it turns out that animals can go anywhere.

They can locomote on substrates that vary as you saw -- in the probability of contact, the movement of that surface and the type of footholds that are present.

If you want to study how a foot works, we're going to have to simulate those surfaces, or simulate that debris.

When we slow it down 50 times we see how the leg is hitting that simulated debris.

The leg is acting as a foot.

Now, the question we had is, how general is a distributed foot?

It was discovered by Christina Huffard and filmed by Sea Studios, right here from Monterey. 

We've also described another species of bipedal octopus.

It uses that beautiful distributed foot to make it as if those obstacles are not even there -- truly extraordinary. 

So, if we want to then, to our blueprint, add the first important feature, we want to add distributed foot contact.

Not just with the traditional foot, but also the leg, and even of the body.

Can this help us inspire the design of novel robots?

What you'll see, in fact, is that it's using that half circle leg as a distributed foot.

Watch it go over this.

Really simple, but beautiful. 

When you touched the cockroach leg -- can you get the microphone for him?

The crabs are missing spines, so they have a problem in this kind of rough terrain.

So to our blueprint, we need to add tuned spines.

Now just because we have a distributed foot and spines doesn't mean you can climb vertical surfaces.

This is really, really difficult.

It looks, in fact, like it's swimming up the surface.

We can actually model that behavior better as a fluid, if you look at it.

The distributed foot, actually, is working more like a paddle. 

The same is true when we looked at this lizard running on fluidized sand.

Watch its feet.

This is not different from what my former undergraduate discovered when she figured out how lizards can run on water itself.

For rough surfaces, though, animals add claws.

And you probably feel them if you grabbed it.

Did you touch it? 

RF: And they do really well at grabbing onto surfaces with these claws.

And here's the simple version of a foot for a new robot that I'll show you in a bit.

So to our blueprint, let's attach claws.

These are all from different insects.

There's an ant crawling up a vertical surface.

Let's look at that ant. 

This is when its foot's in the air.

Watch what happens when the foot goes onto your sandwich.

So it's pretty tough to do.

And we discovered this glue may be an interesting two-phase mixture.

It certainly helps it to hold on.

Now we have something better here.

The gecko's a really great example of nanotechnology in nature.

And when you watch how they detach it, it is bizarre.

They peel away from the surface like you'd peel away a piece of tape.

And each hair has the worst case of split ends possible.

The gecko has a billion of these 200-nanometer-sized split ends.

And they don't stick by glue, or they don't work like Velcro, or they don't work with suction.

We discovered they work by intermolecular forces alone.

So to our blueprint, we split some hairs.

And here's the first attempt to have it work on some load. 

We took some hairs from a molting gecko; put three rolls of them on here, and then made this Band-Aid. 

It's just an example of why we need to support curiosity-based research.

Here you are, pulling off the Band-Aid. 

So we've redefined, now, what a foot is.

Mark Cutkosky, though, is taking it a step further.

He's the one able to build this shape-deposition manufactured feet and toes.

So the idea is to first get the toes and a foot right, attempt to make that climb, and ultimately put it on the robot.

And that's exactly what he's done.

He's built, in fact, a climbing foot-bot inspired by nature. 

To finish: we've gotten design secrets from nature by looking at how feet are built.

We've learned we should distribute control to smart parts.

Otherwise these secrets will be lost forever.

Thank you. 

