So I decided to do something that was even more remarkable.

Instead of exploring outer space, I wanted to explore the wonders of inner space. 

Now, a lot of people will tell you that cave diving is perhaps one of the most dangerous endeavors.

Well, that's my workplace. 

I can swim through a lot of the pores in our earth's sponge, but where I can't, other life-forms and other materials can make that journey without me.

And my voice is the one that's going to teach you about the inside of Mother Earth. 

There was no guidebook available to me when I decided to be the first person to cave dive inside Antarctic icebergs.

We use exotic gases, and we can make missions even up to 20 hours long underwater. 

Many of these life-forms live in unusual ways.

In fact, animals swimming in these caves today are identical in the fossil record that predates the extinction of the dinosaurs.

So imagine that: these are like little swimming dinosaurs.

What can they teach us about evolution and survival?

When we look at an animal like this remipede swimming in the jar, he has giant fangs with venom.

He can actually attack something 40 times his size and kill it.

If he were the size of a cat, he'd be the most dangerous thing on our planet.

How did they get there? 

The red that you see in this photograph is actually dust from the Sahara Desert.

Paleoclimatologists are also interested in where the sea level stands were at other times on earth.

I also get to work with paleontologists and archaeologists.

But my very favorite project of all was over 15 years ago, when I was a part of the team that made the very first accurate, three-dimensional map of a subterranean surface.

This device that I'm driving through the cave was actually creating a three-dimensional model as we drove it.

Our water planet is not just rivers, lakes and oceans, but it's this vast network of groundwater that knits us all together.

It's a shared resource from which we all drink.

And when we can understand our human connections with our groundwater and all of our water resources on this planet, then we'll be working on the problem that's probably the most important issue of this century. 

So I never got to be that astronaut that I always wanted to be, but this mapping device, designed by Dr. Bill Stone, will be.

And that's pretty amazing. 

