And then I'll let you in on a secret, which is why I am an incurable optimist.

Let me start off showing you an Al Gore movie that you may have seen before.

(Video): Man: ... extremely dangerous questions.

Because, with our present knowledge, we have no idea what would happen.

And if this happens, an inland sea would fill a good portion of the Mississippi Valley.

For, in weather, we're not only dealing with forces of a far greater variety than even the atomic physicist encounters, but with life itself. 

Larry Brilliant: Should we feel good, or should we feel bad that 50 years of foreknowledge accomplished so little?

Well, it depends, really, on what your goals are.

And I think, as my goals, I always go back to Gandhi's talisman.

For those of us in this room, it's not just the poorest and the most vulnerable individual, it's the community, it's the culture, it's the world itself.

And the trends for those who are at the periphery of our society, who are the poorest and the most vulnerable, the trends give rise to a great case for pessimism.

There's two degrees, or three degrees of climate change baked into the system.

And we consume so much that again, a rise of 6.5 billion to 9.5 billion in our grandchildren's lifetime will disproportionately hurt the poorest and the most vulnerable. 

That's why they migrate to cities.

That's why in June of this year, we passed, as a species, 51 percent of us living in cities, and bustees, and slums, and shantytowns.

The rural areas are no longer producing as much food as they did.

The green revolution never reached Africa.

And with desertification, sandstorms, the Gobi Desert, the Ogaden, we are finding increasing difficulty of a hectare to produce as many calories as it did even 15 years ago. 

So humans are turning more towards animal consumption.

In Africa last year, Africans ate 600 million wild animals, and consumed two billion kilograms of bush meat.

And every kilogram of bush meat contained hundreds of thousands of novel viruses that have never been charted, the genomic sequences of which we don't know.

Their fitness for creating pandemics we are unaware of, but we are ripe for zoonotic-borne, emerging communicable diseases. 

And in fact, with increasing globalization -- for which there are big winners and even bigger losers -- today the world is more diverse and unfair than perhaps it has ever been in history. 

One percent of us own 40 percent of all the goods and services.

What will happen if the billion people today who live on less than one dollar a day rise to three billion in the next 30 years?

Last week, Bill Clinton at the TED Awards said, "This situation is unprecedented, unequal, unfair and unstable."

So there's lots of reason for pessimism.

Darfur is, at its origin, a resource war.

Last year, there were 85,000 riots in China, 230 a day, that required police or military intervention.

Most of them were about resources.

And unlike destabilized world in the past, it will be broadcast to you on YouTube, you will see it on digital television and on your cell phones.

Let's look at one case, the case of Bangladesh.

First, even if carbon dioxide emissions stopped today, global warming would continue.

And even with global warming -- if you can see these blue lines, the dotted line shows that even if emissions of greenhouse gasses stopped today, the next decades will see rising sea levels.

So here's Bangladesh.

70 percent of Bangladesh is at less than five feet above sea level.

Now we're looking down south, through the Kali Gandaki.

Many of you, I think, have probably trekked here.

Looking at the five major rivers that feed Bangladesh.

And now let's look from the south, looking up, and let's see this in relief.

But if you look at the globe, all around the earth, wherever there is low-lying area, populated areas near the water, you will find increase in sea level that will challenge our way of life.

Sub-Saharan Africa, and even our own San Francisco Bay Area.

We're all in this together.

This is not something that happens far away to people that we don't know.

Global warming is something that happens to all of us, all at once. 

As are these newly emerging communicable diseases, names that you hadn't heard 20 years ago: ebola, lhasa fever, monkey pox.

With the erosion of the green belt separating animals from humans, we live in each other's viral environment.

Do you remember, 20 years ago, no one had ever heard of West Nile fever?

And then we watched, as one case arrived on the East Coast of the United States and it marched every year, westwardly.

Do you remember no one had heard of ebola until we heard of hundreds of people dying in Central Africa from it?

It's just the beginning, unfortunately.

There have been 30 novel emerging communicable diseases that begin in animals that have jumped species in the last 30 years.

It's more than enough reason for pessimism. 

You just need to look at the list of Nobel laureates to remind ourselves.

We've been here before, paralyzed by fear, paralyzed into inaction, when some -- probably one of you in this room -- jumped into the breach and created an organization like Physicians for Social Responsibility, which fought against the nuclear threat, Medicins Sans Frontieres, that renewed our commitment to disaster relief, Mohamed ElBaradei, and the tremendous hope and optimism that he brought all of us, and our own Muhammad Yunus. 

Last year, there were only 2,000 cases in the world.

20 years ago, there were three and a half million.

All throughout the technology world, we're seeing young people bitten by this disease of sudden wealth syndrome.

But they're using their wealth in a way that their forefathers never did.

Certainly, nothing can give you more optimism than that. 

It's just beginning.

And now 4,000 churches have joined the environmental movement.

It is something to be greatly optimistic about.

And on April 14th, there will be Step Up Day, where there will be a thousand individual mobilized social activist movements in the United States on protest against legislation -- pushing for legislation to stop global warming.

And on July 7th, around the world, I learned only yesterday, there will be global Live Earth concerts.

And you can feel this optimistic move to save the earth in the air. 

Now, that doesn't mean that people understand that global warming hurts the poorest and the weakest the most.

That means that people are beginning the first step, which is acting out of their own self-interest.

But for me, I have another reason to be an incurable optimist.

And you've heard so many inspiring stories here, and I heard so many last night that I thought I would share a little bit of mine.

My background is not exactly conventional medical training.

In the Summer of Love, in 1967, two million people, children, died of smallpox.

It's not ancient history.

When you read the biblical plague of boils, that was smallpox.

Pharaoh Ramses the Fifth, whose picture is here, died of smallpox.

To eradicate smallpox, we had to gather the largest United Nations army in history.

We visited every house in India, searching for smallpox -- 120 million houses, once every month, for nearly two years.

And when they did, they took smallpox to 10 other countries and reignited the epidemic.

How can that not make you optimistic?

A disease which killed hundreds of thousands in India, and blinded half of all of those who were made blind in India, ended.

And most importantly for us here in this room, a bond was created.

How can that not make you feel optimistic for the future?

