(Applause) I want to talk to you a little bit about user-generated content.

So, here's the first story. 

Sousa was not a fan of the talking machines.

This is what he had to say.

Now, this is the picture I want you to focus on.

This is a picture of culture.

We could describe it using modern computer terminology as a kind of read-write culture.

And in its place, we'd have the opposite of read-write culture, what we could call read-only culture.

Culture where creativity was consumed but the consumer is not a creator.

A culture which is top-down, owned, where the vocal chords of the millions have been lost. 

Now, as you look back at the twentieth century, at least in what we think of as the, quote, "developed world" -- hard not to conclude that Sousa was right.

Never before in the history of human culture had it been as professionalized, never before as concentrated.

Never before has creativity of the millions been as effectively displaced, and displaced because of these, quote, "infernal machines."

The twentieth century was that century where, at least for those places we know the best, culture moved from this read-write to read-only existence. 

Two farmers, Thomas Lee and Tinie Causby, who raised chickens, had a significant complaint because of these technologies.

And so they appealed to Lord Blackstone to say these airplanes were trespassing.

Since time immemorial, the law had said, you can't fly over the land without permission of the landowner, so this flight must stop.

Well, the Supreme Court considered this 100-years tradition and said, in an opinion written by Justice Douglas, that the Causbys must lose.

The Supreme Court said the doctrine protecting land all the way to the sky has no place in the modern world, otherwise every transcontinental flight would subject the operator to countless trespass suits.

Now, at that time, the entity, the legal cartel, that controlled the performance rights for most of the music that would be broadcast using these technologies was ASCAP.

They had an exclusive license on the most popular content, and they exercised it in a way that tried to demonstrate to the broadcasters who really was in charge.

And the important point to recognize is that even though these broadcasters were broadcasting something you would call second best, that competition was enough to break, at that time, this legal cartel over access to music. 

Digital technology is the opportunity for the revival of these vocal chords that he spoke so passionately to Congress about.

User-generated content, spreading in businesses in extraordinarily valuable ways like these, celebrating amateur culture.

I mean the culture that your kids are producing all the time.

For when you think of what Sousa romanticized in the young people together, singing the songs of the day, of the old songs, you should recognize what your kids are doing right now.

Taking the songs of the day and the old songs and remixing them to make them something different.

It's how they understand access to this culture.

So, let's have some very few examples to get a sense of what I'm talking about here. 

I'm not talking about nor justifying people taking other people's content in wholesale and distributing it without the permission of the copyright owner.

I'm talking about people taking and recreating using other people's content, using digital technologies to say things differently.

Now, the importance of this is not the technique that you've seen here.

Because, of course, every technique that you've seen here is something that television and film producers have been able to do for the last 50 years.

The importance is that that technique has been democratized.

It is now anybody with access to a $1,500 computer who can take sounds and images from the culture around us and use it to say things differently.

Now, in response to this new use of culture using digital technologies, the law has not greeted this Sousa revival with very much common sense.

Instead, the architecture of copyright law and the architecture of digital technologies, as they interact, have produced the presumption that these activities are illegal.

Because if copyright law at its core regulates something called copies, then in the digital world the one fact we can't escape is that every single use of culture produces a copy.

Every single use therefore requires permission; without permission, you are a trespasser.

Instead, what we've seen is something much worse than a revolt.

We don't have a public domain to draw upon now, so instead what we need is two types of changes. 

First, that artists and creators embrace the idea, choose that their work be made available more freely.

So, for example, they can say their work is available freely for non-commercial, this amateur-type of use, but not freely for any commercial use.

I'm instead just going to remind you of the point that BMI teaches us.

That artist choice is the key for new technology having an opportunity to be open for business, and we need to build artist choice here if these new technologies are to have that opportunity.

We can't stop our kids from using it.

We can only drive it underground.

Ordinary people live life against the law, and that's what I -- we are doing to our kids.

They live life knowing they live it against the law.

That realization is extraordinarily corrosive, extraordinarily corrupting.

