I'd like to do pretty much what I did the first time, which is to choose a light-hearted theme.

Last time, I talked about death and dying.

This time, I'm going to talk about mental illness.

So, the way of treating these diseases in early times was to, in some way or other, exorcise those evil spirits, and this is still going on, as you know. 

But it wasn't enough to use the priests.

It's better than Prozac, but I wouldn't recommend it. 

And of course, in those days, there were no antidepressant drugs, and it became very, very popular.

So again, it was very, very popular and very, very useful. 

And so the whole idea of electroconvulsive, electroshock therapy disappeared, but has had a renaissance in the last 10 years.

And the reason that it has had a renaissance is that probably about 10 percent of the people, severe depressives, do not respond, regardless of what is done for them. 

Now, why am I telling you this story at this meeting?

So they decided -- I didn't know this, again, I found this out later -- that the only thing that could be done was for this 43-year-old man to have a pre-frontal lobotomy. 

But, lo and behold, by 16, by 17, there were demonstrable differences in the way I felt.

I could blow the depression away. 

Went right back into the university and began to write books.

Well, you know, it's been a wonderful life.

Why have I chosen, after never, ever talking about this, to talk about it now?

Well, those of you who know some of these books know that one is about death and dying, one is about the human body and the human spirit, one is about the way mystical thoughts are constantly in our minds, and they have always to do with my own personal experiences.

That I am someone who has drunk, drank, drunk of the bitter dregs of near-disaster in childhood and emerged not just unscathed but strengthened.

I really have it figured out, so that I can advise people about death and dying, so that I can talk about mysticism and the human spirit. 

And I've always felt guilty about that.

You can be thrown off the track.

I hope it happens to none of you, but it will probably happen to a small percentage of you. 

Perhaps the most popular resurrection theme, outside of specifically religious ones, is the one about the phoenix, the ancient story of the phoenix, who, every 500 years, resurrects itself from its own ashes to go on to live a life that is even more beautiful than it was before.

