I live and work from Tokyo, Japan.

And you know, to be honest, I've been doing this for seven years, and I haven't got a clue what the future is going to be like.

But I've got a pretty good idea how people will behave when they get there. 

It's not in the lab, and it's increasingly in places like India, China, Brazil, Africa.

And I mention this because, if we want to design for that future, we need to figure out what those people are about.

And that's, kind of, where I see what my job is and what our team's job is. 

When you're looking around, what do you consider?

Of that stuff, what do you carry?

And of that stuff, what do you actually use? 

And to put it really bluntly, you know, people are willing to pay for stuff that has value, right?

It's kind of like stalking with permission.

And it turns out that people carry a lot of stuff.

OK, that's fair enough.

I mean, I couldn't take your phones off you if I wanted to.

You'd probably kick me out, or something.

So why are these things so important in our lives?

And it turns out, from our research, that it boils down to survival -- survival for us and survival for our loved ones. 

So, keys provide an access to shelter and warmth -- transport as well, in the U.S. increasingly.

Money is useful for buying food, sustenance, among all its other uses.

And a mobile phone, it turns out, is a great recovery tool.

If you prefer this kind of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, those three objects are very good at supporting the lowest rungs in Maslow's hierarchy of needs.

And what I mean by that is, you know, you can transcend space by simply making a voice call, right?

And they value that connectivity. 

But actually, you can do this kind of stuff with PCs.

And you can do them with phone kiosks.

However, for these things to help us survive, it depends on them being carried.

I think, quite a nice feature.

And it's, quite simply, the point of reflection.

Even women who keep stuff in their bags tap their pockets.

And pretty much everyone does it at some point. 

And a center of gravity is where you keep these objects.

It's where you expect to find stuff.

OK, so when we did this research, we found the absolutely, 100 percent, guaranteed way to never forget anything ever, ever again.

OK, now, that sounds like something you get on a Chinese fortune cookie, right?

But is, in fact, about the art of delegation.

You can't ask someone to do that on your behalf.

Maybe sometime in the future, we will. 

So, let me give you an example of delegation in practice, right.

So, the U.N. estimated -- this is 2004 figures -- that there are almost 800 million people who can't read and write, worldwide.

So, we've been conducting a lot of research.

And the fact is that millions of people do it.

And it turns out that illiterate people are masters of delegation.

So they delegate that part of the task process to other people, the stuff that they can't do themselves.

I'm in Kampala and I'm the wage earner.

I'm sending money back, and it works like this.

So, in your village, there's one person in the village with a phone, and that's the phone kiosk operator.

And it's quite likely that they'd have a quite simple mobile phone as a phone kiosk.

So, they're topping up the value from Kampala, and it's now being topped up in the village.

OK, there's two things I like about this.

So the first is, it turns anyone who has access to a mobile phone -- anyone who has a mobile phone -- essentially into an ATM machine.

It brings rudimentary banking services to places where there's no banking infrastructure.

This is just street-up innovation.

So, it turns out the street is a never-ending source of inspiration for us.

If you go on the streets of India and China, you see this kind of stuff.

They reverse-engineer manuals.

They also write them in Hindi.

You can subscribe to these.

There are training institutes where they're churning out people for fixing these things as well.

And it's all about the social network of the knowledge, floating around.

And I like this because it challenges the way that we design stuff, and build stuff, and potentially distribute stuff.

It challenges the norms. 

OK, for me the street just raises so many different questions.

Like, this is Viagra that I bought from a backstreet sex shop in China.

And China is a country where you get a lot of fakes.

And yes, this is quite trivial, but actually the lessons from this can apply to that kind of personal area networks.

So what does it mean when people's identity is mobile?

When those extra three billion people's identity is mobile, it isn't fixed?

This is how it's shifting. 

And this is from Delhi.

You can see the chai being poured in the background.

And he, somehow, has the appreciation of the values of Livestrong.

For me, this kind of personifies this connected world, where everything is intertwined, and the dots are -- it's all about the dots joining together.

And there are four things.

The second thing is the immediacy of objects.

And so the speed of the adoption of things is just going to become that much more rapid, in a way that we just totally cannot conceive, when you get it to 6.3 billion and the growth in the world's population. 

And it will innovate in ways that we cannot anticipate.

In ways that, despite our resources, they can do it better than us.

That's my feeling.

And if we're smart, we'll look at this stuff that's going on, and we'll figure out a way to enable it to inform and infuse both what we design and how we design. 

And the last thing is that -- actually, the direction of the conversation.

With another three billion people connected, they want to be part of the conversation.

And I think our relevance and TED's relevance is really about embracing that and learning how to listen, essentially.

And we need to learn how to listen.

