What I am always thinking about is what this session is about, which is called simplicity.

And almost, I would almost call it being simple-minded, but in the best sense of the word.

I'm trying to figure out two very simple things: how to live and how to die, period.

That's all I'm trying to do, all day long.

And I'm also trying to have some meals, and have some snacks, and, you know, and yell at my children, and do all the normal things that keep you grounded. 

So, I was fortunate enough to be born a very dreamy child.

I was lucky enough to be completely ignored, which is a fabulous thing, actually, I want to tell you.

So, I was able to completely daydream my way through my life.

And I was writing terrible poetry and knitting sweaters for him.

And feminists hated us, and the whole thing was wretched from beginning to end.

But I kept writing bad poetry, and he didn't blow up the math building, but he went to Cuba.

But I gave him the money, because I was from Riverdale so I had more money than he did.

(Laughter) And that was a good thing to help, you know, the cause.

So, the premise in the studio was, there are no boundaries, there is no fear.

It was a very high, it was a very impersonal time in design and we wanted to say, the content is what's important, not the package, not the wrapping.

You have to condense a story into 32 pages, usually.

And what you have to do is, you really have to edit down to what you want to say.

And hopefully, you're not talking down to kids and you're not talking in such a way that you, you know, couldn't stand reading it after one time.

So, I hopefully am writing, you know, books that are good for children and for adults.

But the painting reflects -- I don't think differently for children than I do for adults.

I try to use the same kind of imagination, the same kind of whimsy, the same kind of love of language.

So, you know, and I have lots of wonderful-looking friends. 

And the books are really journals of my life.

I never -- I don't like plots.

I don't know what a plot means.

The letter C had other things in it.

And with him, I was able to do a project that was really fantastic.

And it really became the -- I don't know, you know, it was one of those moments people started laughing at what was going on.

(Laughter) 

I happen to know it for a fact.

(Laughter) 

"The Impossibility of February" is that February's a really wretched month in New York and the images for me conjure up these really awful things.

Well, not so awful.

I'm going to quickly go through this.

A quote by Bertrand Russell, "All the labor of all the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of human genius are destined to extinction.

So now, my friends, if that is true, and it is true, what is the point?"

A complicated question.

And so, you know, I talk to my friends and I go to plays where they're singing Russian songs.

Oh my God, you know what?

Do you have that?

(Music) OK.

(Laughter) 

And then I said -- oh, and she was talking about Moss Hart, and I said, "When you met him, you knew it was him."

And she said, "I knew it was he."

(Laughter) So, I was the one who should have kept the book, but it was a really wonderful moment.

He's buried in the same cemetery as my husband.

I don't want to talk about that now.

I do want to talk -- the absolute icing on this cemetery cake is the Barricini family mausoleum nearby.

I think the Barricini family should open a store there and sell chocolate.

(Laughter) And I would like to run it for them.

And then I photograph and do a painting of a sofa on the street.

And a woman who lives on our street, Lolita.

And then I go and have some tea.

And then my Aunt Frances dies, and before she died, she tried to pay with Sweet'N Low packets for her bagel.

That's actually Hy.

