So, where are the robots?

We've been told for 40 years already that they're coming soon.

So I want to give a little bit of a different perspective of how we can perhaps look at these things in a little bit of a different way.

So let's try to look at it from a different perspective.

So we threw in -- we created a primordial soup with lots of pieces of robots -- with bars, with motors, with neurons.

Put them all together, and put all this under kind of natural selection, under mutation, and rewarded things for how well they can move forward.

A very simple task, and it's interesting to see what kind of things came out of that. 

And you can see these robots are not ready to take over the world yet, but they gradually learn how to move forward, and they do this autonomously. 

So in these two examples, we had basically machines that learned how to walk in simulation, and also machines that learned how to walk in reality.

It has eight motors, four on the knees and four on the hip.

It has also two tilt sensors that tell the machine which way it's tilting. 

So what you're seeing here are a couple of machines -- a pattern of locomotion.

We were hoping that it wass going to have a kind of evil, spidery walk, but instead it created this pretty lame way of moving forward. 

But when you look at that, you have to remember that this machine did not do any physical trials on how to move forward, nor did it have a model of itself.

So, we'll move forward to a different idea.

That's what happened when the robots actually are rewarded for doing something.

What happens if you don't reward them for anything, you just throw them in? 

So we have these cubes, like the diagram showed here.

So, initially nothing happens, they're just flipping around there.

But after a very short while, you can see these blue things on the right there begin to take over. 

It's an accelerated view, where you can see the robot actually carrying out some of its replication process.

So you're feeding it with more material -- cubes in this case -- and more energy, and it can make another robot.

