For much of the past century, architecture was under the spell of a famous doctrine.

And we could start to imagine the experiences our buildings create. 

In this sense, I'm interested in fiction not as the implausible but as the real, as the reality of what architecture means for the people that live in it and with it.

They're an explicit engagement in physical reality and conceptual possibility.

I think of our architecture as organizational structures.

How can we create structures that generate a series of relationships and narratives?

And how can fictive stories of the inhabitants and users of our buildings script the architecture, while the architecture scripts those stories at the same time? 

Could it undo this hierarchy, and could it be about a system that is more about collaboration, rather than isolation?

So we took this needle and bent it back into itself, into a loop of interconnected activities.

I still very much like this image.

It reminds one of biology classes, if you remember the human body with all its organs and circulatory systems, like at school.

And suddenly you think of architecture no longer as built substance, but as an organism, as a life form.

So the organizational structure of this building was a hybrid between the technical and the social, the human and the performative.

And of course, we used the loop of the building as a circulatory system, to thread everything together and to allow both visitors and staff to experience all these different functions in a great unity. 

With 473,000 square meters, it is one of the largest buildings ever built in the world.

It has a population of over 10,000 people, and of course, this is a scale that exceeds the comprehension of many things and the scale of typical architecture.

So we stopped work for a while and sat down and cut 10,000 little sticks and glued them onto a model, just simply to confront ourselves with what that quantity actually meant. 

So it was a way to script and design the building, but of course, also to communicate its experiences.

This was part of an exhibition with the Museum of Modern Art in both New York and Beijing. 

And this is how the building stands in Beijing today.

Its first broadcast live was the London Olympics 2012, after it had been completed from the outside for the Beijing Olympics.

And you can see at the very tip of this 75-meter cantilever, those three little circles.

And they're indeed part of a public loop that goes through the building.

They're a piece of glass that you can stand on and watch the city pass by below you in slow motion. 

The building has become part of everyday life in Beijing.

It is there.

It has also become a very popular backdrop for wedding photography. 

But its most important moment is maybe sill this one.

So architecture suddenly assumes the quality of a player, of something that writes stories and performs stories.

And I think that could be one of its primary meanings that we believe in. 

But of course, there's another story to this building.

This is a residential development in Singapore, large scale.

How could we think about creating a communal environment in which sharing things was as great as having your own? 

And you see that these courtyards are not hermetically sealed spaces.

They're open, permeable; they're interconnected.

We called the project "The Interlace," thinking that we interlace and interconnect the human beings and the spaces alike.

And the detailed quality of everything we designed was about animating the space and giving the space to the inhabitants.

And, in fact, it was a system where we would layer primarily communal spaces, stacked to more and more individual and private spaces.

So we would open up a spectrum between the collective and the individual. 

And of course this little piece of math shows you that we are multiplying the space available to those who live there.

This is, in fact, the 13th floor of one of these terraces.

So you see new datum planes, new grounds planes for social activity. 

We paid a lot of attention to sustainability.

In the tropics, the sun is the most important thing to pay attention to, and, in fact, it is seeking protection from the sun.

We first proved that all apartments would have sufficient daylight through the year.

We then went on to optimize the glazing of the facades to minimize the energy consumption of the building.

But most importantly, we could prove that through the geometry of the building design, the building itself would provide sufficient shading to the courtyards so that those would be usable throughout the entire year.

We further placed water bodies along the prevailing wind corridors, so that evaporative cooling would create microclimates that, again, would enhance the quality of those spaces available for the inhabitants.

And it was the idea of creating this variety of choices, of freedom to think where you would want to be, where you would want to escape, maybe, within the own complexity of the complex in which you live. 

And how could a digital identity of a company be embodied in a building?

We created not only an object, but at the center of this object we created a giant space, and this space was about the experience of a collective, the experience of collaboration and of togetherness.

Communication, interaction as the center of a space that in itself would float, like what we call the collaborative cloud, in the middle of the building, surrounded by an envelope of standard modular offices.

So with only a few steps from your quiet work desk, you could participate in the giant collective experience of the central space. 

Finally, we come to London, a project commissioned by the London Legacy Development Corporation of the Mayor of London.

We were asked to undertake a study and investigate the potential of a site out in Stratford in the Olympic Park.

In the 19th century, Prince Albert had created Albertopolis.

And Boris Johnson thought of creating Olympicopolis. 

The idea was to bring together some of Britain's greatest institutions, some international ones, and to create a new system of synergies.

Prince Albert, as yet, created Albertopolis in the 19th century, thought of showcasing all achievements of mankind, bringing arts and science closer together.

And he built Exhibition Road, a linear sequence of those institutions. 

But of course, today's society has moved on from there.

We no longer live in a world in which everything is as clearly delineated or separated from each other.

We live in a world in which boundaries start to blur between the different domains, and in which collaboration and interaction becomes far more important than keeping separations.

So we wanted to think of a giant culture machine, a building that would orchestrate and animate the various domains, but allow them to interact and collaborate.

It can be glazed over and turned into a giant exhibitional performance space.

These modules were stacked together with the idea that almost any function could, over time, occupy any of these modules.

So institutions could shrink or contract, as, of course, the future of culture is, in a way, the most uncertain of all.

This is how the building sits, adjacent to the Aquatics Centre, opposite the Olympic Stadium.

And you can see how its cantilevering volumes project out and engage the public space and how its courtyards animate the public inside. 

The idea was to create a complex system in which institutional entities could maintain their own identity, in which they would not be subsumed in a singular volume.

Here's a scale comparison to the Centre Pompidou in Paris.

Friends of mine had founded a film festival, and I thought, if we think of the stories and narratives of movies, we should also think of the narratives of the people that watch them.

So I designed a small modular floating platform, based on the techniques of local fishermen, how they built their lobster and fish farms.

We collaborated with the local community and built, out of recycled materials of their own, this fantastical floating platform that gently moved in the ocean as we watched films from the British film archive, [1903] "Alice in Wonderland," for example.

The most primordial experiences of the audience merged with the stories of the movies. 

So I believe that architecture exceeds the domain of physical matter, of the built environment, but is really about how we want to live our lives, how we script our own stories and those of others. 

Thank you. 

