Chris Anderson: Welcome to TED. 

CA: Have you met anyone interesting? 

RB: Well, the nice thing about TED is everybody's interesting.

And, anyway, the next morning we had to go along to the jeweler and get it cut off.

So -- (Laughter) -- so apologies to Goldie. 

CA: That's pretty good.

So, we're going to put up some slides of some of your companies here.

RB: I read all these sort of TED instructions: you must not talk about your own business, and this, and now you ask me.

(Laughter) 

CA: It depends what the answer is though. 

RB: No, I mean, I think I learned early on that if you can run one company, you can really run any companies.

I mean, companies are all about finding the right people, inspiring those people, you know, drawing out the best in people.

So I've seen life as one long learning process.

And if I see -- you know, if I fly on somebody else's airline and find the experience is not a pleasant one, which it wasn't, 21 years ago, then I'd think, well, you know, maybe I can create the kind of airline that I'd like to fly on.

And so, you know, so got one secondhand 747 from Boeing and gave it a go. 

And in fact, in a way, it almost took down your empire at one point.

I had a conversation with one of the investment bankers who, at the time when you basically sold Virgin Records and invested heavily in Virgin Atlantic, and his view was that you were trading, you know, the world's fourth biggest record company for the twenty-fifth biggest airline and that you were out of your mind.

Why did you do that? 

RB: Well, I think that there's a very thin dividing line between success and failure.

And I think if you start a business without financial backing, you're likely to go the wrong side of that dividing line.

We had -- we were being attacked by British Airways.

They were trying to put our airline out of business, and they launched what's become known as the dirty tricks campaign.

And I realized that the whole empire was likely to come crashing down unless I chipped in a chip.

And in order to protect the jobs of the people who worked for the airline, and protect the jobs of the people who worked for the record company, I had to sell the family jewelry to protect the airline. 

CA: Post-Napster, you're looking like a bit of a genius, actually, for that as well. 

CA: Now, you use the Virgin brand a lot and it seems like you're getting synergy from one thing to the other.

What does the brand stand for in your head? 

RB: No, but I was going to move on this.

We have a lot of fun and I think the people who work for it enjoy it.

CA: I mean, there are a few launches you've done where the brand maybe hasn't worked quite as well.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

I mean, couldn't you have used the Virgin brand for that as well?

Ain't virgin no longer, or something. 

RB: Again, we may have had problems finding customers.

But obviously, there wasn't a lot I could do about it.

So, it all worked out well. 

RB: I should have. 

CA: So, just help us with some of the numbers.

I mean, what are the numbers on this?

I mean, how big is the group overall?

How much -- what's the total revenue? 

RB: It's about 25 billion dollars now, in total. 

CA: And how many employees? 

RB: About 55,000. 

CA: So, you've been photographed in various ways at various times and never worrying about putting your dignity on the line or anything like that.

No, I mean, I think -- CA: But is that your hair?

RB: No.

CA: What was that one? 

RB: Dropping in for tea. 

CA: OK. (Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

RB: It's a tough job, isn't it? 

CA: I mean, it is a tough job.

(Laughter) When I first came to America, I used to try this with employees as well and they kind of -- they have these different rules over here, it's very strange. 

CA: I mean, speaking of which, tell us about -- 

But the trouble is, it kept on tipping over, but -- (Laughter) 

CA: Designed by Philippe Starck perhaps? 

RB: Of course. 

RB: Yeah, well, 25 years earlier, we'd launched the Sex Pistols' "God Save The Queen," and I'd certainly never expected that 25 years later -- that she'd actually knight us.

But somehow, she must have had a forgetful memory, I think. 

RB: Nobody's ever called me Sir Richard.

Occasionally in America, I hear people saying Sir Richard and think there's some Shakespearean play taking place.

But nowhere else anyway. 

CA: OK.

RB: No.

RB: I'll go get the secretary to use it. 

RB: Yeah, it'll be ready in -- well, ready in 12 months and then we do 12 months extensive testing.

And then 24 months from now, people will be able to take a ride into space. 

CA: So this interior is Philippe Starcke designed? 

And when you land, you'll be able to go back into this giant eye.

But he's an absolute genius when it comes to design. 

CA: But you didn't have him design the engine? 

RB: Philippe is quite erratic, so I think that he wouldn't be the best person to design the engine, no. 

CA: He gave a wonderful talk here two days ago. 

CA: Well, some people found it wonderful, some people found it completely bizarre.

But, I personally found it wonderful. 

CA: So, now, you've always had this exploration bug in you.

Have you ever regretted that? 

RB: Many times.

So in those moments, you certainly wonder what you're doing up there or -- 

CA: What was the closest you got to -- when did you think, this is it, I might be on my way out? 

RB: Well, I think the balloon adventures were -- each one was, each one, actually, I think we came close.

And it was like holding onto a thousand horses.

And we were just crossing every finger, praying that the balloon would hold together, which, fortunately, it did.

(Laughter) 

CA: And you inspired an Ian McEwan novel I think with that. 

But, anyway, we managed to survive it. 

RB: Well, I knew I had about half an hour's fuel left, and I also knew that the chances were that if I jumped, I would only have a couple of minutes of life left.

And then finally, just thought, there's a better way.

I've got, you know, this enormous balloon above me, it's the biggest parachute ever, why not use it?

But it was a wonderful feeling being in that water and -- 

CA: What did you write to your family? 

But fortunately, they never had to use it. 

CA: Your companies have had incredible PR value out of these heroics.

And cynics might say, you know, this is just a smart business guy doing what it takes to execute his particular style of marketing.

How much was the PR value part of this?

(Laughter) 

CA: They have a point, Richard. 

(Laughter) 

CA: To do all this, you must have been a genius from the get-go, right? 

(Laughter) 

Didn't -- weren't you just terrible at school? 

I certainly would have failed IQ tests.

And it was one of the reasons I left school when I was 15 years old.

And if I -- if I'm not interested in something, I don't grasp it.

And so the board meetings have been fascinating.

(Laughter) 

RB: Well, I hope it's net actually, having -- (Laughter) -- I've got it right. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

CA: But, I mean, at school -- so as well as being, you know, doing pretty miserably academically, but you were also the captain of the cricket and football teams.

So you were kind of a -- you were a natural leader, but just a bit of a ...

CA: And some bizarre things happened just earlier in your life.

RB: She was, you know, she felt that we needed to stand on our own two feet from an early age.

And making us go on wonderful, long bike rides.

And we were never allowed to watch television and the like. 

CA: But is there a risk here?

Do you look at the current generation of kids coming up and think they're too coddled, they don't know what they've got, we're going to raise a generation of privileged ... 

(Laughter) 

I was actually prosecuted under two quite ancient acts in the U.K.

I was prosecuted under the 1889 Venereal Diseases Act and the 1916 Indecent Advertisements Act.

On the first occasion, for mentioning the word venereal disease in public, which -- we had a center where we would help young people who had problems.

And one of the problems young people have is venereal disease.

And there's an ancient law that says you can't actually mention the word venereal disease or print it in public.

So the police knocked on the door, and told us they were going to arrest us if we carried on mentioning the word venereal disease.

We changed it to social diseases and people came along with acne and spots, but nobody came with VD any more.

So, we put it back to VD and promptly got arrested.

And then subsequently, "Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols," the word bollocks, the police decided was a rude word and so we were arrested for using the word bollocks on the Sex Pistols' album.

And John Mortimer, the playwright, defended us.

And he asked if I could find a linguistics expert to come up with a different definition of the word bollocks.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) And the judge found us -- reluctantly found us not guilty, so ... (Laughter) 

CA: That is outrageous.

(Applause) So seriously, is there a dark side?

A lot of people would say there's no way that someone could put together this incredible collection of businesses without knifing a few people in the back, you know, doing some ugly things.

You've been accused of being ruthless.

There was a nasty biography written about you by someone.

RB: I don't actually think that the stereotype of a businessperson treading all over people to get to the top, generally speaking, works.

I think if you treat people well, people will come back and come back for more.

You get excited by an idea and, kapow!

I mean, do you think about life balance?

How do your family feel about each time you step into something big and new? 

And so we spend a very good sort of three months away together.

CA: You started talking in recent years about this term capitalist philanthropy.

What is that? 

RB: Capitalism has been proven to be a system that works.

You know, the alternative, communism, has not worked.

CA: And what are the issues that you worry about most, care most about, want to turn your resources toward? 

RB: Well, there's -- I mean there's a lot of issues.

And actually, we've had about 15,000 people fill in the forms saying they want to give it a go.

And so we only need one, so we're hopeful. 

CA: And you're also working in Africa on a couple of projects? 

RB: Yes, I mean, we've got -- we're setting up something called the war room, which is maybe the wrong word.

So, for instance, there's a doctor in Africa that's found that if you give a mother antiretroviral drugs at 24 weeks, when she's pregnant, that the baby will not have HIV when it's born.

And so disseminating that information to around the rest of Africa is important. 

CA: The war room sounds, it sounds powerful and dramatic.

RB: Well, first of all, on this particular situation, we're actually -- we're working with the government on it.

It's important that if people do go to Africa and do try to help, they don't just go in there and then leave after a few years.

It's got to be consistent.

But we're also trying to make them self-sustaining clinics, so that people pay for some other aspects. 

CA: I mean a lot of cynics say about someone like yourself, or Bill Gates, or whatever, that this is really being -- it's almost driven by some sort of desire again, you know, for the right image, for guilt avoidance and not like a real philanthropic instinct.

What would you say to them? 

And that may be a selfish thing to think, but it's the way I've been brought up.

CA: How old are you? 

RB: I'm 56. 

I mean, it seems like you're still a little bit in the growth phases, you're still doing these incredible new plans.

How much do you think about legacy, and what would you like your legacy to be? 

No, I just want to live life to its full.

You know, if I can make a difference, I hope to be able to make a difference.

And I think one of the positive things at the moment is you've got Sergey and Larry from Google, for instance, who are good friends.

If they had that kind of wealth and they didn't care about the world, it would be very worrying.

And you know they're going to make a hell of a difference to the world.

And I think it's important that people in that kind of position do make a difference. 

So I would like to thank you for that inspiration, and for coming to TED today.

