In the next 18 minutes, I'm going to take you on a journey.

And it's a journey that you and I have been on for many years now, and it began some 50 years ago, when humans first stepped off our planet.

And of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this, there's Saturn.

Now, the Saturn system is a rich planetary system.

It offers mystery, scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare, and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach.

In fact, just studying the rings alone, we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies.

And then, here's a beautiful composite of the Whirlpool Galaxy, taken by the Hubble Space Telescope. 

And it pains me that I can't tell you all that we have learned with Cassini.

I can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years, because I simply don't have the time.

So I'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around Saturn, and have been for the past two and a half years. 

Saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons.

They range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the U.S.

Now, two of the 47 moons that Saturn has are standouts. 

And it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets.

It has a very large, thick atmosphere, and in fact, its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the Earth, or at least had in the past, than any other body in the solar system.

And that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum. 

And so it turns out that methane is to Titan what water is to the Earth.

The temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero Fahrenheit. 

But despite that cold, you could have rain falling down on the surface of Titan.

And for us, it has been like -- the Cassini people -- it has been like a Jules Verne adventure come true.

And there are features that look tectonic.

They look like they've been pulled apart.

Whenever you see anything linear on a planet, it means there's been a fracture, like a fault.

And so it's been tectonically altered. 

And I just want to emphasize how significant an event this is.

This is a device of human making, and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history.

(Laughter). 

(Applause). 

But anyway, the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down, and it also took panoramic pictures.

It was an unambiguous pattern, a geological pattern.

It's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids.

And you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge.

And they converge into this channel here, which drains into this region.

Okay, now, 16 kilometers, eight kilometers -- this is roughly an airline altitude.

If you were going to take an airplane trip across the U.S., you would be flying at these altitudes.

So, this is the picture you would have at the window of Titanian Airlines as you fly across the surface of Titan.

What the probe came down in was basically the Titan equivalent of a mud flat.

This is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane.

And that is what the Huygens probe landed in. 

There's hundreds, up to a 1,000 or 1,200 miles of dunes.

And there is a lake scene in the south polar region of Titan.

It's about the size of Lake Ontario.

So it seems that the liquids, for some reason we don't understand, or during at least this season, are apparently at the poles of Titan.

And I think you would agree that we have found Titan is a remarkable, mystical place.

It is a very geologically active body.

That's as bizarre as finding that the Antarctic on the Earth is hotter than the tropics. 

And then, when we took additional pictures, we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine, icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space.

So we have, possibly, liquid water, organic materials and excess heat.

And I don't think I need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system, whether it be on Enceladus or elsewhere, would have enormous cultural and scientific implications.

Because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once, but twice, independently, in our solar system, then that means, by inference, it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13.7 billion year history. 

Right now, Earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life.

And if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s -- and we'd forgive you, if you weren't, OK -- you would remember this very famous picture taken by the Apollo 8 astronauts in 1968.

It was the first time that Earth was imaged from space, and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe, and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet. 

Well, we on Cassini have taken an equivalent first, a picture that no human eye has ever seen before.

It is a total eclipse of the Sun, seen from the other side of Saturn.

And that, and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that, may be, in the end, the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago.

