And then, navy pilot training, and, after college, I got into sailplane flying, power plane flying, and considered the sailplanes as a sort of hobby and fun, but got tangled up with some great professor types, who convinced me and everybody else in the field that this was a good way to get into really deep science. 

While this was all going on, I was in the field of weather modification, although getting a Ph.D. in aeronautics.

But then, 1971 started AeroVironment, with no employees -- then one or two, three, and sort of fumbled along on trying to get interesting projects.

We had AirDynamisis, who, like I, did not want to work for aerospace companies on some big, many year project, and so we did our small projects, and the company slowly grew. 

The thing that is exciting was, in 1976, I suddenly got interested in the human-powered airplane because I'd made a made a loan to a friend of 100,000 dollars, or I guaranteed the money at the bank.

He needed them -- he needed the money for starting a company.

The company did not succeed, and he couldn't pay the money back, and I was the guarantor of the note.

We didn't -- a lot of flying, a lot of experiments, a lot of things that didn't work, and ones that did work, and the plane kept getting a little better, a little better.

Got a good pilot, Brian Allen, to operate it, and finally, succeeded.

And there was only about 30 to help retire the debt.

We realized that if you just cleaned up our Gossamer Condor a little bit, the power to fly would be decreased a little bit, and if you decrease the power required a little, the pilot can fly a much longer period of time.

It turned out that giving the planes to the museum was worth much more than the debt, so for five years, six years, I only had to pay one third income tax.

So, there were good economic reasons for the project, but -- (Laughter) -- 

And that project continued, did succeed, and we then got into other projects in aviation and mechanical things and ground devices. 

But while this was going on, in 1982, I got a prize from the Lindbergh Foundation -- their annual prize -- and I had to prepare a paper on it, which collected all my varied thoughts and varied interests over the years.

But this last time, just coming round, right now, suddenly, there'd be huge changes in the environment, in the concentration of people, and it was just unbelievable, the amount of -- all the change in it.

I wanted to -- well, one of the biggest changes is, 200 years ago, we began using coal from underground, which has a lot of pollution, and 100 years ago, began getting gasoline from underground, with a lot of pollution.

Humans, livestock and pets are, now, 98 percent of the total world's mass of vertebrates on land and air.

And you don't know what the future will hold, but it's not going to get a lower percentage.

Ten thousand years ago, the humans and livestock and pets were not even one tenth of one percent and wouldn't even have been visible on such a curve.

Now they are 98 percent, and it, I think, shows human domination of the Earth. 

What's the population of the Earth?

What's the population of the Earth going to be when you're the age of your parents?

Which I'd never, really -- they had never, really, thought about but, now, they think about it.

And then, what population of the Earth would be an equilibrium that could continue on, and be for 2050, 2100, 2150?

And they form little groups, all fighting with each other, and when I leave, two hours later, most of them are saying about 2 billion people, and they don't have any clue about how to get down to 2 billion, nor do I, but I think they're right and this is a serious problem. 

Rachel Carson was thinking of these, and came out with "Silent Spring," way back.

Let's have the next slide.

Well, that'll be all the slides.

(Video) Narrator: With a wingspan of 247 feet, this makes her larger than a Boeing 747. 

Her designers' attention to detail and her construction gives Helios' structure the flexibility and strength to deal with the turbulence encountered in the atmosphere.

This enables her to easily ride through the air currents as if she's sliding along on the ocean waves. 

Narrator: And Helios now begins the process of turning her back to the sun, to maximize the power from her solar array. 

Approaching a peak radar altitude of 96,863 feet, at 4:12 p.m., Helios is standing on top of 98 percent of the Earth's atmosphere.

This is more than 10,000 feet higher than the previous world's altitude record held by the SR-71 Blackbird. 

Let's have the next video.

It is convenient to carry, assemble, and launch by hand.

Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed.

It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator.

With on-board GPS, it can navigate autonomously, and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage. 

That plane is widely used by the military, now, in all their operations.

Let's have the next video. 

Alan Alda: He's got it, he's got it, he's got it on his head. 

Tyler MacCready: You can chase it, like this, for hours. 

AA: When they got bored with their father's project, they invented an extraordinary little plane of their own. 

TM: And I can control it by putting the lift on one side of the wing, or on the other. 

How old were you when you invented that? 

PM: And Tyler's here to show you the Walkalong. 

I'll give you a demonstration of how it works.

The idea is that it soars on the lift over your body, like a seagull soaring on a cliff.

As the wind comes up, it has to go over the cliff, so as you walk through the air, it goes around your body, some has to go over you.

And so you just keep the glider positioned in that up current.

The launch is the difficult part: you've got to hold it high up, over your head, and you start walking forward, and just let go of it, and you can control it like that. 

Okay, this one will be a left turn.

And this, we just wanted to show you -- if we can get the video running on this, yeah -- just an example of a little video surveillance. 

This was flying around in the party last night, and -- (Laughter) -- you can see how it just can fly around, and you can spy on anybody you want. 

