The science writers and editors -- I shouldn't say science writers, I should say people who write about science -- and editors would sit down over a couple of beers, after a hard day of work, and start talking about some of these incredible perceptions about how the universe works. 

(Voice: Can we finish up a little early?)

(Laughter) Yeah, we need the time!

Which leads me to a videotape of a President Bush press conference from a couple of weeks ago.

Can we run that, Andrew? 

SP: I agree with the president.

But terrorists aren't the only threat we face.

We live in an incredible age of modern medicine.

We are all much healthier than we were 20 years ago.

The World Health Organization now estimates that one out of five people on the planet is clinically depressed.

And the World Health Organization also says that depression is the biggest epidemic that humankind has ever faced. 

Soon, genetic breakthroughs and even better medicine are going to allow us to think of 100 as a normal lifespan.

A female child born tomorrow, on average -- median -- will live to age 83.

Our life longevity is going up almost a year for every year that passes.

Now the problem with all of this, getting older, is that people over 65 are the most likely people to commit suicide. 

So, what are the solutions?

But it is often a combination of talk therapy and pills.

Pills alone don't do it, especially in clinically depressed people.

You ought to be able to go to a psychiatrist or a psychologist, and put down your 10-dollar copay, and get treated, just like you do when you got a cut on your arm.

And we know just an amazing amount more about the brain now than we did 10 years ago.

It's becoming obvious that the chance that life does not exist elsewhere in the universe, and probably fairly close to us, is a fairly remote idea.

And the chance that some of it isn't more intelligent than ours is also a remote idea. 

So, I don't know how much civilization really has progressed since AD 79, but there's a great likelihood.

It may seem ridiculous, but we have a really lousy history of anticipating things like this and actually being prepared for them.

How much energy and money does it take to actually have a plan to negotiate with an advanced species? 

Secondly -- and you're going to hear more from me about this -- we have to become an outward-looking, space-faring nation.

If we want humanity to last forever, we have to colonize the Milky Way.

And that is not something that is beyond comprehension at this point.

(Applause) It'll also help us a lot, if we meet an advanced civilization along the way, if we're trying to be an advanced civilization.

(Applause) It'll also help us a lot, if we meet an advanced civilization along the way, if we're trying to be an advanced civilization.

Many other ecosystems on Earth are in real, real danger.

We're living in a time of mass extinctions that exceeds the fossil record by a factor of 10,000.

We have lost 25 percent of the unique species in Hawaii in the last 20 years.

California is expected to lose 25 percent of its species in the next 40 years.

And when that ecosystem collapses, it could take a major ecosystem with it, like our atmosphere.

There is some modeling of ecosystems going on now.

The problem with ecosystems is that we understand them so poorly, that we don't know they're really in trouble until it's almost too late.

We need to know earlier that they're getting in trouble, and we need to be able to pump possible solutions into models.

And with the kind of computing power we have now, there is, as I say, some of this going on, but it needs money.

And they get to prioritize, you know?

There are people at the National Science Foundation who get to say, this is the most important thing.

This is one of the things they ought to be thinking more about. 

Secondly, we need to create huge biodiversity reserves on the planet, and start moving them around.

They can't fish there for a radius of 200 miles.

We're going to have to say, no more logging in the Amazon for 20 years.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

One of the things he raved about was that a particle accelerator experiment could go haywire and set off a chain reaction that would destroy the world.

A lot of very sober-minded physicists, believe it or not, have had exactly the same thought.

This spring -- there's a collider at Brookhaven, on Long Island -- this spring, it's going to have an experiment in which it creates black holes.

They are expecting to create little, tiny black holes.

But, all around the world, in Japan, in Canada, there's talk about this, of reviving this in the United States.

We shut one down that was going to be big.

But there's talk of building very big accelerators.

Secondly, we have a natural laboratory surrounding the Earth.

We have an electromagnetic field around the Earth, and it's constantly bombarded by high-energy particles, like protons.

And in my opinion, we don't spend enough time looking at that natural laboratory and figuring out first what's safe to do on Earth. 

Now, corn originated, we think, in Mexico.

This is the genetic biodiversity storehouse of corn.

So, what do we do about that?

When the StarLink disaster happened, there was a battle between the EPA and the FDA over who really had authority, and over what parts of this, and they didn't get it straightened out for months.

North Pole goes to the South, South Pole goes to the North, and vice versa.

So, it should have happened about 480,000 years ago.

Oh, and here's one other thing.

Scientists think now our magnetic field may be diminished by about five percent.

So, maybe we're in the throes of it.

So, there's a fairly simple solution to this.

If you brought the entire ozone layer down to the surface of the Earth, it would be the thickness of two pennies, at 14 pounds per square inch.

You don't need that much up there.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

So far, our atmosphere has done, and our magnetic field has done pretty well protecting us from this.

Occasionally, we get a flare from the Sun that causes havoc with communications and so forth, and electricity.

And they think these are super-flares, millions of times more powerful than any flares we've had from our Sun so far. 

One percent doesn't sound like a lot, but it would cause one hell of an ice age here.

So, what can we do about this? 

I wrote a story about this in Life magazine in 1993.

This is rocket science, but it's not hard rocket science.

Everything that we need to make an atmosphere on Mars, and to make a livable planet on Mars, is probably there.

In 1918, we had a flu epidemic in the United States that killed 20 million people.

That was back when the population was around 100 million people.

We've all learned what -- the kind of panic that can occur when an old disease rears its head, like anthrax. 

The worst possibility is that a very simple germ, like staph, for which we have one antibiotic that still works, mutates.

And we know staph can do amazing things.

A staph cell can be next to a muscle cell in your body and borrow genes from it when antibiotics come, and change and mutate.

So, what can we do about it? 

This is like being at war and giving somebody your secret code.

Secondly, our public health system, as we saw with anthrax, is a real disaster.

Now, there is money in the federal budget, next year, to build up the public health service.

But I don't think to any extent that it really needs to be done. 

We think that there are about 10 million dead stars in the Milky Way alone, our galaxy.

Most of them should be in orbit around something.

But galaxies are very violent places, and things can be spun out of orbit.

And also, space is incredibly vast.

So even if you flung a million of these things out of orbit, the chances that one would actually hit us is fairly remote.

Again, we gotta think about being a colonizing race. 

In 1908, just a 200-foot piece of a comet exploded over Siberia and flattened forests for maybe 100 miles.

In 1989, a large asteroid passed 400,000 miles away from Earth. 

There's also something a little farther out, called the Oort cloud.

So you say, yeah, well, what are really the chances of this happening?

Andrew, can you put that chart up? 

This is a chart that Dr. Clark Chapman at the Southwest Research Institute presented to Congress a few years ago.

We finally have, just in the last year, the technology to stop this cold.

Could we have the solutions? 

Because we can actually figure out every asteroid that's out there, and if it might hit Earth, and when it might hit Earth.

And they're trying to do that.

Comets are a tougher act.

But we would have lots of time, if we see it coming.

We really need a dedicated observatory.

And these guys orbited a 30 -- or no, about a 22-mile long asteroid called Eros.

This is just a matter of finding 'em, going there, and doing something about it.

I know your head is spinning from all this stuff.

The thing, I think, to remember, is September 11.

We don't want to get caught flat-footed again.

We know about this stuff.

Science has the power to predict the future in many cases now.

Knowledge is power.

Thank you. 

