So I went to bed that night pretty excited.

Not sure of all the details, but excited.

And he knew me, so I was like, "Greg?"

He's like, "Yes, Deborah?"

Within 10 days, I was down at Fort Dix.

One, they're infantry.

The caveat for my access was I had to get the soldiers to volunteer.

If we could roll? 

(Video) Stephen Pink: This is Sergeant Stephen Pink. 

Soldier: We're not supposed to talk to the media. 

ZB: Every soldier eventually wants to go in combat.

It's natural instinct. 

SP: If you let fear get to you, then you're not going to be doing your job. 

MM: Every single time you go out there, there's attacks.

It's unbelievable. 

Michael Moriarty's Wife: It's really hard for him to not have his dad. 

MM: This little kid is in the middle of a war zone. 

George W. Bush: The world's newest democracy. 

SP: You don't put 150,000 troops in there, and say we're there to create democracy. 

Soldier: We've got a drive through window at Burger King now. 

SP: We're here to create money. 

Michael Moriarty's Wife: He's not the same person anymore. 

Kevin Shangraw: The Iraqi people are who we are there to help -- and we just killed one. 

(Applause) Deborah Scranton: Thank you.

One of the things I'd like to talk to you about is having a conversation about something that is difficult to talk about.

And I'd like to relate an experience I had here at TED.

This is Paul Anthony.

We got in a conversation with some other people in the class, and it went on and on.

I mean, we were there for an hour, talking.

And really -- because maybe we're going to disagree.

And I want to say, I was nervous.

Because I'm used to doing Q&amp;As.

The guys' tapes on average took two weeks to get from Iraq to me.

In the meantime, the soldiers -- we would email and IM.

The reason I quantify that is because we really embarked on this as a mutual journey to really get inside of it.

If we could roll the clip. 

Soldier: Right there. 

This is the scene north.

They just removed a burnt body, or half a body from here.

I don't think there was anything left from his abdominal down.

This is blood.

I remember giving three IVs, bandaging several wounded.

Soldiers sitting in the corner of a sandbag wall, shaking and screaming.

Medics who were terrified and couldn't perform.

I later heard that Iraqi casualties were not to be treated in Taji.

They can work on the post for pennies, but can't die there.

They've got to die outside.

If one of those incompetent medical officers told me to stop treatment, I would've slit his throat right there.

News Anchor: More violence in Iraq.

Twin suicide car bombings killed eight Iraqis and wounded dozens more near a coalition base north of Baghdad. 

SP: We made the news.

I feel exploited and proud at the same time.

Another mission at 06:00. 

DS: Now -- (Applause) -- thanks.

When I said earlier, to try and tell a story from the inside out, versus the outside in -- part of what Chris said so eloquently in his introduction -- is this melding.

It's a new way of trying to make a documentary.

Five soldiers filmed the entire time.

There are three featured in the film. 

And I saw in my IM window that Mike Moriarty was at the base.

And if you let time go by, it kind of softens and smooths the edges.

And for me, I really wanted that. 

The interview that you see is the one that Mike went and did within 24 hours of that episode happening. 

And you know, you earn someone's trust, especially in doc filmmaking, through your relationship.

So, it wasn't until five months after he was home that he would read that journal. 

Now, the news footage I put in there to try to show -- you know, I think mainstream media tries to do the best they can in the format that they have.

Pink's squad and another squad spent their entire day outside the wire.

They didn't have to go outside the wire.

There were not Americans hurt out there.

And I think it's such an amazing gift that they would share this as a way of bridging. 

And when I talk about that polarity I get at so many different Q&amp;As, and people are really opinionated.

There's such a disconnect.

And for me, it's trying to bridge that disconnect.

I'll share one story.

But there's always a few guys, almost always, who are the last ones.

And I've learned over time that those are always the soldiers.

And they wait until pretty much everybody's gone.

The gunner was throwing candy.

They used to throw candy to the kids.

You can go for days here and not feel like there's a war going on.

You go and see anybody?

Do you, if you find out your neighbor's been, do you spend some time?

Not necessarily ask questions, but see if they want to talk?

Do you give money to any of the charities?"

You know, obviously, like Dean Kamen's working on that amazing thing, but there's charities where you can sponsor computers for wounded soldiers. 

Are you a friend to them?

And really do give them a hug.

Thank you. 

