Images like this, from the Auschwitz concentration camp, have been seared into our consciousness during the twentieth century and have given us a new understanding of who we are, where we've come from and the times we live in.

It's especially evident in the West, beginning with England and Holland around the time of the Enlightenment. 

Let me take you on a journey of several powers of 10 -- from the millennium scale to the year scale -- to try to persuade you of this.

Here is a graph that he put together showing the percentage of male deaths due to warfare in a number of foraging, or hunting and gathering societies.

You can find four or five passages in the Bible of this ilk.

Well, let's click the zoom lens down one order of magnitude, and look at the century scale.

Although we don't have statistics for warfare throughout the Middle Ages to modern times, we know just from conventional history -- the evidence was under our nose all along that there has been a reduction in socially sanctioned forms of violence. 

The death penalty was a sanction for a long list of non-violent crimes: criticizing the king, stealing a loaf of bread.

Let's click down now to the decade scale.

There's guilt about our treatment of native peoples in modern intellectual life, and an unwillingness to acknowledge there could be anything good about Western culture.

Hunter-gatherer peoples explicitly go through this train of thought, and will often raid their neighbors out of fear of being raided first. 

Now, one way of dealing with this problem is by deterrence.

You don't strike first, but you have a publicly announced policy that you will retaliate savagely if you are invaded.

So that's a bit of a support for the leviathan theory.

Also supporting it is the fact that we today see eruptions of violence in zones of anarchy, in failed states, collapsed empires, frontier regions, mafias, street gangs and so on. 

The second explanation is that in many times and places, there is a widespread sentiment that life is cheap.

This was an argument from the political scientist James Payne. 

People outside that circle are treated as sub-human, and can be exploited with impunity.

Because we have been doing something right, and it sure would be good to find out what it is.

CA: Well, Steve, I would love every news media owner to hear that talk at some point in the next year.

SP: My pleasure. 

