This is a picture of Maurice Druon, the Honorary Perpetual Secretary of L'Academie francaise, the French Academy.

He is splendidly attired in his 68,000-dollar uniform, befitting the role of the French Academy as legislating the correct usage in French and perpetuating the language.

The World Wide Web, the French are told, ought to be referred to as "la toile d'araignee mondiale" -- the Global Spider Web -- recommendations that the French gaily ignore. 

We see it in the constant appearance of slang and jargon, of the historical change in languages, in divergence of dialects and the formation of new languages.

So language is not so much a creator or shaper of human nature, so much as a window onto human nature.

And I'm going to say a few words about each one this morning. 

The problem is, which verbs go in which constructions?

The verb is the chassis of the sentence.

It's the framework onto which the other parts are bolted. 

Let me give you a quick reminder of something that you've long forgotten.

An intransitive verb, such as "dine," for example, can't take a direct object.

You have to say, "Sam dined," not, "Sam dined the pizza."

There are dozens or scores of verbs of this type, each of which shapes its sentence.

So, a problem in explaining how children learn language, a problem in teaching language to adults so that they don't make grammatical errors, and a problem in programming computers to use language is which verbs go in which constructions. 

Hundreds of verbs can go both ways.

A handy thing to have, because language is infinite, and you can't just parrot back the sentences that you've heard.

Unfortunately, there appear to be idiosyncratic exceptions.

You can say, "Biff drove the car to Chicago," but not, "Biff drove Chicago the car."

You can say, "Sal gave Jason a headache," but it's a bit odd to say, "Sal gave a headache to Jason."

So, "give the X to the Y," that construction corresponds to the thought "cause X to go to Y."

How are these construals reflected in language?

So which verbs go in which construction -- the problem with which I began -- depends on whether the verb specifies a kind of motion or a kind of possession change.

To give something involves both causing something to go and causing someone to have.

To drive the car only causes something to go, because Chicago's not the kind of thing that can possess something.

Only humans can possess things.

And to give someone a headache causes them to have the headache, but it's not as if you're taking the headache out of your head and causing it to go to the other person, and implanting it in them.

You may just be loud or obnoxious, or some other way causing them to have the headache.

So, that's an example of the kind of thing that I do in my day job. 

So why should anyone care?

Well, there are a number of interesting conclusions, I think, from this and many similar kinds of analyses of hundreds of English verbs.

These are reminiscent of the kinds of categories that Immanuel Kant argued are the basic framework for human thought, and it's interesting that our unconscious use of language seems to reflect these Kantian categories.

Doesn't care about perceptual qualities, such as color, texture, weight and speed, which virtually never differentiate the use of verbs in different constructions. 

An additional twist is that all of the constructions in English are used not only literally, but in a quasi-metaphorical way.

It evokes the container metaphor of communication, in which we conceive of ideas as objects, sentences as containers, and communication as a kind of sending.

As when we say we "gather" our ideas, to "put" them "into" words, and if our words aren't "empty" or "hollow," we might get these ideas "across" to a listener, who can "unpack" our words to "extract" their "content."

And indeed, this kind of verbiage is not the exception, but the rule.

It's very hard to find any example of abstract language that is not based on some concrete metaphor.

For example, you can use the verb "go" and the prepositions "to" and "from" in a literal, spatial sense.

Second conclusion is that the ability to conceive of a given event in two different ways, such as "cause something to go to someone" and "causing someone to have something," I think is a fundamental feature of human thought, and it's the basis for much human argumentation, in which people don't differ so much on the facts as on how they ought to be construed.

Well, I said I'd talk about two windows on human nature -- the cognitive machinery with which we conceptualize the world, and now I'm going to say a few words about the relationship types that govern human social interaction, again, as reflected in language.

And I'll start out with a puzzle, the puzzle of indirect speech acts.

Now, I'm sure most of you have seen the movie "Fargo."

And you might remember the scene in which the kidnapper is pulled over by a police officer, is asked to show his driver's license and holds his wallet out with a 50-dollar bill extending at a slight angle out of the wallet.

And he says, "I was just thinking that maybe we could take care of it here in Fargo," which everyone, including the audience, interprets as a veiled bribe.

This kind of indirect speech is rampant in language.

For example, in polite requests, if someone says, "If you could pass the guacamole, that would be awesome," we know exactly what he means, even though that's a rather bizarre concept being expressed. 

So the puzzle is, why are bribes, polite requests, solicitations and threats so often veiled?

I think the key idea is that language is a way of negotiating relationships, and human relationships fall into a number of types.

There's an influential taxonomy by the anthropologist Alan Fiske, in which relationships can be categorized, more or less, into communality, which works on the principle "what's mine is thine, what's thine is mine," the kind of mindset that operates within a family, for example; dominance, whose principle is "don't mess with me;" reciprocity, "you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours;" and sexuality, in the immortal words of Cole Porter, "Let's do it."

Now, relationship types can be negotiated.

Even though there are default situations in which one of these mindsets can be applied, they can be stretched and extended.

For example, communality applies most naturally within family or friends, but it can be used to try to transfer the mentality of sharing to groups that ordinarily would not be disposed to exercise it.

For example, in brotherhoods, fraternal organizations, sororities, locutions like "the family of man," you try to get people who are not related to use the relationship type that would ordinarily be appropriate to close kin. 

Now, mismatches -- when one person assumes one relationship type, and another assumes a different one -- can be awkward.

If you went over and you helped yourself to a shrimp off your boss' plate, for example, that would be an awkward situation.

Or if a dinner guest after the meal pulled out his wallet and offered to pay you for the meal, that would be rather awkward as well.

In less blatant cases, there's still a kind of negotiation that often goes on.

In dating, the transition from friendship to sex can lead to, notoriously, various forms of awkwardness, and as can sex in the workplace, in which we call the conflict between a dominant and a sexual relationship "sexual harassment."

Well, what does this have to do with language?

Well, language, as a social interaction, has to satisfy two conditions.

You have to convey the actual content -- here we get back to the container metaphor.

You want to express the bribe, the command, the promise, the solicitation and so on, but you also have to negotiate and maintain the kind of relationship you have with the other person.

The simplest example of this is in the polite request.

If you express your request as a conditional -- "if you could open the window, that would be great" -- even though the content is an imperative, the fact that you're not using the imperative voice means that you're not acting as if you're in a relationship of dominance, where you could presuppose the compliance of the other person.

On the other hand, you want the damn guacamole.

By expressing it as an if-then statement, you can get the message across without appearing to boss another person around. 

And in a more subtle way, I think, this works for all of the veiled speech acts involving plausible deniability: the bribes, threats, propositions, solicitations and so on.

One way of thinking about it is to imagine what it would be like if language -- where it could only be used literally.

And you can think of it in terms of a game-theoretic payoff matrix.

Put yourself in the position of the kidnapper wanting to bribe the officer.

There's a high stakes in the two possibilities of having a dishonest officer or an honest officer.

If the officer is honest, you get a huge penalty of being arrested for bribery.

So this is a rather fraught situation. 

On the other hand, with indirect language, if you issue a veiled bribe, then the dishonest officer could interpret it as a bribe, in which case you get the payoff of going free.

The honest officer can't hold you to it as being a bribe, and therefore, you get the nuisance of the traffic ticket.

So you get the best of both worlds.

And a similar analysis, I think, can apply to the potential awkwardness of a sexual solicitation, and other cases where plausible deniability is an asset.

And then by analyzing the various quirks and complexities of language, I think we can get a window onto what makes us tick.

Thank you very much. 

