The Arab Spring revealed social media's greatest potential, but it also exposed its greatest shortcomings.

The same tool that united us to topple dictators eventually tore us apart.

I would like to share my own experience in using social media for activism, and talk about some of the challenges I have personally faced and what we could do about them. 

In the early 2000s, Arabs were flooding the web.

Thirsty for knowledge, for opportunities, for connecting with the rest of the people around the globe, we escaped our frustrating political realities and lived a virtual, alternative life.

Just like many of them, I was completely apolitical until 2009.

At the time, when I logged into social media, I started seeing more and more Egyptians aspiring for political change in the country.

It felt like I was not alone. 

In June 2010, Internet changed my life forever.

His name was Khaled Said.

Khaled was a 29-year-old Alexandrian who was killed by police.

I saw myself in his picture.

I thought, "I could be Khaled."

I could not sleep that night, and I decided to do something.

I anonymously created a Facebook page and called it "We are all Khaled Said."

In just three days, the page had over 100,000 people, fellow Egyptians who shared the same concern.

Whatever was happening had to stop. 

I recruited my co-admin, AbdelRahman Mansour.

We worked together for hours and hours.

We were crowdsourcing ideas from the people.

The page became the most followed page in the Arab world.

It had more fans than established media organizations and even top celebrities. 

On January 14, 2011, Ben Ali fled out of Tunisia after mounting protests against his regime.

I saw a spark of hope.

In just a few days, the invitation reached over a million people, and over 100,000 people confirmed attendance.

Social media was crucial for this campaign.

It helped a decentralized movement arise.

It made people realize that they were not alone.

And it made it impossible for the regime to stop it.

At the time, they didn't even understand it.

And on January 25th, Egyptians flooded the streets of Cairo and other cities, calling for change, breaking the barrier of fear and announcing a new era. 

Then came the consequences.

I was hit hard on my head.

I lost my balance and fell down, to find four armed men surrounding me.

One covered my mouth and the others paralyzed me.

I knew I was being kidnapped by state security. 

I found myself in a cell, handcuffed, blindfolded.

I was terrified.

After my disappearance, a few of my fellow colleagues who knew I was the admin of the page told the media about my connection with that page, and that I was likely arrested by state security.

My colleagues at Google started a search campaign trying to find me, and the fellow protesters in the square demanded my release. 

After 11 days of complete darkness, I was set free.

And three days later, Mubarak was forced to step down.

It was the most inspiring and empowering moment of my life.

It was a time of great hope.

Egyptians lived a utopia for 18 days during the revolution.

But unfortunately, the post-revolution events were like a punch in the gut.

The environment was purely toxic.

My online world became a battleground filled with trolls, lies, hate speech.

I started to worry about the safety of my family.

But of course, this wasn't just about me.

Both groups wanted you to side with them; you were either with them or against them.

That day I made a very hard decision.

I decided to go silent, completely silent.

It was a moment of defeat.

I stayed silent for more than two years, and I used the time to reflect on everything that happened, trying to understand why did it happen.

It became clear to me that while it's true that polarization is primarily driven by our human behavior, social media shapes this behavior and magnifies its impact.

In my view, there are five critical challenges facing today's social media. 

First, we don't know how to deal with rumors.

Rumors that confirm people's biases are now believed and spread among millions of people. 

Second, we create our own echo chambers.

We tend to only communicate with people that we agree with, and thanks to social media, we can mute, un-follow and block everybody else. 

Third, online discussions quickly descend into angry mobs.

All of us probably know that.

It's as if we forget that the people behind screens are actually real people and not just avatars. 

And fourth, it became really hard to change our opinions.

Because of the speed and brevity of social media, we are forced to jump to conclusions and write sharp opinions in 140 characters about complex world affairs.

Fifth -- and in my point of view, this is the most critical -- today, our social media experiences are designed in a way that favors broadcasting over engagements, posts over discussions, shallow comments over deep conversations.

It's as if we agreed that we are here to talk at each other instead of talking with each other. 

Polarization is on the rise in the whole world.

We need to work hard on figuring out how technology could be part of the solution, rather than part of the problem. 

There's a lot of debate today on how to combat online harassment and fight trolls.

This is so important.

No one could argue against that.

I will get more attention. 

But what if we put more focus on quality?

Couldn't we just give people more incentives to engage in conversations, rather than just broadcasting opinions all the time?

Or reward people for reading and responding to views that they disagree with?

And also, make it socially acceptable that we change our minds, or probably even reward that?

What if we have a matrix that says how many people changed their minds, and that becomes part of our social media experience?

In essence, we need to rethink today's social media ecosystem and redesign its experiences to reward thoughtfulness, civility and mutual understanding. 

Our first product is a new media platform for conversations.

We're hosting conversations that promote mutual understanding and hopefully change minds.

These are conversations that matter. 

Today, at least one out of three people on the planet have access to the Internet.

But part of this Internet is being held captive by the less noble aspects of our human behavior. 

Five years ago, I said, "If you want to liberate society, all you need is the Internet."

Today, I believe if we want to liberate society, we first need to liberate the Internet. 

Thank you very much. 

