So, I will -- since I am not young and am very old, I still will say something. 

It is the G8 Summit.

Unfortunately, I personally do not believe in the Marshall Plan.

One, because the benefits of the Marshall Plan have been overstated.

But I want to say that there are two things we need to connect.

How the media covers Africa in the West, and the consequences of that.

By displaying despair, helplessness and hopelessness, the media is telling the truth about Africa, and nothing but the truth.

However, the media is not telling us the whole truth.

Because despair, civil war, hunger and famine, although they're part and parcel of our African reality, they are not the only reality.

And secondly, they are the smallest reality. 

Africa has 53 nations.

And, as a consequence, the Western view of Africa's economic dilemma is framed wrongly.

And in the process, Africa has been stripped of self-initiative. 

I want to say that it is important to recognize that Africa has fundamental weaknesses.

But equally, it has opportunities and a lot of potential.

The challenge facing all those who are interested in Africa is not the challenge of reducing poverty.

It should be a challenge of creating wealth. 

Medicines for the poor, food relief for those who are hungry, and peacekeepers for those who are facing civil war.

But they also succeed at the job of entrepreneurship.

So, where should we be putting the money?

We need to put money where it can productively grow.

But what is the international aid community doing with Africa today?

They are throwing large sums of money for primary health, for primary education, for food relief.

The entire continent has been turned into a place of despair, in need of charity.

Ladies and gentlemen, can any one of you tell me a neighbor, a friend, a relative that you know, who became rich by receiving charity?

By holding the begging bowl and receiving alms?

Does any one of you in the audience have that person?

Does any one of you know a country that developed because of the generosity and kindness of another?

Well, since I'm not seeing the hand, it appears that what I'm stating is true. 

(Bono: Yes!)

Andrew Mwenda: I can see Bono says he knows the country.

Which country is that? 

External actors can only present to you an opportunity.

The ability to utilize that opportunity and turn it into an advantage depends on your internal capacity.

Africa has received many opportunities.

Many of them we haven't benefited much.

Under the Cotonou Agreement, formerly known as the Lome Convention, African countries have been given an opportunity by Europe to export goods, duty-free, to the European Union market.

My own country, Uganda, has a quota to export 50,000 metric tons of sugar to the European Union market.

We haven't exported one kilogram yet.

We import 50,000 metric tons of sugar from Brazil and Cuba.

Secondly, under the beef protocol of that agreement, African countries that produce beef have quotas to export beef duty-free to the European Union market.

None of those countries, including Africa's most successful nation, Botswana, has ever met its quota. 

So, I want to argue today that the fundamental source of Africa's inability to engage the rest of the world in a more productive relationship is because it has a poor institutional and policy framework.

And all forms of intervention need support, the evolution of the kinds of institutions that create wealth, the kinds of institutions that increase productivity.

How do we begin to do that, and why is aid the bad instrument?

Aid is the bad instrument, and do you know why?

Because all governments across the world need money to survive.

Money is needed for a simple thing like keeping law and order.

You have to pay the army and the police to show law and order.

The second thing you need to do is pay your political hangers-on.

Why should people support their government?

The fact is no government in the world, with the exception of a few, like that of Idi Amin, can seek to depend entirely on force as an instrument of rule.

Many countries in the [unclear], they need legitimacy.

To get legitimacy, governments often need to deliver things like primary education, primary health, roads, build hospitals and clinics.

If the government's fiscal survival depends on it having to raise money from its own people, such a government is driven by self-interest to govern in a more enlightened fashion.

It will sit with those who create wealth.

Talk to them about the kind of policies and institutions that are necessary for them to expand a scale and scope of business so that it can collect more tax revenues from them.

The problem with the African continent and the problem with the aid industry is that it has distorted the structure of incentives facing the governments in Africa.

rather than sit with Ugandan entrepreneurs, Ghanaian businessmen, South African enterprising leaders, our governments find it more productive to talk to the IMF and the World Bank.

I can tell you, even if you have ten Ph.Ds., you can never beat Bill Gates in understanding the computer industry.

Some aid may have built a hospital, fed a hungry village.

It may have built a road, and that road may have served a very good role.

Aid increases the resources available to governments, and that makes working in a government the most profitable thing you can have, as a person in Africa seeking a career.

By increasing the political attractiveness of the state, especially in our ethnically fragmented societies in Africa, aid tends to accentuate ethnic tensions as every single ethnic group now begins struggling to enter the state in order to get access to the foreign aid pie.

Because they don't need to talk to their own citizens.

They talk to international donors.

Between 1960 and 2003, our continent received 600 billion dollars of aid, and we are still told that there is a lot of poverty in Africa.

Where has all the aid gone? 

I want to use the example of my own country, called Uganda, and the kind of structure of incentives that aid has brought there.

In the 2006-2007 budget, expected revenue: 2.5 trillion shillings.

It's because there's somebody there called foreign aid, who contributes for it.

But this shows you that the government of Uganda is not committed to spending its own revenue to invest in productive investments, but rather it devotes this revenue to paying structure of public expenditure.

Trade and industry takes 43 billion.

And let me show you, what does public expenditure -- rather, public administration expenditure -- in Uganda constitute?

We have 81 units of local government.

There were 56, and when our president wanted to amend the constitution and remove term limits, he had to create 25 new districts, and now there are 81.

Three hundred thirty-three members of parliament.

You need Wembley Stadium to host our parliament.

One hundred thirty-four commissions and semi-autonomous government bodies, all of which have directors and the cars.

Finally, I want to say that before I came to speak here, I was told that the principle of TEDGlobal is that the good speech should be like a miniskirt.

It should be short enough to arouse interest, but long enough to cover the subject.

I hope I have achieved that. 

Thank you very much. 

