How about this word?

Here, I'll show it to you.

And those bits are words. 

But what people really often think about the dictionary is, they think more like this.

I want to throw my big net into the deep, blue ocean of English and see what marvelous creatures I can drag up from the bottom.

But why do people want me to direct traffic, when I would much rather go fishing?

Well, I blame the Queen.

Why do I blame the Queen?

Well, first of all, I blame the Queen because it's funny.

But secondly, I blame the Queen because dictionaries have really not changed. 

Our idea of what a dictionary is has not changed since her reign.

And of course, a few of us are saying: okay, computers!

The thing about computers is, I love computers.

I mean, I'm a huge geek, I love computers.

I would go on a hunger strike before I let them take away Google Book Search from me.

The design has not changed. 

This is my favorite word, by the way.

So there's not very much going on here.

There's not a lot of clickiness.

Does everyone know the ham butt problem?

Why are you blaming the ham for being too big for the pan?

So, you can't get a smaller ham.

The English language is as big as it is. 

Some of my best friends are books.

But the book is not the best shape for the dictionary.

Now they're going to think "Oh, boy.

When we had cars -- when cars became the dominant mode of transportation, we didn't round up all the horses and shoot them.

What if biologists could only study animals that made people go, "Aww."

What if we made aesthetic judgments about animals, and only the ones we thought were cute were the ones that we could study?

We'd know a whole lot about charismatic megafauna, and not very much about much else.

And I think this is a problem.

Lexicography is really more about material science.

Being in the dictionary is an artificial distinction.

It doesn't make a word any more real than any other way.

If you love a word, it becomes real.

And any time one of those little parts of the mobile changes, is touched, any time you touch a word, you use it in a new context, you give it a new connotation, you verb it, you make the mobile move.

But if your goal is no longer to direct the traffic, but maybe to count the cars that go by, then more eyeballs are better.

If only one out of every 10 of those books had a word that's not in the dictionary in it, that would be equivalent to more than two unabridged dictionaries. 

There's a lot going on there. 

So, we have all these words, and we really need help!

I mean, lexicography is not rocket science.

If we think of the dictionary as being the map of the English language, these bright spots are what we know about, and the dark spots are where we are in the dark.

If that was the map of all the words in American English, we don't know very much.

And we don't even know the shape of the language.

If this was the dictionary -- if this was the map of American English -- look, we have a kind of lumpy idea of Florida, but there's no California!

We're missing California from American English.

So again, lexicography is not rocket science.

But even if it were, rocket science is being done by dedicated amateurs these days.

It can't be that hard to find some words!

So, enough scientists in other disciplines are really asking people to help, and they're doing a good job of it.

For instance, there's eBird, where amateur birdwatchers can upload information about their bird sightings.

And then, ornithologists can go and help track populations, migrations, etc. 

He downloaded data from the NASA SOHO satellite, and that's how he found them.

If we can find comets without a telescope, shouldn't we be able to find words? 

Now, y'all know where I'm going with this.

Because I'm going to the Internet, which is where everybody goes.

And this is a little-known technological fact about the Internet, but the Internet is actually made up of words and enthusiasm.

So a word without its source is like a cut flower.

You know, it's pretty to look at for a while, but then it dies.

It dies too fast.

They use it synecdochically.

And one of the problems of knowing a word like "synecdochically" is that you really want an excuse to say "synecdochically."

But the thing is, we could make the dictionary the whole language.

If we get a bigger pan, then we can put all the words in.

We can put in all the meanings.

Doesn't everyone want more meaning in their lives?

And we can make the dictionary not just be a symbol of the language -- we can make it be the whole language. 

You see, what I'm really hoping for is that my son, who turns seven this month -- I want him to barely remember that this is the form factor that dictionaries used to come in.

It's a format that died because it wasn't useful enough.

It wasn't really what people needed.

Thank you very much for your kind attention. 

