But perhaps the other, bigger gap is what we call the hope gap.

The company went public two years later and is today one of the best known companies in the world.

Hundreds of millions of people use it in hundreds of countries, and so on.

But for me, personally, it was a real change.

And so this is one way to bet on good people doing good things. 

It's what we call, "Invest, connect and celebrate."

And invest: if you see good people doing good things, invest in them.

And I wondered who was doing these kinds of films today.

And there really wasn't a specific company that was focused on the public interest. 

One of the lines of encouragement that I heard over and over was, "The streets of Hollywood are littered with the carcasses of people like you, who think you're going to come to this town and make movies."

And we don't just want people to see our movies and say, that was fun, and forget about it.

We want them to actually get involved in the issues.

We ended up with 11 Oscar nominations for these films.

And it turned out to be a pretty good year for this guy.

And we had an online component of that, our community sect called Participate.net.

But with our social sector partners, like the ACLU and PBS and the Sierra Club and the NRDC, once people saw the film, there was actually something they could do to make a difference. 

And we released the film at the same time that the Congress was debating the renewal of the Violence Against Women Act.

And with screenings on the Hill, and discussions, and with our social sector partners, like the National Organization of Women, the film was widely credited with influencing the successful renewal of the act.

And so again, it goes back to betting on good people doing good things. 

At that point, I thought I knew something about global warming.

I thought it was a 30 to 50 year problem.

And after we saw his slide show, it became clear that it was much more urgent.

And you know, there's another adage in Hollywood, that nobody knows nothing about anything.

It was also a pretty good year for this guy.

And for Participant, this is just the start.

Everything we do looks at the major issues in the world.

And we have 10 films in production right now, and dozens others in development.

I'll quickly talk about a few coming up.

One is "Charlie Wilson's War," with Tom Hanks and Julia Roberts.

And it's the true story of Congressman Charlie Wilson, and how he funded the Taliban to fight the Russians in Afghanistan.

We premiered a film called "The Chicago 10" at Sundance this year.

And one thing that I've learned is that there's never one right way to make change.

And I believe if we do these things, we can close the opportunity gaps, we can close the hope gaps.

