I just heard the best joke about Bond Emeruwa.

I just want to say good afternoon, good evening.

It's really amazing.

(Laughter) Like, what have I got to say about all this?

My first thought was, "Well, you know, there's George Bush."

But then I thought, "Why be rude to chimpanzees?"

There's been a lot of talk about narrative in Africa.

So if news is anything to go by, the U.S. is right there with Zimbabwe, right?

Which it isn't really, is it?

The truth is, everything we know about America, everything Americans come to know about being American, isn't from the news.

I live there.

We don't go home at the end of the day and think, "Well, I really know who I am now because the Wall Street Journal says that the Stock Exchange closed at this many points."

What we know about how to be who we are comes from stories.

It comes from the novels, the movies, the fashion magazines.

It comes from popular culture. 

That's very important.

There's a poem by Jack Gilbert called "The Forgotten Dialect of the Heart."

It's important because misreading is really the chance for complication and opportunity.

The first Igbo Bible was translated from English in about the 1800s by Bishop Crowther, who was a Yoruba.

So "God is in heaven surrounded by His angels" was translated as -- [Igbo].

And for some reason, in Cameroon, when they tried to translate the Bible into Cameroonian patois, they chose the Igbo version.

And I'm not going to give you the patois translation; I'm going to make it standard English.

And language can't be understood in its abstraction.

And it's important to remember that, because if we don't, then we become ahistorical.

Nigeria got its independence in 1960.

In 1967, in the middle of the Biafran-Nigerian Civil War, Dr. Njoku-Obi invented the Cholera vaccine.

Let me tell you a Nigerian joke.

Well, it's just a joke, anyway.

So there's Tom, Dick and Harry and they're working construction.

So what seems like an eccentric if tragic joke about Harry becomes a way to spread ethnic hatred.

My father was educated in Cork, in the University of Cork, in the '50s.

And I was growing up in school and the federal government didn't want us taught about the history of the war, because they thought it probably would make us generate a new generation of rebels.

So I had a very inventive teacher, a Pakistani Muslim, who wanted to teach us about this.

I mean, picture this -- really picture this.

A Pakistani Muslim teaching Jewish Holocaust history to young Igbo children. 

Story is powerful.

Story is fluid and it belongs to nobody.

And it happened over four continents.

And when the book came out, I was heralded as Africa's answer to Frederick Forsyth, which is a dubious honor at best.

But also, the book was launched in time for me to be accused of constructing the blueprint for a foiled coup attempt.

So at 18, I was bonded off to prison in Nigeria. 

A lot of us are very privileged.

I grew up -- servants, cars, televisions, all that stuff.

I was completely terrified, completely broken, and kept trying to find a new language, a new way to make sense of all of this.

Six months after that, with no explanation, they let me go.

Now for those of you who have seen me at the buffet tables know that it was because it was costing them too much to feed me.

(Laughter) But I mean, I grew up with this incredible privilege, and not just me -- millions of Nigerians grew up with books and libraries.

In fact, we were talking last night about how all of the steamy novels of Harold Robbins had done more for sex education of horny teenage boys in Africa than any sex education programs ever had.

All of those are gone. 

We are squandering the most valuable resource we have on this continent: the valuable resource of the imagination.

It's a pitiful sight.

And as we watch it, we are ashamed.

And as Idris moves, Fraser screams, "Stop!

This is a redemption we can all aspire to. 

African narratives in the West, they proliferate.

I really don't care anymore.

The question is, how do I balance narratives that are wonderful with narratives of wounds and self-loathing?

And this is the difficulty that I face.

I am trying to move beyond political rhetoric to a place of ethical questioning.

I am asking us to balance the idea of our complete vulnerability with the complete notion of transformation of what is possible. 

As a young middle-class Nigerian activist, I launched myself along with a whole generation of us into the campaign to stop the government.

And I asked millions of people, without questioning my right to do so, to go up against the government.

Excuse me. 

It's never going to be easy.

There are no answers.

And the truth be told, this is it, isn't it?

And I think if we can just admit that we're all trying to approximate the truth of our own communities, it will make for a much more nuanced and a much more interesting conversation.

I want to believe that we can be agnostic about this, that we can rise above all of this. 

Not because I was encountering homosexual sex and love for the first time, but because the way James wrote about it made it impossible for me to attach otherness to it.

"Here," Jimmy said.

I want to leave you with a poem by Yusef Komunyakaa that speaks to transformation.

