The question of transformation in Africa really is a question of leadership.

Africa can only be transformed by enlightened leaders.

I want to tell you some stories that explain my view.

We all heard about the importance of stories yesterday.

Twice she was involved in surgeries where they lost power at the hospital.

The emergency generators did not start.

The first time it was a C-section.

Thankfully, baby was out -- mother and child survived. 

They could have afforded to purchase these things, but they didn't.

And it happened twice.

Start all over again. 

Now what does this have to do with leadership?

Their decisions, their actions matter.

And when they fail, a nation literally suffers.

So when I speak of leadership, I'm not talking about just political leaders.

We've heard a lot about that.

I'm talking about the elite.

The lawyers, the judges, the policemen, the doctors, the engineers, the civil servants -- those are the leaders.

And we need to train them right. 

Now, my first pointed and memorable experience with leadership in Ghana occurred when I was 16 years old.

We had just had a military coup, and soldiers were pervasive in our society.

They were a pervasive presence.

No sign to this effect. 

I was especially concerned of what the girls might think.

And so I started to argue with these men.

It was a little reckless, but you know, I was 16.

I got lucky.

A Ghana Airways pilot falls into the same predicament.

Because of his uniform they speak to him differently, and they explain to him that they're just following orders.

So he takes their radio, talks to their boss, and gets us all released.

What lessons would you take from an experience like this?

I learned something about courage.

It was important not to look at those guns.

And I also learned that it can be helpful to think about girls. 

So a few years after this event, I leave Ghana on a scholarship to go to Swarthmore College for my education.

It was a breath of fresh air.

You know, the faculty there didn't want us to memorize information and repeat back to them as I was used to back in Ghana.

They wanted us to think critically.

They wanted us to be analytical.

They wanted us to be concerned about social issues.

In my economics classes I got high marks for my understanding of basic economics.

It matters a great deal. 

But I didn't really fully understand what had happened to me at Swarthmore.

And it was brilliant to be part of this team.

It was brilliant.

And I was part of that. 

Now, while I was at Microsoft, the annual revenues of that company grew larger than the GDP of the Republic of Ghana.

And by the way, it's continued to.

The gap has widened since I left.

Now, I've already spoken about one of the reasons why this has occurred.

I mean, it's the people there who are so hardworking, persistent, creative, empowered.

But there were also some external factors: free markets, the rule of law, infrastructure.

And those leaders did not emerge spontaneously.

Somebody trained them to do the work that they do.

Now, while I was at Microsoft, this funny thing happened.

I became a parent.

And for the first time, Africa mattered more to me than ever before.

Because I realized that the state of the African continent would matter to my children and their children.

That the state of the world -- the state of the world depends on what's happening to Africa, as far as my kids would be concerned. 

And it seemed to me that that was the wrong direction, and I needed to be back helping.

I couldn't just stay in Seattle and raise my kids in an upper-middle class neighborhood and feel good about it.

This was not the world that I'd want my children to grow up in.

So I decided to get engaged, and the first thing that I did was to come back to Ghana and talk with a lot of people and really try to understand what the real issues were.

And three things kept coming up for every problem: corruption, weak institutions and the people who run them -- the leaders. 

And they might say, "Look, don't even try."

This is wrong. 

So I decided to engage this particular problem.

Because it seems to me that every society, every society, must be very intentional about how it trains its leaders.

And Ghana was not paying enough attention.

And this is true across sub-Saharan Africa, actually.

So this is what I'm doing now.

I'm trying to bring the experience that I had at Swarthmore to Africa.

I wish there was a liberal arts college in every African country.

I think it would make a huge difference.

And a month into it, I come to the office, and I have this email from one of our students.

It's such a simple statement.

And it is an awesome thing to be a part of empowering someone in this way.

I am thinking now. 

This year we challenged our students to craft an honor code themselves.

One of the students asked a question that just warmed my heart.

Can we create a perfect society?

Her understanding that a student-crafted honor code constitutes a reach towards perfection is incredible.

I don't know ultimately what they will do.

I don't know whether they will decide to have this honor code.

But the conversation they're having now -- about what their good society should look like, what their excellent society should look like, is a really good thing. 

I'm very excited about the fact that every student at Ashesi University does community service before they graduate.

It says a lot about the culture that's forming on campus.

It says a lot about her peers who elected her.

She won with 75 percent of the vote. 

And it gives me a lot of hope.

It turns out that corporate West Africa also appreciates what's happening with our students.

We've graduated two classes of students to date.

And every single one of them has been placed.

And it's just wonderful to see these glimmers of the promise of what can happen if we train our kids right.

I think that the current and future leaders of Africa have an incredible opportunity to drive a major renaissance on the continent.

It's an incredible opportunity.

There aren't very many more opportunities like this in the world.

We have reached a moment from which can emerge a great society within one generation.

