I have been a police officer for a very, very long time.

And you see these notes in my hand because I'm also a black preacher. 

And if you know anything about black preachers, we'll close, and then we'll keep going for another 20 minutes. 

I'm talking about before pagers. 

Laugh if you want to, but I'm telling the truth.

I predate War on Our Fellow Man -- I mean, War on Drugs.

And even with that, my personal truth is that law enforcement is in a crisis.

And so that's the reason for me, several years ago.

Because I was tired of the racism, I was tired of discrimination, I was tired of the "-isms" and the schisms.

I was just so tired.

And so my wife and I, we sat down and we decided and we targeted a date that we would retire.

Y'all know what I'm talking about. 

So we didn't retire.

I had to start listening to that man on the inside that went against everything that I had been trained to do. 

But we still did it.

We had to change it.

And so what we did is we started to think holistically and not paramilitarily.

So we thought differently.

And we started to realize that it could never be and never should have been us versus them.

So I met them and I began to listen.

See, police have a problem.

Off the top, we want to bring things into the community and come up with these extravagant strategies and deployments, but we never talk to the community about them.

And we shove them into the community and say, "Take that."

And then some great things started to happen. 

I had to figure out how to do that.

Listen, we have become great protectors.

We know how to protect you.

But we have exercised that arm so much, so very much.

It's led to coldness and callousness and dehumanized us.

And we've forgotten the mantra across this nation is to protect and serve.

So you look at the other arm, and then you look at it and ... there it is. 

You know, it's kinda weak.

It looks sickly.

But we forgot to treat our communities like they're our customers; like they're our sons and daughters, our brothers and sisters, our mothers and fathers.

It's even harder to make a change. 

And so, as I try to hurry and get through this, I need to say this: it's not just law enforcement, though.

Because every one of us makes up a community.

Too much. 

And then we have the audacity and the nerve to get upset with law enforcement when we take action.

There is no way in the world that we, as a community, should be calling the police for kids playing ball in the street.

It was the parental figures in the community.

It was those guardians, it was that village mentality.

We had mentors throughout all of the community. 

So it takes all of us, all of us.

So you now have churches who have become disconnected by default from the very community where they're planted.

And they don't take care of that community. 

I could go on and on, but I really need to wrap this up.

Community and policing: we've all lost that precious gift, and I call it relational equity.

We've lost it with one another.

It's not somebody else's fault -- it's all of our fault.

We all take responsibility in this.

But I say this: it's not too late for all of us to build our cities and nation to make it great again.

It is never too late.

It is never too late.

We began to deal with our youth and with those who we consider are on the wrong side of the fence.

It would take care of itself. 

And so we gave them some of that.

And in a short period of time, the city went to a 30-year crime low.

They have broken my heart.

But somehow, we went back to business as usual. 

So I'm very excited now.

that we will be great again.

This nation will become great again.

Because we have the same goal: we all want peace.

We all want respect for one another.

We all want love.

And I believe we are back on that road, and I'm so excited about it. 

So listen, I thank you for giving me a few minutes of your time. 

God bless you all. 

God bless you. 

