That's what I'd like to try and do.

The picture I showed you before, and this picture, of drought, death and disease is what we usually see.

And the importance of that is that we have a platform to build on. 

Now this is a huge achievement. 

It's because it shows off our economies, shows off our currencies and gives a platform on which people can plan and build, including businesses.

I want to remind you again -- I know you saw these statistics before -- from almost 6 billion we are now at about 18 billion.

In 2005, remittances -- I just took one country, Nigeria skyrocketing -- skyrocketing is too dramatic, but increasing dramatically.

And instead of an outflow, you are now getting a net inflow. 

62 percent of our population is below the age of 24.

You have to focus on how to create jobs, make sure they don't fall into disease, and that they get an education.

But most of all that they are productively engaged in life, and that they are creating the kind of productive environment in our countries that will make things happen.

And to support this, I just recently -- one of the things I've done since leaving government is to start an opinion research organization in Nigeria.

Most of our countries don't even have any opinion research.

People don't have voice.

There is no way you can know what people want. 

One of the things we asked them recently was what's their top issue.

Like in every other country where this has been done, jobs is the top issue.

I want to leave this up here and come back to it.

But before I get to this slide, I just wanted to run you through this.

And to say that for me, the next stage of building this platform that now enables us to move forward -- and we mustn't make light of it.

It was only 5, 6, 7 years ago we couldn't even talk about the next chapter, because we were in the old chapter.

We were going nowhere.

The economies were not growing.

We were having negative per capita growth.

The microeconomic framework and foundation for moving forward was not even there.

Creating our own program to solve problems, like fighting corruption, building institutions, stabilizing the micro economy. 

So now we have this platform we can build on.

And it brings us to the debate that has been going on here: aid versus private sector, aid versus trade, etc.

And someone stood up to say that one of the frustrating things is that it's been a simplistic debate.

And that's not what the debate should be about.

That's engaging in the wrong debate.

The issue here is how do we get a partnership that involves government donors, the private sector and ordinary African people taking charge of their own lives?

How do we combine all this?

To move our continent forward, to do the things that need doing that I talked about -- getting young people employed.

Getting the creative juices flowing on this continent, much of what you have seen here.

So I'm afraid we've been engaging a little bit in the wrong debate.

Africa has been giving the other countries aid.

It is all the resources that were taken from Africa, including human, that built these countries today!

So when they try to give back, we shouldn't be on the defensive.

The issue is not that.

The issue is how are we using what has been given back.

How are we using it?

Is it being directed effectively?

I want to tell you a little story.

Why I don't mind if we get aid, but we use it well.

From 1967 to '70, Nigeria fought a war -- the Nigeria-Biafra war.

And in the middle of that war, I was 14 years old.

We spent much of our time with my mother cooking.

For the army -- my father joined the army as a brigadier -- the Biafran army.

We were on the Biafran side.

And we were down to eating one meal a day, running from place to place, but wherever we could help we did.

At a certain point in time, in 1969, things were really bad.

We were down to almost nothing in terms of a meal a day.

People, children were dying of kwashiorkor.

I'm sure some of you who are not so young will remember those pictures.

Well, I was in the middle of it. 

In the midst of all this, my mother fell ill with a stomach ailment for two or three days.

We thought she was going to die.

So I was the oldest person in the house.

My sister fell very ill with malaria.

Until we heard that 10 kilometers away there was a doctor, who was looking at people and giving them meds.

We heard there was a woman doctor who was treating people.

I walked 10 kilometers, putting one foot in front of the other.

I got there and I saw huge crowds.

Almost a thousand people were there, trying to break down the door.

And while they were trying to break down the door, I climbed in through the window, and jumped in.

This woman told me it was in the nick of time.

By the time we jumped into that hall, she was barely moving.

She gave a shot of her chloroquine -- what I learned was the chloroquine then -- gave her some -- it must have been a re-hydration -- and some other therapies, and put us in a corner.

In about two to three hours, she started to move.

And then they toweled her down because she started sweating, which was a good sign.

And then my sister woke up.

And about five or six hours later, she said we could go home.

I was so happy -- (Applause) -- that my sister was alive!

Today she's 41 years old, a mother of three, and she's a physician saving other lives. 

(Applause) You just want the person to be alive!

And as an economist, we can also look at that side of the story.

These are people who are productive agents in the economy.

So if we save people from HIV/AIDS, if we save them from malaria, it means they can form the base of production for our economy.

And by the same token -- as someone said yesterday -- if we don't and they die, their children will become a burden on the economy.

So even from an economic standpoint, if we leave the social and the humanitarian, we need to save lives now.

However, I will also tell you that I'm one of those who doesn't believe that this is the sole answer.

That's why I said the debate has to get more sophisticated.

You know, we have to use it well. 

Infrastructure everywhere.

It is on the back of this that the whole of southern Spain has developed into a services economy.

Did you know that Ireland got 3 billion dollars in aid?

Ireland is one of the fastest-growing economies in the European Union today.

For which many people, even from other parts of the world, are going there to find jobs.

What did they do with the 3 billion dollars in aid?

They didn't say, "No, you know, we're not going to take this."

Today, the European Union is busy transferring aid.

And they're also going from country to country, and many times trying to find what to do.

But I'm not really sure that their assistance is also being channeled in the right way.

And many of them are not really familiar with the continent.

They are just discovering.

And many times I get the impression that they are not really even interested in hearing from Africans who might know.

They want to visit us, see what's happening on the ground and make a decision.

And now I'm maybe being harsh.

But I worry because this money is so important.

Now, who are they accountable to?

Are we on their boards when they make decisions about where to channel money?

Will we make the same mistake that we made before?

This is what gives us the hopeless image.

And what is disappointing me is that we are not doing this.

Ten years from now we will have the same story, and we will be repeating the same things.

So our problem right now is, how can we leverage all this good will that is coming towards our way?

I firmly believe in that private sector thing too.

But it cannot do it alone.

So there might be a few ideas we could think of that could work.

They said this is about proliferating and sharing ideas.

So why don't we think of using some of this aid?

That health that you're working on cannot be sustainable without infrastructure.

That education will work better if we've got electricity and railroads, and so on.

That agriculture will work better if there are railroads to get the goods to market.

Don't be shy of it.

Invest some of your resources in that, too."

One of the reasons why China is a bit popular with Africans now -- one of the reasons is not only just that, you know, these people are stupid and China is coming to take resources.

It's because there's a little more leverage in terms of the Chinese.

If you tell them, "We need a road here," they will help you build it.

They don't shy away from infrastructure.

So we can make a catalytic to help us provide some of that.

Now I realize -- I'm not saying -- health and education -- no, you can also provide that as well.

But I'm saying it's not either or.

Let's see how aid can be a facilitator in partnership.

One idea.

Why can't some of this aid be used as a kind of guarantee mechanisms, to enable people to take risk? 

OK, so let me not forget my punchline.

One of the things I want everybody to collaborate on is to support women, to create jobs.

And we know, studies have shown that when you put resources in the hand of the woman -- in fact, there's an econometric study, the World Bank Review, done in 2000, showing that transfers into the hands of women result in healthier children, more for the household, more for the economy and all that.

So I'm saying that one of the takeaways from here -- I'm not saying the men are not important -- obviously, if you leave the husbands out, what will they do?

They'll come back home and get disgruntled, and it will result in difficulties we don't want.

We don't want men beating their wives because they don't have a job, and so on. 

But at the margin, we also -- I want to push this, because the reason is the men automatically -- they get -- not automatically, but they tend to get more support.

There are people creating jobs.

Beatrice Gakuba has created 200 jobs from her flower business in Rwanda.

She needs another 20 million.

She will create another 100, 200 more jobs.

