Well, first of all, let me thank Emeka -- as a matter of fact, TED Global -- for putting this conference together.

This conference is going to rank as the most important in the beginning of the 21st century.

Even before they do that they will ask for foreign aid.

I call them the Cheetah Generation.

The Cheetah Generation is a new breed of Africans who brook no nonsense about corruption.

They understand what accountability and democracy is.

They're not going to wait for government to do things for them.

In contrast, of course, we have the Hippo Generation. 

The Hippo Generation are the ruling elites.

They are stuck in their intellectual patch.

Complaining about colonialism and imperialism, they wouldn't move one foot.

Now, we're talking about a continent that is not poor.

It is rich in mineral resources, natural mineral resources.

But the mineral wealth of Africa is not being utilized to lift its people out of poverty.

That's what makes a lot of Africans very angry.

And in a way, Africa is more than a tragedy, in more ways than one.

They don't understand.

Now, we're not saying don't help Africa.

Helping Africa is noble.

But helping Africa has been turned into a theater of the absurd.

It's like the blind leading the clueless. 

There are certain things that we need to recognize.

Africa's begging-bowl leaks.

Did you know that 40 percent of the wealth created in Africa is not invested here in Africa?

It's taken out of Africa.

That's what the World Bank says.

There are people who think that we should pour more money, more aid into this bowl which leaks.

What are the leakages?

Corruption alone costs Africa 148 billion dollars a year.

Yes, put that aside.

Let's take food imports.

Every year Africa spends 20 billion dollars to import food.

Just add that up, all these leakages.

That's far more than the 50 billion Tony Blair wants to raise for Africa.

Now, back in the 1960s Africa not only fed itself, it also exported food.

Not anymore. 

Now, the previous speaker before me, Idris Mohammed, indicated that we've had abysmal leadership in Africa.

That characterization, in my view, is even more charitable. 

I let that pass. 

My point is, they couldn't go beyond 15.

Even if they had been able to name me 20, what does that tell you?

Now, this leadership is a far cry from the traditional leaders that Africans have known for centuries.

What you and I understand as a government doesn't exist in many African countries.

Government is the problem in Africa.

A vampire state is the government -- (Applause) -- which has been hijacked by a phalanx of bandits and crooks who use the instruments of state power to enrich themselves, their cronies, and tribesmen and exclude everybody else.

Where do they get their money?

By creating wealth?

The third fundamental issue that we have to recognize is that if we want to help the African people, we must know where the African people are.

There is the modern sector, there is the informal sector and the traditional sector.

The modern sector is the abode of the elites.

It's the seat of government.

In many African countries the modern sector is lost.

It's dysfunctional.

Now the modern sector, of course, is where a lot of the development aid and resources went into.

More than 80 percent of Ivory Coast's development went into the modern sector.

But that's not what we did.

As a matter of fact, we neglected the informal and the traditional sectors.

All right, you cannot develop Africa by ignoring the informal and the traditional sectors.

And you can't develop the informal and the traditional sectors without an operational understanding of how these two sectors work.

These two sectors, let me describe to you, have their own indigenous institutions.

If you look into their traditional systems, Africans organize their states in two types.

In Ashanti tradition, for example, the chief cannot make any decision without the concurrence of the council of elders.

Without the council the chief can't pass any law, and if the chief doesn't govern according to the will of the people he will be removed.

If not, the people will abandon the chief, go somewhere else and set up a new settlement.

In the economic system in traditional Africa, the means of production is privately owned.

It's owned by extended families.

You see, in the West, the basic economic and social unit is the individual.

The American will say, "I am because I am, and I can damn well do anything I want, anytime."

The extended family system pools its resources together. 

They don't take any orders from their chiefs.

They decide what to do.

And when they produce their crops, they sell the surplus on marketplaces.

When they make a profit it is theirs to keep, not for the chief to sequester it from them.

So, in a nutshell, what we had in traditional Africa was a free-market system.

There were markets in Africa before the colonialists stepped foot on the continent.

Timbuktu was one great big market town.

Kano, Salaga -- they were all there.

Even if you go to West Africa, you notice that market activity in West Africa has always been dominated by women.

So, it's quite appropriate that this section is called a marketplace.

The market is not alien to Africa. 

Nonsense.

And even then, what kind of socialism did they practice?

That is not the kind of system Africans had known for centuries.

What do we do now?

Could you please show that?

The men are going fishing in these small boats.

Yes, it's an enterprise.

This is by a local Ghanaian entrepreneur, using his own capital.

A bigger boat will mean more fish will be caught and landed.

It means that he will be able to employ more Ghanaians.

It also means that he will be able to generate wealth.

And then it will have what economists call external effects on a local economy.

All that you need to do, all that the elites need to do, is to move this operation into something that is enclosed so that the operation can be made more efficient. 

Now, it is not just this informal sector.

There is also traditional medicine.

80 percent of Africans still rely on traditional medicine.

The modern healthcare sector has totally collapsed.

Now, this is an area -- I mean, there is a treasure trove of wealth in the traditional medicine area.

We also need to mobilize Africans in the Diaspora, not only to go into the traditional sectors, but to go into agriculture and also to instigate change from within.

We were able to mobilize Ghanaians in the Diaspora to instigate change in Ghana and bring about democracy in Ghana.

And I know that with the Cheetahs, we can take Africa back one village at a time.

Thank you very much. 

