I've been watching, since I grew up, the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences.

Students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them, but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident.

It's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone.

We don't want to do that to our students.

So we have an opportunity to really open up education. 

They could have a mental image of the cell as a large, bustling, hugely complicated city that's occupied by micro-machines. 

And these micro-machines really are at the heart of life.

These micro-machines, which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over, are self-directed, powerful, precise, accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids.

So we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together.

So these molecular motors -- we had to work with the Harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved, and figure out what they did.

And figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on, but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening. 

Run the movie, please. 

And the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly, from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes.

No life, from the smallest life to everybody here, would be possible without these little micro-machines.

This is the FedEx delivery guy of the cell.

And each of us has about 100,000 of these things running around, right now, inside each one of your 100 trillion cells.

Once we figure out all that's going on -- and believe me, we know almost a percent of what's going on -- once we figure out what's going on, we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health, with what we do with future generations, and how long we're going to live.

