This is a recent comic strip from the Los Angeles Times.

The punch line?

Did you ever notice that four in the morning has become some sort of meme or shorthand?

It means something like you are awake at the worst possible hour. 

Could it be there is something more going on here?

Something deliberate, something secret, and who got the four in the morning bad rap ball rolling anyway?

I say this guy -- Alberto Giacometti, shown here with some of his sculptures on the Swiss 100 franc note.

I believe that this so-called first surrealist sculpture may provide an incredible key to virtually every artistic depiction of four in the morning to follow it.

I call this The Giacometti Code, a TED exclusive.

No, feel free to follow along on your Blackberries or your iPhones if you've got them. 

But what, you may ask, do a Polish poet, a British Dame, a country music hall of famer all have in common besides this totally excellent Google ranking? 

In 1996, he shot himself in the head on December ninth -- which incidentally is Judi Dench's birthday. 

Where was Wislawa Szymborska during all this?

She has the world's most absolutely watertight alibi.

On that very day, December 10, 1996 while Mr. Four in the Morning, Faron Young, was giving up the ghost in Nashville, Tennessee, Ms. Four in the Morning -- or one of them anyway -- Wislawa Szymborska was in Stockholm, Sweden, accepting the Nobel Prize for Literature.

100 years to the day after the death of Alfred Nobel himself.

Coincidence to me has a much simpler metric.

In fact there are people in this room who may not want me to show you this clip we're about to see. 

Video: Homer Simpson: We have a tennis court, a swimming pool, a screening room -- You mean if I want pork chops, even in the middle of the night, your guy will fry them up? 

And no, I don't know how it works into the whole puzzling scheme of things, but obviously I know a coded message when I see one. 

I said, I know a coded message when I see one.

And how far down into it you figure we'll have to scroll to get to the golden ticket?

By his own writing, this man was either asleep, at a prayer meeting with Al and Tipper or learning how to launch a nuclear missile out of a suitcase.

What happens to American presidents at 0400 on inauguration day?

What happened to William Jefferson Clinton?

It could get awkward, right?

