So I want to talk to you today about AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa.

You probably know that roughly 25 million people in Africa are infected with the virus, that AIDS is a disease of poverty, and that if we can bring Africa out of poverty, we would decrease AIDS as well.

If you follow policy, you probably know that a few years ago the president pledged 15 billion dollars to fight the epidemic over five years, and a lot of that money is going to go to programs that try to replicate Uganda and use behavior change to encourage people and decrease the epidemic. 

And I'm not really going to talk much about the economy.

I'm not going to tell you about exports and prices.

Here I'm really using the tools of one academic discipline to think about problems of another. 

So we think, first and foremost, AIDS is a policy issue.

And probably for most people in this room, that's how you think about it.

But this talk is going to be about understanding facts about the epidemic.

It's going to be about thinking about how it evolves, and how people respond to it.

So AIDS is a sexually transmitted infection, and it kills you.

So this means that in a place with a lot of AIDS, there's a really significant cost of sex.

If you're an uninfected man living in Botswana, where the HIV rate is 30 percent, if you have one more partner this year -- a long-term partner, girlfriend, mistress -- your chance of dying in 10 years increases by three percentage points. 

That is a huge effect.

And so I think that we really feel like then people should have less sex.

And in fact among gay men in the US we did see that kind of change in the 1980s.

We didn't see anything like that in Africa.

These are just tiny decreases -- two percentage points -- not significant. 

So if you're a software engineer and you're trying to think about whether to add some new functionality to your program, it's important to think about how much it costs.

It's also important to think about what the benefit is.

And one part of that benefit is how much longer you think this program is going to be active.

If version 10 is coming out next week, there's no point in adding more functionality into version nine. 

But your health decisions are the same.

Every time you have a carrot instead of a cookie, every time you go to the gym instead of going to the movies, that's a costly investment in your health.

People really like to have sex.

But, you know, it has a benefit in terms of future longevity.

I think it's possible, if we think about that intuition, and think about that fact, that maybe that explains some of this low behavior change. 

But we really need to test that.

And a great way to test that is to look across areas in Africa and see: do people with more life expectancy change their sexual behavior more?

And the way that I'm going to do that is, I'm going to look across areas with different levels of malaria.

So malaria is a disease that kills you.

It's a disease that kills a lot of adults in Africa, in addition to a lot of children.

And so people who live in areas with a lot of malaria are going to have lower life expectancy than people who live in areas with limited malaria.

So one way to test to see whether we can explain some of this behavior change by differences in life expectancy is to look and see is there more behavior change in areas where there's less malaria. 

So that's what this figure shows you.

This shows you -- in areas with low malaria, medium malaria, high malaria -- what happens to the number of sexual partners as you increase HIV prevalence.

If you look at the blue line, the areas with low levels of malaria, you can see in those areas, actually, the number of sexual partners is decreasing a lot as HIV prevalence goes up.

Areas with medium levels of malaria it decreases some -- it doesn't decrease as much.

This is not just through malaria.

Young women who live in areas with high maternal mortality change their behavior less in response to HIV than young women who live in areas with low maternal mortality.

There's another risk, and they respond less to this existing risk. 

So by itself, I think this tells a lot about how people behave.

It tells us something about why we see limited behavior change in Africa. 

But it also tells us something about policy.

Because if you improve those things, then people are going to have an incentive to avoid AIDS on their own.

But it also tells us something about one of these facts that we talked about before.

Education campaigns, like the one that the president is focusing on in his funding, may not be enough, at least not alone.

If people have no incentive to avoid AIDS on their own, even if they know everything about the disease, they still may not change their behavior. 

So the other thing that I think we learn here is that AIDS is not going to fix itself.

People aren't changing their behavior enough to decrease the growth in the epidemic.

And a great way to learn about policy is to look at what worked in the past.

The reason that we know that the ABC campaign was effective in Uganda is we have good data on prevalence over time.

In Uganda we see the prevalence went down.

Unfortunately, there's almost no good data on HIV prevalence in the general population in Africa until about 2003.

Now in the last few years, we actually have done some good testing.

In Kenya, in Zambia, and a bunch of countries, there's been testing in random samples of the population.

But this leaves us with a big gap in our knowledge.

So I can tell you what the prevalence was in Kenya in 2003, but I can't tell you anything about 1993 or 1983. 

And I started thinking about how else might we figure out what the prevalence of HIV was in Africa in the past.

And I think that the answer is, we can look at mortality data, and we can use mortality data to figure out what the prevalence was in the past. 

And you see they have pretty similar death rates among young kids and old people.

That suggests it's pretty similar levels of development. 

But in this middle region, between 20 and 45, the death rates in Botswana are much, much, much higher than in Egypt.

But since there are very few other diseases that kill people, we can really attribute that mortality to HIV.

But because people who died this year of AIDS got it a few years ago, we can use this data on mortality to figure out what HIV prevalence was in the past.

You can see, almost without exception, the UNAIDS estimates are much higher than the mortality-based estimates.

UNAIDS tell us that the HIV rate in Zambia is 20 percent, and mortality estimates suggest it's only about 5 percent.

And these are not trivial differences in mortality rates.

So this is another way to see this.

But this also tells us that one of these facts that I mentioned in the beginning may not be quite right.

But it does suggest that that number might be a little big.

What I really want to do, is I want to use this new data to try to figure out what makes the HIV epidemic grow faster or slower. 

And I said in the beginning, I wasn't going to tell you about exports.

So I am going to talk about exports and prices.

And I want to talk about the relationship between economic activity, in particular export volume, and HIV infections. 

So obviously, as an economist, I'm deeply familiar with the fact that development, that openness to trade, is really good for developing countries.

It's good for improving people's lives.

On Wednesday, I learned from Laurie Garrett that I'm definitely going to get the bird flu, and I wouldn't be at all worried about that if we never had any contact with Asia. 

And HIV is actually particularly closely linked to transit.

The epidemic was introduced to the US by actually one male steward on an airline flight, who got the disease in Africa and brought it back.

And that was the genesis of the entire epidemic in the US.

In Africa, epidemiologists have noted for a long time that truck drivers and migrants are more likely to be infected than other people.

Areas with a lot of economic activity -- with a lot of roads, with a lot of urbanization -- those areas have higher prevalence than others. 

So the data that I have suggests that if you double export volume, it will lead to a quadrupling of new HIV infections. 

So this has important implications both for forecasting and for policy.

From a forecasting perspective, if we know where trade is likely to change, for example, because of the African Growth and Opportunities Act or other policies that encourage trade, we can actually think about which areas are likely to be heavily infected with HIV.

And we can go and we can try to have pre-emptive preventive measures there.

Likewise, as we're developing policies to try to encourage exports, if we know there's this externality -- this extra thing that's going to happen as we increase exports -- we can think about what the right kinds of policies are. 

But it also tells us something about one of these things that we think that we know.

Even though it is the case that poverty is linked to AIDS, in the sense that Africa is poor and they have a lot of AIDS, it's not necessarily the case that improving poverty -- at least in the short run, that improving exports and improving development -- it's not necessarily the case that that's going to lead to a decline in HIV prevalence. 

It's been widely heralded.

It's been replicated in Kenya, and Tanzania, and South Africa and many other places.

But now I want to actually also question that.

There was a big decline in coffee prices.

Coffee is Uganda's major export.

Their exports went down a lot in the early 1990s -- and actually that decline lines up really, really closely with this decline in new HIV infections.

So you can see that both of these series -- the black line is export value, the red line is new HIV infections -- you can see they're both increasing.

Starting about 1987 they're both going down a lot.

But that's enormously important for policy.

We're spending so much money to try to replicate this campaign.

And maybe this tells us that we should be thinking more about those things. 

And I hope that I've convinced you maybe that it's important to understand things about the epidemic in order to think about policy. 

But more than anything, you know, I'm an academic.

And when I leave here, I'm going to go back and sit in my tiny office, and my computer, and my data.

And the thing that's most exciting about that is every time I think about research, there are more questions.

There are more things that I think that I want to do.

And what's really, really great about being here is I'm sure that the questions that you guys have are very, very different than the questions that I think up myself.

And I can't wait to hear about what they are.

So thank you very much. 

