So I really consider myself a storyteller.

Instead, I'm really interested in building tools that allow large numbers of other people to tell their stories, people all around the world.

I do this because I think that people actually have a lot in common.

I think people are very similar, but I also think that we have trouble seeing that. 

You know, as I look around the world I see a lot of gaps, and I think we all see a lot of gaps.

And we define ourselves by our gaps.

There's language gaps, there's ethnicity and racial gaps, there's age gaps, there's gender gaps, there's sexuality gaps, there's wealth and money gaps, there's education gaps, there's also religious gaps.

But I think that actually, despite our gaps, we really have a lot in common.

And I think one thing we have in common is a very deep need to express ourselves.

This, also, is nothing new.

What's new is that in the last several years a lot of these very traditional physical human activities, these acts of self-expression, have been moving onto the Internet.

One project that explores these ideas, which was made about a year ago, is a piece called We Feel Fine.

All of this information is saved in a database that collects about 20,000 feelings a day.

It's been running for about a year and a half.

It's reached about seven-and-a-half million human feelings now.

And I'll show you a glimpse of how this information is then visualized.

And all of these are stated by people: "I know that objectively it really doesn't mean much, but after spending so many years as a small fish in a big pond, it's nice to feel bigger again."

And then they also exhibit curiosity.

You can see a few of them are swarming around the cursor right now.

There's also Murmurs, Montage, Mobs, Metrics and Mounds.

And I'll walk you through a few of those now.

Murmurs causes all of the feelings to fly to the ceiling.

The next movement is called Montage.

Montage causes all of the feelings that contain photographs to become extracted and display themselves in a grid.

This grid is then said to represent the picture of the world's feelings in the last few hours, if you will.

Each of these can be clicked and we can blow it up.

These are automatically constructed using the found objects: "I think I feel a little full."

The next movement is called mobs.

Mobs provides different statistical breakdowns of the population of the world's feelings in the last few hours.

We can also get a gender breakdown.

The cloudy ones float along as if they're on a breeze.

Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their positions on a world map showing the geographical distribution of feelings.

Metrics provides more numerical views on the data.

We see that the world is feeling "used" at 3.3 times the normal level right now. 

They're feeling "warm" at 2.9 times the normal level, and so on.

Other views are also available.

Here are gender, age, weather, location. 

The final movement is called Mounds.

It's a bit different from the others.

And then if I go over here, the list begins to scroll, and there are actually thousands of feelings that have been collected.

But I'll spare you that.

So as you can see, We Feel Fine uses a technique that I call "passive observation."

Another technique is directly questioning people.

And this is a technique that I explored in a different project, the Yahoo!

There are two modes to the time capsule.

There's One World, which presents the spinning globe, and Many Voices, which splits the data out into film strips and lets you sift through them one by one.

And we also projected the contents of the time capsule as binary code using a 35-watt laser into outer space.

But, you know, as I looked at this more and more and more, and saw these images go across the rocks, I realized I was seeing the same archetypal events depicted again and again and again.

And there was something very moving about all of this human expression being shot off into the night sky. 

And as an adult, I've been more aware of the great Greek myths playing out in the sky overhead every night.

And it caused me to wonder about our world today.

If we could make new pictures in the sky, what would we draw?

What are the great stories of today? 

Nobody's seen this yet, publicly.

It's called Universe: Revealing Our Modern Mythology.

And it uses this metaphor of an interactive night sky.

So, it's my great pleasure now to show this to you. 

So, Universe will open here.

So you see this kind of -- these stars moving along. 

Now, these aren't just little points of light, little pixels.

And you might notice that as the cursor begins to touch some of these stars, that shapes begin to emerge.

We see here there's a little man walking along, or maybe a woman.

And we see here a photograph with a head.

You can start to see words emerging here.

And I can turn them all on, and you can see them moving across the sky now. 

This is the universe of 2007, the last two months.

The data from this is global news coverage from thousands of news sources around the world.

It's using the API of a really great company that I work with in New York, actually, called Daylife.

And it's kind of the zeitgeist view at this level of the world's current mythology over the last couple of months. 

President Ford -- this is Gerald Ford's funeral.

We can isolate just the photographs, and we now see those.

We can click on one of those and have the photograph be the center of the universe.

Now the things that relate to it are swirling around.

We can click on this and we see this iconic image of Betty Ford kissing her husband's coffin. 

This is a photographic representation, called Snapshots.

But we can actually be more specific in defining our universe.

So, if we want to, let's check out what Bill Clinton's universe looks like.

And let's see, in the past week, what he's been up to.

So now, we have a new universe, which is just constrained to all things Bill Clinton.

We can have his constellations emerge here.

Any of those can be opened up.

So we see Obama and the Clintons meet in Alabama.

You can click any of those to go out and read the article at the source.

So this is a piece that demands exploration. 

You'll notice that in Daylife -- rather, in Universe -- it supports both the notion of a global mythology, which is represented by something as broad as, say, 2007, and also a personal mythology.

As you search for the things that are important to you in your world, and then see what the constellations of those might look like. 

