I'm going to talk to you today about hopefully converting fear into hope.

When we go to the physician today -- when we go to the doctor's office and we walk in, there are words that we just don't want to hear.

There are words that we're truly afraid of.

And we're going to do all of that in 18 minutes, I promise. 

I want to start with this slide, because this slide sort of tells the story the way Science Magazine thinks of it.

It was basically a regenerative medicine issue.

Regenerative medicine is an extraordinarily simple concept that everybody can understand.

So we know how to do this in many of the ways that are up there.

We know that if we have a damaged hip, you can put an artificial hip in.

And this is the idea that Science Magazine used on their front cover. 

This is the complete antithesis of regenerative medicine.

This is not regenerative medicine.

So that at the end of the treatment, you are the same as you were at the beginning of the treatment. 

Very few good ideas -- if you agree that this is a good idea -- very few good ideas are truly novel.

And this is just the same.

If you look back in history, Charles Lindbergh, who was better known for flying airplanes, was actually one of the first people along with Alexis Carrel, one of the Nobel Laureates from Rockefeller, to begin to think about, could you culture organs?

And they published this book in 1937, where they actually began to think about, what could you do in bio-reactors to grow whole organs?

We've come a long way since then.

I'm going to share with you some of the exciting work that's going on. 

But before doing that, what I'd like to do is share my depression about the health care system and the need for this with you.

One of the challenges is that the richer we are, the longer we live.

This is simply the wealth of a country versus the percent of population over the age of 65.

And you can basically see that the richer a country is, the older the people are within it.

Why is this important?

And why is this a particularly dramatic challenge right now?

Just have a look at the demographics in the U.S. here.

This is from "The Untied States of America."

In 1930, there were 41 workers per retiree.

41 people who were basically outside of being really sick, paying for the one retiree who was experiencing debilitating disease.

This is age versus cost of health care.

And about seven years before you're about to die, there's a spike.

All those things do is change who pays.

They don't actually change what the actual cost of the treatment is. 

You can prevent.

Obviously a lot of monies should be put into prevention. 

Think of it in terms of diabetes, for instance.

Today, with diabetes, what do we do?

And it might be a little bit expensive at the time that we did it, but if it worked, we would truly be able to do something different. 

This video, I think, gets across the concept that I'm talking about quite dramatically.

This is a newt re-growing its limb.

If a newt can do this kind of thing, why can't we?

I'll actually show you some more important features about limb regeneration in a moment.

I would pose to you that tomorrow -- and when tomorrow is we could debate, but it's within the foreseeable future -- we will talk about regenerative rehabilitation.

There's a limb prosthetic up here, similar actually one on the soldier that's come back from Iraq.

There are 370 soldiers that have come back from Iraq that have lost limbs.

I'll show you where we are at the moment in working towards that concept. 

But it's applicable, again, to every organ system.

How can we do that?

The way to do that is to develop a conversation with the body.

We need to learn to speak the body's language.

And to switch on processes that we knew how to do when we were a fetus.

A mammalian fetus, if it loses a limb during the first trimester of pregnancy, will re-grow that limb.

So our DNA has the capacity to do these kinds of wound-healing mechanisms.

It's a natural process, but it is lost as we age.

In a child, before the age of about six months, if they lose their fingertip in an accident, they'll re-grow their fingertip.

By the time they're five, they won't be able to do that anymore. 

So to engage in that conversation with the body, we need to speak the body's language.

And there are certain tools in our toolbox that allow us to do this today.

I'm going to give you an example of three of these tools through which to converse with the body. 

The first is cellular therapies.

Clearly, we heal ourselves in a natural process, using cells to do most of the work.

Therefore, if we can find the right cells and implant them in the body, they may do the healing.

Secondly, we can use materials.

We heard yesterday about the importance of new materials.

If we can invent materials, design materials, or extract materials from a natural environment, then we might be able to have those materials induce the body to heal itself.

And finally, we may be able to use smart devices that will offload the work of the body and allow it to heal. 

Steve Badylak -- who's at the University of Pittsburgh -- about a decade ago had a remarkable idea.

And that idea was that the small intestine of a pig, if you threw away all the cells, and if you did that in a way that allowed it to remain biologically active, may contain all of the necessary factors and signals that would signal the body to heal itself.

And he asked a very important question.

He asked the question, if I take that material, which is a natural material that usually induces healing in the small intestine, and I place it somewhere else on a person's body, would it give a tissue-specific response, or would it make small intestine if I tried to make a new ear? 

I wouldn't be telling you this story if it weren't compelling.

What I'm about to show you is a diabetic ulcer.

And although -- it's good to laugh before we look at this.

This is the reality of diabetes.

The treatment for this is amputation.

And this lady decided, after a year of attempted treatment of that ulcer, that she would try this new therapy that Steve invented.

That's what the wound looked like 11 weeks later.

That material contained only natural signals.

If the horse was in pain, I wouldn't show you this slide.

The horse just has another nostril that's developed because of a riding accident.

Just a few weeks after treatment -- in this case, taking that material, turning it into a gel, and packing that area, and then repeating the treatment a few times -- and the horse heals up.

And if you took an ultrasound of that area, it would look great. 

Here's a dolphin where the fin's been re-attached.

There are now 400,000 patients around the world who have used that material to heal their wounds.

Could you regenerate a limb?

And I'll show you the 15 million dollar picture.

This is a 78 year-old man who's lost the end of his fingertip.

Remember that I mentioned before the children who lose their fingertips.

After treatment that's what it looks like.

This is happening today.

This is clinically relevant today.

But could you go a little further?

Could you, say, instead of using material, can I take some cells along with the material, and remove a damaged piece of tissue, put a bio-degradable material on there?

You can see here a little bit of heart muscle beating in a dish.

This was done by Teruo Okano at Tokyo Women's Hospital.

He can actually grow beating tissue in a dish.

He chills the dish, it changes its properties and he peels it right out of the dish.

It's the coolest stuff. 

Now I'm going to show you cell-based regeneration.

And what I'm going to show you here is stem cells being removed from the hip of a patient.

Again, if you're squeamish, you don't want to watch.

But this one's kind of cool.

In this case, at the end of the bypass operation, you're going to see the stem cells from the patient that were removed at the beginning of the procedure being injected directly into the heart of the patient.

And I'm standing up here because at one point I'm going to show you just how early this technology is.

Here go the stem cells, right into the beating heart of the patient.

And if you look really carefully, it's going to be right around this point you'll actually see a back-flush.

You see the cells coming back out.

We need all sorts of new technology, new devices, to get the cells to the right place at the right time. 

Just a little bit of data, a tiny bit of data.

Basically, if you take an extremely sick patient and you give them a bypass, they get a little bit better.

If you give them stem cells as well as their bypass, for these particular patients, they became asymptomatic.

These are now two years out.

The coolest thing would be is if you could diagnose the disease early, and prevent the onset of the disease to a bad state. 

This is the same procedure, but now done minimally invasively, with only three holes in the body where they're taking the heart and simply injecting stem cells through a laparoscopic procedure.

There go the cells.

We don't have time to go into all of those details, but basically, that works too.

This is the work of Kacey Marra from Pittsburgh, along with a number of colleagues around the world.

(Laughter) It's a great source of stem cells.

Stem cells are packed in that liposuction fluid.

All done in the lab.

And I think fairly soon, you will see patients being treated with their own fat-derived, or adipose-derived, stem cells. 

I talked before about the use of devices to dramatically change the way we treat disease.

Here's just one example before I close up.

This is equally tragic.

Many of those patients are very severely burned. 

And if there's anything that's been learned about burn, it's that we don't know how to treat it.

Everything that is done to treat burn -- basically we do a sodding approach.

In this case here, a new, wearable bio-reactor has been designed -- it should be tested clinically later this year at ISR -- by Joerg Gerlach in Pittsburgh.

And that bio-reactor will lay down in the wound bed.

The gun that you see there sprays cells.

That's going to spray cells over that area.

It's a completely different way of doing it. 

So my 18 minutes is up.

The good news is that this is happening today.

It's very powerful work.

Almost every field of science engineering and clinical practice is involved in trying to get this to happen. 

A number of governments, and a number of regions, have recognized that this is a new way to treat disease.

The Japanese government were perhaps the first, when they decided to invest first 3 billion, later another 2 billion in this field.

It's no coincidence.

So they're putting a lot of strategic investment focused in this area.

We've had a different approach.

And the approach has basically been to just sort of fund things as they come along.

But there's been no strategic investment to bring all of the necessary things to bear and focus them in a careful way. 

And I'm going to finish up with a quote, maybe a little cheap shot, at the director of the NIH, who's a very charming man.

Thank you. 

