What do they think it is that prevents the products of human ingenuity from being themselves, fruits of the tree of life, and hence, in some sense, obeying evolutionary rules?

And yet people are interestingly resistant to the idea of applying evolutionary thinking to thinking -- to our thinking. 

What goals is this ant trying to achieve by climbing this blade of grass?

Well then, why is it doing this?

It's a little brain worm.

So there's nothing in it for the ant.

Pretty scary. 

Well, does anything like that happen with human beings?

This is all on behalf of a cause other than one's own genetic fitness, of course.

Well, it's ideas -- not worms -- that hijack our brains.

Now, am I saying that a sizable minority of the world's population has had their brain hijacked by parasitic ideas?

No, it's worse than that.

Most people have.

These are just a few of the ideas that are to die for.

They're infectious. 

Yesterday, Amory Lovins spoke about "infectious repititis."

Well, most of the cultural spread that goes on is not brilliant, new, out-of-the-box thinking.

Hosts work hard to spread these ideas to others.

I myself am a philosopher, and one of our occupational hazards is that people ask us what the meaning of life is.

So, this is mine. 

The secret of happiness is: Find something more important than you are and dedicate your life to it.

Most of us -- now that the "Me Decade" is well in the past -- now we actually do this.

One set of ideas or another have simply replaced our biological imperatives in our own lives.

This is what our summum bonum is.

It's not maximizing the number of grandchildren we have.

Now, this is a profound biological effect.

It's the subordination of genetic interest to other interests.

And no other species does anything at all like it. 

Unmistakable.

Richard Dawkins, whom you'll be hearing later in the day, invented the term "memes," and put forward the first really clear and vivid version of this idea in his book "The Selfish Gene."

But it's everybody's idea now.

And he's not responsible for what I say about memes.

I'm responsible for what I say about memes. 

Actually, I think we're all responsible for not just the intended effects of our ideas, but for their likely misuses.

And it's just about a full-time job trying to prevent people who are scared of these ideas from caricaturing them and then running off to one dire purpose or another.

So we have to keep plugging away, trying to correct the misapprehensions so that only the benign and useful variants of our ideas continue to spread.

That's what Richard said, back in '93.

A virus is a string of nucleic acid with attitude.

What's a word made of?

Then there's all the other memes that can't be pronounced.

Simple, beautiful furniture?

And, of course, they're basically extinct now.

They survived as long as they did at a time when the social safety nets weren't there.

And there were lots of widows and orphans, people like that, who needed a foster home.

And so they had a ready supply of converts.

And they could keep it going.

So the ideas can live on in spite of the fact that they're not being passed on genetically.

It's part of their plan.

They don't have to have minds to have a plan. 

I'm just going to draw your attention to just one of the many implications of the memetic perspective, which I recommend.

I've not time to go into more of it.

In Jared Diamond's wonderful book, "Guns, Germs and Steel," he talks about how it was germs, more than guns and steel, that conquered the new hemisphere -- the Western hemisphere -- that conquered the rest of the world.

And they just wiped out -- these pathogens just wiped out the native people, who had no immunity to them at all. 

And we're doing it again.

We're doing it this time with toxic ideas.

Now, this has been realized for some time.

Sayyid Qutb is one of the founding fathers of fanatical Islam, one of the ideologues that inspired Osama bin Laden.

"One has only to glance at its press films, fashion shows, beauty contests, ballrooms, wine bars and broadcasting stations."

These memes are spreading around the world and they are wiping out whole cultures.

They're like a mild cold.

They're not a big deal for us.

But we should recognize that for many people in the world, they are a big deal.

Well now, how are we going to tell the good memes from the bad memes?

This is not the place for hate and anger.

If you've had a friend who's died of AIDS, then you hate HIV.

And, as with germs, the trick is not to try to annihilate them.

You will never annihilate the germs.

