First place I'd like to take you is what many believe will be the world's deepest natural abyss.

And I say believe because this process is still ongoing.

Right now there are major expeditions being planned for next year that I'll talk a little bit about. 

We can now descend thousands of meters into the Earth with relative impunity.

Along the way we've discovered fantastic abysses and chambers so large that you can see for hundreds of meters without a break in the line of sight.

When you go on a thing like this, we can usually be in the field for anywhere from two to four months, with a team as small as 20 or 30, to as big as 150. 

While our selection process is not as rigorous as NASA, it's nonetheless thorough.

We're looking for competence, discipline, endurance, and strength.

In case you're wondering, this is our strength test.

(Laughter) But we also value esprit de corps and the ability to diplomatically resolve inter-personal conflict while under great stress in remote locations. 

We have already gone far beyond the limits of human endurance.

We're roughly two days from the entrance at that point.

Otherwise it is completely dark in these places. 

The deeper you go, the more you run into a conflict with water.

It's basically like a tree collecting water coming down.

So I've got a very brief clip here that was taken in the late 1980s.

So descend into Huautla Plateau in Mexico.

(Laughter) 

Next year I'll be leading an international team to J2.

We're going to be shooting from minus 2,600 meters -- that's a little over 8,600 feet down -- at 30 kilometers from the entrance.

The lead crews will be underground for pushing 30 days straight.

I don't think there's been a mission like that in a long time. 

Eventually, if you keep going down in these things, probability says that you're going to run into a place like this.

It's a place where there's a fold in the geologic stratum that collects water and fills to the roof.

And when you used to find these things, they would put a label on a map that said terminal siphon.

Now I remember that term really well for two reasons.

Number one, it's the name of my rock band, and second, is because the confrontation of these things forced me to become an inventor.

And we've since gone on to develop many generations of gadgets for exploring places like this. 

This is some life-support equipment closed-cycle.

And you can use that now to go for many kilometers horizontally underwater and to depths of 200 meters straight down underwater.

When you do this kind of stuff it's like doing EVA.

It's like doing extra-vehicular activity in space, but at much greater distances, and at much greater physical peril.

So it makes you think about how to design your equipment for long range, away from a safe haven. 

This is where the last little nugget of totally unknown territory remains on this planet.

To experience it is a privilege. 

It was developed within a two-year period and used on actual exploratory projects.

It was that gadget that serendipitously opened a door to another unexplored world. 

This is Europa.

For those who have never seen this story, Jim Cameron produced a really wonderful IMAX movie couple of years ago, called "Aliens of the Deep."

There was a brief clip -- 

It has to be smart enough to avoid terrain hazards and to find a good landing site on the ice.

Now we have to get through the ice.

You need a melt probe.

It's basically a nuclear-heated torpedo.

You need an AUV, an autonomous underwater vehicle.

I mean, I cut through three years of engineering meetings, design and system integration, and introduced DEPTHX -- Deep Phreatic Thermal Explorer.

And as the movie says, this is one smart puppy.

It's got 96 sensors, 36 onboard computers, 100,000 lines of behavioral autonomy code, packs more than 10 kilos of TNT in electrical onboard equivalent. 

This is the target site, the world's deepest hydrothermal spring at Cenote Zacaton in northern Mexico.

It's been explored to a depth of 292 meters and beyond that nobody knows anything.

This is part of DEPTHX's mission. 

There are two primary targets we're doing here.

One is, how do you do science autonomy underground?

How do you take a robot and turn it into a field microbiologist?

We calculate gradient surfaces, and drive the bot over to a wall where there's a high probability of life.

We move along the wall, in what's called proximity operations, looking for changes in color.

If we see something that looks interesting, we pull it into a microscope.

If it passes the microscopic test, we go for a collection.

The real hat trick for this vehicle, though, is a disruptive new navigation system we've developed, known as 3D SLAM, for simultaneous localization and mapping.

DEPTHX is an all-seeing eyeball.

Its sensor beams look both forward and backward at the same time, allowing it to do new exploration while it's still achieving geometric sensor-lock on what it's gone through already. 

What I'm going to show you next is the first fully autonomous robotic exploration underground that's ever been done.

This May, we're going to go from minus 1,000 meters in Zacaton, and if we're very lucky, DEPTHX will bring back the first robotically-discovered division of bacteria.

The next step after that is to test it in Antartica and then, if the funding continues and NASA has the resolution to go, we could potentially launch by 2016, and by 2019 we may have the first evidence of life off this planet. 

What then of manned space exploration?

The government recently announced plans to return to the moon by 2024.

It will leave us no further along in the general expansion of humanity into space than we were 50 years ago.

And I hope you'll bear with me and have some faith that there's credibility behind what we're going to say here.

There are three underpinnings of working in space privately.

One of them is the requirement for economical earth-to-space transport.

The next thing we need are places to stay on orbit.

Orbital hotels to start with, but workshops for the rest of us later on.

The final missing piece, the real paradigm-buster, is this: a gas station on orbit.

It's not going to look like that.

If it existed, it would change all future spacecraft design and space mission planning. 

And the first thing is everything you do in space you pay by the kilogram.

Anybody drink one of these here this week?

You'd pay 10,000 dollars for that in orbit.

Thus, every time you'd want to do anything in space, you are literally blowing away enormous sums of money every time you hit the accelerator.

Not even the guys at Tesla can fight that physics. 

So, what if you could get your gas at a 10th the price?

There is a place where you can.

There is a little-known mission that was launched by the Pentagon, 13 years ago now, called Clementine.

And the most amazing thing that came out of that mission was a strong hydrogen signature at Shackleton crater on the south pole of the moon.

That signal was so strong, it could only have been produced by 10 trillion tons of water buried in the sediment, collected over millions and billions of years by the impact of asteroids and comet material. 

If we're going to get that, and make that gas station possible, we have to figure out ways to move large volumes of payload through space.

We can't do that right now.

The way you normally build a system right now is you have a tube stack that has to be launched from the ground, and resist all kinds of aerodynamic forces.

We have to beat that.

We can do it because in space there are no aerodynamics.

We can go and use inflatable systems for almost everything.

This is an idea that, again, came out of Livermore back in 1989, with Dr. Lowell Wood's group.

And we can extend that now to just about everything.

Bob Bigelow currently has a test article in the orbit.

There's another thing.

When you're coming back from the moon, you have to deal with orbital mechanics.

It says you're moving 10,000 feet per second faster than you really want to be to get back to your gas station. 

You got two choices.

You can burn rocket fuel to get there, or you can do something really incredible.

You can dive into the stratosphere, and precisely dissipate that velocity, and come back out to the space station.

It has never been done.

The traditional approach to space exploration has been that you carry all the fuel you need to get everybody back in case of an emergency.

If you try to do that for the moon, you're going to burn a billion dollars in fuel alone sending a crew out there.

But, if you were truly bold you could get it there, manufacture it, and it would be the most dramatic demonstration that you could do something worthwhile off this planet that has ever been done.

There's a myth that you can't do anything in space for less than a trillion dollars and 20 years.

That's not true.

In seven years, we could pull off an industrial mission to Shackleton and demonstrate that you could provide commercial reality out of this in low-earth orbit. 

We're living in one of the most exciting times in history.

We're at a magical confluence where private wealth and imagination are driving the demand for access to space.

The orbital refueling stations I've just described could create an entirely new industry and provide the final key for opening space to the general exploration.

To bust the paradigm a radically different approach is needed.

We can do it by jump-starting with an industrial Lewis and Clark expedition to Shackleton crater, to mine the moon for resources, and demonstrate they can form the basis for a profitable business on orbit. 

Talk about space always seems to be hung on ambiguities of purpose and timing.

I would like to close here by putting a stake in the sand at TED.

I intend to lead that expedition.

(Applause) It can be done in seven years with the right backing.

There was once a time when people did bold things to open the frontier.

We have collectively forgotten that lesson.

Now we're at a time when boldness is required to move forward.

100 years after Sir Ernest Shackleton wrote these words, I intend to plant an industrial flag on the moon and complete the final piece that will open the space frontier, in our time, for all of us.

