I told you three things last year.

I told you that the statistics of the world have not been made properly available.

Because of that, we still have the old mindset of developing in industrialized countries, which is wrong.

And that animated graphics can make a difference.

(Applause) And if I could share the image with you on the screen.

So three things have happened.

And let me repeat what you saw last year.

The bubbles are the countries.

But then it changed, and it went on quite well. 

And this is what happens.

You can see how China is the red, big bubble.

The blue there is India.

And they go over all this -- I'm going to try to be a little more serious this year in showing you how things really changed.

And it's Africa that stands out as the problem down here, doesn't it?

Large families still, and the HIV epidemic brought down the countries like this.

This is more or less what we saw last year, and this is how it will go on into the future. 

And I will talk on, is this possible?

Will it be possible that this will happen?

And this is where we are today.

Now could we look here instead at the economic situation in the world?

And I would like to show that against child survival.

And this is GDP per capita on this axis.

And this was 2007. 

And if I go back in time, I've added some historical statistics -- here we go, here we go, here we go -- not so much statistics 100 years ago.

And they lost one-fifth of their kids before their first birthday. 

So this is what happens in the world, if we play the entire world.

How they got slowly richer and richer, and they add statistics.

Isn't it beautiful when they get statistics?

It was only by the turn of the century that more than 90 percent of the children survived their first year.

This is India coming up, with the first data from India.

And this is the United States moving away here, earning more money.

And we will soon see China coming up in the very far end corner here.

And it moves up with Mao Tse-Tung getting health, not getting so rich.

And we can see that the United States goes to the right of the mainstream.

They are on the money side all the time.

And that means United States was richer, but lost more kids than India is doing today, proportionally.

And look here -- compare to the Philippines of today.

The Philippines of today has almost the same economy as the United States during the First World War.

But we have to bring United States forward quite a while to find the same health of the United States as we have in the Philippines.

About 1957 here, the health of the United States is the same as the Philippines.

And this is the drama of this world which many call globalized, is that Asia, Arabic countries, Latin America, are much more ahead in being healthy, educated, having human resources than they are economically. 

There's a discrepancy in what's happening today in the emerging economies.

There now, social benefits, social progress, are going ahead of economical progress.

And 1957 -- the United States had the same economy as Chile has today.

And how long do we have to bring United States to get the same health as Chile has today?

I think we have to go, there -- we have 2001, or 2002 -- the United States has the same health as Chile.

Chile's catching up!

Within some years Chile may have better child survival than the United States.

This is really a change, that you have this lag of more or less 30, 40 years' difference on the health. 

Now we can take away this -- and I would like to show you the rate of speed, the rate of change, how fast they have gone.

And we go back to 1920, and I want to look at Japan.

And I want to look at Sweden and the United States.

And they are taking over Sweden, and they are now healthier than Sweden.

And this changes gradually.

We have to look over generations to understand it.

And this is my family.

This is Sweden, 1830, when my great-great-grandma was born.

Sweden was like Sierra Leone today.

And this is when my grandma was born, 1891.

She took care of me as a child, so I'm not talking about statistic now -- now it's oral history in my family.

That's when I believe statistics, when it's grandma-verified statistics.

(Laughter) I think it's the best way of verifying historical statistics.

Sweden was like Ghana.

It's interesting to see the enormous diversity within sub-Saharan Africa.

And my daughter, she was born in Chile, and the grand-daughter was born in Singapore, now the healthiest country on this Earth.

It bypassed Sweden about two to three years ago, with better child survival.

But they're very small, you know?

They're so close to the hospital we can never beat them out in these forests.

(Laughter) But homage to Singapore. 

(Laughter) But homage to Singapore. 

Singapore is the best one.

We can also make the color here represent the variable -- and what am I choosing here?

Carbon-dioxide emission, metric ton per capita.

And what happens when we moved on?

Well, you see the nice story of getting richer and getting healthier -- everyone did it at the cost of emission of carbon dioxide.

There is no one who has done it so far.

And there we are, 2001. 

And in the discussion I attended with global leaders, you know, many say now the problem is that the emerging economies, they are getting out too much carbon dioxide.

But from now on, we count per capita.

From now on we count per capita.

And everyone is responsible for the per capita emission."

This really shows you, we have not seen good economic and health progress anywhere in the world without destroying the climate.

And this is really what has to be changed.

I've been criticized for showing you a too positive image of the world, but I don't think it's like this.

The world is quite a messy place.

This we can call Dollar Street.

Everyone lives on this street here.

What they earn here -- what number they live on -- is how much they earn per day.

This family earns about one dollar per day.

We drive up the street here, we find a family here which earns about two to three dollars a day.

And we drive away here -- we find the first garden in the street, and they earn 10 to 50 dollars a day. 

And how do they live?

And here it's a much nicer bedroom, you can see.

I lectured on this for Ikea, and they wanted to see the sofa immediately here.

(Laughter) And this is the sofa, how it will emerge from there.

It comes beyond here, when you really can get good working conditions in the family.

We can get out of poverty. 

My own research has not been in IT or anything like this.

I spent 20 years in interviews with African farmers who were on the verge of famine.

And this is the result of the farmers-needs research.

When you're in poverty, everything is about survival.

It's about having food.

And these two young farmers, they are girls now -- because the parents are dead from HIV and AIDS -- they discuss with a trained agronomist.

That's one context.

And this woman is very happy now, bringing her products to the market.

It's also good with credit.

Micro-credits gave her the bicycle, you know.

And information will tell her when to go to market with which product.

You can do this. 

I find my experience from 20 years of Africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible.

Africa has not done bad.

In 50 years they've gone from a pre-Medieval situation to a very decent 100-year-ago Europe, with a functioning nation and state.

I would say that sub-Saharan Africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years.

Because we don't consider where they came from.

It's this stupid concept of developing countries that puts us, Argentina and Mozambique together 50 years ago, and says that Mozambique did worse.

We have to know a little more about the world.

I have a neighbor who knows 200 types of wine.

He knows everything.

You make a PowerPoint, you know?

(Laughter) Homage to the Office package, no?

What is this, what is this, what am I telling?

I'm telling you that there are many dimensions of development.

Everyone wants your pet thing.

If you are in the corporate sector, you love micro-credit.

If you are fighting in a non-governmental organization, you love equity between gender.

Or if you are a teacher, you'll love UNESCO, and so on.

On the global level, we have to have more than our own thing.

We need everything.

Now, what we need to think about is, what is a goal for development, and what are the means for development?

Let me first grade what are the most important means.

It was the government that made law function finally.

Education, human resources are important.

Health is also important, but not that much as a mean.

We are not interested in money.

Money is not a goal.

It's the best mean, but I give it zero as a goal.

Governance, well it's fun to vote in a little thing, but it's not a goal.

And that's good, it gets two plusses.

Environment is very, very crucial.

There's nothing for the grandkid if you don't save up.

But where are the important goals?

Of course, it's human rights.

That's the value of living. 

So the seemingly impossible is possible.

Even African countries can achieve this.

And I've shown you the shot where the seemingly impossible is possible.

We can have a good world.

Sword swallowing is from ancient India.

It's a cultural expression that for thousands of years has inspired human beings to think beyond the obvious.

And it's all solid steel -- you can hear here.

And I'm going to take this blade of steel, and push it down through my body of blood and flesh, and prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible.

