What I want to talk to you about today is virtual worlds, digital globes, the 3-D Web, the Metaverse.

What does this all mean for us?

What it means is the Web is going to become an exciting place again.

So the Virtual Earth initiative, and other types of these initiatives, are all about extending our current search metaphor. 

When you think about it, we're so constrained by browsing the Web, remembering URLs, saving favorites.

We want to navigate, explore, discover information.

In order to do that, we have to put you as a user back in the driver's seat.

We need cooperation between you and the computing network and the computer. 

So what better way to put you back in the driver's seat than to put you in the real world that you interact in every day?

Why not leverage the learnings that you've been learning your entire life?

So Virtual Earth is about starting off creating the first digital representation, comprehensive, of the entire world.

Well, we collect data from satellites, from airplanes, from ground vehicles, from people.

This process is an engineering problem, a mechanical problem, a logistical problem, an operational problem. 

In addition, it's multi-spectral.

That's equivalent to a constellation of 12 satellites at highest res capacity.

We fly these airplanes at 5,000 feet in the air.

But let me tell you -- it doesn't affect his day job. 

When we think about how all this comes together, it's all about software, algorithms and math.

Extract geometry from the images.

This process is a very calculated process.

In fact, it was always done manual.

We took a decimal point off what it cost to build these cities, and that's how we're going to be able to scale this out and make this reality a dream. 

We think about the user interface.

But what we've found is they like the fluidity of the 3-D model.

A child can navigate with an Xbox controller or a game controller. 

I can look at it from multiple viewpoints and angles. 

What we're trying to do is build a virtual world.

We hope that we can make computing a user model you're familiar with, and really derive insights from you, from all different directions.

