I get asked a lot what the difference between my work is and typical Pentagon long-range strategic planners.

And the answer I like to offer is what they typically do is they think about the future of wars in the context of war.

And what I've spent 15 years doing in this business -- and it's taken me almost 14 to figure it out -- is I think about the future of wars in the context of everything else.

So I tend to specialize on the scene between war and peace.

Here's my favorite bonehead concept from the 1990s in the Pentagon: the theory of anti-access, area-denial asymmetrical strategies.

Why do we call it that?

Because it's got all those A's lined up I guess.

And if they try to fight us in the traditional, straight-up manner we're going to kick their ass, which is why people don't try to do that any more.

I met the last Air Force General who had actually shot down an enemy plane in combat.

He's now a one star General.

That's how distant we are from even meeting an air force willing to fly against ours.

(Laughter) 

The question is, what's the good you can do with it?

OK?

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Let's talk about a battle space.

I don't know, Taiwan Straits 2025.

Let's talk about an enemy embedded within that battle space.

I don't know, the Million Man Swim. 

(Laughter) 

A banana peel on the tarmac. 

(Laughter) 

We say, "China, it's yours."

Prometheus approach, largely a geographic definition, focuses almost exclusively on the start of conflict.

We field the first-half team in a league that insists on keeping score until the end of the game.

That's the problem.

We did it with 150 combat casualties in six weeks.

We did it so fast we weren't prepared for their collapse.

There is nobody we can't take down.

The question is, what do you do with the power? 

(Laughter) 

This is not about overwhelming force, but proportional force.

It's about non-lethal technologies, because if you fire real ammo into a crowd of women and children rioting you're going to lose friends very quickly.

Who do you access in this transition space? 

I know their senior leadership, they wanted to give it to us.

They said no.

We lucked out, frankly, on the selection.

We face different opponents across these three.

And it's time to start admitting you can't ask the same 19-year-old to do it all, day in and day out.

It's just too damn hard.

We have an unparalleled capacity to wage war.

We don't do the everything else so well.

Frankly, we do it better than anybody and we still suck at it.

We have a brilliant Secretary of War.

We don't have a Secretary of Everything Else.

Because if we did, that guy would be in front of the Senate, still testifying over Abu Ghraib.

The problem is he doesn't exist.

There is no Secretary of Everything Else.

I think we have an unparalleled capacity to wage war.

I call that the Leviathan Force.

What we need to build is a force for the Everything Else.

I call them the System Administrators. 

It's the IMF Sovereign Bankruptcy Plan, OK?

We argue about it every time we use it.

Argentina just went through it, broke a lot of rules.

What would an A to Z system look like?

I'm going to distinguish between what I call front half and back half.

And let's call this red line, I don't know, mission accomplished. 

(Laughter) 

What we have extant right now, at the beginning of this system, is the U.N. Security Council as a grand jury.

What can they do?

(Laughter) 

We don't have anything to translate that will into action. 

(Laughter) 

That's called the Powell Doctrine.

What are we missing?

Every time we lead one of these efforts we have to whip ourselves into this imminent threat thing.

We haven't faced an imminent threat since the Cuban missile crisis in 1962.

(Laughter) 

And then we look over the body and we find an old cigarette lighter and we say, "Jesus, it was dark."

(Laughter) 

Do you want to do it, France?

France says, "No, but I do like to criticize you after the fact."

What we need downstream is a great power enabled -- what I call that Sys Admin Force.

We should have had 250,000 troops streaming into Iraq on the heels of that Leviathan sweeping towards Baghdad.

What do you get then?

No looting, no military disappearing, no arms disappearing, no ammo disappearing, no Muqtada Al-Sadr -- I'm wrecking his bones -- no insurgency.

Talk to anybody who was over there in the first six months.

We had six months to feel the lob, to get the job done, and we dicked around for six months.

Check out their agenda since 9/11.

All security dominated.

You tell me it's too hard to do.

I'll walk this dog right through that six part series on the Balkans.

We did it just like that.

I'm talking about regularizing it, making it transparent.

Would you like Mugabe gone?

This is why it matters to the military.

They've been experiencing an identity crisis since the end of the Cold War.

I'm not talking about the difference between reality and desire, which I can do because I'm not inside the beltway. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

The problem is you need a big, sexy opponent to fight against.

(Laughter) 

Jessica Lynch never planned on shooting back.

Most of them don't pick up a rifle.

I maintain this is code inside the Army for, "We don't want to do this."

The Clinton administration wasn't interested in running this.

(Laughter) 

So we were home alone for eight years.

And what did we do home alone?

(Laughter) 

The doctor says, "Stop doing that you idiot."

I used to give this brief inside the Pentagon in the early 1990s.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Some people say 9/11 heals the rift -- jerks the long-term transformation gurus out of their 30,000 foot view of history, drags them down in to the muck and says, "You want a networked opponent?

I've got one, he's everywhere, go find him."

It's not our system of governance.

Never how we've sought to interact with the outside world.

Everybody's got an opinion. 

Going back to the beginning of our country -- historically, defenses meant protection of the homeland.

Security has meant everything else.

Our long-term rationale becomes, we're involved in a hair trigger stand off with the Soviets.

To attack America is to risk blowing up the world.

That's not our problem now.

They can kill three million in Chicago tomorrow and we don't go to the mattresses with nukes.

That's the scary part. 

The question is how do we reconnect American national security with global security to make the world a lot more comfortable, and to embed and contextualize our employment of force around the planet?

Let's have a Department of War, and a Department of Something Else.

Some people say, "Hell, 9/11 did it for you."

Now we've got a home game and an away game. 

(Laughter) 

The Department of Homeland Security is a strategic feel good measure.

(Laughter) 

I supported the war in Iraq.

He was a bad guy with multiple priors.

It's not like we had to find him actually killing somebody live to arrest him.

But I know this organization doesn't change until it experiences failure.

What do I mean by these two different forces? 

That plus nukes rules out great power war.

This is the military the rest of the world wants us to build.

It's why I travel all over the world talking to foreign militaries. 

(Laughter) 

You need the experience.

What does this mean in terms of operations? 

The rule is going to be this.

That Sys Admin force is the force that never comes home, does most of your work.

You break out that Leviathan Force only every so often.

Don't plan for the war unless you plan to win the peace. 

(Laughter) 

Including us, I would remind you.

The rest -- wider array of partners.

I like them young, male, unmarried, slightly pissed off. 

(Laughter) 

The force on the right's going to obliterate it.

That's where the National Guard's going to be.

The force on the left is never coming under the purview of the International Criminal Court.

Sys Admin Force has to.

And you've got to wage war here in such a way to facilitate that. 

Do we need a bigger budget?

Do we need a draft to pull this off?

Absolutely not.

Here's the larger point.

You're going to build the Sys Admin Force inside the U.S. Military first.

But ultimately you're going to civilianize it, probably two thirds.

Inter agency-ize it, internationalize it.

(Laughter) 

Last slide.

Who gets custody of the kids?

This is where the Marines in the audience get kind of tense.

(Laughter) And this is when they think about beating the crap out of me after the talk. 

(Laughter) 

They get up every morning, they want to dig a hole and they want to kill something. 

(Laughter) 

I don't want my Marines handing out aid.

I want them to be Marines.

That's what keeps the Sys Admin Force from being a pussy force.

(Laughter) 

Department of Navy, strategic subs go this way, surface combatants are over there, and the news is they may actually be that small. 

(Laughter) 

I call it the Smart Dust Navy.

Here's the dirty secret of the Air Force, you can win by bombing.

Air force, strategic airlift goes both ways.

Bombers, fighters go over here.

Civil Affairs, that bastard child, comes over here.

They drop in, do their business, disappear.

(Laughter) 

I was never here. 

(Laughter) 

The world is my playground. 

(Laughter) 

I want to keep trigger-pullers trigger-happy.

Reserve component -- National Guard reserves overwhelmingly Sys Admin.

How are you going to get them to work for this force?

This is about being up front with these guys and gals. 

Last point, intelligence community -- the muscle and the defense agencies go this way.

What should be the CIA, open, analytical, open source should come over here.

The information you need to do this is not secret.

It's not secret.

(Laughter) 

Take a gift in the left hand.

These are the sunglasses that don't scare people, simple stuff.

Censors and transparency, the overheads go in both directions. 

Thanks. 

