In fact what we're going to talk about, I think, is in fact a subject that is probably better served by a conversation than an address.

And I guess we have a bit of news clip to precede. 

Tourist: I've taken my step-daughter here from Indianapolis.

This was -- out of all the tourist sites in New York City -- this was her number-one pick. 

JA: Thousands now line up on lower Broadway. 

Tourist: I've been wanting to come down here since this happened. 

This is ours. 

JA: So many, in fact, that seeing has become a bit of a problem. 

JA: But that is about to change.

In record time, a team of architects and construction workers designed and built a viewing platform to ease the frustration and bring people closer. 

David Rockwell: The first experience people will have here when they see this is not as a construction site but as this incredibly moving burial ground. 

JA: The walls are bare by design, so people can fill them with their own memorials the way they already have along the current perimeter. 

Tourist: From our hearts, it affected us just as much. 

DR: I like that word. 

In fact we're finishing a book which is called "Pleasure," which is about sensual pleasure in spaces. 

But I've got to tell you -- it became impossible to do that.

We were really paralyzed.

And I found myself the Friday after September 11th -- two days afterwards -- literally unable to motivate anyone to do anything.

We gave the office a few days off. 

And I thought it was astonishing to speculate, as if this were a competition, on something that was such a fresh wound.

So we tried to come up with a way, as a group, to have a kind of design SWAT team.

And that was the mission that we came up with. 

KA: Were you conscious of suddenly -- as a designer whose work is all about fulfilling wants -- suddenly fulfilling needs? 

DR: Well what I was aware of was, there was this overwhelming need to act now.

And we were asked to participate in a few projects before this.

It was just extraordinary.

Tom Otterness contributed, Maira Kalman contributed and it became this cathartic experience for us. 

KA: Obviously, what you faced in trying to do something as substantial as this project -- and this is only one of four that you've designed to surround the site -- you must have run up against the incredibly byzantine, entrenched bureaucracy and powers that be in New York real estate and New York politics. 

And I sat in on several meetings.

And there were the most circuitous grand plans that had to do with long-term infrastructure and rebuilding the entire city.

And the fact is that there were immediate wounds and needs that needed to be filled, and there was talk about inclusion and wanting it to be an inclusive process.

KA: It was not an inclusive group? 

DR: It was not an inclusive group.

KA: Shocking. 

DR: Yeah, surprising.

So Rick and Liz and Kevin and I came up with the idea.

The city actually approached us.

We first approached the city about Pier 94.

We saw how PS 234 worked.

The families -- the victims of the families -- were going to this pier that was incredibly dehumanizing. 

KA: On the Hudson River? 

And then everyone was up on the roof, so I ran up there.

So seeing this in a very simple, dignified way was a very powerful experience. 

At the same time the city had this need.

And there was no way to deal with the traffic around the site.

So dealing with it is just an immediate master plan.

There was a way -- there had to be a way -- to get people to move around the site. 

DR: Well, we knew that if it wasn't privately funded, it wasn't going to happen.

Because this didn't want to be a surprise.

KA: Who shall remain nameless, I guess? 

And we met with him.

The prices from the contractors were between five to 700,000 dollars.

And Atlantic-Heydt, who's the largest scaffolding contractor in the country, volunteered to do it at cost.

And I think this was the 21st, and we knew this had to be built and up by the 28th.

And we had to start construction the next day.

DR: In fact, it was as if this was going to be window-washing scaffolding.

And I live down there, so we spent a lot of time looking at the need. 

Just the sort of everyday heroics of New Yorkers. 

KA: There was no thought of abandoning ship at that point? 

He had already ordered materials based on my go-ahead.

We knew that one way or another this was going to happen.

And we just felt it had to happen. 

KA: You were funding it yourself and with contributions and this foundation.

This was an unprecedented, singular design problem. 

It's all incredibly humble material.

It's scaffolding and plywood.

But the design was driven by a need to be quick, cheap, safe, respectful, flexible.

One of the other things is this is designed to be moveable.

This is clearly not a work for the ages.

You know, a couple of years this thing isn't going to be here.

DR: No, I don't think so.

I think this is, obviously, substantially different from anything we'd ever thought about doing before, just by the nature of it.

Where it overlaps with thoughts about our work in general is, number one -- the notion of collaboration as a sort of way to get things done.

So the notion of collaboration -- I think this reinforces how important that is. 

And in terms of the temporary nature of it, our goal was not to create something that would be there longer than it needed to be.

And a day or two before it opened was Giuliani's farewell address, where he proposed the idea of all of Ground Zero being a memorial.

Which was very controversial, but it resonated with a lot of people.

And that's what we were interested in.

So that, very much, is in the realm of things I've been interested in before. 

KA: It seems to me, among other things, a lovely piece of civic infrastructure.

It enables that conversation to get serious.

And six months after the fact -- and only a few months away from the site being cleaned -- we are very quickly, now, getting to the point where those conversations about what should go there are getting serious.

Do you have -- having been as physically involved in the site as you have been doing this project -- have any ideas about what should or shouldn't be done? 

The Protetch Gallery recently had a show on ideas for buildings, which had some sort of inventive ideas of buildings. 

KA: But it had some really terrible ideas. 

And I truly believe until the issue of memorial is sorted out, that it's going to be very hard to have an intelligent discussion.

KA: Well, I think that's interesting.

So yeah, I think there is a chance to re-look at how we think about cities. 

KA: Which was the building just north of the Towers? 

KA: Whether it's arts, whether it's housing, whether it's what amount of shopping? 

This small foundation we put together is looking for other ways to help.

KA: Before we end, I know you have a piece of digital video of the experience of being on this platform? 

DR: John Kamen -- who's here, actually -- put together a two and a half minute piece that shows the platform in use.

So I thought that would be good to end with. 

DR: We're looking from Fulton Street, west.

One of the tricky issues we had with the Giuliani administration was I had forgotten how anti-graffiti he was.

And essentially our structure was designed to be written on. 

And also the complexity and length of time they really take to do.

The scaffolding you can see built up over the street is de-mountable. 

This shows Saint Paul's on the left. 

But the kind of virtually instantaneous nature of its erection, and its being there, almost before you could believe that a response of this magnitude could be accomplished, is part of its extraordinary -- I don't know if beauty is the word -- but presence. 

DR: It was an honor to do.

And we were thrilled to be able to show it here. 

