Thank you.

And I feel like this whole evening has been very amazing to me.

And as soon as they had laid all these, all their big stack of these jeweled parasols that they used to carry in ancient India, he performed a kind of special effect which made it into a giant planetarium, the wonder of the universe.

And of course, in the Buddhist cosmos there are millions and billions of planets with human life on it, and enlightened beings can see the life on all the other planets.

He made that special effect at the beginning to get everyone to think about interconnection and interconnectedness and how everything in life was totally interconnected.

It just becomes intolerable.

With all of us knowing everything, we're kind of forced by technology to become Buddhas or something, to become enlightened. 

And of course, we all will be deeply disappointed when we do.

Because we think that because we are kind of tired of what we do, a little bit tired, we do suffer.

We do enjoy our misery in a certain way.

And occasionally we get together with another person stuck in their skin and the two of us enjoy each other, and each one tries to get out of their own, and ultimately it fails of course, and then we're back into this thing. 

Because our egocentric perception -- from the Buddha's point of view, misperception -- is that all we are is what is inside our skin.

And it's inside and outside, self and other, and other is all very different.

And everyone here is unfortunately carrying that habitual perception, a little bit, right?

And so you wouldn't sit that close to another person because of your notion that it's you versus the universe -- that's all Buddha discovered.

You can experience yourself as the other beings when you see through the delusion of being separated from them.

You know, we really learned everything in the '60s.

It's totally strange.

The Dalai Lama always likes to say -- he says that when you give birth in your mind to the idea of compassion, it's because you realize that you yourself and your pains and pleasures are finally too small a theater for your intelligence.

And then it's never good enough. 

He once told me -- he looked kind of sad; he worries very much about the haves and have-nots.

He looked a little sad, because he said, well, a hundred years ago, they went and took everything away from the haves.

You know, the big communist revolutions, Russia and China and so forth.

So what could possibly change this terrible gap that has opened up in the world today?

He feels the way they are harvesting yaks nowadays.

It's really lovely. 

So, compassion means to feel the feelings of others, and the human being actually is compassion.

Now, Jim's brain is memorizing the almanac.

But he could memorize all the needs of all the beings that he is, he will, he did.

He could memorize all kinds of fantastic things to help many beings.

And he would have tremendous fun doing that. 

Thank you. 

