And I don't have any smart technology for you to look at.

(Laughter) 

What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different Africa.

Already this morning there were some allusions to the Africa that you hear about all the time: the Africa of HIV/AIDS, the Africa of malaria, the Africa of poverty, the Africa of conflict, and the Africa of disasters. 

This is the Africa that is changing, that Chris alluded to.

This is the Africa of opportunity.

This is the Africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destinies.

And this is the Africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this.

And I want to start by telling you a story about that change in Africa.

On 15th of September 2005, Mr. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, a governor of one of the oil-rich states of Nigeria, was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police on a visit to London.

He was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollars that went into some dormant accounts that belonged to him and his family.

Alamieyeseigha was arraigned in London.

Due to some slip-ups, he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from London back to Nigeria where, according to our constitution, those in office as governors, president -- as in many countries -- have immunity and cannot be prosecuted.

Today, Alams -- as we call him for short -- is in jail.

This is a story about the fact that people in Africa are no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders.

This is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good, and not taken out to places where they'll benefit just a few of the elite.

And therefore, when you hear about the corrupt Africa -- corruption all the time -- I want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries, and that some successes are emerging. 

There's still a long way to go, but that there's a will there.

And that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight.

There's a will to fight, and in many countries, that fight is ongoing and is being won.

But the truth of the matter is that this is going on.

A study by the Economic Commission for Africa showed a clear trend upwards in governance in 28 African countries. 

And let me say just one more thing before I leave this area of governance.

In this country, if you receive stolen goods, are you not prosecuted?

The second thing I want to talk about is the will for reform.

Africans, after -- they're tired, we're tired of being the subject of everybody's charity and care.

We are grateful, but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform.

We can invite partners who can support us, but we have to start.

And this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent, Nigeria.

In fact, if you're not in Nigeria, you're not in Africa.

I want to tell you that.

(Laughter) 

What we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves.

So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises.

(Applause) We -- as a result, we decided to liberalize many of our markets.

(Laughter) 

You had to do everything to get your phone.

When President Obasanjo supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector, we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million GSM lines, and counting.

(Laughter) 

The smartest one, first to come in, was the MTN company of South Africa.

So the market is there.

When they kept this under wraps, but soon others got to know.

So privatization is one of the things we've done. 

The other thing we've also done is to manage our finances better.

Because nobody's going to help you and support you if you're not managing your own finances well.

And that shores up our economy, makes it stable. 

We brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent.

And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now.

So all the changes and reforms we were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy. 

And what is more important, because we want to get away from oil and diversify -- and there are so many opportunities in this one big country, as in many countries in Africa -- what was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector alone, but from non-oil.

We have opportunities in housing and real estate.

There was nothing in a country of 140 million people -- no shopping malls as you know them here.

This was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people.

And now, we have a situation in which the businesses in this mall are doing four times the turnover that they had projected. 

We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital -- share capital.

And it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars.

The banks -- these banks are now consolidated, and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside.

Barclays Bank of the U.K. is bringing in 500 million.

Standard Chartered has brought in 140 million.

In tourism, in many African countries, a great opportunity.

And that's what many people know East Africa for: the wildlife, the elephants, and so on.

But managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important. 

Not all of them have been perfect, or will be, but the trend is very clear.

I'm trying to tell you that since the past three years, the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum.

This is better than the performance of many OECD countries.

So it's clear that things are changing. 

But you should know that this continent is not -- is a continent of many countries, not one country.

And I want to just make one point about this investment. 

The best way to help Africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet.

And the best way to do that is by helping create jobs.

Otherwise, I would have liked you to have seen this.

It says, "Africa: Open for Business."

And this is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year.

Understand that the woman who made it is going to be in Tanzania, where they're having the session in June.

But it shows you Africans, and particularly African women, who against all odds have developed businesses, some of them world-class. 

Mixing African materials, such as we have, with materials from elsewhere.

(Laughter) For 10,000 pieces.

So that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing. 

So if you want to be in Africa, think about investing.

So I invite you to explore the opportunities.

