Probably by now most of you have seen Al Gore's amazing talk.

We've got a climate crisis.

So, we went around the table to talk about what we should do.

The conversation came to my 15-year-old daughter, Mary.

And so, what I'd like to do now is to tell you about what we've learned in those journeys.

Because the more we learned, the more concerned we grew.

The three biggest uses of energy in a store are heating and air conditioning, then lighting, and then refrigeration.

So, look what they did.

They painted the roofs of all their stores white.

And, third, they put the refrigerated goods behind closed doors with LED lighting.

I mean, why would you try to refrigerate a whole store?

These are really simple, smart solutions based on existing technology. 

They're the largest private employer in America.

They're the largest private user of electricity.

They have the second-largest vehicle fleet on the road.

And maybe most important, they have a big effect on other companies. 

When Wal-Mart declares it's going to go green and be profitable, it has a powerful impact on other great institutions.

We need Wal-Mart and every other company to do the same. 

The second thing that we learned is that individuals matter, and they matter enormously.

I've got another Wal-Mart story for you, OK?

Wal-Mart has over 125 million U.S. customers.

That's a third of the U.S. population.

65 million compact fluorescent light bulbs were sold last year.

Consumers don't really like these light bulbs.

But the pay-off is really enormous.

It does seem really hard to get consumers to do the right thing.

It is stupid that we use two tons of steel, glass and plastic to haul our sorry selves to the shopping mall.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Do you know how much CO2 you generated to drive here or fly here?

I don't know, and I should.

In fact, policy is paramount.

In fact, I'm certain California's not enough. 

Here's a story about national policy that we could all learn from.

You know Tom Friedman says, "If you don't go, you don't know"?

Well, we went to Brazil to meet Dr. Jose Goldemberg.

He's the father of the ethanol revolution.

He told us that Brazil's government mandated that every gasoline station in the country would carry ethanol.

They'd run ethanol or ordinary gasoline.

And so, here's what's happened in Brazil.

So, what's happened in Brazil is, they've replaced 40 percent of the gasoline consumed by their automotive fleet with ethanol.

That's 59 billion dollars since 1975 that they didn't ship to the Middle East.

That's 10 percent of the CO2 emissions across their entire country.

But Brazil's only 1.3 percent of the world's CO2 emission.

So, Brazil's ethanol miracle, I'm really afraid, is not enough.

In fact, I'm afraid all of the best policies we have are not going to be enough. 

The fourth and final lesson we've learned is about the potential of radical innovation.

All for want of two dollars' worth of medications that we can buy at the corner drugstore.

Well, two dollars, two dollars is too much for Africa.

Now, what you do is, you get inside the microbe, you change its metabolic pathways, and you end up with a living chemical factory. 

That means we can precisely engineer the molecules in the fuel chain and optimize them along the way.

I guess that's better living through bugs.

And, of course, at Kleiner we, kind of, apologize and say the second best way is to finance it.

And that's why we're investing 200 million dollars in a wide range of really disruptive new technologies for innovation in green technologies.

And we're encouraging others to do it as well.

We're talking a lot about this. 

But I'm really afraid we need much, much more.

And I am really afraid that it's absolutely not enough. 

So, in a year's worth of learning we found a bunch of surprises.

Who would have thought that the ethanol biofuel miracle would come from a developing country in South America?

And who would have thought that scientists trying to cure malaria could come up with breakthroughs in biofuels?

And who would have thought that all that is not enough?

Not enough to stabilize the climate.

That's about as much CO2 as there is in the whole world.

And if it's business as usual, we're going out of business.

Energy's a six-trillion-dollar business worldwide.

It could be the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century.

Everyone here cares about changing the world and has made a difference in that one way or another. 

Go to ClimateCrisis.org or CarbonCalculator.com and buy carbon credits.

Do it like Wal-Mart, get it to go green for its customers and its suppliers and for itself.

Really think outside the box.

Can you imagine what it would be like if Amazon or eBay or Google or Microsoft or Apple really went green and you caused that to happen?

It could be bigger than Wal-Mart.

I can't wait to see what we TEDsters do about this crisis.

And I really, really hope that we multiply all of our energy, all of our talent and all of our influence to solve this problem.

(Applause) 

