I'd like to start tonight by something completely different, asking you to join me by stepping off the land and jumping into the open ocean for a moment.

About 100 grams of jellyfish equals four calories.

It reaches up to almost 5,000 pounds -- on a diet of jellyfish, primarily.

They like to sunbathe, can't blame them.

They just lay out on the surface of the sea and most people think they're sick or lazy, but that's a typical behavior, they lie out and bask on the surface. 

Their other name, Mola mola, is -- it sounds Hawaiian, but it's actually Latin for millstone, and that's attributable to their roundish, very bizarre, cut-off shape.

It's as if, as they were growing, they just forgot the tail part.

You know, if you give Mother Nature enough time, that is what she will produce. 

And from that little egg, they pass through this spiky little porcupine fish stage, reminiscent of their ancestry, and develop -- this is their little adolescent stage.

They're in "The Guinness World Book of Records" again for being the vertebrate growth champion of the world.

That would mean that your child, you would expect it to gain the weight of six Titanics.

So being a loner is a great thing, especially in today's seas, because schooling used to be salvation for fishes, but it's suicide for fishes now.

And in the Mediterranean, in the swordfish net fisheries, they make up up to 90 percent.

So we've got to figure out how they're living their lives.

And how do you do that?

How do you do that with an animal -- very few places in the world.

How do you get insight?

How do you seduce an open ocean creature like that to spill its secrets?

That little tag can record temperature, depth and light intensity, which is correlated with time, and from that we can get locations.

We're tagging on the California coast, and we're tagging over in Taiwan and Japan.

And we're interested in how these animals are using the currents, using temperature, using the open ocean, to live their lives.

The California sea lion takes the Molas as soon as they come into the bay, rips off their fins, fashions them into the ultimate Frisbee, Mola style, and then tosses them back and forth.

The poor little Molas coming in, getting ripped to shreds, so we head down south, to San Diego.

And they're not thrown back as by-catch, they're eaten.

We were served a nine-course meal of Mola after we tagged.

And so the waiting is really the hardest part.

I'm going to show you our latest dataset.

And it hasn't been published, so it's totally privy information just for TED.

And in showing you this, you know, when we're looking at this data, we're thinking, oh do these animals, do they cross the equator?

Do they go from one side of the Pacific to the other?

And that's kind of their home range.

Now that's important, though, because if there's a lot of fishing pressure, that population doesn't get replenished.

So that's a very important piece of data. 

But also what's important is that they're not slacker, lazy fish.

They're super industrious.

Down -- and as the sun gets brighter they go a little deeper, little deeper.

So rather than just being some sunbathing slacker, they're really very industrious fish that dance this wild dance between the surface and the bottom and through temperature. 

Which brings me to my last point, and what I think is kind of the most fun.

I set up a website because I was getting so many questions about Molas and sunfish.

