A few years ago, I got one of those spam emails.

And it managed to get through my spam filter.

I'm not quite sure how, but it turned up in my inbox, and it was from a guy called Solomon Odonkoh. 

I know. 

And I said, "Solomon, Your email intrigues me."

And the game was afoot. 

So I knew I was dealing with a professional. 

He said, "We will start with smaller quantity," -- I was like, aww -- and then he said, "of 25 kgs. 

I said, "I'm a hedge fund executive bank manager."

This is what I sent Solomon. 

I don't know if we have any statisticians in the house, but there's definitely something going on. 

It was getting a bit out of hand.

So I figured I had to knock it on the head.

I had to take it to a ridiculous conclusion.

So I concocted a plan.

Because you have to be consistent.

so he can submit all the needed Fizzy Cola Bottle Jelly Beans to the Creme Egg, for the Peanut M&amp;Ms process to start. 

Send 1,500 pounds via a Giant Gummy Lizard."

Crazy stuff happens when you start replying to scam emails.

It's really difficult, and I highly recommend we do it.

I don't think what I'm doing is mean.

There are a lot of people who do mean things to scammers.

All I'm doing is wasting their time.

And I think any time they're spending with me is time they're not spending scamming vulnerable adults out of their savings, right? 

And if you're going to do this -- and I highly recommend you do -- get yourself a pseudonymous email address.

Don't use your own email address.

That's what I was doing at the start and it was a nightmare.

I'd wake up in the morning and have a thousand emails about penis enlargements, only one of which was a legitimate response -- 

to a medical question I had. 

But I'll tell you what, though, guys, I'll tell you what: any day is a good day, any day is a good day if you receive an email that begins like this: 

I know so many. 

Let that sink in.

She sent me this, which is hysterical. 

And this.

I SHOT THE SHERIFF."

[ (BUT I DID NOT SHOOT THE DEPUTY) ] 

Thank you. 

