I thought it [would] kind of be interesting to think back to that time when Richard got the whole thing started.

That was a really good time. 

And so we'll continue to focus on products, as we always have.

And if you were here last year, I probably wrestled you to the floor and tried to show you my new EyeModule 2, which was a camera that plugged into the Handspring.

This year -- maybe you could show the slides -- this year we're carrying this Treo, which we had a lot to do with and helped Handspring design it.

Lots of lives are being saved by those.

So, we really will continue to focus on products. 

Interestingly enough, we used to primarily build 3-D models -- you know, you've seen some today -- and 3-D renderings.

Then we'd go and we'd show those as communicating our ideas.

And it's a much better way to see.

It's kind of like architects who show people in their houses, as opposed to them being empty. 

I have a few of them -- they're no more than a minute or a minute-and-a-half apiece -- but I thought you might be interested in seeing some of our work over the last year, and how it responds in video. 

He wanted a new kind of store -- a new one -- a store that had a cultural role as well as a retail one.

You pick them up, and once you see something that you're interested in, the staff person can scan them in and then they can be shown on any screen throughout the store.

You can look at color, and sizes, and how it appeared on the runway, or whatever.

It's been used a lot of places, but I particularly like the use here of liquid crystal displays in the changing room. 

About a year and a half ago we were asked to design an installation in the museum -- this is a new wing of the Science Museum in London, and it's primarily about digital and biomedical issues.

And a group at Itch, which is now part of IDEO, designed this interactive wall that's about four stories tall.

I don't know if anybody's seen this -- it's pretty spectacular in the room. 

Anyway, it's based on the London subway system.

And then when you get to a station, it's expanded so that you can actually read it. 

Then when you exit the IMAX theatre on the fourth floor -- mostly teenagers coming out of there -- there's this big open space that has these tables in it that have interactive games which are quite fun, also designed by Durrell [Bishop] and Andrew [Hirniak] of Itch.

And the topics include things that the museum is about: male fertility, choosing the sex of your baby or what a driverless car might be like.

There's lots of room, so people can come up and understand what it is before they get involved. 

And also, it's not shown in the video, but these are very beautiful.

They go to the top of the wall and when they reach all the way to the top, after they've bounced around, they disperse into bits and go off into the atmosphere. 

The next video is not done by us.

This is CBS Sunday Morning that aired about two weeks ago.

He's always been interested in technology in the future. 

(Video: Scott Adams: I realized that at some point I might be the world's expert on what's wrong with cubicles.

So we thought, well, wouldn't it be fun to get together with some of the smartest design guys in the world and try to figure out if we could make the cubicle better? 

Narrator: Though they work in a wide-open office space spectacularly set under San Francisco's Oakland Bay Bridge, the team built their own little cubicles to fully experience the problems. 

Narrator: They took pictures. 

Woman: You feel so trapped, when someone kind of leans over and you're sort of held captive there for a minute. 

SA: So far it's chaos, but a lot of people are doing stuff, so that's good.

We'll see what happens. 

Narrator: The first group builds a cubicle in which the walls are screens for the computer and for family photos.

In the second group's scenario, the walls are alive and actually give Dilbert a group hug.

(Laughter) Behind the humor is the idea of making the cubicle more human.)

David Kelley: So here's the final thing, complete with orange lighting that follows the sun across -- that follows the tracks of the sun -- across the sky.

So you feel that in your cubicle.

DK: And of course: a hammock for your afternoon nap that stretches across your cubicle. 

DK: This next project, we were asked to design a pavilion to celebrate the recycling of the water on the Millennium Dome in London.

The dome has an incredible amount of water that washes off of it, as well as wastewater.

So this building actually celebrates the water as it comes out of the recycling plant and goes into the reed bed so that it can be filtered for the final time. 

The pavilion's design goal was to be kind of quiet and peaceful.

In contrast to if you went inside the dome, where it's kind of wild and crazy and everybody's learning all kinds of things, or fooling around, or whatever they're doing.

But it was intended to be quite quiet.

You can see: there's the plant.

These are all very low-budget videos, like quick prototypes. 

And it's a company that's trying to bring the experience -- many people have boats, or enjoy being on boats, but a very small percentage of people actually have the capability or the interest in going under the water and actually seeing what's there, and enjoying what scuba divers do.

This product, it has two cameras.

You throw it over the side of your boat and you basically scuba dive without getting wet. 

You could have that kind of immersive experience of being underwater -- of feeling like you're underwater -- seeing what's going on.

And the other one was to design the object and make sure that it was a consumer product and not a research tool.

And so we spent a lot of time -- this has been going on for about seven or eight years, this project -- and [we're] just ready to start building them. 

(Narrator: The Spyfish is a revolutionary subaquatic video camera.

It can dive to 500 feet, to where sunlight does not penetrate, and is equipped with powerful lights.

DK: This slender cable was a huge technological advancement and it allowed the whole thing to be the size that it is. 

(Narrator: And this central box connects the whole system together.

Maneuvering the Spyfish is simple with the wireless remote control.

You watch the video with superimposed graphics that indicate your depth and compass heading.

And he noticed that for weddings and funerals there they could find enough money to put something together.

And to this date -- he's been gone for only a few years -- he's started 19,000 companies.

He's made 30,000 new jobs.

And just the sales of the products -- this is a non-profit -- the sales of these products is now .6% of the GDP of Kenya.

So we're in the process of helping them design deep-well, low-cost manual pumps in order for these people who have a quarter acre of land to be able to grow crops in the off-season.

What they do now is: they can grow crops in the rainy season but they can't grow them in the off-season.

And so by doing that, the woman that you saw in the first thing -- she's a school teacher -- always wanted to send her kids to college and she's going to be able to do it because of these things.

So with seed-squeezers, and pumps, and hay-balers and very straightforward things that we're designing -- my students are doing this as class projects and IDEO has donated their time to do this kind of work -- it's really amazing to see his success, Martin's. 

(Laughter) Can you read it?

(Laughter) Well, it's always kind of funny when he comes up and hovers.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Designers are more trusted and more integrated into the business strategy of companies, and I have to say, for one, I feel very lucky at the progress that design has made since the first TED.

