The immersive ugliness of our everyday environments in America is entropy made visible.

We can't overestimate the amount of despair that we are generating with places like this.

Nobody's having a better day down here because of that. 

There are a lot of ways you can describe this.

I think it's appropriate to call it the greatest misallocation of resources in the history of the world.

You can call it a technosis externality clusterfuck.

And it's a tremendous problem for us.

The outstanding -- the salient problem about this for us is that these are places that are not worth caring about.

We're going to talk about that some more.

The public realm in America has two roles: it is the dwelling place of our civilization and our civic life, and it is the physical manifestation of the common good.

And when you degrade the public realm, you will automatically degrade the quality of your civic life and the character of all the enactments of your public life and communal life that take place there.

And your ability to define space and to create places that are worth caring about all comes from a body of culture that we call the culture of civic design.

And consequently, we can see the result all around us.

The public realm has to inform us not only where we are geographically, but it has to inform us where we are in our culture.

And if there is one tremendous -- if there is one great catastrophe about the places that we've built, the human environments we've made for ourselves in the last 50 years, it is that it has deprived us of the ability to live in a hopeful present. 

The environments we are living in, more typically, are like these.

You know, this happens to be the asteroid belt of architectural garbage two miles north of my town.

And remember, to create a place of character and quality, you have to be able to define space.

So how is that being accomplished here?

We have about, you know, 38,000 places that are not worth caring about in the United States today.

When we have enough of them, we're going to have a nation that's not worth defending.

I hope it's not the curb cut between the Chuck E. Cheese and the Target store because that's not good enough for Americans to be spilling their blood for.

It is emphatically an outdoor public room.

It has something that is terribly important -- it has what's called an active and permeable membrane around the edge.

That's a fancy way of saying it's got shops, bars, bistros, destinations -- things go in and out of it.

But this is how we do it in the United States. 

This is the other side of the building.

This was the winner of an international design award in, I think, 1966, something like that.

By the way, when I showed this slide to a group of Kiwanians in my town, they all rose in indignation from their creamed chicken, (Laughter) and they shouted at me and said, "It was raining that day when you took that picture!"

And they're sitting there at the long boardroom table with all the drawings, and the renderings, and all the Chinese food caskets are lying on the table, and -- I mean, what was the conversation that was going on there?

It's not civically rich enough for them to go down there.

OK. 

Other activities are allowed to occur upstairs, you know, apartments, offices, and so on.

You make provision for this activity called shopping on the ground floor.

They haven't learned that in Monterey.

If you go out to the corner right at the main intersection right in front of this conference center, you'll see an intersection with four blank walls on every corner.

It's really incredible. 

And that's how we do it.

I call them "nature Band-Aids" because there's a general idea in America that the remedy for mutilated urbanism is nature.

And in fact, the remedy for wounded and mutilated urbanism is good urbanism, good buildings.

Not just flower beds, not just cartoons of the Sierra Nevada Mountains.

You know, that's not good enough.

We have to do good buildings. 

They're not supposed to be a cartoon of the North Woods; they're not supposed to be a set for "The Last of the Mohicans."

You know, one of the problems with the fiasco of suburbia is that it destroyed our understanding of the distinction between the country and the town, between the urban and the rural.

They're not the same thing.

A lot of this comes from the fact that the industrial city in America was such a trauma that we developed this tremendous aversion for the whole idea of the city, city life, and everything connected with it.

And believe me, there were no Wal-Marts or convenience stores out there then, so it really was a form of country living. 

It becomes a cartoon of a country house, in a cartoon of the country.

Because it hasn't delivered what it's been promising for half a century now. 

And these are typically the kind of dwellings we find there, you know.

Because -- notice the porch here.

Unless the people that live here are Munchkins, nobody's going to be using that.

This is really, in fact, a television broadcasting a show 24/7 called "We're Normal."

But we know what's going on in these houses, you know.

These are not good enough for Americans.

So every effort is made to keep them within the building.

We're going to have to do something else instead.

We're going to have to live closer to each other.

We're going have to grow more food closer to where we live.

The age of the 3,000 mile Caesar salad is coming to an end.

We're going to have to -- we have a railroad system that the Bulgarians would be ashamed of!

We gotta do better than that! 

And we should have started two days before yesterday.

Because we're going to need it if we're going to learn how to reconstruct towns.

So that, you know, the residences make sense deployed in relation to the places of business, of culture and of governance.

We can see some of the first ideas for retro-fitting some of the catastrophic property that we have in America.

Some of them we're going to fix, though.

And if we're lucky, the result will be revivified town centers and neighborhood centers in our existing towns and cities.

We've got a lot of work to do.

We're not going to be rescued by the hyper-car; we're not going to be rescued by alternative fuels.

No amount or combination of alternative fuels is going to allow us to continue running what we're running, the way we're running it.

We're going to have to do everything very differently.

And America's not prepared.

We are sleepwalking into the future.

We're not ready for what's coming at us.

So I urge you all to do what you can.

Life in the mid-21st century is going to be about living locally.

Be prepared to be good neighbors.

Be prepared to find vocations that make you useful to your neighbors and to your fellow citizens. 

Consumers are different than citizens.

Consumers do not have obligations, responsibilities and duties to their fellow human beings.

And as long as you're using that word consumer in the public discussion, you will be degrading the quality of the discussion we're having.

And we're going to continue being clueless going into this very difficult future that we face.

So thank you very much.

Please go out and do what you can to make this a land full of places that are worth caring about and a nation that will be worth defending.

