We spoke to you last several years ago.

Audience: Yes. 

SB: What is it? 

Audience: It's people logging on to Google around the world. 

Here it's slightly logged.

But here you can see around the world how people are using Google.

And every one of those rising dots represents probably about 20, 30 searches, or something like that.

And they're labeled by color right now, by language. 

There we are in Monterey -- hopefully I can get it right.

You can see that Japan is busy at night, right there.

We have Tokyo coming in in Japanese.

There's a lot of activity in China.

There's a lot of activity in India.

There's some in the Middle East, the little pockets.

Now you can also see, if I turn this around here -- hopefully I won't shake the world too much.

But you can also see, there are places where there's not so much.

Australia, because there just aren't very many people there.

And if we had it plotted correctly, I think the International Space Station would have it, too. 

This is how we have to move the bits around to actually get the people the answers to their questions.

But you can see also, once again -- so some places are much more wired than others, and you can see all the bandwidth across the U.S., going up over to Asia, Europe in the other direction, and so forth. 

Now what I would like to do is just to show you what one second of this activity would look like.

This is what one second looks like.

Now, each one of those queries has an interesting life and tale of its own.

I mean, it could be somebody's health, it could be somebody's career, something important to them.

And it could potentially be something as important as tomato sauce, or in this case, ketchup. 

You can see that it got started right here.

In the U.S. and Spain, it was popular at the same time.

But it didn't have quite the same pickup in the U.S. as it did in Spain.

And so I guess the U.S. finally, finally started to like it, too.

And I just wanted to play it for you. 

As a part of -- you know, part of what we want to do to grow our company is to have more searches.

And what that means is we want to have more people who are healthy and educated.

More animals, if they start doing searches as well.

I'll explain it in a second.

This is one of our engineers.

We find that they work better when they're submerged and covered with leaves.

That's how we churn those products out.

And now we've grown to over 100,000 members.

And they spread, actually, very quickly, even outside the U.S. 

But it's just the kind of thing that we just try out for fun and see where it goes.

Larry, you can explain this one. 

And I think many other things in the world also have come out of this.

So many, many useful things come out of this. 

And he just -- he -- after 9/11, he got really interested in the news.

And he said, "Why don't I look at the news better?"

And we wouldn't really be sure if it's going to work or not.

And now it's a real, full-blown project with more people on it.

And this is how we keep our innovation running. 

I think usually, as companies get bigger, they find it really hard to have small, innovative projects.

But then we had a problem because then we had over 100 projects.

And I don't know about all of you, but I have trouble keeping 100 things in my head at once.

Don't really pay attention to them.

The other thing we discovered is that people like to work on things that are important, and so naturally, people sort of migrate to the things that are high priorities.

I just wanted to highlight a couple of things that are new, or you might not know about.

Raise your hands. 

But if you go to our site and search for "Deskbar," you'll get this.

But all of these -- well, these were all sort of innovative things that we did that -- you know, we try many, many different things in our company.

And so we found it was pretty helpful to have laundry machines, for our younger employees especially, and ... we also allow dogs and things like that, and we've had, I think, a really fun culture at our company, which helps people work and enjoy what they're doing. 

This is actually our "cult picture."

I just wanted to show quickly.

But anyway, every year we've taken the whole company on a ski trip.

A lot of work happens in companies from people knowing each other, and informally.

And I think we've done a good job encouraging that.

It makes it a really fun place to work. 

But the idea is, like, on a newspaper, for example, we show you relevant ads.

And this is hard to read, but this says "Battle for New Hampshire: Howard Dean for President" -- articles on Howard Dean.

And these ads are generated automatically -- like in this case, on the Washington Post -- from the content on the site.

And so we use our over 150,000 advertisers and millions of advertisements, so we pick the one that's most relevant to what you're actually looking at, much as we do on search.

So the idea is we can make advertising useful, not just annoying, right? 

It makes content get better, it makes searching work better, when people can really make their livelihood from producing great content. 

But finding things is tricky, and so you really want intelligence.

And in fact, the ultimate search engine would be smart.

It would be artificial intelligence.

So we always hope that Google will be smart, but we're always surprised when other people think that it is. 

And so I just wanted to give a funny example of this.

Maybe, Sergey, you can highlight this.

So we decided -- actually, the highlight's right there.

And our algorithms -- not a person, of course, but our algorithms, our computers -- read his blog and decided that the related search was, "I am bored."

So with that, maybe I can switch back to the world.

And so in our search results, we never accept payment for our search results.

And that's unlike many of our competitors.

So thank you. 

