Obviously, being a technology magazine, technology trends are something that we write about and need to know about. 

But also it's part of being any monthly magazine -- you live in the future.

Almost every one of those has come true just a few years later.

You've probably seen something like this before.

This is the classic Gartner Hype Curve, which talks about kind of the trajectory of a technology's lifespan.

And these are the inflection points that tell you what the next chapter in that technology's life is going to be, and maybe how you can do something about it. 

The first is the critical price.

The first stage in a technology's advance is that it'll fall below a critical price.

After it falls below a critical price, it will tend, if it's successful, to rise above a critical mass, a penetration.

And then finally, a lot of technologies commoditize.

Towards the end of their life, they become nearly free. 

The DVD, as you know, was introduced in the mid-1990s and it was quite expensive.

And what's interesting here is that something else took off along with it: home-theater units.

Suddenly you have a DVD in the house; you've got high-quality digital video; you have a reason to have a big-screen television; you have a reason for Dolby 5.1 surround-sound.

And maybe you have reasons for starting to connect them, and bring the rest of your entertainment in.

The next phase it hit was displacement.

You can see around 2001 it finally out-sold the VCR.

And here too, you can see the implications in the world at large.

Netflix was right -- the Netflix model could capitalize on the DVD in a way that the video-rental stores couldn't.

That gave an advantage; that was an implication of the technology's rise that wasn't obvious to everybody. 

And then finally, DVDs are approaching free.

There's a company called Apex, a no-name Chinese firm, who has, several times in the past year, been the number-one DVD seller in America.

You're aware of the perhaps apocryphal Wal-Mart stampede over the 30-dollar DVD.

Now they've introduced these four ways of looking at technology, these four stages of technology's life.

But I think that the implications of them approaching these crossovers, these intersections, are interesting to think about. 

Start with gene sequencing.

That's as opposed to billions just a few years ago.

You know, our ability to capture the tools of creation is getting closer and closer. 

What's interesting is that at the same time, the number of genes that we're discovering is rising very quickly.

Each one of these genes has potential diagnostic test.

Here's another technology that's approaching a critical price.

This is a fascinating research from WHO that shows the effect of generic drugs on anti-retroviral drug compounds and cocktails.

In January 2000, the price was 10,000 dollars, or 27 dollars a day.

The generics came in, first in Brazil and elsewhere, and the effect was just dramatic on pricing.

Today it's less than 50 cents a day.

And the falling price of drugs has a lot to do with that. 

Linux is another good example.

Now we've switched to critical mass.

These are now technologies that are hitting critical mass.

If you look here, here's Linux in red, and it's hit 20 percent.

Interestingly, it's done a crossover before, but not the crossovers that matter.

The crossover that's going to matter is the one with the blue.

But you can look and see the direction those lines are going, you can see that at the 20 percent, it's now taken seriously.

It's not just for the geeks any more.

Another technology that we see all around us out here is hybrid cars.

I don't know whether anybody has a Prius 2004, but they're fantastic.

Two percent isn't 20 percent, but in the car business, which is slow moving, that's huge; that's arrival.

At two percent, you start seeing them on the roads everywhere. 

And what's interesting about the hybrids taking off is you've now introduced electric motors to the automobile industry.

It's the first radical change in automobile technology in 100 years.

Voice Over IP is something you may have heard something about.

And the same thing's happening on the carrier side.

Free is really, you know, the gift of Silicon Valley to the world.

It's an economic force; it's a technical force.

It's a deflationary force, if not handled right.

It is abundance, as opposed to scarcity.

Free is probably the most interesting thing. 

And here you have just the number of songs that can be stored on a hard drive.

They're facing a force that they haven't faced before.

And their response is draconian, and not necessarily the one that's going to get them out of this. 

This is the price of a phone call to India per minute.

And what's interesting is that it was just 1990 when it was more than two dollars a minute.

India had, still has, a regulated phone system and so did we.

It's seven cents a minute, in many cases. 

And the consequence of cheap phone calling, free phone calling, to India, is the pissed-off programmer, is the outsourcing.

And I think that's probably one of the most important technology trends that we're looking at today.

Thank you. 

