I just want to say, over the last few years I've been -- had the opportunity to do this closing conference.

And I've had some incredible warm-up acts.

I thought that there was absolutely no way in hell to top that.

But I just wanted to say -- and I mean this without irony -- I think I can speak for everybody in the audience when I say that I wish to God that you were the President of the United States. 

OK, this is the title of my talk today. 

I just want to give you a quick overview.

First of all, please remember I'm completely politically correct, and I mean everything with great affection.

If any of you have sensitive stomachs or are feeling queasy, now is the time to check your Blackberry. 

So, one of the questions I ask myself is, was this the most distressing TED ever?

And David Pogue singing show tunes. 

Because this is the most distressing TED ever, I've been working with Neil Gershenfeld on next year's TED Bag.

And if the -- if the conference is anywhere near this distressing, then we're going to have a scream bag next year. 

It's going to be a cradle-to-cradle scream bag, of course. 

So you're going to be able to go like this. 

Bring it over here and open it up.

Meanwhile, back at TED University, this wonderful woman is teaching you how to chop Sun Chips. 

I felt like if there was anyone that Helen needed to give antidepressants to, it might have been him.

I want to deliberately interfere with his dopamine levels. 

He was talking about morality.

Economy class morality is, we want to bomb you back to the Stone Age.

Business class morality is, don't bomb Japan -- they built my car.

And first-class morality is, don't bomb Mexico -- they clean my house. 

Yes, it is politically incorrect.

All right, now I want to do a little bit of a thing for you ... 

All right, now I want to do a little bit of a thing for you ... 

All right, now I want to do a little bit of a thing for you ... 

All right, now these are the wha -- I'd say, [mumble, mumble -- mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble] -- ahh! 

All right, now these are the wha -- I'd say, [mumble, mumble -- mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble] -- ahh! 

All right, now these are the wha -- I'd say, [mumble, mumble -- mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble] -- ahh! 

So I wanted to show you guys -- I wanted to talk about a revolutionary new computer interface that lets you work with images just as easily as you -- as a completely natural user interface. 

And you can -- you can use really natural hand gestures to like, go like this. 

Now we had a Harvard professor here -- she was from Harvard, I just wanted to mention and -- and she was actually a professor from Harvard.

And she was talking about seven-dimensional, inverted universes.

With, you know, of course, there's the gravity brain.

one of the things that is very important to me is to try and figure out what on Earth am I here for.

And that's why I went out and I picked up a best-selling business book.

You know, it basically uses as its central premise Greek mythology.

And it's by a guy named Pastor Rick Warren, and it's called "The Porpoise Driven Life."

And Rick is as a pagan god, which I thought was kind of appropriate, in a certain way.

And now we're going to have kind of a little more visualization about Rick Warren.

OK. 

All right.

Now, red is Rick Warren, and green is Daniel Dennett, OK? 

The scales here are religiosity from zero percent, or atheist, to 100 percent, Bible literally true.

And then this is books sold -- the logarithmic scale. 

30,000, 300,000, three million, 30 million, 300 million.

And Rick Warren's kind of pulling ahead, kind of pulling ahead.

Yup, and his installed base is getting a little bigger. 

Let me turn the trails on, so you can see that a little bit better. 

about One Laptop Per Child.

Now let's talk about some of the characteristics that are important for this revolutionary device.

I'll tell you a little bit about the design parameters, and then I'll show it to you in person.

Very, very high resolution.

And broadly applicable across many platforms. 

And here it is, the $100 computer. 

OK, OK, OK, OK -- excellent, excellent.

See who uses marijuana.

OK, now smallpox is an extremely distressing illness.

We had Dr. Larry Brilliant talking about how we eradicated smallpox.

I wanted to show you the stages of smallpox.

Day two.

Day three, she gets a massively big pox on her shoulder.

Day three.

Day four. 

Now the good news is, because I'm a trained medical professional, I know that even though she'll be scarred for life, she's going to make a full recovery. 

Now the good news about Architects for Humanity is they're really kind of the most amazing group.

And the way he decided to support that work was by shipping over 50,000 shipping containers of Google snacks. 

So I want to show you some prototypes.

This is a home made entirely out of Fruit Roll-Ups. 

And those roll-up cookies coated with white chocolate.

And the really wonderful thing about this is, when you're done, well -- you can eat it.

But the thing that I'm really, really excited about is this incredible granola house. 

But on this side, it has sugary Gummy Bears, to diffuse the light more slightly.

And we -- we wanted just to show you what this might look like in situ. 

So, Einstein -- Einstein, tell me -- what's your favorite song?

"Free Bird."

Tom Reilly: Exactly. 

Could we have the sound up on the laptop, please? 

so I wanted to help you a little bit. 

Buy "The Purpose-Driven Life," or Satan will take your soul. 

And as Jay Walker pointed out, that is just not scary enough.

So Al, I actually think I'm rather good at branding.

So I've tried to figure out a good design process to come up with a new term to replace "global warming."

Now I don't know about you, but Michael Shermer talked about the willingness for human beings -- evolutionarily, they're designed to see patterns in things.

For example, in cheese sandwiches.

Now can you look at that carefully and see if you see the Virgin Mary?

I tried to make it a little bit clearer. 

Is it the Virgin Mary?

Or is it Mena Trott? 

that we needed about one-third bookstore, one-third Google cafe, about 20 percent registration, 80 percent luxury hotel, about five percent for restrooms.

And then of course, we wanted to have the simulcast lounge, the lobby and the Steinbeck forum. 

Now let me show you how that literally translated into the design program.

So first, one of the problems with Monterey is that if there is global warming and Greenland melts as you say, the ocean level is going to rise 20 feet and flood the hell out of the convention center.

So we're going to build this new building on stilts.

So we build this building on stilts, then up here -- 

is where we're going to put the new Steinbeck auditorium. 

And the wonderful thing about the new bookstore is, it's going to be shaped in a spiral that's organized by the Dewey Decimal System. 

Then we're going to make an escalator that helps you get up there.

And finally, we're going to put the Marriott Hotel and the Portola Plaza on the top. 

I don't know about you, but when I see Aubrey de Grey, I immediately go to Gandalf the Grey. 

And I want you to get out a pen, and I want you to write a terrorist note. 

If we put up the ELMO for a moment -- if we put up the ELMO, then we'll get, you know, I'll give you a model that you can work from, OK? 

Luckily, I was the recipient of the TED Prize this year.

OK. 

So I'm going to try and do this while reciting pi. 

Can we cue the music please? 

Now I wanted to use this talk to talk about global warming a little bit.

Back in 1968, you can see that the mountain range of Brokeback Mountain was covered in 151 inches of snow pack.

Parenthetically, over there on the slopes, I did want to show you that black men ski. 

But over the years, 10 years later, the snow packs eroded, and, if you notice, the trees have started turning yellow.

And all the trees have turned brown.

This year, unfortunately the lakebed's turned into an absolute cracked dry bed.

And I fear, if we do nothing for our planet, in 20 years, it's going to look like this. 

Mr. Vice President, I wish I knew how to quit you. 

