I am a vicar in the Church of England.

I've been a priest in the Church for 20 years.

And I'm very aware that when you say the word "God," many people will turn off immediately.

And most people, both within and outside the organized church, still have a picture of a celestial controller, a rule maker, a policeman in the sky who orders everything, and causes everything to happen.

He will protect his own people, and answer the prayers of the faithful. 

And in the worship of my church, the most frequently used adjective about God is "almighty."

But I have a problem with that.

Of course, there have been thinkers who have suggested different ways of looking at God.

I have chosen not to rock the boat. 

Then, on December 26th last year, just two months ago, that underwater earthquake triggered the tsunami.

And two weeks later, Sunday morning, 9th of January, I found myself standing in front of my congregation -- intelligent, well meaning, mostly thoughtful Christian people -- and I needed to express, on their behalf, our feelings and our questions.

I had my own personal responses, but I also have a public role, and something needed to be said.

And this is what I said. 

Shortly after the tsunami I read a newspaper article written by the Archbishop of Canterbury -- fine title -- about the tragedy in Southern Asia.

If the man in the photograph that appeared in the newspapers, holding the hand of his dead child was standing in front of us now, there are no words that we could say to him.

A verbal response would not be appropriate.

The only appropriate response would be a compassionate silence and some kind of practical help.

It isn't a time for explanation, or preaching, or theology; it's a time for tears. 

And we want an explanation from God.

We demand an explanation from God.

Some have concluded that we can only believe in a God who shares our pain.

In some way, God must feel the anguish, and grief, and physical pain that we feel.

In some way the eternal God must be able to enter into the souls of human beings and experience the torment within.

And if this is true, it must also be that God knows the joy and exaltation of the human spirit, as well.

We want a God who can weep with those who weep, and rejoice with those who rejoice. 

This seems to me both a deeply moving and a convincing re-statement of Christian belief about God.

For hundreds of years, the prevailing orthodoxy, the accepted truth, was that God the Father, the Creator, is unchanging and therefore by definition cannot feel pain or sadness.

Now the unchanging God feels a bit cold and indifferent to me.

And the devastating events of the 20th century have forced people to question the cold, unfeeling God.

And the answer was, "God is in this with us, or God doesn't deserve our allegiance anymore."

If God is a bystander, observing but not involved, then God may well exist, but we don't want to know about Him.

Over the last few weeks I have been struck by the number of times that words in our worship have felt a bit inappropriate, a bit dodgy.

We have a pram service on Tuesday mornings for mums and their pre-school children.

In the second verse comes the line, "The wind and waves obey Him."

But if God can or will do these things -- intervene to change the flow of events -- then surely he could have stopped the tsunami.

Do we have a local God who can do little things like parking spaces, but not big things like 500 mile-per-hour waves?

That's just not acceptable to intelligent Christians, and we must acknowledge it.

Either God is responsible for the tsunami, or God is not in control. 

After the tragedy, survival stories began to emerge.

The preacher delivered an extra long sermon, so that they were still out of harm's way when the wave struck.

Afterwards someone said that God must have been looking after them. 

So the next question is about partiality.

Can we earn God's favor by worshipping Him or believing in Him?

Does God demand loyalty, like any medieval tyrant?

Such a God would be morally inferior to the highest ideals of humanity. 

So who is God, if not the great puppet-master or the tribal protector?

Is God a cold, unfeeling spectator?

Or a powerless lover, watching with infinite compassion things God is unable to control or change?

Is God intimately involved in our suffering, so that He feels it in His own being? 

If we believe something like this, we must let go of the puppet-master completely, take our leave of the almighty controller, abandon traditional models.

We must think again about God.

Maybe God doesn't do things at all.

Maybe God isn't an agent like all of us are agents.

The people knew their God by His mighty acts. 

How does this in-ness, this innerness, this interiority of God work?

It's hard to conceive, and begs more questions.

Is God just another name for the universe, with no independent existence at all?

I don't know.

In the end, we have to say, "I don't know."

If we knew, God would not be God. 

To have faith in this God would be more like trusting an essential benevolence in the universe, and less like believing a system of doctrinal statements.

Isn't it ironic that Christians who claim to believe in an infinite, unknowable being then tie God down in closed systems and rigid doctrines? 

By seeking intimate connection with your inwardness.

And how would one deepen such a faith?

By seeking the inwardness which is in all things.

In music and poetry, in the natural world of beauty and in the small ordinary things of life, there is a deep, indwelling presence that makes them extraordinary.

It needs a profound attentiveness and a patient waiting, a contemplative attitude and a generosity and openness to those whose experience is different from my own. 

When I stood up to speak to my people about God and the tsunami, I had no answers to offer them.

No neat packages of faith, with Bible references to prove them.

Only doubts and questioning and uncertainty.

Thank you. 

