When you think about resilience and technology it's actually much easier.

So it's very easy, comparatively speaking, to be resilient.

I think that, if we look at what happened on the Internet, with such an incredible last half a dozen years, that it's hard to even get the right analogy for it.

A lot of how we decide, how we're supposed to react to things and what we're supposed to expect about the future depends on how we bucket things and how we categorize them. 

And so I think the tempting analogy for the boom-bust that we just went through with the Internet is a gold rush.

It's easy to think of this analogy as very different from some of the other things you might pick.

For one thing, both were very real.

You keep going, and both things are lots of hype.

I don't have to remind you of all the hype that was involved with the Internet -- like GetRich.com. 

A few bring out 100,000 dollars each.

People would get very excited about this when they read these articles.

So many people left what they were doing.

And what would happen is -- and the Gold Rush went on for years. 

People on the East Coast in 1849, when they first started to get the news, they thought, "Ah, this isn't real."

These are community affairs, by the way.

They would take a ship down to Panama, across the isthmus, and then take another ship north.

(Laughter) 

In the Gold Rush, people literally jumped ship.

The fort in San Francisco at the time had about 1,300 soldiers.

Half of them deserted to go look for gold.

And they wouldn't let the other half out to go look for the first half because they were afraid they wouldn't come back. 

(Laughter) 

They loaded up their mules and their horses.

And they didn't plan right.

In fact it was so bad that most of the horses died before they could get where they were going.

It got renamed the "Dead Horse Trail."

This is a commercial that was played on the Super Bowl in the year 2000. 

Bride #2: Then why does she have my invitation?

Announcer: What may be a little thing to some ... Bride #3: You are mine, little man.

(Laughter) 

Now, here's where our analogy with the Gold Rush starts to diverge, and I think rather severely.

And that was, of course, the very common story.

And there are a lot of similarities between the Internet and the electric industry.

With the electric industry you actually have to -- one of them is that they're both sort of thin, horizontal, enabling layers that go across lots of different industries.

It's not a specific thing. 

But electricity is also very, very broad, so you have to sort of narrow it down.

You know, it can be used as an incredible means of transmitting power.

It's an incredible means of coordinating, in a very fine-grained way, information flows.

There's a bunch of things that are interesting about electricity.

And the part of the electric revolution that I want to focus on is sort of the golden age of appliances.

The killer app that got the world ready for appliances was the light bulb.

So the light bulb is what wired the world.

And they weren't thinking about appliances when they wired the world.

They were really thinking about -- they weren't putting electricity into the home; they were putting lighting into the home.

This was a huge -- as you would expect -- a huge capital build out.

All the streets had to be torn up.

And they're tearing up all the streets.

But that is not the -- and that's not the part that's really most similar to the Web.

Because, remember, the Web got to stand on top of all this heavy infrastructure that had been put in place because of the long-distance phone network.

Well, it was because that heavy infrastructure had already been laid down. 

The electric iron, also very big.

By the way, this is the beginning of the asbestos lawsuit. 

(Laughter) 

So it wasn't a big seller.

This was truly, truly an early-adopter product -- (Laughter) the 1905 Skinner Vacuum.

But three years later, by 1908, it weighed 40 pounds.

Now, not all these things were highly successful. 

(Laughter) 

People, I guess, decided that they would not wrinkle their ties.

This came in, like, six different colors. 

(Laughter) 

They hadn't invented the electric socket yet.

The next thing that really was a big, big deal was the washing machine.

Now, this was an object of much envy and lust.

Everybody wanted one of these electric washing machines.

On the left-hand side, this was the soapy water.

And there's a rotor there -- that this motor is spinning.

And you'd run a long cord into the house where you could screw it into your light socket. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) And there was no off switch, so it wasn't very good.

And you might think that that was incredibly stupid of our ancestors to be plugging things into a light socket like this.

This is a total kludge, if you ask me.

(Laughter) 

This is what it looks like under my desk.

I took this picture just two days ago.

So we really haven't progressed that much since 1908. 

(Laughter) 

It's a total, total mess.

And, you know, we think it's getting better, but have you tried to install 802.11 yourself? 

(Laughter) 

Try to get DSL installed in your house.

The engineers who do it everyday can't do it.

They have to -- typically, they come three times.

So we're not -- we're pretty kludge-y ourselves. 

By the way, DSL is a kludge.

But the good thing is, with innovation, there isn't a last nugget.

Every new thing creates two new questions and two new opportunities. 

We're in 1908. 

(Laughter) 

And I do think there's more innovation ahead of us than there is behind us.

And in 1917, Sears -- I want to get this exactly right.

This was the advertisement that they ran in 1917.

