And so the question that we might not have birds became kind of fundamental to those of us wandering around looking for the meadowlarks that seemed to have all disappeared.

And the question was, were the birds singing?

Now, I'm not a scientist, that'll be really clear.

But, you know, we've just come from this discussion of what a bird might be.

What is a bird?

What kind of culture would produce a product of this kind and then label it and sell it to children?

I think we have a design problem. 

The fundamental issue is that, for me, design is the first signal of human intentions.

But I don't know that that's the common debate. 

And so we start our designs with that question.

Because what we realize today is that modern culture appears to have adopted a strategy of tragedy.

If we come here and say, "Well, I didn't intend to cause global warming on the way here," and we say, "That's not part of my plan," then we realize it's part of our de facto plan.

Because it's the thing that's happening because we have no other plan. 

And I was at the White House for President Bush, meeting with every federal department and agency, and I pointed out that they appear to have no plan.

If the end game is global warming, they're doing great.

If the end game is mercury toxification of our children downwind of coal fire plants as they scuttled the Clean Air Act, then I see that our education programs should be explicitly defined as, "Brain death for all children.

So, the question is, how many federal officials are ready to move to Ohio and Pennsylvania with their families?

So if you don't have an endgame of something delightful, then you're just moving chess pieces around, if you don't know you're taking the king.

So if anybody here has trouble with the concept of design humility, reflect on this -- it took us 5,000 years to put wheels on our luggage.

So, as Kevin Kelly pointed out, there is no endgame.

There is an infinite game, and we're playing in that infinite game.

And so we call it "cradle to cradle," and our goal is very simple. 

This is what I presented to the White House.

Our goal is a delightfully diverse, safe, healthy and just world, with clean air, clean water, soil and power -- economically, equitably, ecologically and elegantly enjoyed, period. 

What don't you like about this?

Which part of this don't you like?

So we've designed products and we analyzed chemicals down to the parts per million.

We can ask ourselves, what is justice, and is justice blind, or is justice blindness?

And at what point did that uniform turn from white to black?

Water has been declared a human right by the United Nations.

Air quality is an obvious thing to anyone who breathes.

We see the flows of materials in a rather terrifying prospect.

This is a hospital monitor from Los Angeles, sent to China.

On the other hand, we see great signs of hope.

Here's Dr. Venkataswamy in India, who's figured out how to do mass-produced health.

He has given eyesight to two million people for free.

They become building steel.

On the other hand, we're working with Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett and Shaw Carpet, the largest carpet company in the world.

We've developed a carpet that is continuously recyclable, down to the parts per million.

Now if I was a bird, the building on my left is a liability.

The building on my right, which is our corporate campus for The Gap with an ancient meadow, is an asset -- its nesting grounds. 

During the dry season, we had four hours of water every fourth day.

And the relationship to landscape was that of farmers who have been farming the same piece of ground for 40 centuries.

My grandfather had been a lumberjack in the Olympics, so I have a lot of tree karma I am working off.

In 1984, we did the first so-called "green office" in America for Environmental Defense.

We started asking manufacturers what were in their materials.

So, all of a sudden, here I am, graduating from high school in 1969, and this happens, and we realize that "away" went away.

Remember we used to throw things away, and we'd point to away?

And yet, NOAA has now shown us, for example -- you see that little blue thing above Hawaii?

That's the Pacific Gyre.

Well, why don't we knock that down and write on it? 

We're adding the Jeffersonian agenda, and I come from Charlottesville, where I've had the privilege of living in a house designed by Thomas Jefferson.

We're adding life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

Now if we look at the word "competition," I'm sure most of you've used it.

You know, most people don't realize it comes from the Latin competere, which means strive together.

It means the way Olympic athletes train with each other.

So we've been looking at the idea of competition as a way of cooperating in order to get fit together.

We're also looking at survival of the fittest, not in just competition terms in our modern context of destroy the other or beat them to the ground, but really to fit together and build niches and have growth that is good. 

But if we look at asphalt as our growth, then we realize that all we're doing is destroying the planetary's fundamental underlying operating system.

So when we see E equals mc squared come along, from a poet's perspective, we see energy as physics, chemistry as mass, and all of a sudden, you get this biology.

We call them biological nutrition and technical nutrition.

Technical nutrition will be in an order of magnitude of biological nutrition.

Biological nutrition can supply about 500 million humans, which means that if we all wore Birkenstocks and cotton, the world would run out of cork and dry up.

Our first product was a textile where we analyzed 8,000 chemicals in the textile industry.

Using those intellectual filters, we eliminated [7,962.]

We were left with 38 chemicals.

We have since databased the 4000 most commonly used chemicals in human manufacturing, and we're releasing this database into the public in six weeks.

Technical nutrients -- this is for Shaw Carpet, infinitely reusable carpet.

Here's nylon going back to caprolactam back to carpet.

Biotechnical nutrients -- the Model U for Ford Motor, a cradle to cradle car -- concept car.

Shoes for Nike, where the uppers are polyesters, infinitely recyclable, the bottoms are biodegradable soles.

Wear your old shoes in, your new shoes out.

There is no finish line.

The idea here of the car is that some of the materials go back to the industry forever, some of the materials go back to soil -- it's all solar-powered. 

Here's a building for The Gap, where the ancient grasses of San Bruno, California, are on the roof. 

They showed up in five days.

We're doing 12 cities for China right now, based on cradle to cradle as templates.

This is the site.

We don't normally do green fields, but this one is about to be built, so they brought us in to intercede.

This is their plan.

It's a rubber stamp grid that they laid right on that landscape.

So the way we approached this is we studied the hydrology very carefully.

We then take the parks and lay them out as ecological infrastructure.

We lay out the building areas.

We start to integrate commercial and mixed use so the people all have centers and places to be.

The transportation is all very simple, everybody's within a five-minute walk of mobility.

We have a 24-hour street, so that there's always a place that's alive.

The waste systems all connect.

Because who wants the fertilizer factory that makes natural gas?

The waters are all taken in to construct the wetlands for habitat restorations.

The solar power of all the factory centers and all the industrial zones with their light roofs powers the city. 

And this is the concept for the top of the city.

We've lifted the earth up onto the roofs.

The farmers have little bridges to get from one roof to the next.

We inhabit the city with work/live space on all the ground floors.

And so this is the existing city, and this is the new city. 

