When I go to a party and people ask me what do I do and I say, "I'm a professor," their eyes glaze over.

and they ask me what I work on and I say, "consciousness," their eyes don't glaze over -- their lips curl into a snarl. 

The very chutzpah of somebody thinking that you could explain consciousness is just out of the question. 

And he says, you know, "Philosophers love rational argument."

But in fact that doesn't change people's minds at all. 

The reason for that is that everybody's an expert on consciousness.

We heard the other day that everybody's got a strong opinion about video games.

They all have an idea for a video game, even if they're not experts.

I'm sure that people here who work on, say, climate change and global warming, or on the future of the Internet, encounter people who have very strong opinions about what's going to happen next.

But they probably don't think of these opinions as expertise.

They're just strongly held opinions.

And they say this with an amazing confidence. 

That's the order of the day here. 

Now, this nice picture shows a thought-balloon, a thought-bubble.

I think everybody understands what that means.

That's supposed to exhibit the stream of consciousness.

This is my favorite picture of consciousness that's ever been done.

It's a Saul Steinberg of course -- it was a New Yorker cover.

What I particularly like about this picture, too, is that Steinberg has rendered the guy in this sort of pointillist style. 

Which reminds us, as Rod Brooks was saying yesterday: what we are, what each of us is -- what you are, what I am -- is approximately 100 trillion little cellular robots.

They think, "No, there can't be any sort of naturalistic explanation of consciousness."

Now, that's the way a lot of people feel about consciousness. 

Real consciousness is not a bag of tricks.

If you're going to explain this as a bag of tricks, then it's not real consciousness, whatever it is.

And, as Marvin said, and as other people have said, "Consciousness is a bag of tricks."

A lot of people feel that way about consciousness, I've discovered.

But I'm not going to explain it all to you.

I'm going to do what philosophers do.

Here's how a philosopher explains the sawing-the-lady-in-half trick.

So now I'm going to illustrate how philosophers explain consciousness.

But I'm going to try to also show you that consciousness isn't quite as marvelous -- your own consciousness isn't quite as wonderful -- as you may have thought it is.

He didn't even try to do those things.

People's memories inflate what they think they saw.

And the same is true of consciousness. 

Watch it carefully.

Even when you know that they're all going to change color, it's very hard to notice.

Now, this is an example -- one of many -- of a phenomenon that's now being studied quite a bit.

If there's time at the end, I'll show you the much more dramatic case.

Now, how can it be that there are all those changes going on, and that we're not aware of them?

And where your eye isn't looking, you're remarkably impoverished in your vision.

That's because the foveal part of your eye, which is the high-resolution part, is only about the size of your thumbnail held at arms length.

That's the detail part.

It doesn't seem that way, does it?

It doesn't seem that way, but that's the way it is.

You're getting in a lot less information than you think. 

It's in the museum in North Carolina.

Bellotto was a student of Canaletto's.

And as I got closer and closer, I actually screamed.

And as I walked towards the picture, I was expecting detail that wasn't there.

The artist had very cleverly suggested people and clothes and wagons and all sorts of things, and my brain had taken the suggestion. 

I'll just give that to you one more time. 

Now, what does your brain do when it takes the suggestion?

Well, remember the philosopher's explanation of the lady?

It's the same thing.

The brain just makes you think that it's got the detail there.

You think the detail's there, but it isn't there.

The brain isn't actually putting the detail in your head at all.

It's just making you expect the detail. 

Let's just do this experiment very quickly.

Is the shape on the left the same as the shape on the right, rotated?

Yes, it's possible to do that.

But the details of the process are still in significant controversy.

And if you read that literature, one of the things that you really have to come to terms with is even when you're the subject in the experiment, you don't know.

You don't know how you do it.

And what explains the fact that that's what you think?

Well, that's where you have to go backstage and ask the magician. 

This is a figure that I love: Bradley, Petrie, and Dumais.

How many of you see that sort of boundary, with the Necker cube floating in front of the circles?

Can you see it?

Well, you know, in effect, the boundary's really there, in a certain sense.

But now, notice there are two ways of seeing the cube, right?

Because there's another way of seeing it.

If you're seeing it as a cube floating in front of some circles, some black circles, there's another way of seeing it.

As a cube, on a black background, as seen through a piece of Swiss cheese. 

Does your brain have to send little painters in there?

When I first started talking about the Bradley, Petrie, Dumais example that you just saw -- I'll go back to it, this one -- I said that there was no filling-in behind there.

And I supposed that that was just a flat truth, always true.

But Rob Van Lier has recently shown that it isn't. 

Let me just pause this for a second if I can. 

This is change-blindness.

It's easy.

Is it a bridge or a dock?

There are a few more really dramatic ones, and then I'll close.

Can you see it? 

Right in the middle of the picture!

We have to have more theory, and it can come as much from the top down. 

