I am in search of another planet in the universe where life exists.

But I know that it's there.

And understanding contradictions that occur in nature will help us find it. 

On our planet, where there's water, there's life.

So we look for planets that orbit at just the right distance from their stars.

Some astronomers focus their time and energy on finding planets at these distances from their stars.

What I do picks up where their job ends.

I model the possible climates of exoplanets.

Take the planet Venus.

But spacecraft measurements revealed a different story.

The surface temperature is close to 900 degrees Fahrenheit, 500 Celsius.

That's hot enough to melt lead.

Its thick atmosphere, not its distance from the sun, is the reason.

It causes a greenhouse effect on steroids, trapping heat from the sun and scorching the planet's surface.

The reality totally contradicted initial perceptions of this planet.

From these lessons from our own solar system, we've learned that a planet's atmosphere is crucial to its climate and potential to host life. 

So that's more than 100 trillion miles.

Trying to measure the atmospheric composition of an exoplanet passing in front of its host star is hard.

It's like trying to see a fruit fly passing in front of a car's headlight.

So I use computer models to calculate the kind of atmosphere a planet would need to have a suitable climate for water and life. 

Here's an artist's concept of the planet Kepler-62f, with the Earth for reference.

Our NSF-funded work found that it could be warm enough for open water from many types of atmospheres and orientations of its orbit.

So I'd like future telescopes to follow up on this planet to look for signs of life. 

Ice on a planet's surface is also important for climate.

Ice absorbs longer, redder wavelengths of light, and reflects shorter, bluer light.

That's why the iceberg in this photo looks so blue.

The redder light from the sun is absorbed on its way through the ice.

Only the blue light makes it all the way to the bottom.

Then it gets reflected back to up to our eyes and we see blue ice.

My models show that planets orbiting cooler stars could actually be warmer than planets orbiting hotter stars.

There's another contradiction -- that ice absorbs the longer wavelength light from cooler stars, and that light, that energy, heats the ice. 

Using climate models to explore how these contradictions can affect planetary climate is vital to the search for life elsewhere. 

And it's no surprise that this is my specialty.

... and how they can inform our search for the next planet where life exists. 

Thank you. 

