You should be really afraid that -- if we stick up the first slide on this thing -- there we go -- that you're missing out.

Because if you spend this week thinking about Iraq and thinking about Bush and thinking about the stock market, you're going to miss one of the greatest adventures that we've ever been on.

And this is what this adventure's really about.

This is crystallized DNA.

Every life form on this planet -- every insect, every bacteria, every plant, every animal, every human, every politician -- (Laughter) is coded in that stuff.

And if you want to take a single crystal of DNA, it looks like that.

And we're just beginning to understand this stuff.

And this is the single most exciting adventure that we have ever been on.

It's the single greatest mapping project we've ever been on.

If you think that the mapping of America's made a difference, or landing on the moon, or this other stuff, it's the map of ourselves and the map of every plant and every insect and every bacteria that really makes a difference.

It turns out that what this stuff is -- and Richard Dawkins has written about this -- is, this is really a river out of Eden.

So, the 3.2 billion base pairs inside each of your cells is really a history of where you've been for the past billion years.

And we could start dating things, and we could start changing medicine and archeology.

It turns out that if you take the human species about 700 years ago, white Europeans diverged from black Africans in a very significant way.

White Europeans were subject to the plague.

In Africa, because you didn't have these cities, you didn't have that CCR5 population pressure mutation.

We can date it to 700 years ago.

And we're beginning to find these little things for malaria, for sickle cell, for cancers.

And in the measure that we map ourselves, this is the single greatest adventure that we'll ever be on.

I thought we'd talk about the new zoo.

If you think you're successful or cockroaches are successful, it turns out that there's ten trillion trillion Pleurococcus sitting out there.

And we didn't know that Pleurococcus was out there, which is part of the reason why this whole species-mapping project is so important.

And the amoeba dubia doesn't look like much, except that each of you has about 3.2 billion letters, which is what makes you you, as far as gene code inside each of your cells, and this little amoeba which, you know, sits in water in hundreds and millions and billions, turns out to have 620 billion base pairs of gene code inside.

So, this little thingamajig has a genome that's 200 times the size of yours.

And if you're thinking of efficient information storage mechanisms, it may not turn out to be chips.

It may turn out to be something that looks a little like that amoeba. 

And, again, we're learning from life and how life works.

This funky little thing: people didn't used to think that it was worth taking samples out of nuclear reactors because it was dangerous and, of course, nothing lived there.

And then finally somebody picked up a microscope and looked at the water that was sitting next to the cores.

And sitting next to that water in the cores was this little Deinococcus radiodurans, doing a backstroke, having its chromosomes blown apart every day, six, seven times, restitching them, living in about 200 times the radiation that would kill you.

And by now you should be getting a hint as to how diverse and how important and how interesting this journey into life is, and how many different life forms there are, and how there can be different life forms living in very different places, maybe even outside of this planet.

Because if you can live in radiation that looks like this, that brings up a whole series of interesting questions. 

This little thingamajig: we didn't know this thingamajig existed.

We should have known that this existed because this is the only bacteria that you can see to the naked eye.

And what you're looking at with this namibiensis is the biggest bacteria we've ever seen.

So, it's about the size of a little period on a sentence.

Again, we didn't know this thing was there three years ago.

We're just beginning this journey of life in the new zoo. 

The reason why Ferroplasma is interesting is because it eats iron, lives inside the equivalent of battery acid, and excretes sulfuric acid.

And the reason why they're ancient is because this thing came up when this planet was covered by things like sulfuric acid in batteries, and it was eating iron when the earth was part of a melted core.

So, it's not just dogs and cats and whales and dolphins that you should be aware of and interested in on this little journey. 

Whether the humans survive or don't survive, these things are going to be living on this planet or other planets.

And it's just beginning to understand this code of DNA that's really the most exciting intellectual adventure that we've ever been on. 

We are now experimenting with bongos, pandas, elands, Sumatran tigers, and the Australians -- bless their hearts -- are playing with these things. 

But it turns out that as we learn more about gene code and how to reprogram species, we may be able to close the gene gaps in deteriorate DNA.

And when we learn how to close the gene gaps, then we can put a full string of DNA together.

And if we do that, and insert this into a fertilized wolf's egg, we may give birth to an animal that hasn't walked the earth since 1936.

And then you can start going back further, and you can start thinking about dodos, and you can think about other species.

And in other places, like Maryland, they're trying to figure out what the primordial ancestor is.

Because each of us contains our entire gene code of where we've been for the past billion years, because we've evolved from that stuff, you can take that tree of life and collapse it back, and in the measure that you learn to reprogram, maybe we'll give birth to something that is very close to the first primordial ooze.

And it's all coming out of things that look like this. 

These are companies that didn't exist five years ago.

It takes about 5 billion dollars to sequence a human being the first time.

Takes about 3 million dollars the second time.

We will have a 1,000-dollar genome within the next five to eight years.

And Laurie's going to talk about this one a little bit.

Because if you happen to find this one inside your body, you're in big trouble, because that's the source code for Ebola.

That's one of the deadliest diseases known to humans.

This apple is the same thing as this floppy disk.

Next line of code: make a stem.

Next line of code, TACGGGG: make a flower that's white, that blooms in the spring, that smells like this.

In the measure that you have the code and the measure that you read it -- and, by the way, the first plant was read two years ago; the first human was read two years ago; the first insect was read two years ago. 

The first thing that we ever read was in 1995: a little bacteria called Haemophilus influenzae.

And what you can do now is, you can outlay exactly what your chromosome is, and what the gene code on that chromosome is right here, and what those genes code for, and what animals they code against, and then you can tie it to the literature.

The reason why he's reprogramming that animal to have more wings is because when you used to play with lizards as a little child, and you picked up the lizard, sometimes the tail fell off, but it regrew.

Not so in human beings: you cut off an arm, you cut off a leg -- it doesn't regrow.

But because each of your cells contains your entire gene code, each cell can be reprogrammed, if we don't stop stem cell research and if we don't stop genomic research, to express different body functions.

And you are likely to be wandering around -- and your children -- on regrown body parts in a reasonable period of time, in some places in the world where they don't stop the research. 

That's why you differ from this person over here by one in a thousand.

That's what your genes are doing every day.

That's why sometimes a person's genes don't have to change a lot to get cancer. 

These little chippies, these things are the size of a credit card.

They will test any one of you for 60,000 genetic conditions.

Because in ALL leukemia, that set of genes over there over-expresses.

In MLL, it's the middle set of genes, and in AML, it's the bottom set of genes.

And if one of those particular things is expressing in your body, then you take Gleevec and you're cured.

Changes the way medicine works. 

The greatest repository of knowledge when most of us went to college was this thing, and it turns out that this is not so important any more.

Except that when you lay that side by side with the speed with which gene data's being deposited in GenBank, Moore's Law is right here: it's the blue line.

This is on a log scale, and that's what superexponential growth means.

This is going to push computers to have to grow faster than they've been growing, because so far, there haven't been applications that have been required that need to go faster than Moore's Law.

And here's an interesting map.

This is a map which was finished at the Harvard Business School.

In fact, it's not a genomically literate world.

You can break this out by states.

And you can watch states rise and fall depending on their ability to speak a language of life, and you can watch New York fall off a cliff, and you can watch New Jersey fall off a cliff, and you can watch the rise of the new empires of intelligence.

And you can break it out by counties, because it's specific counties.

And that's the triangle between Salk, Scripps, UCSD, and it's called Torrey Pines Road.

That means you don't need to be a big nation to be successful; it means you don't need a lot of people to be successful; and it means you can move most of the wealth of a country in about three or four carefully picked 747s. 

What's the net effect of this?

In a knowledge society, that number is now 427 to 1.

It really matters if you're literate, not just in reading and writing in English and French and German, but in Microsoft and Linux and Apple.

And very soon it's going to matter if you're literate in life code.

So, if there is something you should fear, it's that you're not keeping your eye on the ball.

Because it really matters who speaks life.

That's why nations rise and fall. 

Here's differential productivity rates.

Here's how many people it takes to produce a single U.S. patent.

So, about 3,000 Americans, 6,000 Koreans, 14,000 Brits, 790,000 Argentines.

It's got nothing to do with inflation.

It's got nothing to do with privatization.

Oh, yeah, and it takes about 5.6 million Indians.

Well, watch what happens to India.

Here's what's happening in the world.

It turns out that if you'd gone to the U.N. in 1950, when it was founded, there were 50 countries in this world.

It turns out there's now about 192.

In the 1990s, these are sovereign states that did not exist before 1990.

And this doesn't include fusions or name changes or changes in flags.

We're generating about 3.12 states per year.

