The water was cleaned, but because they got a lot of batteries, they were able to store a lot of electricity.

And there is the Chief, in all his regal finery, with a laptop computer.

(Laughter) We now know that at Gombe alone, there are nine different ways in which chimpanzees use different objects for different purposes.

Moreover, we know that in different parts of Africa, wherever chimps have been studied, there are completely different tool-using behaviors.

What we find is that over these 40-odd years that I and others have been studying chimpanzees and the other great apes, and, as I say, other mammals with complex brains and social systems, we have found that after all, there isn't a sharp line dividing humans from the rest of the animal kingdom.

It's a very wuzzy line.

It's getting wuzzier all the time as we find animals doing things that we, in our arrogance, used to think was just human.

The chimps -- there's no time to discuss their fascinating lives -- but they have this long childhood, five years of suckling and sleeping with the mother, and then another three, four or five years of emotional dependence on her, even when the next child is born.

The importance of learning in that time, when behavior is flexible -- and there's an awful lot to learn in chimpanzee society.

The long-term affectionate supportive bonds that develop throughout this long childhood with the mother, with the brothers and sisters, and which can last through a lifetime, which may be up to 60 years.

They can actually live longer than 60 in captivity, so we've only done 40 years in the wild so far.

And we find chimps are capable of true compassion and altruism.

They kiss; they embrace; they hold hands.

We find that they show emotions, similar to -- maybe sometimes the same -- as those that we describe in ourselves as happiness, sadness, fear, despair.

They know mental as well as physical suffering.

So, the sad thing is that these chimpanzees -- who've perhaps taught us, more than any other creature, a little humility -- are in the wild, disappearing very fast.

They're disappearing for the reasons that all of you in this room know only too well.

And this has led in Congo basin, and other parts of the world, to what is known as the bush-meat trade.

This means that although for hundreds, perhaps thousands of years, people have lived in those forests, or whatever habitat it is, in harmony with their world, just killing the animals they need for themselves and their families -- now, suddenly, because of the roads, the hunters can go in from the towns.

They shoot everything, every single thing that moves that's bigger than a small rat; they sun-dry it or smoke it.

And now they've got transport; they take it on the logging trucks or the mining trucks into the towns where they sell it.

They're given weapons; they shoot for the logging camps; they get money.

Their culture is being destroyed, along with the animals upon whom they depend.

So, when the logging camp moves, there's nothing left.

Were the people that we heard about yesterday, on the Easter Island, who cut down their last tree -- were they stupid?

Didn't they know what was happening?

Of course, but if you've seen the crippling poverty in some of these parts of the world it isn't a question of "Let's leave the tree for tomorrow."

"How am I going to feed my family today?

So, this is a pretty grim picture.

And that's not just in the far-away developing world; that's everywhere.

Do you know we all have about 50 chemicals in our bodies we didn't have about 50 years ago?

And so many of these diseases, like asthma and certain kinds of cancers, are on the increase around places where our filthy toxic waste is dumped.

As I was traveling around the world, you know, I had to leave the forest -- that's where I love to be.

How can we do it?

Somebody said that yesterday.

We want to clear away the toxic soil from this area and have an organic garden.

We want to go and spend time with the old people and hear their stories and record their oral histories.

And if anyone is interested to help us, we've got so many ideas but we need help -- we need help to create the right kind of system that will help these young people to communicate their excitement.

We do not believe in violence.

No violence, no bombs, no guns.

That's not the way to solve problems.

Violence leads to violence, at least in my view.

So how do we solve?

The tools for solving the problems are knowledge and understanding.

Jane Goodall: Two, two, I'm going to take two.

(Laughter) Are you going to come and drag me off?

(Laughter) Anyway -- so basically, Roots and Shoots is beginning to change young people's lives.

It's what I'm devoting most of my energy to.

And it's been so clear how much you all care about trying to make this world a better place.

It's very encouraging.

And we've talked a lot about that.

We can see a whole area desolated, and it can be brought back to bloom again, with time or a little help.

And thirdly, the last speaker talked about -- or the speaker before last, talked about the indomitable human spirit.

We are surrounded by the most amazing people who do things that seem to be absolutely impossible.

Even after the 11th of September -- and I was in New York and I felt the fear -- nevertheless, there was so much human courage, so much love and so much compassion.

