Well, I thought there would be a podium, so I'm a bit scared.

But it slightly bores me.

(Laughter) And, you know, I wrote a book.

(Laughter) And, you know, I wrote a book.

And then, I hope maybe I have at least five minutes to say what makes me tick now. 

In back of me is a picture of me when I was 17.

I was at the University of Chicago, in my third year, and I was in my third year because the University of Chicago let you in after two years of high school.

But I should say that my background -- my father was, you know, raised to be an Episcopalian and Republican, but after one year of college, he became an atheist and a Democrat.

(Laughter) And my mother was Irish Catholic, and -- but she didn't take religion too seriously.

And by the age of 11, I was no longer going to Sunday Mass, and going on birdwatching walks with my father.

So early on, I heard of Charles Darwin.

I guess, you know, he was the big hero.

And, you know, you understand life as it now exists through evolution. 

Then, in the Chicago paper, there was a review of a book called "What is Life?"

And that, of course, had been a question I wanted to know.

You know, Darwin explained life after it got started, but what was the essence of life? 

So I had, you know, a hero at a distance.

It wasn't a baseball player; it was Linus Pauling.

And so I applied to Caltech and they turned me down.

(Laughter) So I went to Indiana, which was actually as good as Caltech in genetics, and besides, they had a really good basketball team.

And it was at Indiana I got the impression that, you know, the gene was likely to be DNA.

And so when I got my Ph.D., I should go and search for DNA. 

You can read it in about two hours.

And -- but then I went to a meeting in Italy.

Most people believed it was proteins.

So there was something universal about the DNA molecule.

So the best place for x-ray crystallography was at the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge.

And within a day, we had decided that maybe we could take a shortcut to finding the structure of DNA.

But just ask what the molecule -- how should it fold up? 

He certainly wasn't smiling when I got there, because he was somewhat humiliated by Pauling getting the alpha helix, and the Cambridge people failing because they weren't chemists.

X-ray diagram, he thought was comparable with the helix. 

So we built a three-stranded model.

The people from London came up.

Wilkins and this collaborator, or possible collaborator, Rosalind Franklin, came up and sort of laughed at our model.

(Laughter) And so we didn't build any models, and Francis sort of continued to work on proteins.

(Laughter) And so we didn't build any models, and Francis sort of continued to work on proteins.

You know, basically, reading is a good thing; you get facts.

And we kept telling the people in London that Linus Pauling's going to move on to DNA.

If DNA is that important, Linus will know it.

He'll build a model, and then we're going to be scooped. 

But there was ones in the literature.

Actually, Linus didn't look at them that carefully.

But about, oh, 15 months after I got to Cambridge, a rumor began to appear from Linus Pauling's son, who was in Cambridge, that his father was now working on DNA.

(Laughter) 

And so there was the paper, and he proposed a three-stranded structure.

And I read it, and it was just -- it was crap.

(Laughter) So this was, you know, unexpected from the world's -- (Laughter) -- and so, it was held together by hydrogen bonds between phosphate groups.

Well, if the peak pH that cells have is around seven, those hydrogen bonds couldn't exist.

(Laughter) 

And, you know, we were still in the game, but we were frightened that somebody at Caltech would tell Linus that he was wrong.

And so Bragg said, "Build models."

And a month after we got the Pauling manuscript -- I should say I took the manuscript to London, and showed the people.

And so I came back with that news to Cambridge, and Bragg said, "Build models."

She was a crystallographer. 

And I think part of the reason she didn't want to build models was, she wasn't a chemist, whereas Pauling was a chemist.

We weren't the best chemists in the room.

I went in and showed them a pairing I'd done, and Jerry Donohue -- he was a chemist -- he said, it's wrong.

You've got -- the hydrogen atoms are in the wrong place.

So the next day, you know, after I thought, "Well, he might be right."

And we knew we were right.

So it was a pretty, you know, it all happened in about two hours.

So we saw how genetic information is carried.

It's the order of the four bases.

So in a sense, it is a sort of digital-type information.

And you copy it by going from strand-separating.

(Laughter) 

But that's not the way most scientists think.

It was pretty obvious that it provided the information to an RNA molecule, and then how do you go from RNA to protein?

(Laughter) 

Feynman was a member, and Teller, and friends of Gamow.

There's Francis up on the upper right, and Alex Rich -- the M.D.-turned-crystallographer -- is next to me.

This was taken in Cambridge in September of 1955.

(Laughter) 

Well, at that time -- I should go back.

(Laughter) 

And so DNA didn't become a useful molecule, and the lawyers didn't enter into the equation until 1973, 20 years later, when Boyer and Cohen in San Francisco and Stanford came up with their method of recombinant DNA, and Stanford patented it and made a lot of money.

At least they patented something which, you know, could do useful things.

And we use their technique.

And what you can do is sort of compare DNA of normal segs versus cancer.

And you can see on the top that cancers which are bad show insertions or deletions.

It's not a -- it's only a partial look, but it's a -- I think it's going to be very, very useful. 

But Wigler, besides looking at cancer cells, looked at normal cells, and made a really sort of surprising observation.

But if these deletions or amplifications occurred in the wrong gene, maybe we'll feel sick. 

So the first disease he looked at is autism.

Couldn't do it by conventional genetics, but just scanning it we began to find genes for autism.

And you can see here, there are a lot of them.

So a lot of autistic kids are autistic because they just lost a big piece of DNA.

I mean, big piece at the molecular level.

We saw one autistic kid, about five million bases just missing from one of his chromosomes.

So this same technique should probably look at all.

It's a wonderful way to find genes. 

And yet, in the controls there were three.

So what's the meaning of the controls?

And what we think in schizophrenia is there are genes of predisposure, and whether this is one that predisposes -- and then there's only a sub-segment of the population that's capable of being schizophrenic. 

Now, we don't have really any evidence of it, but I think, to give you a hypothesis, the best guess is that if you're left-handed, you're prone to schizophrenia.

(Laughter) 

So it's, to me, an extraordinarily exciting time.

And if I had enough money, we'd find them all this year.

I thank you. 

