Fill in the blanks.

You know, about a million years ago, a bunch of monkeys fell out of trees, got a little clever, harnessed fire, invented the printing press, made, you know, luggage with wheels on it.

And, you know, built the society that we now live in.

Unfortunately, while this society is, without a doubt, the most prosperous and dynamic the world has ever created, it's got some major, major flaws. 

One of them is that every society has an ecological footprint.

It has an amount of impact on the planet that's measurable.

And we, at the moment, in our society, have a really dramatically unsustainable level of this.

We're using up about five planets.

If everybody on the planet lived the way we did, we'd need between five, six, seven, some people even say 10 planets to make it.

Clearly we don't have 10 planets.

Again, you know, mental, visual, 10 planets, one planet, 10 planets, one planet.

And, you know, then you get all the way down to people who live in the Asia-Pacific region, or even more, Africa.

And people simply do not have enough to survive.

So to make matters even more difficult, it's a very young planet.

A third of the people on this planet are kids.

And those kids are growing up in a completely different way than their parents did, no matter where they live.

They've been exposed to this idea of our society, of our prosperity.

And they may not want to live exactly like us.

And all of these things combine to create an enormous amount of torque on the planet.

And if we cannot figure out a way to deal with that torque, we are going to find ourselves more and more and more quickly facing situations which are simply unthinkable. 

Everybody in this room has heard the worst-case scenarios.

I don't need to go into that.

But I will ask the question, what's the alternative?

And I would say that, at the moment, the alternative is unimaginable.

You know, so on the one hand we have the unthinkable; on the other hand we have the unimaginable.

We don't know how to do this yet. 

So what's Worldchanging?

Well, Worldchanging you might think of as being a bit of a news service for the unimaginable future.

Give you a little peek into our editorial notebook.

And given that I have 13 minutes to do this, this is going to go kind of quick.

And people who live in cities in the developed world tend to be very prosperous, and thus use a lot of stuff.

And they are doing density, new density, better than probably anybody else on the planet right now.

You leave aside what is natural to be natural. 

That land there will remain pasture in perpetuity.

Once you do those things, you can start making all sorts of investments.

You can start doing things like, you know, transit systems that actually work to transport people, in effective and reasonably comfortable manners.

You can also start to change what you build.

We're able to now build buildings that generate all their own electricity, that recycle much of their water, that are much more comfortable than standard buildings, use all-natural light, etc., and, over time, cost less.

But once you also have people living in close proximity to each other, one of the things you can do is -- as information technologies develop -- you can start to have smart places.

You can start to know where things are.

When you know where things are, it becomes easier to share them.

When you share them, you end up using less.

If you're somebody who drives, you know, one day a week, do you really need your own car? 

But, you know, there may even be a simpler approach.

We could just re-label things.

This light switch that reads, on the one hand, flashfloods, and on the other hand, off.

How we build things can change as well.

This is a bio-morphic building.

It takes its inspiration in form from life.

Many of these buildings are incredibly beautiful, and also much more effective.

This is an example of bio-mimicry, which is something we're really starting to look a lot more for.

I encourage you to look on Worldchanging if you're into it.

We're starting to cover this more and more.

So this, for example, is hydrogen-generating algae.

So we have a model in potential, an emerging model that we're looking for of how to take the cities most of us live in, and turn them into Bright Green cities. 

But unfortunately, most of the people on the planet don't live in the cites we live in.

They live in the emerging megacities of the developing world.

And there's a statistic I often like to use, which is that we're adding a city of Seattle every four days, a city the size of Seattle to the planet every four days.

So what do we need in order to make developing nation megacities into Bright Green megacities?

Well, the first thing we need is, we need leapfrogging.

And this is one of the things that we are looking for everywhere.

All throughout the developing world, people are going directly to cell phones, skipping the whole landline stage.

So I rather like this picture here.

I particularly like the Ganesh in the background, talking on the cell phone.

So what we have, increasingly, is cell phones just permeating out through society.

When you have free ability for people to freely work together and innovate, you get different kinds of solutions.

And those things lead to things like this.

This is a Telecentro in Sao Paulo.

And a quarter-million people every year use these now in Sao Paulo.

So one of the things that that's leading to is a sort of southern cultural explosion.

Like, I don't know if any of you have seen the movie "City of God?"

Yeah, it's a fabulous movie if you haven't seen it.

And it's all about this question, in a very artistic and indirect kind of way. 

You have other radical examples where the ability to use cultural tools is spreading out.

And as we heard last night, as we've heard earlier this week, are absolutely, fundamentally vital to the ability to craft new solutions, is we've got to craft new political realities. 

That it's not just that we have to sort of imagine there being a different, vague possibility out there, but we need to start acting a little bit more on that possibility.

We need to start doing things like Lula, President of Brazil.

I would keep your eye on this fellow. 

We get so little news about the developing world that we often forget that there are literally millions of people out there struggling to change things to be fairer, freer, more democratic, less corrupt.

And, you know, we don't hear those stories enough.

But it's happening all over the place, and these tools are part of what's making it possible. 

Now when you add all those things together, when you add together leapfrogging and new kinds of tools, you know, second superpower stuff, etc., what do you get?

Well, very quickly, you get a Bright Green future for the developing world.

You get grassroots solutions, things that work for people who have no capital or limited access.

You get barefoot solar engineers carrying solar panels into the remote mountains.

You get access to distance medicine.

These are Indian nurses learning how to use PDAs to access databases that have information that they don't have access to at home in a distant manner.

You get new tools for people in the developing world.

Here's a design for distilling water using sunlight.

This is a fabulous invention, LifeStraw.

Basically you can suck any water through this and it will become drinkable by the time it hits your lips.

So, you know, people who are in desperate straits can get this.

This is one of my favorite Worldchanging kinds of things ever.

How do we help people like that?

Well, there's all sorts of amazing new humanitarian designs that are being developed in collaborative ways all across the planet.

And we have new tools.

This is one of my absolute favorite things anywhere.

Does anyone know what this is? 

Audience: It detects landmines. 

If you are living in one of the places where the roughly half-billion unaccounted for mines are scattered, you can fling these seeds out into the field.

And as they grow up, they will grow up around the mines, their roots will detect the chemicals in them, and where the flowers turn red you don't step.

I also love it because it seems to me that the example, the tools we use to change the world, ought to be beautiful in themselves.

You know, that it's not just enough to survive.

We've got to make something better than what we've got.

The people in this room have given me more confidence than ever that it will. 

