It's a super-waldo that you happen to be inside of, and if you feel sexy, the car is sexy.

Cars are a sculpture -- did you know this?

Toothbrush, cool.

This is one substitution that I believe all of us, in design management, are guilty of.

The idea of people-work is what we work with here, and I have to make a bond with my designers when we're creating BMWs.

Well, you've got to stand outside to do this.

This is one of my favorite paintings, it really describes our relationship with cars.

This is sick beyond belief. 

And it's my job, in the competitive process, to narrow this down.

You know, that's what I have to do sometimes.

We wanted to a do a car which was a complete leap of faith for BMW.

We wanted to do a team which was so removed from the way we'd done it, that I only had a phone number that connected me to them.

Like I said, I just had a phone number that connected me to them. 

Hopefully, really understand the customer at its heart, where the customer is, live with them in America.

Now, I got some postcards of these guys in Las Vegas, and I got some postcards of these guys in the Grand Canyon, and I got these postcards of Niagara Falls, and pretty soon they're in New York, and I don't know where else.

But anyway, this was the house, and they all lived there.

And one of the young women in the project, she was a fantastic lady, she actually built her room in the bathroom.

The bathroom was so big, she built the bed over the bathtub -- it's quite fascinating. 

So my concept of what a design studio was probably -- I wasn't up to speed on where these guys were. 

Well, what I didn't know was, and what we found out was -- these guys, they can't even like talk to each other under those conditions.

You get a divergence of Newtonian and quantum thinking at that point, you have a split in your dialog that is so deep, and so far, that they cannot bring this together at all. 

And so we had our first meeting, after three months, in Tiburon, which is just up the road from here -- you know Tiburon?

So we went to Tiburon, after three months, and the team had gotten together the week before, many days ahead of time.

The engineers flew over, and designers got together with them, and they put their presentation together. 

Well, it turns out that the engineers hadn't done anything.

And they hadn't done anything because -- kind of, like in car business, engineers are there to solve problems, and we were asking them to create a problem.

There was a whole lot of dialog.

We spent four hours being told all about vocabulary that needs to be built between engineers and designers.

And here I'm expecting at any moment, "OK, they're going to turn the page, and I'm going to see the cars, I'm going to see the sketches, I'm going to see maybe some idea of where it's going."

Dialog kept on going, with mental maps of words, and pretty soon it was becoming obvious that instead of being dazzled with brilliance, I was seriously being baffled with bullshit.

You can probably remember Tiburon, it used to look like this. 

After four hours of this, I stood up, and I took this team apart.

I screamed at them, I yelled at them, "What the hell are you doing?

And I've got to tell you, this was one seriously quiet lunch.

And I recalled that when Catherine and I were married, the priest gave a very nice sermon, and he said something very important.

I said "This can't be."

By the way, that team went on to create six different concepts for the next model of what would be the proposal for the next generation after SUVs in America.

One of those was the idea of a crossover coupes -- you see it downstairs, the X Coupe -- they had a lot of fun with that.

It was the rendition of our motorcycle, the GS, as Carl Magnusson says, "brute-iful," as the idea of what could be a motorcycle, if you add two more wheels.

And I hope that you too find that there's more to design, and more towards the art of the design, than doing it yourself.

It's true that the trust and the love, that makes it worthwhile. 

Thanks so much. 

