And how do you bring those two things together?

Charlie Ledbetter, yesterday, I thought, talked very articulately about this need to bring consumers, to bring people into the process of creating things.

The first thing we actually shared with them was this.

And just putting yourself in the position of the patient -- 

this is Christian, who works with us at Ideo.

That's what it's like to be a patient in the hospital.

And so, that was a really catalytic thing for them.

So they snapped into action.

They said, OK, it's not about systemic change.

Very small example of something that they could do.

So you went from public space to private space.

So, tiny, tiny, tiny solutions that made a huge amount of impact.

I thought that was a really, really nice example. 

It's a history of invention based around this.

I'm going to read this because I want to get these names right.

So there's a whole series of just using your eyes, seeing things for the first time, seeing things afresh and using them as an opportunity to create new possibilities.

Again, another medical example here.

They'll ask the nurses to input data.

And so the first thing that pretty much every nurse did, was hold the patient's hand to comfort them.

And I think that's really, really important.

So, again, this idea of workarounds.

Why do we all follow the line in the street?

This is a picture in a Japanese subway.

People consciously follow things even though, why, we don't know.

Why do we line up the square milk carton with the square fence?

Because we kind of have to -- we're just compelled to.

You can draw from this.

We sort of assume that because there's a pole in the street, that it's okay to use it, so we park our shopping cart there.

It's there for our use, on some level. 

So somebody assumes that because somebody else has done something, that's permission for them to do the same thing.

And there's almost this sort of semaphore around us all the time.

I mean, shopping bag equals "parking meter out of order."

And we all, kind of, know how to read these signals now.

I talk about unthinking situations all the time.

Sort of having beginner's mind, scraping your mind clean and looking at things afresh. 

The reality is when you actually watch children, children don't think about things like storage in linear terms.

So, what came out of this?

It's this, and I think this is a particularly lovely solution.

So, you know, it's a totally different way of looking at the situation.

It's a completely empathic solution -- apart from the fact that teddy's probably not loving it. 

And then use that information to fuel solutions?

It's about this really.

I mean, it's about picking battles big enough to matter but small enough to win.

They're now called KickStart. 

And that was completely irrelevant.

So it had to be looked at completely from the point of view of the user.

We had to completely transfer ourselves over to their world.

So what seems like a very clunky product is, in fact, incredibly useful.

It's powered a bit like a Stairmaster -- you pump up and down on it.

It's turning these guys -- again, one of the themes -- it's turning them into entrepreneurs. 

There it is, pumping water from 30 feet.

I hope you'll all wear them.

