No matter what I've done, what I've tried to do, everybody says it can't be done.

And it's continuous across the complete spectrum of the various kind of realities that you confront with your ideas. 

It's Calvino's idea of the quickest way between two points is the circuitous line, not the straight line.

And definitely my life has been part of that.

But basically, what we do is, we try to give coherence to the world.

And what I'm doing is attempting to synthesize the way one sees the world and the territories which are useful as generative material.

And it's not based on an a priori notion.

I have no interest in that whatsoever. 

And it's not any single system that makes the work.

And those systems could be identified, and they could be grouped together.

We're producing spaces that accommodate human activity.

And what I'm interested in is not the styling of that, but the relationship of that as it enhances that activity.

And that directly connects to ideas of city-making. 

And that led us directly to the Olympic Village. 

Again, a direct reflection from using these processes to develop extremely complicated, very large-scale organisms.

And then, also, was working with broad strategies.

And it has also to do with an interest in the vast kind of territory that architecture touches.

It literally is connected to anything in terms of knowledge base.

There's just no place that it doesn't somehow have a connective tissue to. 

It's the clothing, the skin, without the presence of the character.

And that turned right away into another project. 

This is the Caltrans building in Los Angeles.

And now we're seeing as the skin and the body is differentiated.

Again, it's a very, very simple notion.

And you're looking at how it drapes over and differentiates from the body.

And then it allows one to penetrate the work itself.

And then the skin starts transforming into other materials.

We're using light as a building material in this case.

And that was very much part of the notion of the urban objective of this project in Los Angeles. 

And, again, all of it promoting transparency.

But we took the air conditioning out of the tower.

Well, I could also start here.

We could talk about the relationship at a more biological sense of the relationship of building and ground. 

This is, of course, Michael Heizer.

They're just totally incredible.

And that led us to then completely rethinking how we draw, how we work. 

There it is modeled as it was developing into a piece of work.

And, of course, we're interested in participating with education.

What I'm interested in are how these ideas participate in the educational process of young people.

It's an idea that started from my first discussion.

And this is how they see the world.

And then right below that the processing, and the mission lift, and the mission control room, and all the other spaces are underground.

I visited the site many times, and everybody, kind of -- you can see this from two kilometers away; it's an exact center of the street, and the whole notion is to engage the public, to engage buildings as part of the public tissue of the city. 

And finally, one of the most interesting projects -- it's a courthouse.

And what I want to talk about -- this is the Supreme Court, of course -- and, well, I'm dealing with Michael Hogan, the Chief Justice of Oregon.

And really what we're talking about is constructing reality. 

We construct it and we construct those ideas.

And then of course, this one, our governor at the moment.

Thank you so much. 

