It is a thrill to be here at a conference that's devoted to "Inspired by Nature" -- you can imagine.

And I'm also thrilled to be in the foreplay section.

Did you notice this section is foreplay?

And so we were rowing, and one of these Western Grebes came along.

And what they do for their courtship dance is, they go together, the two of them, the two mates, and they begin to run underwater.

They paddle faster, and faster, and faster, until they're going so fast that they literally lift up out of the water, and they're standing upright, sort of paddling the top of the water.

And one of these Grebes came along while we were rowing.

And so we're in a skull, and we're moving really, really quickly.

And this Grebe, I think, sort of, mistaked us for a prospect, and started to run along the water next to us, in a courtship dance -- for miles.

It would stop, and then start, and then stop, and then start.

(Laughter) 

But what I'd like to talk about today is what life might teach us in technology and in design.

And some of them were very resistant, actually, to being there.

This is learning something, learning an idea, from an organism and then applying it.

And so they still weren't getting it. 

And they said, you know what happens is, mineral -- just like at your house -- mineral builds up.

And then the aperture closes, and we have to flush the pipes with toxins, or we have to dig them up.

And they didn't know that.

They didn't know that what a seashell is, it's templated by proteins, and then ions from the seawater crystallize in place to create a shell.

It literally adheres to the growing face of the crystal.

And, in fact, there is a product called TPA that's mimicked that protein -- that stop-protein -- and it's an environmentally friendly way to stop scaling in pipes. 

What had happened was that they realized that there were organisms out there that had already solved the problems that they had spent their careers trying to solve. 

Learning about the natural world is one thing; learning from the natural world -- that's the switch.

That's the profound switch.

The important thing for me is that these are solutions solved in context.

And the context is the Earth -- the same context that we're trying to solve our problems in.

So it's the conscious emulation of life's genius.

So the hardware is not at all up to snuff in terms of what life would call a success.

So what can we learn about making -- not just computers, but everything?

More importantly, what should we ask in the next 10 years?

And there's a lot of cool technologies out there that life has. 

What's the syllabus?

Three questions, for me, are key.

How does life make things?

This is the opposite; this is how we make things.

How does life make the most of things?

That's a geranium pollen.

Life adds information to matter.

And thirdly, how does life make things disappear into systems?

Because life doesn't really deal in things; there are no things in the natural world divorced from their systems.

Really quick syllabus.

As I'm reading more and more now, and following the story, there are some amazing things coming up in the biological sciences.

And at the same time, I'm listening to a lot of businesses and finding what their sort of grand challenges are.

The two groups are not talking to each other.

At all. 

What in the world of biology might be helpful at this juncture, to get us through this sort of evolutionary knothole that we're in?

I'm going to try to go through 12, really quickly. 

One that's exciting to me is self-assembly.

It's twice as tough as our high-tech ceramics.

And there's many of them, all over its entire body.

What's interesting, again, is that it self-assembles.

That's a sea sponge that has a fiber optic.

Here's another big idea: CO2 as a feedstock.

Solar transformations: the most exciting one.

And a team has now just been able to mimic that hydrogen-juggling hydrogenase.

That's very exciting for fuel cells -- to be able to do that without platinum. 

Which is an amazing fossil fuel savings, if we were to just put that on the edge of a wing.

Color without pigments: this peacock is creating color with shape.

See that up-close picture?

That's a ball of water, and those are dirt particles.

And that's an up-close picture of a lotus leaf.

The one on the left is the Namibian beetle pulling water out of fog.

Pulling water out of Monterey fog and out of the sweaty air in Atlanta, before it gets into a building, are key technologies. 

Separation technologies are going to be extremely important.

What if we were to say, no more hard rock mining?

What if we were to separate out metals from waste streams, small amounts of metals in water?

Green chemistry is chemistry in water.

We do chemistry in organic solvents.

Green chemistry is replacing our industrial chemistry with nature's recipe book.

It's not easy, because life uses only a subset of the elements in the periodic table.

And we use all of them, even the toxic ones.

To figure out the elegant recipes that would take the small subset of the periodic table, and create miracle materials like that cell, is the task of green chemistry. 

Timed degradation: packaging that is good until you don't want it to be good anymore, and dissolves on cue.

Healing: this is a good one.

That little guy over there is a tardigrade.

A guy named Bruce Rosner looked at the tardigrade -- which dries out completely, and yet stays alive for months and months and months, and is able to regenerate itself.

And he found a way to dry out vaccines -- encase them in the same sort of sugar capsules as the tardigrade has within its cells -- meaning that vaccines no longer need to be refrigerated.

I'm not going to get to 12.

When they're involved in foreplay, they're thinking about something very, very important -- and that's having their genetic material remain, 10,000 generations from now.

And that means finding a way to do what they do without destroying the place that'll take care of their offspring.

That's the biggest design challenge.

Luckily, there are millions and millions of geniuses willing to gift us with their best ideas.

Good luck having a conversation with them. 

Thank you. 

OK, so that's the healing one.

And yet we have 3.6 million car collisions a year.

This is a huge and important one, number 11.

And that's the growing fertility.

That is, those organisms that have not been able to figure out how to enhance or sweeten their places, are not around to tell us about it.

That's the twelfth one.

Life -- and this is the secret trick; this is the magic trick -- life creates conditions conducive to life.

It builds soil; it cleans air; it cleans water; it mixes the cocktail of gases that you and I need to live.

We have to find a way to meet our needs, while making of this place an Eden. 

