He may have also been responsible for 22 very entertaining minutes, but not very many of you.

And all of that goes back to a decision that Roy had to make about three years ago. 

So you see, Roy Price is a senior executive with Amazon Studios.

That's the TV production company of Amazon.

And of course that's a highly competitive space.

I mean, there are so many TV shows already out there, that Roy can't just choose any show.

He has to find shows that are really, really great.

So in other words, he has to find shows that are on the very right end of this curve here. 

So if your show gets a rating of nine points or higher, that's a winner.

Then you have a top two percent show.

That kind of show.

-- which should tell you enough about what's going on on that end of the curve. 

So he needs to make sure that he's really on the right end of this. 

He wants to engineer success.

And so when Amazon is giving out free stuff, you're going to take it, right?

So millions of viewers are watching those episodes. 

What they don't realize is that, while they're watching their shows, actually, they are being watched.

They did that show. 

So does anyone know the name of the show?

And once they had all of these pieces together, they took a leap of faith, and they decided to license not a sitcom about four Senators but a drama series about a single Senator.

You guys know the show? 

So you have two very competitive, data-savvy companies.

So why?

Because logic kind of tells you that this should be working all the time.

I mean, if you're collecting millions of data points on a decision you're going to make, then you should be able to make a pretty good decision.

You have 200 years of statistics to rely on.

You're amplifying it with very powerful computers.

The least you could expect is good TV, right? 

If someone here in the US is in prison, and they apply for parole, then it's very likely that data analysis software from that company will be used in determining whether to grant that parole.

And unfortunately, there is actually some evidence that this data analysis, despite having lots of data, does not always produce optimum results.

And that's not because a company like Multi-Health Systems doesn't know what to do with data.

Even the most data-savvy companies get it wrong.

Yes, even Google gets it wrong sometimes. 

And nobody could even tell exactly why.

So even the most data-savvy companies, Amazon and Google, they sometimes get it wrong.

So we should better make sure that data is helping. 

So whenever you're solving a complex problem, you're doing essentially two things.

And now the crucial thing is that data and data analysis is only good for the first part.

And Amazon, on the other hand, they did it the wrong way around.

Before there was data, this was the decision-making device to use. 

Many of you will know this.

I'll have it out later for tech demos. 

Now, the thing is, of course -- so I've made some decisions in my life where, in hindsight, I should have just listened to the ball.

But that does not change the basic setup.

And I find that a very encouraging message, in fact, that even in the face of huge amounts of data, it still pays off to make decisions, to be an expert in what you're doing and take risks.

Because in the end, it's not data, it's risks that will land you on the right end of the curve. 

Thank you. 

