I was asked to come here and speak about creation.

And I only have 15 minutes, and I see they're counting already.

Creativity is how we cope with creation.

While creation sometimes seems a bit un-graspable, or even pointless, creativity is always meaningful.

See, for instance, in this picture.

When you think about -- you know, creativity has a lot to do with causality too.

You know, when I was a teenager, I was a creator.

I just did things.

Though it's actually true, you know, the reason I'm talking to you right now is because I was born in Brazil.

If I was born in Monterey, probably would be in Brazil. 

You couldn't really say what you wanted to say; you had to invent ways of doing it.

You didn't trust information very much.

I was a media junkie, and eventually got involved with advertising.

My first job in Brazil was actually to develop a way to improve the readability of billboards, and based on speed, angle of approach and actually blocks of text.

And they also decided that I had to -- to give me a very ugly Plexiglas trophy for it. 

On my way out, I had to break a fight apart.

Well, when I started working with my own work, I decided that I shouldn't do images.

You know, I became -- I took this very iconoclastic approach.

The first works were actually objects.

It was kind of a mixture of found object, product design and advertising.

And I called them relics.

They were displayed first at Stux Gallery in 1983. 

This is the clown skull.

Unfortunately, it has become obsolete because it was designed for Atari platform.

The Bonsai table.

So I decided to do work with clouds.

Because clouds can mean anything you want.

They're called "Equivalents," after Alfred Stieglitz's work.

"The Snail."

But I was still working with sculpture, and I was really trying to go flatter and flatter.

"The Teapot."

I had a chance to go to Florence, in -- I think it was '94, and I saw Ghiberti's "Door of Paradise."

"Relaxation."

"Fiat Lux."

And the same way the history of representation evolved from line drawings to shaded drawings.

And I wanted to deal with other subjects.

I started taking that into the realm of landscape, which is something that's almost a picture of nothing.

I made these pictures called "Pictures of Thread," and I named them after the amount of yards that I used to represent each picture.

These always end up being a photograph at the end, or more like an etching in this case.

And I don't know how many yards, after John Constable. 

I had met a group of children in the Caribbean island of Saint Kitts, and I did work and play with them.

I got some photographs from them.

Upon my arrival in New York, I decided -- they were children of sugar plantation workers.

And by manipulating sugar over a black paper, I made portraits of them.

It was just the name of the child, with the little thing you get to know of somebody that you meet very briefly.

"Valicia."

"Jacynthe."

But another layer of representation was still introduced.

And so I decided to make these pictures, and they were very large, so you had to walk away from it to be able to see them.

And Jackson Pollock also. 

Pictures of crowds are particularly interesting, because, you know, you go to that -- you try to figure out the threshold with something you can define very easily, like a face, goes into becoming just a texture.

"Paparazzi."

And you render this with the most non-specific material, which is dust itself.

Like, you know, you have the skin particles of every single museum visitor.

They do a DNA scan of this, they will come up with a great mailing list.

This is Richard Serra. 

But once they're applied to numeric structure, then you can feel more comfortable.

So the first time I worked with colors was by making these mosaics of Pantone swatches.

So you can see the surface of every single swatch -- like in this picture of Chuck Close.

And you have to walk very far to be able to see it.

I ended up narrowing the subject to Monet's "Haystacks."

I tried to prove that he didn't do that thing in the Salt Lake.

But then, just doing the models, I was trying to explore the relationship between the model and the original.

I wasn't interested in the very large things, or in the small things.

This is like you see -- the size of a person over there.

This is a pipe.

A hanger. 

In theater, you have the character and the actor in the same place, trying to negotiate each other in front of an audience.

And in this, you'd have like a -- something that looks like a cloud, and it is a cloud at the same time.

So they're like perfect actors. 

My interest in acting, especially bad acting, goes a long way.

See, I think it's not really about impression, making people fall for a really perfect illusion, as much as it is to make -- I usually work at the lowest threshold of visual illusion.

Because it's not about fooling somebody, it's actually giving somebody a measure of their own belief: how much you want to be fooled.

That's why we pay to go to magic shows and things like that.

Well, I think that's it.

My time is nearly up.

Thank you very much. 

