Nature's my muse and it's been my passion.

As a photographer for National Geographic, I've portrayed it for many.

But five years ago, I went on a personal journey.

I wanted to visualize the story of life.

But there were also revelations.

And one of those I'd like to share with you today. 

The oxygen exhaled by those stromatolites is what we all breathe today. 

Stromatolites are the heroes in my story.

I hope it's a story that has some resonance for our time.

It's a story about you and me, nature and science.

The fire gave way, Earth emerged -- but this was an alien planet.

The moon was closer; things were different.

Heat from within made geysers erupt -- that is how the oceans were born.

And when it vanishes, Earth becomes Mars. 

Learn to multiply, thickening in places ...

And they changed the atmosphere.

A breath that's fossilized now as iron. 

Meteorites delivered chemistry, and perhaps membranes, too.

Shallow seas nurtured life early on, and that's where it morphed into more complex forms.

It grew as light and oxygen increased.

Once they learn how to stay upright, they grew in size and shape.

Leatherbacks and tuataras are echoes from that era.

Life turned hard so it could venture inland.

And the dragons that arose are still among us today.

In birds, life gained new mobility.

Birds witnessed the emergence of flowering plants.

Water lilies were among the first.

Plants began to diversify and grew, turning into trees.

In Africa, Gondwana molded Proteas.

But when that ancient continent broke up, life got lusher.

Co-evolution entwined insects and birds and plants forever.

An asteroid hits, and the world went down in flames.

But there were witnesses, survivors in the dark.

New predators, hyenas, getting faster and faster still. 

Grasslands created opportunities.

We're molded by the same life force.

And where it doesn't, as in Greenland in winter, Mars is still not very far.

But that likelihood fades as long as ice melts again.

(Applause) Thank you.

