I work with a species called "Bonobo."

And I'm happy most of the time, because I think this is the happiest species on the planet.

It's kind of a well-kept secret.

This species lives only in the Congo.

And they're not in too many zoos, because of their sexual behavior.

Their sexual behavior is too human-like for most of us to be comfortable with. 

And sexual behavior is not confined to one aspect of their life that they sort of set aside.

It permeates their entire life.

And so everything sort of has a place that it has to fit.

But I don't think that we were that way initially. 

There are many people who think that the animal world is hard-wired and that there's something very, very special about man.

They had no stone tools.

To our knowledge they had no music.

But there are a lot of similarities.

And I think that as we look at culture, we kind of come to understand how we got to where we are.

So what I want to do now is introduce you to a species called the Bonobo.

Right now, he's in a forest in Georgia.

His mother originally came from a forest in Africa.

Now this shows a Bonobo on your right, and a chimpanzee on your left.

Clearly, the chimpanzee has a little bit harder time of walking.

This shows the Bonobo compared to an australopithecine like Lucy.

So the -- the bipedal gait is a little easier.

And now we see all four. 

Video: Narrator: The wild Bonobo lives in central Africa, in the jungle encircled by the Congo River.

Canopied trees as tall as 40 meters, 130 feet, grow densely in the area.

It was a Japanese scientist who first undertook serious field studies of the Bonobo, almost three decades ago.

Bonobos are built slightly smaller than the chimpanzee.

Slim-bodied, Bonobos are by nature very gentle creatures.

Long and careful studies have reported many new findings on them.

One discovery was that wild Bonobos often walk bidpedally.

SS: This is Kanzi and I, in the forest.

Video: Look at all this stuff that's here for our campfire. 

SS: An entire family at our research centre. 

SS: So Kanzi is very interested in fire.

He doesn't do it yet without a lighter, but I think if he saw someone do it, he might be able to do -- make a fire without a lighter.

He's learning about how to keep a fire going.

He's learning the uses for a fire, just by watching what we do with fire. 

This is a smile on the face of a Bonobo.

These are happy vocalizations. 

Video: You're happy.

SS: Forgot to zip up the back half of his backpack.

But he likes to carry things from place to place. 

SS: He talks to other Bonobos at the lab, long-distance, farther than we can hear.

This is his sister.

This is her first time to try to drive a golf cart. 

Video: Goodbye. 

SS: She's got the pedals down, but not the wheel.

Like us, she knows that that individual in the mirror is her. 

may have operated during human evolution. 

His name is Nyota.

It means "star" in Swahili. 

Panbanisha is trying to give Nyota a haircut with a pair of scissors.

In the wild, the parent Bonobo is known to groom its offspring.

Here Panbanisha uses scissors, instead of her hands, to groom Nyota.

Very impressive.

Subtle maneuvering of the hands is required to perform delicate tasks like this.

Nyota tries to imitate Panbanisha by using the scissors himself.

Realizing that Nyota might get hurt, Panbanisha, like any human mother, carefully tugs to get the scissors back. 

He can now cut through tough animal hide. 

SS: Kanzi's learned to make stone tools. 

He has learned that by using both hands and aiming his glancing blows, he can make much larger, sharper flakes.

Kanzi chooses a flake he thinks is sharp enough.

The tough hide is difficult to cut, even with a knife.

The rock that Kanzi is using is extremely hard and ideal for stone tool making, but difficult to handle, requiring great skill.

Kanzi's rock is from Gona, Ethiopia and is identical to that used by our African ancestors two-and-a-half million years ago.

These are the rocks Kanzi used and these are the flakes he made.

The flat sharp edges are like knife blades.

Compare them to the tools our ancestors used; they bear a striking resemblance to Kanzi's. 

Panbanisha is longing to go for a walk in the woods.

She keeps staring out the window. 

SS: This is -- let me show you something we didn't think they would do. 

Video: For several days now, Panbanisha has not been outside. 

Video: Then Panbanisha does something unexpected. 

Video: She takes a piece of chalk and begins writing something on the floor.

What is she writing? 

SS: She's also saying the name of that, with her voice. 

Video: Now she comes up to Dr. Sue and starts writing again. 

SS: These are her symbols on her keyboard. 

They speak when she touches them. 

Video: Panbanisha is communicating to Dr. Sue where she wants to go.

"A frame" represents a hut in the woods.

Video: This lexigram also refers to a place in the woods.

The curved line is very similar to the lexigram.

The next symbol Panbanisha writes represents "collar."

It indicates the collar that Panbanisha must wear when she goes out. 

SS: That's an institutional requirement. 

Researchers began to record what Panbanisha said, by writing lexigrams on the floor with chalk.

The Bonobo's abilities have stunned scientists around the world.

How did they develop? 

Once you have that capacity, the ability to produce language comes rather naturally and rather freely.

Narrator: This environment brings out unexpected potential in Kanzi and Panbanisha. 

Then he peers eagerly into his mother's mouth.

Is he looking for where the sound came from?

Dr. Sue thinks it's important to allow such curiosity to flourish.

This time Panbanisha is playing the electric piano.

She wasn't forced to learn the piano; she saw a researcher play the instrument and took an interest. 

Narrator: Kanzi plays the xylophone; using both hands he enthusiastically accompanies Dr. Sue's singing.

Narrator: None of us, Bonobo or human, can possibly even imagine? 

We're learning that they probably have a language in the wild.

So we're sharing tools and technology and language with another species. 

Thank you. 

