If you'd like to learn how to play the lobster, we have some here.

And that's not a joke, we really do.

So come up afterwards and I'll show you how to play a lobster. 

This is a recording I made of a mantis shrimp that's found off the coast of California.

And while that's an absolutely fascinating sound, it actually turns out to be a very difficult project.

And while I was struggling to figure out how and why mantis shrimp, or stomatopods, make sound, I started to think about their appendages.

And this is a spearing mantis shrimp, or stomatopod.

And you can see it's just a really spectacular extension of the limbs, exploding upward to actually just catch a dead piece of shrimp that I had offered it.

And so this guy gets the snail all set up and gives it a good whack. 

So, I'll play it one more time.

He wiggles it in place, tugs it with his nose, and smash.

And a few smashes later, the snail is broken open, and he's got a good dinner.

So, the smasher raptorial appendage can stab with a point at the end, or it can smash with the heel.

And today I'll talk about the smashing type of strike. 

And so the first question that came to mind was, well, how fast does this limb move?

Every single high-speed video system in the biology department at Berkeley wasn't fast enough to catch this movement.

We simply couldn't capture it on video.

And so this had me stymied for quite a long period of time.

And then a BBC crew came cruising through the biology department, looking for a story to do about new technologies in biology.

And so we struck up a deal.

And that thing's going to swing around and smash the snail.

I hope there aren't any snail rights activists around here. 

And so what we did is, we took a look at these videos, and we measured how fast the limb was moving to get back to that original question.

And we were in for our first surprise.

So what we calculated was that the limbs were moving at the peak speed ranging from 10 meters per second all the way up to 23 meters per second.

In fact, it's so fast we were able to add a new point on the extreme animal movement spectrum.

So that was really cool and very unexpected.

So, you might be wondering, well, how do they do it?

And actually, this work was done in the 1960s by a famous biologist named Malcolm Burrows.

And what he showed in mantis shrimp is that they use what's called a "catch mechanism," or "click mechanism."

And what this basically consists of is a large muscle that takes a good long time to contract, and a latch that prevents anything from moving.

So the muscle contracts, and nothing happens.

And that's basically what's called a "power amplification system."

It takes a long time for the muscle to contract, and a very short time for the limb to fly out.

And so I thought that this was sort of the end of the story.

This was how mantis shrimps make these very fast strikes. 

But then I took a trip to the National Museum of Natural History.

And if any of you ever have a chance, backstage of the National Museum of Natural History is one of the world's best collections of preserved mantis shrimp.

this is serious business for me. 

It just looks like a saddle you'd put on a horse.

And this really sort of had me scratching my head for a while.

And then we did a series of calculations, and what we were able to show is that these mantis shrimp have to have a spring.

There needs to be some kind of spring-loaded mechanism in order to generate the amount of force that we observe, and the speed that we observe, and the output of the system.

So we thought, OK, this must be a spring -- the saddle could very well be a spring.

And I'll just do that one more time.

So, we've had very solid evidence showing that that saddle-shaped structure actually compresses and extends, and does, in fact, function as a spring. 

The saddle-shaped structure is also known as a "hyperbolic paraboloid surface," or an "anticlastic surface."

So it's very well known to engineers, not as well known to biologists.

So if you're going to build a thin gold structure, it's very nice to have it in a shape that's strong. 

And what's shown here is a saddle-shaped roof that he built that's 87 and a half feet spanwise.

It's two and a half inches thick, and supported at two points.

And one of the reasons why he designed roofs this way is because it's -- he found it fascinating that you could build such a strong structure that's made of so few materials and can be supported by so few points.

And all of these are the same principles that apply to the saddle-shaped spring in stomatopods.

In biological systems it's important not to have a whole lot of extra material requirements for building it.

That's a bit long, but it is sort of interesting. 

So the next and final question was, well, how much force does a mantis shrimp produce if they're able to break open snails?

And so I wired up what's called a load cell.

And when this crystal is squeezed, the electrical properties change and it -- which -- in proportion to the forces that go in.

And so this is just a regular video of the animal just smashing the heck out of this load cell.

And we were able to get some force measurements out.

And again, we were in for a surprise. 

And again, I think this will be a world record.

And again, that brings us back to the importance of that spring in storing up and releasing so much energy in this system.

But that was not the end of the story. 

Now, things -- I'm making this sound very easy, this is actually a lot of work.

And that was what really got me puzzled.

The first peak, obviously, is the limb hitting the load cell.

So now, you'd expect a second peak for other reasons, but not half a millisecond later.

Again, going back to those high-speed videos, there's a pretty good hint of what might be going on.

Here's that same orientation that we saw earlier.

And what that is, is cavitation.

And cavitation is an extremely potent fluid dynamic phenomenon which occurs when you have areas of water moving at extremely different speeds.

And when this happens, it can cause areas of very low pressure, which results in the water literally vaporizing.

You can see it coming in, and an incredible flash of light, and all this cavitation spreading over the surface of the snail.

So really, just an amazing image, slowed down extremely, to extremely slow speeds.

In fact, you might have even seen some cavitation going up the edge of the limb. 

So, really fascinating double whammy, so to speak, from these animals. 

Very, very convenient solution to that particular problem. 

So, I'd like to end on sort of a wacky note. 

Maybe this is all wacky to folks like you, I don't know. 

And there's actually a spectacular colored dot in the center of the saddles of many species of stomatopods.

And this is quite interesting, to find evolutionary origins of visual signals on what's really, in all species, their spring.

And I think one explanation for this could be going back to the molting phenomenon. 

So these animals go into a molting period where they're unable to strike -- their bodies become very soft.

And the second they get into that time point when they can't strike any more, they just signal.

And it's one of the classic examples in animal behavior of bluffing.

And so I'm very curious about whether those colored dots in the center of the saddles are conveying some kind of information about their ability to strike, or their strike force, and something about the time period in the molting cycle.

So sort of an interesting strange fact to find a visual structure right in the middle of their spring. 

So to conclude, I mostly want to acknowledge my two collaborators, Wyatt Korff and Roy Caldwell, who worked closely with me on this.

