I thought in getting up to my TED wish I would try to begin by putting in perspective what I try to do and how it fits with what they try to do.

Even in wealthy countries it is common now to see inequality growing.

The percentage of working families without health care up by four percent.

It is also unstable.

Unstable because of the threats of terror, weapons of mass destruction, the spread of global disease and a sense that we are vulnerable to it in a way that we weren't not so many years ago.

In other words, they thought their differences were more important than their common humanity.

It is the central psychological plague of humankind in the 21st century. 

And even non-democratic governments are more sensitive to public opinion.

Because primarily of the power of the Internet, people of modest means can band together and amass vast sums of money that can change the world for some public good if they all agree.

When the tsunami hit South Asia, the United States contributed 1.2 billion dollars.

30 percent of our households gave.

Half of them gave over the Internet.

The median contribution was somewhere around 57 dollars.

When I became president in 1993, there were none of these organizations in Russia.

When I organized my foundation, and I thought about the world as it is and the world that I hope to leave to the next generation, and I tried to be realistic about what I had cared about all my life that I could still have an impact on.

You saw one reference to that in what we were able to do with AIDS drugs.

And I want to say that the head of our AIDS effort, and the person who also is primarily active in the wish I'll make tonight, Ira Magaziner, is here with me and I want to thank him for everything he's done.

He's over there.

(Applause) When I got out of office and was asked to work, first in the Caribbean, to try to help deal with the AIDS crisis, generic drugs were available for about 500 dollars a person a year.

If you bought them in vast bulks, you could get them at a little under 400 dollars.

The first country we went to work in, the Bahamas, was paying 3,500 dollars for these drugs.

The market was so terribly disorganized that they were buying this medicine through two agents who were gigging them sevenfold.

So the very first week we were working, we got the price down to 500 dollars.

And all of a sudden, they could save seven times as many lives for the same amount of money. 

So we worked on improving the productivity of the operations and the supply chain, and went to a low-margin, high-volume, absolutely certain-payment business.

I joked that the main contribution we made to the battle against AIDS was to get the manufacturers to change from a jewelry store to a grocery store strategy.

But the price went to 140 dollars from 500.

And pretty soon, the average price was 192 dollars.

Now we can get it for about 100 dollars.

We negotiated it down to 190.

That children's medicine is now 60 dollars a person a year. 

The only thing that is keeping us from basically saving the lives of everybody who needs the medicine to stay alive are the absence of systems necessary to diagnose, treat and care for people and deliver this medicine.

We started a childhood obesity initiative with the Heart Association in America.

We tried to do the same thing by negotiating industry-right deals with the soft drink and the snack food industry to cut the caloric and other dangerous content of food going to our children in the schools.

We just reorganized the markets.

And it occurred to me that in this whole non-governmental world, somebody needs to be thinking about organizing public goods markets.

And that is now what we're trying to do, and working with this large cities group to fight climate change, to negotiate huge, big, volume deals that will enable cities which generate 75 percent of the world's greenhouse gases, to drastically and quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a way that is good economics.

And this whole discussion as if it's some sort of economic burden, is a mystery to me.

I think it's a bird's nest on the ground. 

When Al Gore won his well-deserved Oscar for the "Inconvenient Truth" movie, I was thrilled, but I had urged him to make a second movie quickly.

For those of you who saw "An Inconvenient Truth," the most important slide in the Gore lecture is the last one, which shows here's where greenhouse gases are going if we don't do anything, here's where they could go.

And then there are six different categories of things we can do to change the trajectory.

We need a movie on those six categories.

And all of you need to have it embedded in your brains and to organize yourselves around it.

So we're trying to do that. 

So organizing these markets is one thing we try to do.

Now we have taken on a second thing, and this gets to my wish.

It has been my experience in working in developing countries that while the headlines may all be -- the pessimistic headlines may say, well, we can't do this, that or the other thing because of corruption -- I think incapacity is a far bigger problem in poor countries than corruption, and feeds corruption.

We now have the money, given these low prices, to distribute AIDS drugs all over the world to people we cannot presently reach.

So what we have been trying to do, working first in Rwanda and then in Malawi and other places -- but I want to talk about Rwanda tonight -- is to develop a model for rural health care in a very poor area that can be used to deal with AIDS, TB, malaria, other infectious diseases, maternal and child health, and a whole range of health issues poor people are grappling with in the developing world, that can first be scaled for the whole nation of Rwanda, and then will be a model that could literally be implemented in any other poor country in the world. 

And two, will it do it at a price that will enable the country to sustain a health care system without foreign donors after five to 10 years?

Because the longer I deal with these problems, the more convinced I am that we have to -- whether it's economics, health, education, whatever -- we have to build systems.

And the absence of systems that function break the connection which got you all in this seat tonight.

You think about whatever your life has been, however many obstacles you have faced in your life, at critical junctures you always knew there was a predictable connection between the effort you exerted and the result you achieved.

In a world with no systems, with chaos, everything becomes a guerilla struggle, and this predictability is not there.

And it becomes almost impossible to save lives, educate kids, develop economies, whatever. 

And they've achieved a lot of other amazing health results.

So I rang up, asked Paul Farmer if he would help.

Because it seemed to me if we could prove there was a model in Haiti and a model in Rwanda that we could then take all over the country, number one, it would be a wonderful thing for a country that has suffered as much as any on Earth in the last 15 years, and number two, we would have something that could then be adapted to any other poor country anywhere in the world.

And so we have set about doing that. 

Now, we started working together 18 months ago.

And we're working in an area called Southern Kayonza, which is one of the poorest areas in Rwanda, with a group that originally includes about 400,000 people.

Recently we did an evaluation of the first 18 months of our efforts in Rwanda.

And the results were so good that the Rwandan government has now agreed to adopt the model for the entire country, and has strongly supported and put the full resources of the government behind it. 

I'll tell you a little bit about our team because it's indicative of what we do.

And then we have others working in these other related programs.

She was the youngest partner at Schroder Ventures in London in her 20s.

So she now works full-time on this for very little pay.

She and her team of former business people have created a business plan that will enable us to scale this health system up for the whole country.

And it would be worthy of the kind of private equity work she used to do when she was making a lot more money for it. 

When we came to this rural area, 45 percent of the children under the age of five had stunted growth due to malnutrition.

23 percent of them died before they reached the age of five.

Mortality at birth was over two-and-a-half percent.

And not a single soul in this area was being treated for AIDS or tuberculosis. 

Within the first 18 months, the following things happened: we went from zero to about 2,000 people being treated for AIDS.

That's 80 percent of the people who need treatment in this area.

Listen to this: less than four-tenths of one percent of those being treated stopped taking their medicine or otherwise defaulted on treatment.

That's lower than the figure in the United States.

Less than three-tenths of one percent had to transfer to the more expensive second-line drugs.

400,000 pregnant women were brought into counseling and will give birth for the first time within an organized healthcare system.

43 percent of the children in need of an infant feeding program to prevent malnutrition and early death are now getting the food supplements they need to stay alive and to grow. 

We've started the first malaria treatment programs they've ever had there.

Patients admitted to a hospital that was destroyed during the genocide that we have renovated along with four other clinics, complete with solar power generators, good lab technology.

And the most important thing is because we've implemented Paul Farmer's model, using community health workers, we estimate that this system could be put into place for all of Rwanda for between five and six percent of GDP, and that the government could sustain that without depending on foreign aid after five or six years.

We're now working with Partners in Health and the Ministry of Health in Rwanda and our Foundation folks to scale this system up.

We're also beginning to do this in Malawi and Lesotho.

We need initial upfront investment to train doctors, nurses, health administration and community health workers throughout the country, to set up the information technology, the solar energy, the water and sanitation, the transportation infrastructure.

But over a five- to 10-year period, we will take down the need for outside assistance and eventually it will be phased out. 

My wish is that TED assist us in our work and help us to build a high-quality rural health system in a poor country, Rwanda, that can be a model for Africa, and indeed, for any poor country anywhere in the world.

These people have been through a lot and none of us, most of all me, helped them when they were on the verge of destroying each other.

We're undoing that now, and they are so over it and so into their future.

We're doing this in an environmentally responsible way.

We have a chance here to prove that a country that almost slaughtered itself out of existence can practice reconciliation, reorganize itself, focus on tomorrow and provide comprehensive, quality health care with minimal outside help.

I am grateful for this prize, and I will use it to that end.

We could use some more help to do this, but think of what it would mean if we could have a world-class health system in Rwanda -- in a country with a less-than-one-dollar-a-day-per-capita income, one that could save hundreds of millions of lives over the next decade if applied to every similarly situated country on Earth.

