I'd like to begin by talking about some of the ideas that motivated me to become a documentary photographer. 

The war in Vietnam was raging; the Civil Rights Movement was under way; and pictures had a powerful influence on me.

Their images fueled resistance to the war and to racism.

They not only recorded history; they helped change the course of history.

Their pictures became part of our collective consciousness and, as consciousness evolved into a shared sense of conscience, change became not only possible, but inevitable. 

I saw that the free flow of information represented by journalism, specifically visual journalism, can bring into focus both the benefits and the cost of political policies.

It can give credit to sound decision-making, adding momentum to success.

In the face of poor political judgment or political inaction, it becomes a kind of intervention, assessing the damage and asking us to reassess our behavior.

It puts a human face on issues which from afar can appear abstract or ideological or monumental in their global impact.

What happens at ground level, far from the halls of power, happens to ordinary citizens one by one. 

And I understood that documentary photography has the ability to interpret events from their point of view.

Coming of age in those days made real the concept that the free flow of information is absolutely vital for a free and dynamic society to function properly.

Society's problems can't be solved until they're identified.

On a higher plane, the press is a service industry, and the service it provides is awareness.

Every story does not have to sell something.

There's also a time to give.

That was a tradition I wanted to follow.

Seeing the war created such incredibly high stakes for everyone involved and that visual journalism could actually become a factor in conflict resolution -- I wanted to be a photographer in order to be a war photographer.

But I was driven by an inherent sense that a picture that revealed the true face of war would almost by definition be an anti-war photograph. 

I'd like to take you on a visual journey through some of the events and issues I've been involved in over the past 25 years.

In 1981, I went to Northern Ireland.

10 IRA prisoners were in the process of starving themselves to death in protest against conditions in jail.

The reaction on the streets was violent confrontation.

I saw that the front lines of contemporary wars are not on isolated battlefields, but right where people live.

During the early '80s, I spent a lot of time in Central America, which was engulfed by civil wars that straddled the ideological divide of the Cold War. 

An anti-Sandinista guerrilla was mortally wounded as Commander Zero attacked a town in Southern Nicaragua.

At the same time, a civil war was taking place in El Salvador, and again, the civilian population was caught up in the conflict. 

I've been covering the Palestinian-Israeli conflict since 1981.

Without the political will to find common ground, the continual friction of tactic and counter-tactic only creates suspicion and hatred and vengeance, and perpetuates the cycle of violence. 

In the '90s, after the breakup of the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia fractured along ethnic fault lines, and civil war broke out between Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia.

This is a scene of house-to-house fighting in Mostar, neighbor against neighbor.

Dead Serbian soldiers were collected after a battle and used as barter for the return of prisoners or Bosnian soldiers killed in action.

This was once a park.

The Bosnian soldier who guided me told me that all of his friends were there now. 

At the same time in South Africa, after Nelson Mandela had been released from prison, the black population commenced the final phase of liberation from apartheid.

One of the things I had to learn as a journalist was what to do with my anger.

I had to use it, channel its energy, turn it into something that would clarify my vision, instead of clouding it.

In Transkei, I witnessed a rite of passage into manhood, of the Xhosa tribe.

Teenage boys lived in isolation, their bodies covered with white clay.

After several weeks, they washed off the white and took on the full responsibilities of men.

It was a very old ritual that seemed symbolic of the political struggle that was changing the face of South Africa. 

Children in Soweto playing on a trampoline.

Elsewhere in Africa there was famine.

In Somalia, the central government collapsed and clan warfare broke out.

Farmers were driven off their land, and crops and livestock were destroyed or stolen.

Hundreds of thousands of people were exterminated, slowly and painfully.

The international community responded with massive humanitarian relief, and hundreds of thousands of more lives were saved.

American troops were sent to protect the relief shipments, but they were eventually drawn into the conflict, and after the tragic battle in Mogadishu, they were withdrawn.

In southern Sudan, another civil war saw similar use of starvation as a means of genocide. 

Again, international NGOs, united under the umbrella of the U.N., staged a massive relief operation and thousands of lives were saved.

I'm a witness, and I want my testimony to be honest and uncensored.

I also want it to be powerful and eloquent, and to do as much justice as possible to the experience of the people I'm photographing.

This man had just been liberated from a Hutu death camp.

I think he knew what the scars on his face would say to the rest of the world.

This time, maybe confused or discouraged by the military disaster in Somalia, the international community remained silent, and somewhere around 800,000 people were slaughtered by their own countrymen -- sometimes their own neighbors -- using farm implements as weapons. 

Ethnic Albanians had been murdered, their farms destroyed and a huge number of people forcibly deported.

This is a Chechen rebel on the front line against the Russian army.

Ceausescu had imposed a quota on the number of children to be produced by each family, thereby making women's bodies an instrument of state economic policy.

Children who couldn't be supported by their families were raised in government orphanages.

Children with birth defects were labeled incurables, and confined for life to inhuman conditions. 

As reports began to surface, again international aid went in.

When the story was published, unsolicited donations poured in.

A trust fund was established, and the family now lives in a house in the countryside and all their basic necessities are taken care of.

It was a story that wasn't trying to sell anything.

Journalism had provided a channel for people's natural sense of generosity, and the readers responded.

I met a band of homeless children who'd come to Jakarta from the countryside, and ended up living in a train station.

By the age of 12 or 14, they'd become beggars and drug addicts.

The rural poor had become the urban poor, and in the process, they'd become invisible. 

I thought it was important to emphasize that people were being helped, whether by international NGOs or by local grassroots organizations. 

A hospital in Zambia.

I began documenting the close connection between HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis.

A malnourished child being measured as part of the supplemental feeding program. 

In the fall of 2004 I went to Darfur.

This time I was on assignment for a magazine, but again worked closely with MSF.

A prisoner on a chain gang in Alabama was punished by being handcuffed to a post in the midday sun.

This experience raised a lot of questions, among them questions about race and equality and for whom in our country opportunities and options are available.

In the yard of a chain gang in Alabama. 

A few minutes later when I looked again and saw the second tower burning, I knew we were at war.

A marketplace was hit by a mortar shell that killed several members of a single family.

A group of men march through the streets cutting themselves with knives.

It was obvious that the Shi'ites were a force to be reckoned with, and we would do well to understand them and learn how to deal with them.

Last year I spent several months documenting our wounded troops, from the battlefield in Iraq all the way home. 

Sometimes they put their lives on the line, because they believe your opinions and your influence matter.

They aim their pictures at your best instincts, generosity, a sense of right and wrong, the ability and the willingness to identify with others, the refusal to accept the unacceptable.

Thank you very much. 

