1915 must have been an exciting year to be a physicist.

Two new ideas were turning the subject on its head.

Over the last century, these two ideas have utterly transformed our understanding of the universe.

It's thanks to relativity and quantum mechanics that we've learned what the universe is made from, how it began and how it continues to evolve.

The next few years may tell us whether we'll be able to continue to increase our understanding of nature, or whether maybe for the first time in the history of science, we could be facing questions that we cannot answer, not because we don't have the brains or technology, but because the laws of physics themselves forbid it. 

Relativity and quantum mechanics appear to suggest that the universe should be a boring place.

It should be dark, lethal and lifeless.

Why is there something rather than nothing?

These are properties of the universe that we can measure, and they're extremely dangerous because if they were different, even by a tiny bit, then the universe as we know it would not exist.

The LHC whizzes subatomic particles around a 27-kilometer ring, getting them closer and closer to the speed of light before smashing them into each other inside gigantic particle detectors.

On July 4, 2012, physicists at CERN announced to the world that they'd spotted a new fundamental particle being created at the violent collisions at the LHC: the Higgs boson. 

We all got so excited because finding the Higgs proves the existence of a cosmic energy field.

Now, you may have trouble imagining an energy field, but we've all experienced one.

If you've ever held a magnet close to a piece of metal and felt a force pulling across that gap, then you've felt the effect of a field.

It's all around us right now.

We can't see it or touch it, but if it wasn't there, we would not exist.

But there is something deeply mysterious about the Higgs field.

It should either be off, so that it has a zero value everywhere in space, or it should be on so it has an absolutely enormous value.

And this value is crucial.

If it were a tiny bit different, then there would be no physical structure in the universe. 

Theorists have spent decades trying to understand why it has this very peculiarly fine-tuned number, and they've come up with a number of possible explanations.

They have sexy-sounding names like "supersymmetry" or "large extra dimensions."

So far, though, we've not seen any sign of them. 

Now, according to early versions of the Big Bang theory, the universe has been expanding ever since with gravity gradually putting the brakes on that expansion.

But in 1998, astronomers made the stunning discovery that the expansion of the universe is actually speeding up.

The universe is getting bigger and bigger faster and faster driven by a mysterious repulsive force called dark energy. 

Now, if you use good old quantum mechanics to work out how strong dark energy should be, you get an absolutely astonishing result.

You find that dark energy should be 10 to the power of 120 times stronger than the value we observe from astronomy.

That's one with 120 zeroes after it.

This is a number so mind-bogglingly huge that it's impossible to get your head around.

We often use the word "astronomical" when we're talking about big numbers.

Well, even that one won't do here.

This number is bigger than any number in astronomy.

It's a thousand trillion trillion trillion times bigger than the number of atoms in the entire universe. 

So that's a pretty bad prediction.

But unlike the Higgs field, this number has no known explanation. 

So it's a rather elegant, almost poetic way of looking at the world, but it has one catastrophic problem.

It turns out that string theory isn't one theory at all, but a whole collection of theories.

It's been estimated, in fact, that there are 10 to the 500 different versions of string theory.

Each one would describe a different universe with different laws of physics.

Now, critics say this makes string theory unscientific.

You can't disprove the theory.

But others actually turned this on its head and said, well, maybe this apparent failure is string theory's greatest triumph.

What if all of these 10 to the 500 different possible universes actually exist out there somewhere in some grand multiverse?

Suddenly we can understand the weirdly fine-tuned values of these two dangerous numbers.

In most of the multiverse, dark energy is so strong that the universe gets torn apart, or the Higgs field is so weak that no atoms can form.

We live in one of the places in the multiverse where the two numbers are just right.

We live in a Goldilocks universe. 

Now, this idea is extremely controversial, and it's easy to see why.

Even worse, we can't test the idea of the multiverse.

So we're in an extremely frustrating position.

That doesn't mean the multiverse doesn't exist.

There are other planets, other stars, other galaxies, so why not other universes?

The problem is, it's unlikely we'll ever know for sure.

But despite high hopes, the LHC revealed a barren subatomic wilderness populated only by a lonely Higgs boson.

My experiment published paper after paper where we glumly had to conclude that we saw no signs of new physics. 

The stakes now could not be higher.

This summer, the LHC began its second phase of operation with an energy almost double what we achieved in the first run.

What particle physicists are all desperately hoping for are signs of new particles, micro black holes, or maybe something totally unexpected emerging from the violent collisions at the Large Hadron Collider.

If so, then we can continue this long journey that began 100 years ago with Albert Einstein towards an ever deeper understanding of the laws of nature. 

Thank you. 

I just mentioned, introducing you, that we live in a short-term world.

How do you think so long term, projecting yourself out a generation when building something like this? 

I was wondering how you and your colleagues welcome the news. 

It sounds funny for a particle physicist to say that.

But I mean, seriously, it's great news.

So building a machine like the LHC requires countries from all over the world to pool their resources.

So it's only a good thing.

