So anyway, who am I?

So, this talk is going to be about how do we make things and what are the new ways that we're going to make things in the future.

Can we get self-replicating-type behavior?

So now I'm going to show you the hands-free, autonomous self-replication.

So we've got autonomous replication of bit strings.

So, why would you want to replicate bit strings?

Well, it turns out biology has this other very interesting meme, that you can take a linear string, which is a convenient thing to copy, and you can fold that into an arbitrarily complex 3D structure.

So what I'm showing you here is that we can make a 2D shape -- the B -- assemble from a string of components that follow extremely simple rules.

And the whole point of going with the extremely simple rules here, and the incredibly simple state machines in the previous design, was that you don't need digital logic to do computation.

And that way you can scale things much smaller than microchips.

So you can literally use these as the tiny components in the assembly process. 

So, Neil Gershenfeld showed you this video on Wednesday, I believe, but I'll show you again.

This is literally the colored sequence of those tiles.

Each different color has a different magnetic polarity, and the sequence is uniquely specifying the structure that is coming out.

And the universe is now a compiler.

And so I'm thinking about, you know, what are the programs for programming the physical universe?

And how do we think about materials and structure, sort of as an information and computation problem?

Not just where you attach a micro-controller to the end point, but that the structure and the mechanisms are the logic, are the computers. 

Having totally absorbed this philosophy, I started looking at a lot of problems a little differently.

With the universe as a computer, you can look at this droplet of water as having performed the computations.

You set a couple of boundary conditions, like gravity, the surface tension, density, etc., and then you press "execute," and magically, the universe produces you a perfect ball lens.

So can you make a machine that could make any prescription lens very quickly on site?

This is a machine where you literally define a boundary condition.

If it's circular, you make a spherical lens.

If it's elliptical, you can make an astigmatic lens.

You then put a membrane on that and you apply pressure -- so that's part of the extra program.

And you reverse the pressure on your membrane once you've cooked it.

I've seen this video, but I still don't know if it's going to end right. 

And you can see that that has a mild prescription of about minus two diopters.

And as I rotate it against this side shot, you'll see that that has cylinder, and that was programmed in -- literally into the physics of the system.

So, this sort of thinking about structure as computation and structure as information leads to other things, like this. 

So this is now a rope that knows the load on the rope at any particular point in the rope.

Just by thinking about the physics of the world, materials as the computer, you can start to do things like this. 

I'm going to segue a little here.

I guess I'm just going to casually tell you the types of things that I think about with this.

And a lot of talks here have espoused the benefits of having lots of people look at problems, share the information and work on those things together.

But they can show you how to build things in sequence.

So, I'm thinking about, how can we generalize the way we make all sorts of things, so you end up with this sort of guy, right?

And I think this applies across a very broad -- sort of, a lot of concepts. 

And I think we have to sort of redefine and rethink how we define structure and materials and assembly things, so that we can really share the information on how you do those things in a more profound way and build on each other's source code for structure.

I don't know exactly how to do this yet, but, you know, it's something being actively thought about. 

Interesting things like that.

They're starting to invest in materials science, but these are the new things in materials science.

But it's definitely an interesting new worldview. 

I've probably got a couple of minutes of questions, or I can show -- I think they also said that I do extreme stuff in the introduction, so I may have to explain that.

So maybe I'll do that with this short video. 

So this is actually a 3,000-square-foot kite, which also happens to be a minimal energy surface.

So returning to the droplet, again, thinking about the universe in a new way.

This is a kite designed by a guy called Dave Kulp.

And why do you want a 3,000-square-foot kite?

So that's a kite the size of your house.

And so you want that to tow boats very fast.

So I've been working on this a little, also, with a couple of other guys.

But, you know, this is another way to look at the -- if you abstract again, this is a structure that is defined by the physics of the universe.

