We've had a digital revolution but we don't need to keep having it.

And I'd like to look after that, to look what comes after the digital revolution.

So, let me start projecting forward.

These are some projects I'm involved in today at MIT, looking what comes after computers. 

And what's interesting about it isn't the cost; it's the way it encodes the Internet.

It uses a kind of a Morse code for the Internet so you could send it optically; you can communicate acoustically through a power line, through RF.

It takes the original principle of the Internet, which is inter-networking computers, and now lets devices inter-network.

Fungible goods in economics can be extended and traded.

So, what you see in the background is a prototype.

This was from a thesis of a student, Bill Butow, now at Intel, who wondered why, instead of making bigger and bigger chips, you don't make small chips, put them in a viscous medium, and pour out computing by the pound or by the square inch.

And that's what you see here.

Unlike this screen where the dots are placed carefully, this is a raw material.

If you add twice as much of it, you have twice as much display.

If you shoot a gun through the middle, nothing happens.

If you need more resource, you just apply more computer. 

So, that's the step after this -- of computing as a raw material.

Now, integrating chemistry in computation, where the bits are bubbles.

We all know we've had a digital revolution, but what is that?

Well, Shannon took us, in the '40s, from here to here: from a telephone being a speaker wire that degraded with distance to the Internet.

And that's when we got the Internet.

But all our fabrication is down in this lower left corner.

All the intelligence is external to the system; the materials don't have information.

We started to figure out how you can compute to fabricate.

So we put together focused nano beam writers and supersonic water jet cutters and excimer micro-machining systems. 

And then the next -- (Laughter) -- surprising thing was they weren't there to do research.

They were there because they wanted to make stuff.

(Video): Kelly: Hi, I'm Kelly and this is my scream buddy.

Well, scream buddy is a portable space for screaming.

When a user screams into scream buddy, their scream is silenced.

So, Einstein would like this.

This is a device that lets you see your music.

Ken Olsen famously said, nobody needs a computer in the home.

You need it for what makes you unique, just like personalization.

So, with that, in turn, 20 million dollars today does this; 20 years from now we'll make Star Trek replicators that make anything.

The students hijacked all the machines I bought to do personal fabrication. 

Today, when you spend that much of your money, there's a government requirement to do outreach, which often means classes at a local school, a website -- stuff that's just not that exciting.

So, I made a deal with my NSF program managers that instead of talking about it, I'd give people the tools.

A farmer in a rural village -- a kid needs to measure and modify the world, not just get information about it on a screen.

That there's really a fabrication and an instrumentation divide bigger than the digital divide.

And the way you close it is not IT for the masses but IT development for the masses. 

You can see it in their face, just this joy of, I can do it.

This is a girl in inner-city Boston who had just done a high-tech on-demand craft sale in the inner city community center.

We designed a network sensor, and kids would show up and refuse to leave the lab.

-- her first night in the lab because she was going to make the sensor.

This is late at, you know, 11 o'clock at night and I think I was the only person surprised when what she built worked the first time.

(Video): Girl: My name is Valentina Kofi; I am eight years old.

I made a stacking board.

And, again, that was just for the joy of it. 

And finally, the lab started doing invention.

We're learning more from them than we're giving them.

Real invention is happening in these labs. 

And I still kept -- so, in the last year I've been spending time with heads of state and generals and tribal chiefs who all want this, and I keep saying, but this isn't the real thing.

PDPs came between mainframes and minicomputers.

These Fab Labs are the cost and complexity of a PDP.

We talked in hushed tones about the great discoveries then.

It was very chaotic, it wasn't, sort of, clear what was going on.

In the same sense we are now, today, in the minicomputer era of digital fabrication.

The only problem with that is it breaks everybody's boundaries. 

So I'd like to leave you with two thoughts.

But we still look at technology as top-down mega-projects.

Computing, communication, energy for the rest of the planet are these top-down mega-projects.

If this room full of heroes is just clever enough, you can solve the problems.

The real opportunity is to harness the inventive power of the world to locally design and produce solutions to local problems.

The hardest thing at this point is the social engineering and the organizational engineering, but it's here today. 

But we're coming to appreciate, is the transition from 2D to 3D, from programming bits to programming atoms, turns the ends of Moore's law scaling from the ultimate bug to the ultimate feature.

And the killer app for the rest of the planet is the instrumentation and the fabrication divide: people locally developing solutions to local problems.

