I was also inspired by Walt Whitman, who wanted to absorb America and have it absorb him. 

Anybody out here old enough to know Studs Terkel, that old radio man?

(Laughter) 

So this is his answer about a defining moment in American history.

The gradual slippage -- 'slippage' is the word used by the people in Watergate, moral slippage -- it's a gradual kind of thing, combination of things.

You see, we also have the technology.

I say, less and less the human touch. 

"Oh, let me kind of tell you a funny little play bit.

These trains that take you out to a concourse and on to a destination.

And these trains are smooth, and they're quiet and they're efficient.

And there's a voice on the train, you know the voice was a human voice.

You see in the old days we had robots, robots imitated humans.

Now we have humans imitating robots.

So we got this voice on this train: Concourse One: Omaha, Lincoln.

And so suddenly they're looking at me.

So here I am with the couple, the three of us shrinking at the foot of Calvary about to be up, you know. 

"Just then I see a baby, a little baby in the lap of a mother.

We read 'Huck Finn,' of course, we read 'Huck Finn' of course.

And the official truth, the truth was, the law was, that a black man was a property, was a thing, you see. 

And Huck gets on the raft with a property named Jim, a slave, see.

"But it's the goodness of Huck, that stuff that Huck's been made of, you see, all been buried; it's all been buried.

So the human touch, you see, it's disappearing.

Okay, kids, I got to scram, got to go see my cardiologist."

And September 11th certainly taught us that that's a whole area we don't investigate."

So this piece is about a negative imagination.

And I got this in the Maryland Correctional Institute for Women.

Everything I do is word for word off a tape.

And this is an inmate named Paulette Jenkins. 

He had a belt because he had this warped perverted thing that Myesha was having sex with her little brother and they was fondling each other -- that would be his reason.

I'm just talking about the particular night that she died.

And so he put her in the bathtub, and I was in the bedroom with the baby. 

And it didn't work, didn't work.

And I ended up with three children, Houston, Myesha and Dominic, who was four months old when I came to jail. 

I didn't even go and see what was happening.

I just sat there and listened.

And then he told her, get up.

"The next morning she was dead.

He went in to check on her for school, and he got very excited.

He says, 'She won't breathe.'

I knew immediately that she was dead.

We told a security guard that she was missing, though she wasn't missing.

"And then we got the baby and my other child, and we drove out to, like, I-95.

It's a kind of an aria, I would say, and in many tapes that I have. 

Everybody knows that the Los Angeles riots happened because four cops beat up a black man named Rodney King.

It was captured on videotape -- technology -- and it was played all over the world.

Everybody thought the four cops would go to jail.

They did not, so there were riots.

Explosion of joy that this verdict had come back this way. 

And so this woman, Mrs. Young-Soon Han, I suppose will have taught me the most that I have learned about race.

And this is called, "Swallowing the Bitterness."

"I used to believe America was the best.

I watched in Korea many luxurious Hollywood lifestyle movie.

I never saw any poor man, any black.

We didn't qualify for medical treatment, no food stamp, no GR, 

Well, what about victims' rights?

They got their rights by destroying innocent Korean merchants.

They have a lot of respect, as I do, for Dr. Martin King.

I was swallowing the bitterness, sitting here alone and watching them.

I wish that I could live together with black people.

It's still there; it can burst out anytime."

Finally, I did find a bull rider, two years ago.

And I've been going to the rodeos with him, and we've bonded.

And this is called "Toughness."

It seems like he has so much bad luck, you know.

(Laughter) 

"And, I mean, funny things like this happen.

You're not even going to be able to answer her questions.'

I mean, confidence is kind of like being cocky, but in a good way.

But determination, you know, it's like just, you know, 'Fuck the form, get the horn.'

It's like, you know, racking up our credit cards on entry fees and gas.

I mean, I guess it just be like -- I guess it be like the day my brother died. 

And they had to sew me up and straighten my nose out.

(Laughter) But the good thing was, once they shoved those rods up there and straightened my nose out, I could breathe, and I hadn't been able to breathe since I broke my nose in the high school rodeo."

