If you haven't ordered yet, I generally find the rigatoni with the spicy tomato sauce goes best with diseases of the small intestine. 

This period in 1854, in the middle part of the 19th century, in London's history, is incredibly interesting for a number of reasons.

But I think the most important one is that London was this city of 2.5 million people, and it was the largest city on the face of the planet at that point.

But it was also the largest city that had ever been built. 

And it was in many ways, at this point in the mid-1850s, a complete disaster.

They were basically a city living with a modern kind of industrial metropolis with an Elizabethan public infrastructure.

So people, for instance, just to gross you out for a second, had cesspools of human waste in their basement.

And all of this stuff, basically, had accumulated to the point where the city was incredibly offensive to just walk around in. 

So, you would just walk around London at this point and just be overwhelmed with this stench.

And cholera was really the great killer of this period. 

We had to get rid of the smell.

The public health authorities had largely ignored what he had to say.

And he'd made the case in a number of papers and done a number of studies, but nothing had really stuck.

And Snow labored for a long time with this great insight that everybody ignored. 

And so this little girl inadvertently ended up contaminating the water in this popular pump, and one of the most terrifying outbreaks in the history of England erupted about two or three days later.

So it was this incredibly terrifying event.

You had these scenes of entire families dying over the course of 48 hours of cholera, alone in their one-room apartments, in their little flats.

Just an extraordinary, terrifying scene.

He suspected an outbreak that concentrated would probably involve a single point source.

And so he went right in there and started interviewing people.

And eventually Snow made a map of the outbreak.

He found increasingly that people who drank from the pump were getting sick.

People who hadn't drunk from the pump were not getting sick.

Something that would take in a sense a higher-level view of all this activity that had been happening in the neighborhood. 

And you can see in this map, the pump right at the center of it and you can see that one of the residences down the way had about 15 people dead.

And the map is actually a little bit bigger.

As you get further and further away from the pump, the deaths begin to grow less and less frequent.

And so you can see this something poisonous emanating out of this pump that you could see in a glance.

And so, with the help of this map, and with the help of more evangelizing that he did over the next few years and that Whitehead did, eventually, actually, the authorities slowly started to come around.

And that was the last time that London has seen a cholera outbreak since.

So, part of this story, I think -- well, it's a terrifying story, it's a very dark story and it's a story that continues on in many of the developing cities of the world.

And what it ended up doing is making the idea of large-scale metropolitan living a sustainable one. 

We don't worry that New York City is going to collapse in on itself quite the way that, you know, Rome did, and be 10 percent of its size in 100 years or 200 years.

And so that in a way is the ultimate legacy of this map.

It's a map of deaths that ended up creating a whole new way of life, the life that we're enjoying here today.

