Another answer might be, well, it came from a sort of lone genius working in his garage, who, working away on different kinds of bikes, comes up with a bike out of thin air. 

But also frustrated with the bikes that your dad rode, which sort of had big handlebars like that, and they were too heavy.

So, they got the frames from these big bikes, put them together with the gears from the racing bikes, got the brakes from motorcycles, and sort of mixed and matched various ingredients.

And for the first, I don't know, three to five years of their life, mountain bikes were known as "clunkers."

Thirty years later, mountain bike sales and mountain bike equipment account for 65 percent of bike sales in America.

The one thing I think I disagree with about Yochai's presentation is when he said the Internet causes this distributive capacity for innovation to come alive.

It's when the Internet combines with these kinds of passionate pro-am consumers -- who are knowledgeable; they've got the incentive to innovate; they've got the tools; they want to -- that you get this kind of explosion of creative collaboration.

So this is a huge challenge to the way we think creativity comes about.

The traditional view, still enshrined in much of the way that we think about creativity -- in organizations, in government -- is that creativity is about special people: wear baseball caps the wrong way round, come to conferences like this, in special places, elite universities, R&amp;D labs in the forests, water, maybe special rooms in companies painted funny colors, you know, bean bags, maybe the odd table-football table.

Special people, special places, think up special ideas, then you have a pipeline that takes the ideas down to the waiting consumers, who are passive.

They can say "yes" or "no" to the invention.

That's the idea of creativity.

What's the policy recommendation out of that if you're in government, or you're running a large company?

Well this view, I think, is increasingly wrong.

But it's increasingly wrong, and one of the reasons it's wrong is that the ideas are flowing back up the pipeline.

Why is that?

The payoffs to innovation are greatest where the uncertainty is highest.

The whole history of telephony is a story of dealing with that uncertainty.

The very first landline telephones, the inventors thought that they would be used for people to listen in to live performances from West End theaters.

So the more radical the innovation, the more the uncertainty, the more you need innovation in use to work out what a technology is for.

It will be worked out in use, in collaboration with users.

The truth is that most creativity is cumulative and collaborative; like Wikipedia, it develops over a long period of time. 

The second reason why users are more and more important is that they are the source of big, disruptive innovations.

If you want to find the big new ideas, it's often difficult to find them in mainstream markets, in big organizations.

And just look inside large organizations and you'll see why that is so.

Big corporations have an in-built tendency to reinforce past success.

They've got so much sunk in it that it's very difficult for them to spot emerging new markets.

Consumption, in that sense, is an expression of their productive potential.

Why, we found, people were interested in this, is that at work they don't feel very expressed.

Now, six amateur astronomers, working with the Internet, with Dobsonian digital telescopes -- which are pretty much open source -- with some light sensors developed over the last 10 years, the Internet -- they can do what Jodrell Bank could only do 30 years ago.

So here in astronomy, you have this vast explosion of new productive resources.

What does this mean, then, for our organizational landscape?

This is open; this is closed.

This is new; this is traditional.

Well, the first thing you can say, I think with certainty, is what Yochai has said already -- is there is a great big struggle between those two organizational forms.

What we're seeing is a complete corruption of the idea of patents and copyright.

Let me just give you two examples.

There'll be huge professional arguments as well.

And we allowed users, readers, two places where they could contribute to the paper: the letters page, where they could write a letter in, and we would condescend to them, cut it in half, and print it three days later.

Or the op-ed page, where if they knew the editor -- had been to school with him, slept with his wife -- they could write an article for the op-ed page.

Those were the two places. 

What's happening there is that the whole domain of creativity is expanding.

So, there's going to be a tremendous struggle.

What you'll see, I think, is two things that are critical, and these, I think, are two challenges for the open movement.

If this is so critical, do we not need it funded, organized, supported in much more structured ways?

What kind of changes do we need in public policy and funding to make that possible?

What's the role of the BBC, for instance, in that world?

What should be the role of public policy?

And finally, what I think you will see is the intelligent, closed organizations moving increasingly in the open direction.

New organizational models coming about, mixing closed and open in tricky ways.

Let me just give you one final example of what that means.

At any one time, there are four million people playing one of his games.

How many people does he employ to service that population?

500 people.

Well, how can he service 250 million people from 500 employees?

Because basically, he doesn't service them.

But actually, a lot of the content is created by the users themselves.

That costs about 100 dollars.

Or you can get on a plane, fly to Shanghai, queue up outside Shanda's offices -- cost probably 600, 700 dollars -- and reclaim your character, get your history back.

So here is one of the challenges, I think, for people like me, who do a lot of work with government.

If you're a games company, and you've got a million players in your game, you only need one percent of them to be co-developers, contributing ideas, and you've got a development workforce of 10,000 people.

Thank you very much. 

