If you take 10,000 people at random, 9,999 have something in common: their interests in business lie on or near the Earth's surface.

The odd one out is an astronomer, and I am one of that strange breed.

If they'd sent a nuke, it would have been rather more spectacular than what actually happened last Monday.

If we go beyond our solar system, we've learned that the stars aren't twinkly points of light.

Each one is like a sun with a retinue of planets orbiting around it.

And some stars die spectacularly in a supernova explosion, leaving remnants like that. 

On a still bigger scale, we see entire galaxies of stars.

We see entire ecosystems where gas is being recycled.

And to the cosmologist, these galaxies are just the atoms, as it were, of the large-scale universe.

This picture shows a patch of sky so small that it would take about 100 patches like it to cover the full moon in the sky.

The stars in those galaxies probably don't have planets around them.

There's scant chance of life there -- that's because there's been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron, the building blocks of planets and of life.

We believe that all of this emerged from a Big Bang -- a hot, dense state.

I'm going to show you a movie simulation 16 powers of 10 faster than real time, which shows a patch of the universe where the expansions have subtracted out.

But you see, as time goes on in gigayears at the bottom, you will see structures evolve as gravity feeds on small, dense irregularities, and structures develop.

And we'll end up after 13 billion years with something looking rather like our own universe.

And we compare simulated universes like that -- I'll show you a better simulation at the end of my talk -- with what we actually see in the sky.

Well, we can trace things back to the earlier stages of the Big Bang, but we still don't know what banged and why it banged. 

That's a challenge for 21st-century science.

(Laughter) And until we have that synthesis, we won't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom, quantum effects could shake everything. 

(Laughter) And until we have that synthesis, we won't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom, quantum effects could shake everything. 

And so we need a theory that unifies the very large and the very small, which we don't yet have.

Many people suspect that just as we've gone from believing in one solar system to zillions of solar systems, one galaxy to many galaxies, we have to go to many Big Bangs from one Big Bang, perhaps these many Big Bangs displaying an immense variety of properties. 

Well, let's go back to this picture.

You want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small, but we want to understand the very complex.

And the most complex things are ourselves, midway between atoms and stars.

It would take as many human bodies to make up the sun as there are atoms in each of us.

The science of complexity is probably the greatest challenge of all, greater than that of the very small on the left and the very large on the right.

And it's this science, which is not only enlightening our understanding of the biological world, but also transforming our world faster than ever.

And more than that, it's engendering new kinds of change. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

But my theme is that in this century, not only has science changed the world faster than ever, but in new and different ways.

And the human impact on the global environment -- greenhouse warming, mass extinctions and so forth -- is unprecedented, too.

And so, this makes this coming century a challenge.

Bio- and cybertechnologies are environmentally benign in that they offer marvelous prospects, while, nonetheless, reducing pressure on energy and resources.

But they will have a dark side.

In our interconnected world, novel technology could empower just one fanatic, or some weirdo with a mindset of those who now design computer viruses, to trigger some kind on disaster.

And even a tiny probability of catastrophe is unacceptable when the downside could be of global consequence. 

In fact, some years ago, Bill Joy wrote an article expressing tremendous concern about robots taking us over, etc.

I don't go along with all that, but it's interesting that he had a simple solution.

First, any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones.

And also, when a scientist makes a discovery, he or she normally has no clue what the applications are going to be.

And I think we have to go back to what happened in the post-War era, post-World War II, when the nuclear scientists who'd been involved in making the atomic bomb, in many cases were concerned that they should do all they could to alert the world to the dangers. 

And perhaps the greatest living person is someone I'm privileged to know, Joe Rothblatt.

Equally untidy office there, as you can see.

He's 96 years old, and he founded the Pugwash movement.

He persuaded Einstein, as his last act, to sign the famous memorandum of Bertrand Russell.

And he sets an example of the concerned scientist.

On that schematic picture, a sort of time-lapse picture, we're halfway.

And it'll be another six billion before that happens, and any remaining life on Earth is vaporized.

There's an unthinking tendency to imagine that humans will be there, experiencing the sun's demise, but any life and intelligence that exists then will be as different from us as we are from bacteria.

The unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go, here on Earth and probably far beyond.

But even in this concertinaed cosmic perspective, our century is very, very special, the first when humans can change themselves and their home planet. 

As I should have shown this earlier, it will not be humans who witness the end point of the sun; it will be creatures as different from us as we are from bacteria.

When Einstein died in 1955, one striking tribute to his global status was this cartoon by Herblock in the Washington Post.

But let's suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar, not just for 40 years, but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our Earth.

What would they have seen?

Over nearly all that immense time, Earth's appearance would have changed very gradually.

The continental landmasses drifted around.

Change has accelerated as human populations rose.

Then other things happened even more abruptly.

Within just 50 years -- that's one hundredth of one millionth of the Earth's age -- the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise, and ominously fast. 

Some journeyed to the moons and planets.

A race of advanced extraterrestrials watching our solar system from afar could confidently predict Earth's final doom in another six billion years.

But could they have predicted this unprecedented spike less than halfway through the Earth's life?

These human-induced alterations occupying overall less than a millionth of the elapsed lifetime and seemingly occurring with runaway speed?

If they continued their vigil, what might these hypothetical aliens witness in the next hundred years?

Will some spasm foreclose Earth's future?

Or will the biosphere stabilize?

Or will some of the metallic objects launched from the Earth spawn new oases, a post-human life elsewhere? 

And whatever happens in this uniquely crucial century will resonate into the remote future and perhaps far beyond the Earth, far beyond the Earth as depicted here.

Thank you very much. 

