You know, one of the intense pleasures of travel and one of the delights of ethnographic research is the opportunity to live amongst those who have not forgotten the old ways, who still feel their past in the wind, touch it in stones polished by rain, taste it in the bitter leaves of plants.

Just to know that Jaguar shamans still journey beyond the Milky Way, or the myths of the Inuit elders still resonate with meaning, or that in the Himalaya, the Buddhists still pursue the breath of the Dharma, is to really remember the central revelation of anthropology, and that is the idea that the world in which we live does not exist in some absolute sense, but is just one model of reality, the consequence of one particular set of adaptive choices that our lineage made, albeit successfully, many generations ago. 

We go through initiation rites.

But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song, the rhythm of the dance in every culture.

All of these peoples teach us that there are other ways of being, other ways of thinking, other ways of orienting yourself in the Earth.

And this is an idea, if you think about it, can only fill you with hope.

It's the symbol of all that we are and all that we can be as an astonishingly inquisitive species. 

And the great indicator of that, of course, is language loss. 

When each of you in this room were born, there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet.

Now, a language is not just a body of vocabulary or a set of grammatical rules.

A language is a flash of the human spirit.

It's a vehicle through which the soul of each particular culture comes into the material world.

Every language is an old-growth forest of the mind, a watershed, a thought, an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities. 

And of those 6,000 languages, as we sit here today in Monterey, fully half are no longer being whispered into the ears of children.

Now, there are many of us who sort of forget that when I say "different ways of being," I really do mean different ways of being. 

Take, for example, this child of a Barasana in the Northwest Amazon, the people of the anaconda who believe that mythologically they came up the milk river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes.

They simply listen and then begin to speak. 

In 1957, five missionaries attempted contact and made a critical mistake.

They dropped from the air 8 x 10 glossy photographs of themselves in what we would say to be friendly gestures, forgetting that these people of the rainforest had never seen anything two-dimensional in their lives.

They picked up these photographs from the forest floor, tried to look behind the face to find the form or the figure, found nothing, and concluded that these were calling cards from the devil, so they speared the five missionaries to death.

But the Waorani didn't just spear outsiders.

They speared each other.

54 percent of their mortality was due to them spearing each other.

Their hunters could smell animal urine at 40 paces and tell you what species left it behind. 

On the contrary, it's a complex metaphysical worldview.

It's interesting.

But, what makes Voodoo so interesting is that it's this living relationship between the living and the dead.

So, the living give birth to the spirits.

And because you are possessed, you are taken by the spirit -- how can you be harmed?

In a bloodstained continent, these people alone were never conquered by the Spanish.

To this day, they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood but the training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary.

Now, this level of intuition becomes very important.

Whenever we think of indigenous people and landscape, we either invoke Rousseau and the old canard of the "noble savage," which is an idea racist in its simplicity, or alternatively, we invoke Thoreau and say these people are closer to the Earth than we are.

Well, indigenous people are neither sentimental nor weakened by nostalgia.

There's not a lot of room for either in the malarial swamps of the Asmat or in the chilling winds of Tibet, but they have, nevertheless, through time and ritual, forged a traditional mystique of the Earth that is based not on the idea of being self-consciously close to it, but on a far subtler intuition: the idea that the Earth itself can only exist because it is breathed into being by human consciousness. 

Now, what does that mean?

It means that a young kid from the Andes who's raised to believe that that mountain is an Apu spirit that will direct his or her destiny will be a profoundly different human being and have a different relationship to that resource or that place than a young kid from Montana raised to believe that a mountain is a pile of rock ready to be mined.

Whether it's the abode of a spirit or a pile of ore is irrelevant.

What's interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the natural world.

That made me a different human being than my friends amongst the Kwagiulth who believe that those forests were the abode of Huxwhukw and the Crooked Beak of Heaven and the cannibal spirits that dwelled at the north end of the world, spirits they would have to engage during their Hamatsa initiation. 

It's a photograph I took in the Northwest Amazon just last April.

This is ayahuasca, which many of you have heard about, the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman's repertoire.

This plant had in it some very powerful tryptamines, very close to brain serotonin, dimethyltryptamine, 5-methoxydimethyltryptamine.

To have that powder blown up your nose is rather like being shot out of a rifle barrel lined with baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity.

But the thing about tryptamines is they cannot be taken orally because they're denatured by an enzyme found naturally in the human gut called monoamine oxidase.

They can only be taken orally if taken in conjunction with some other chemical that denatures the MAO.

But you ask the Indians, and they say, "The plants talk to us."

Well, what does that mean?

Well, it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties in the night of a full moon, and it sings to you in a different key.

Now, that's not going to get you a Ph.D. at Harvard, but it's a lot more interesting than counting stamens.

Now -- (Applause) -- the problem -- the problem is that even those of us sympathetic with the plight of indigenous people view them as quaint and colorful but somehow reduced to the margins of history as the real world, meaning our world, moves on.

All cultures through all time have constantly been engaged in a dance with new possibilities of life. 

And the problem is not technology itself.

The Sioux Indians did not stop being Sioux when they gave up the bow and arrow any more than an American stopped being an American when he gave up the horse and buggy.

Or if we go into the mountains of Tibet, where I'm doing a lot of research recently, you'll see it's a crude face of political domination.

You know, genocide, the physical extinction of a people is universally condemned, but ethnocide, the destruction of people's way of life, is not only not condemned, it's universally, in many quarters, celebrated as part of a development strategy.

And you cannot understand the pain of Tibet until you move through it at the ground level.

This young man's father had been ascribed to the Panchen Lama.

That meant he was instantly killed at the time of the Chinese invasion.

His uncle fled with His Holiness in the Diaspora that took the people to Nepal.

His mother was incarcerated for the crime of being wealthy.

The sister who had done that brave deed was put into an education camp.

One day she inadvertently stepped on an armband of Mao, and for that transgression, she was given seven years of hard labor.

The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear, but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold. 

Margaret Mead, the great anthropologist, said, before she died, that her greatest fear was that as we drifted towards this blandly amorphous generic world view not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination reduced to a more narrow modality of thought, but that we would wake from a dream one day having forgotten there were even other possibilities. 

And it's humbling to remember that our species has, perhaps, been around for [150,000] years.

When these myriad cultures of the world are asked the meaning of being human, they respond with 10,000 different voices. 

And it's within that song that we will all rediscover the possibility of being what we are: a fully conscious species, fully aware of ensuring that all peoples and all gardens find a way to flourish.

This old man's grandfather refused to go.

The runners of their sleds were originally made of fish wrapped in caribou hide.

He put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife and as it finally froze solid, he butchered a dog with it.

He skinned the dog and improvised a harness, took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled, harnessed up an adjacent dog, and disappeared over the ice floes, shit knife in belt.

An amazing example of how a nation-state can seek restitution with its people. 

They're homelands of somebody.

So, what we're trying to do at the National Geographic, finally, is, we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything.

156 nations carry our television channel.

Our magazines are read by millions.

And what we're doing is a series of journeys to the ethnosphere where we're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they cannot help but come away dazzled by what they have seen, and hopefully, therefore, embrace gradually, one by one, the central revelation of anthropology: that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way, that we can find a way to live in a truly multicultural, pluralistic world where all of the wisdom of all peoples can contribute to our collective well-being. 

