What keeps us healthy and happy as we go through life?

If you were going to invest now in your future best self, where would you put your time and your energy?

There was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their most important life goals were, and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them was to get rich.

And another 50 percent of those same young adults said that another major life goal was to become famous. 

And we're constantly told to lean in to work, to push harder and achieve more.

Pictures of entire lives, of the choices that people make and how those choices work out for them, those pictures are almost impossible to get.

Most of what we know about human life we know from asking people to remember the past, and as we know, hindsight is anything but 20/20.

We did that.

The Harvard Study of Adult Development may be the longest study of adult life that's ever been done.

Studies like this are exceedingly rare.

But through a combination of luck and the persistence of several generations of researchers, this study has survived.

And we are now beginning to study the more than 2,000 children of these men.

And I'm the fourth director of the study. 

Since 1938, we've tracked the lives of two groups of men.

The first group started in the study when they were sophomores at Harvard College.

They all finished college during World War II, and then most went off to serve in the war.

Most lived in tenements, many without hot and cold running water. 

And then these teenagers grew up into adults who entered all walks of life.

Some climbed the social ladder from the bottom all the way to the very top, and some made that journey in the opposite direction. 

Every two years, our patient and dedicated research staff calls up our men and asks them if we can send them yet one more set of questions about their lives. 

To get the clearest picture of these lives, we don't just send them questionnaires.

So what have we learned?

What are the lessons that come from the tens of thousands of pages of information that we've generated on these lives?

Well, the lessons aren't about wealth or fame or working harder and harder.

The clearest message that we get from this 75-year study is this: Good relationships keep us happier and healthier.

We've learned three big lessons about relationships.

The first is that social connections are really good for us, and that loneliness kills.

And the experience of loneliness turns out to be toxic.

People who are more isolated than they want to be from others find that they are less happy, their health declines earlier in midlife, their brain functioning declines sooner and they live shorter lives than people who are not lonely.

And the sad fact is that at any given time, more than one in five Americans will report that they're lonely. 

It turns out that living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health.

High-conflict marriages, for example, without much affection, turn out to be very bad for our health, perhaps worse than getting divorced.

And living in the midst of good, warm relationships is protective. 

And when we gathered together everything we knew about them at age 50, it wasn't their middle age cholesterol levels that predicted how they were going to grow old.

It was how satisfied they were in their relationships.

The people who were the most satisfied in their relationships at age 50 were the healthiest at age 80.

And good, close relationships seem to buffer us from some of the slings and arrows of getting old.

Our most happily partnered men and women reported, in their 80s, that on the days when they had more physical pain, their mood stayed just as happy.

But the people who were in unhappy relationships, on the days when they reported more physical pain, it was magnified by more emotional pain. 

And the third big lesson that we learned about relationships and our health is that good relationships don't just protect our bodies, they protect our brains.

It turns out that being in a securely attached relationship to another person in your 80s is protective, that the people who are in relationships where they really feel they can count on the other person in times of need, those people's memories stay sharper longer.

And the people in relationships where they feel they really can't count on the other one, those are the people who experience earlier memory decline.

And those good relationships, they don't have to be smooth all the time.

Some of our octogenarian couples could bicker with each other day in and day out, but as long as they felt that they could really count on the other when the going got tough, those arguments didn't take a toll on their memories. 

Why is this so hard to get and so easy to ignore?

Well, we're human.

The people in our 75-year study who were the happiest in retirement were the people who had actively worked to replace workmates with new playmates.

Just like the millennials in that recent survey, many of our men when they were starting out as young adults really believed that fame and wealth and high achievement were what they needed to go after to have a good life.

So what about you?

Well, the possibilities are practically endless.

I'd like to close with a quote from Mark Twain.

The good life is built with good relationships. 

