They are what I consider to be the cities of tomorrow, the new urban world. 

Now, why do I say that?

And I met Julius the last week that I was living in Kibera.

They're very polite and they don't get so forward so quickly.

So, close to 200,000 people a day migrate from the rural to the urban areas.

That's, and I'm going to be fair to the statisticians who talked this morning, not almost 1.5 million people a week, but almost 1.4 million people a week but I'm a journalist, and we exaggerate, so almost 1.5 million people a week, close to 70 million people a year.

And if you do the math, that's 130 people every minute.

So, that'll be -- in the 18 minutes that I'm given to talk here, between two and three thousand people will have journeyed to the cities.

And here are the statistics.

Because I think it says something about reversing our perception of what we think the good life is. 

So -- "The hut was made of corrugated metal, set on a concrete pad.

It was a 10 by 10 cell.

Armstrong O'Brian, Jr. shared it with three other men.

This was Southland, a small shanty community on the western side of Nairobi, Kenya.

1.5 million people stuffed into mud or metal huts with no services, no toilets, no rights. 

'In case you owe one month, the landlord will come with his henchmen and bundle you out.

They called their landlord a Wabenzi, meaning that he is a person who has enough money to drive a Mercedes-Benz.

Outside a mound of garbage formed the border between Southland and the adjacent legal neighborhood of Langata.

It was perhaps eight feet tall, 40 feet long, and 10 feet wide.

And it was set in a wider watery ooze.

As we passed, two boys were climbing the mount Kenya of trash.

They couldn't have been more than five or six years old.

They were barefoot, and with each step their toes sank into the muck sending hundreds of flies scattering from the rancid pile.

I thought they might be playing King of the Hill, but I was wrong.

Once atop the pile, one of the boys lowered his shorts, squatted, and defecated.

The flies buzzed hungrily around his legs.

When 20 families -- 100 people or so -- share a single latrine, a boy pooping on a garbage pile is perhaps no big thing.

But it stood in jarring contrast to something Armstrong had said as we were eating -- that he treasured the quality of life in his neighborhood. 

"For Armstrong, Southland wasn't constrained by its material conditions.

'This place is very addictive,' he had said.

'Once you have stayed here,' he said, 'you can stay for the rest of your life.'"

This is getting ready for the monsoon in Bombay, India.

And then you get Rocinha and you can see that it's getting even better.

The buildings here are multi-story.

All of these buildings are made out of reinforced concrete and brick. 

And then you get Sultanbelyi, in Turkey, where it's even built to a higher level of design.

People dry out or air out their mattress stuffing on their roofs.

And it's built to a pretty high standard of design. 

And then you finally get squatter homes like this, which is built on the suburban model.

Hey, that's a single family home in the squatter community.

These communities in these cities are actually more vital than the illegal communities.

They have more things going on in them. 

So, that's just a rock in the hillside.

Beer is all carried in on your shoulders.

Beer is a very important thing in Brazil. 

Those green things in the foreground are mangoes. 

This here, on the right-hand side, is what's called a -- if you look at the fine print under the awning -- it's a hotel.

And when they have more money they cement their streets, and they put in sewers and good water pipes, and stuff like that.

I say there are two things.

One is people need a guarantee they won't be evicted.

That can mean community organizing from below, but it can also mean possibilities from above.

And I say that because the system in Turkey is notable. 

Turkey has two great laws that protect squatters.

And the second aspect is that once you have 2,000 people in the community, you can petition the government to be recognized as a legal sub-municipality.

And when you're a legal sub-municipality, you suddenly have politics.

You're allowed to have an elected government, collect taxes, provide municipal services, and that's exactly what they do. 

So, these are the civic leaders of the future.

The woman in the center is Geeta Jiwa.

She lives in one of those tents on the highway median in Mumbai.

They can be community leaders.

This woman is Nine, which means "grandma" in Turkish.

And there were three old ladies who lived in -- that's her self-built house behind her -- and they've lived there for 30 or 40 years, and they are the backbone of the community there. 

So, I think the message I take, from what I read from the book, from what Armstrong said, and from all these people, is that these are neighborhoods.

Thank you very much. 

