One day I was grabbed by some of my classmates, and taken in the bushes -- I was stripped; I was attacked; I was abused; and this came out of the blue.

But I got a phone call from Bono in 1985 and, as you know, he's a great singer, but he's a magnificent hustler, and -- 

So I got involved with this tour, which was for Amnesty, and then in '88 I took over Bono's job trying to learn how to hustle.

And, once again, I got an extraordinary education, and it was the first time, really, that I'd met a lot of these people in the different countries, and these human rights stories became very physical, and, again, I couldn't really walk away quite so comfortably. 

But the thing that really amazed me, that I had no idea, was that you could suffer in this way and then have your whole experience, your story, denied, buried and forgotten.

And it seemed that whenever there was a camera around, or a video or film camera, it was a great deal harder to do -- for those in power to bury the story.

And Reebok set up a foundation after these Human Rights Now tours and there was a decision then -- well, we made a proposal, for a couple of years, about trying to set up a division that was going to give cameras to human rights activists.

It didn't really get anywhere, and then the Rodney King incident happened, and people thought, OK, if you have a camera in the right place at the right time, or, perhaps, the wrong time, depending who you are, then you can actually start doing something, and campaigning, and being heard, and telling people about what's going on. 

So, WITNESS was started in '92 and it's since given cameras out in over 60 countries.

And we campaign with activist groups and help them tell their story and, in fact, I will show you in a moment one of the most recent campaigns, and I'm afraid it's a story from Uganda, and, although we had a wonderful story from Uganda yesterday, this one isn't quite so good.

We stay because of the fear that what pushed us into the camp ... still exists back home.

(Chanting) Jennifer: A soldier walked onto the road, asking where we'd been.

Evelyn and I hid behind my mother.

Evelyn: He ordered us to sit down, so we sat down.

The other soldier also came.

Jennifer: The man came and started undressing me.

And the one who was raping Evelyn came and defiled me also.

Woman: They insisted that I was lying.

At that moment, they fired and shot off my fingers.

Anyway, WITNESS has been trying to arm the brave people who often put their lives at risk around the world, with cameras, and I'd like to show you just a little more of that.

