Well, it's great to be here.

We've heard a lot about the promise of technology, and the peril.

I've been quite interested in both.

If we could convert 0.03 percent of the sunlight that falls on the earth into energy, we could meet all of our projected needs for 2030.

We can't do that today because solar panels are heavy, expensive and very inefficient.

Bono spoke very eloquently, that we have the tools, for the first time, to address age-old problems of disease and poverty.

Most regions of the world are moving in that direction.

I did enjoy Bono's comment linking Haight-Ashbury to Silicon Valley.

Kevin Kelly talked about the acceleration of technology.

I realized that my technologies had to make sense when I finished a project.

That invariably, the world was a different place when I would introduce a technology.

It's kind of taken on a life of its own.

And you'll hear people say, well, we can't predict the future.

And if you ask me, will the price of Google be higher or lower than it is today three years from now, that's very hard to say.

Will WiMax CDMA G3 be the wireless standard three years from now?

But if you ask me, what will it cost for one MIPS of computing in 2010, or the cost to sequence a base pair of DNA in 2012, or the cost of sending a megabyte of data wirelessly in 2014, it turns out that those are very predictable. 

There are remarkably smooth exponential curves that govern price performance, capacity, bandwidth.

And a lot of people, when they think about the future, think about it linearly.

The Genome Project was a controversial project in 1990.

We had our best Ph.D. students, our most advanced equipment around the world, we got 1/10,000th of the project done, so how're we going to get this done in 15 years?

Most of the project was done in the last few years of the project.

It took us 15 years to sequence HIV -- we sequenced SARS in 31 days.

So we are gaining the potential to overcome these problems. 

The actual paradigm-shift rate, the rate of adopting new ideas, is doubling every decade, according to our models.

Cell phones were adopted in about eight years.

If you put different communication technologies on this logarithmic graph, television, radio, telephone were adopted in decades.

Recent technologies -- like the PC, the web, cell phones -- were under a decade.

They work through interaction -- they create a capability, and then it uses that capability to bring on the next stage. 

So the first step in biological evolution, the evolution of DNA -- actually it was RNA came first -- took billions of years, but then evolution used that information-processing backbone to bring on the next stage.

It's an inherent nature of an evolutionary process.

But anyway, the evolution of our species took hundreds of thousands of years, and then working through interaction, evolution used, essentially, the technology-creating species to bring on the next stage, which were the first steps in technological evolution.

And the first step took tens of thousands of years -- stone tools, fire, the wheel -- kept accelerating.

We always used then the latest generation of technology to create the next generation.

And we've had a continual acceleration of this process. 

But you see a very clear trend.

There's a basic, profound acceleration of this evolutionary process.

Information technologies double their capacity, price performance, bandwidth, every year.

And that's a very profound explosion of exponential growth.

A personal experience, when I was at MIT -- computer taking up about the size of this room, less powerful than the computer in your cell phone.

But Moore's Law, which is very often identified with this exponential growth, is just one example of many, because it's basically a property of the evolutionary process of technology. 

I put 49 famous computers on this logarithmic graph -- by the way, a straight line on a logarithmic graph is exponential growth -- that's another exponential.

And that's exponential growth through five different paradigms.

Every time one paradigm ran out of steam, another paradigm came out of left field to continue the exponential growth.

Whole different paradigm -- transistors came out of the woodwork.

In fact, when we see the end of the line for a particular paradigm, it creates research pressure to create the next paradigm.

That'll be the end of Moore's Law, but it won't be the end of the exponential growth of computing, because chips are flat.

We live in a three-dimensional world; we might as well use the third dimension.

We will go into the third dimension and there's been tremendous progress, just in the last few years, of getting three-dimensional, self-organizing molecular circuits to work.

We'll have those ready well before Moore's Law runs out of steam.

Supercomputers -- same thing.

It's pretty remarkable how smooth an exponential process that is.

You would think it would be a very erratic process, and you have a very smooth outcome of this chaotic process.

And we can predict these trends far into the future.

Unlike Gertrude Stein's roses, it's not the case that a transistor is a transistor.

As we make them smaller and less expensive, the electrons have less distance to travel.

They're faster, so you've got exponential growth in the speed of transistors, so the cost of a cycle of one transistor has been coming down with a halving rate of 1.1 years.

You add other forms of innovation and processor design, you get a doubling of price performance of computing every one year. 

In terms of price performance, that's a 40 to 50 percent deflation rate.

And economists have actually started worrying about that.

We had deflation during the Depression, but that was collapse of the money supply, collapse of consumer confidence, a completely different phenomena.

But what we're actually seeing is that we actually more than keep up with it.

I mean, people didn't build iPods for 10,000 dollars 10 years ago.

As the price performance makes new applications feasible, new applications come to the market.

And this is a very widespread phenomena.

Magnetic data storage -- that's not Moore's Law, it's shrinking magnetic spots, different engineers, different companies, same exponential process. 

A key revolution is that we're understanding our own biology in these information terms.

We're understanding the software programs that make our body run.

We'd like to actually turn that program off.

They tried that in animals, and these mice ate ravenously and remained slim and got the health benefits of being slim.

So, life -- long lifespans -- like, that is to say, much more than 30 -- weren't selected for, but we are learning to actually manipulate and change these software programs through the biotechnology revolution.

For example, we can inhibit genes now with RNA interference.

There's actually a -- for the first time now, something going to human trials, that actually cures pulmonary hypertension -- a fatal disease -- using gene therapy.

So we'll have not just designer babies, but designer baby boomers.

And this technology is also accelerating.

Another major revolution: the communications revolution.

This is based on the number of hosts. 

There are little machines doing things in experimental bases.

And this is less futuristic than it may sound.

These things have already been done in animals. 

An analysis of this respirocyte, designed by Rob Freitas, indicates if you replace 10 percent of your red blood cells with these robotic versions, you could do an Olympic sprint for 15 minutes without taking a breath.

It will be interesting to see what we do in our Olympic trials.

Presumably we'll ban them, but then we'll have the specter of teenagers in their high schools gyms routinely out-performing the Olympic athletes.

Freitas has a design for a robotic white blood cell.

There are four major conferences on building blood cell-sized devices; there are many experiments in animals.

If we come back to our exponential growth of computing, 1,000 dollars of computing is now somewhere between an insect and a mouse brain.

It will intersect human intelligence in terms of capacity in the 2020s, but that'll be the hardware side of the equation.

Where will we get the software?

Well, it turns out we can see inside the human brain, and in fact not surprisingly, the spatial and temporal resolution of brain scanning is doubling every year.

Doug Hofstadter wonders, well, maybe our intelligence just isn't great enough to understand our intelligence, and if we were smarter, well, then our brains would be that much more complicated, and we'd never catch up to it.

It turns out that we can understand it. 

This is a block diagram of a model and simulation of the human auditory cortex that actually works quite well -- in applying psychoacoustic tests, gets very similar results to human auditory perception.

There's another simulation of the cerebellum -- that's more than half the neurons in the brain -- again, works very similarly to human skill formation.

All of this is driving exponentially growing economic progress.

You might wonder, well, wasn't there a boom and a bust?

This will be a routine feature in a cell phone.

It would be able to translate from one language to another. 

So let me just end with a couple of scenarios.

By 2010 computers will disappear.

They'll be so small, they'll be embedded in our clothing, in our environment.

But if we go to 2029, we really have the full maturity of these trends, and you have to appreciate how many turns of the screw in terms of generations of technology, which are getting faster and faster, we'll have at that point.

I mean, we will have two-to-the-25th-power greater price performance, capacity and bandwidth of these technologies, which is pretty phenomenal.

It'll be millions of times more powerful than it is today.

We'll have completed the reverse-engineering of the human brain, 1,000 dollars of computing will be far more powerful than the human brain in terms of basic raw capacity.

Computers will combine the subtle pan-recognition powers of human intelligence with ways in which machines are already superior, in terms of doing analytic thinking, remembering billions of facts accurately.

Machines can share their knowledge very quickly.

But it's not just an alien invasion of intelligent machines.

We are going to merge with our technology. 

But they'll also go inside our brain, interact with our biological neurons.

We've demonstrated the key principles of being able to do this.

"Experience beamers," I call them, will put their whole flow of sensory experiences in the neurological correlates of their emotions out on the Internet.

You can plug in and experience what it's like to be someone else.

My main message is that progress in technology is exponential, not linear.

If you really look at the power of exponential growth, you'll see that these things are pretty soon at hand.

And information technology is increasingly encompassing all of our lives, from our music to our manufacturing to our biology to our energy to materials. 

These are very powerful technologies.

They both empower our promise and our peril.

So we have to have the will to apply them to the right problems. 

Thank you very much. 

