And thinking that, can an individual actually do something, or come up with something, that may actually get some traction out there and make a difference?

Inspired by nature -- that's the theme here.

And I think, quite frankly, that's where I started. 

And I could never really understand exactly what it was, or how it was informing me.

And that, to me, was a reference point that I think I needed to have to be able to make the work that I did.

And I kept being sucked into this genre of the calendar picture, or something of that nature, and I couldn't get away from it.

So I started to think of, how can I rethink the landscape?

I decided to rethink the landscape as the landscape that we've transformed. 

Totally transformed by man.

And that got me to go out and look at mines like this, and go out and look at the largest industrial incursions in the landscape that I could find.

And I think one of the things I also wanted to say in my thanks, which I kind of missed, was to thank all the corporations who helped me get in.

So in that respect, to me, I'm not against the corporation.

But I am also for sustainability. 

So there's this thing that is pulling me in both directions.

And I'm not making an indictment towards what's happening here, but it is a slow progression.

So I started thinking, well, we live in all these ages of man: the Stone Age, and the Iron Age, and the Copper Age.

And these ages of man are still at work today.

But we've become totally disconnected from them.

I want a house, and I want a car.

But there's this consequence out there.

And how do I begin to have that attraction, repulsion?

It's even in my own conscience I'm having it, and here in my work, I'm trying to build that same toggle. 

That if we keep putting things, through industrial and urban existence, back into the system -- if we keep doing that -- we can continue on.

But in the meantime, these things are scaling up.

These things are continuing to happen.

These images of Bangladesh came out of a radio program I was listening to.

They were talking about Exxon Valdez, and that there was going to be a glut of oil tankers because of the insurance industries.

And that those oil tankers needed to be decommissioned, and 2004 was going to be the pinnacle.

And I thought, "My God, wouldn't that be something?"

130 million people living in an area the size of Wisconsin -- people everywhere -- the pollution was intense, and the working conditions were horrible. 

And that, to me, was again something that I started building on, and I continued to build on.

Because I think everything that we're involved in -- our clothing, our cars, our roads, and everything -- are directly a result.

not to mention that China, as well, has a great effect on the industries that I grew up around.

So what you see here is the Three Gorges Dam, and this is the largest dam by 50 percent ever attempted by man.

Most of the engineers around the world left the project because they said, "It's just too big."

In fact, when it did actually fill with water a year and a half ago, they were able to measure a wobble within the earth as it was spinning.

And what was also one of the bigger projects around that was moving 13 full-size cities up out of the reservoir, and flattening all the buildings so they could make way for the ships. 

And this gives you an idea.

And it was all the people who lived in those homes, were the ones that were actually taking it apart and working, and getting paid per brick to take their cities apart.

And these are some of the images from that.

So I spent about three trips to the Three Gorges Dam, looking at that massive transformation of a landscape.

And it looks like a bombed-out landscape, but it isn't.

What it is, it's a landscape that is an intentional one.

This is a need for power, and they're willing to go through this massive transformation, on this scale, to get that power. 

And again, it's actually a relief for what's going on in China because I think on the table right now, there's 27 nuclear power stations to be built.

There hasn't been one built in North America for 20 years because of the "NIMBY" problem -- "Not In My BackYard."

But in China they're saying, "No, we're putting in 27 in the next 10 years."

And coal-burning furnaces are going in there for hydroelectric power literally weekly.

So coal itself is probably one of the largest problems.

And 1.2 to 2 million people were relocated, depending on whose statistics you're looking at.

And this is what they were building. 

This is Wushan, one of the largest cities that was relocated.

This is the town hall for the city.

And again, the rebuilding of the city -- to me, it was sad to see that they didn't really grab a lot of, I guess, what we know here, in terms of urban planning.

There were no parks; there were no green spaces.

Very high-density living on the side of a hill.

And here they had a chance to rebuild cities from the bottom up, but somehow were not connecting with them. 

So here, if you look at this poster, it has all the trappings of Western culture.

And again, when you start seeing that kind of embrace, and you start looking at them leading their rural lifestyle with a very, very small footprint and moving into an urban lifestyle with a much higher footprint, it starts to become very sobering. 

This is a shot in one of the biggest squares in Guangdong -- and this is where a lot of migrant workers are coming in from the country.

And they have dorms for the workers.

So they bring them in from the country and put them up in the dorms. 

They're not getting enough, so they're not going to move.

And so they're holding off until they get a deal with them.

Probably the largest urban-renewal project, I think, ever attempted on the planet. 

So the industry's already growing around these new developments. 

In fact, even Shenzhen, the economic zone -- one of the first ones -- 15 years ago was about 100,000 people, and today it boasts about 10 to 11 million.

So that gives you an idea of the kinds of migrations and the speed with which -- this is just the taxis being built by Volkswagen.

And the density is quite incredible.

And I'm sure there are people here who probably know better than I do about efficiencies, but I can't imagine that every apartment having its own air conditioner is a very efficient way to cool a building on this scale.

It's breathtaking, in terms of the speed at which this city is transforming.

So a skyscraper is built, literally, overnight in Shanghai. 

Most recently I went in, and I started looking at some of the biggest industries in China.

And this is Baosteel, right outside of Shanghai.

So they're building very large blast furnaces to try to deal with the demand for steel in China.

So this is three of the visible blast furnaces within that shot.

10 hours a day at this speed.

I think one of the issues that we here are facing with China, is that they're using a lot of the latest production technology. 

In that one, there were 400 people that worked on the floor.

There's a massive backlog of people wanting their jobs.

That condition's going to be there for the next 10 to 15 years if they realize what they want, which is, you know, 400 to 500 million more people coming into the cities. 

In this particular case -- this is the assembly line that you saw; this is a shot of it.

I had to use a very small aperture to get the depth of field.

I had to have them freeze for 10 seconds to get this shot.

They were just wound up doing these things all day long, until the manager had to, with a stern voice, say, "Okay, everybody freeze."

It wasn't too bad, but they're driven to produce these things at an incredible rate. 

This is a textile mill doing synthetic silk, an oil byproduct.

And what you're seeing here is, again, one of the most state-of-the-art textile mills.

There are 500 of these machines; they're worth about 200,000 dollars each.

This is a line where they get the threads and they wind the threads together, pre-going into the textile mills. 

Here's something that's far more labor-intensive, which is the making of shoes.

This floor has about 1,500 workers on this floor.

The company itself had about 10,000 employees, and they're doing domestic shoes.

It was such a high labor component to it that it made a lot of sense to go after that labor market. 

And this next shot here is one of the lunchrooms.

Everything is very efficient.

While setting up this shot, people on average would spend eight to 10 minutes having a lunch.

So it's taken me almost a year to gain access into these places.

The other aspect of what's happening in China is that there's a real need for materials there.

This is certainly connected to California and Silicon Valley.

But this is what happens to most of the computers.

Fifty percent of the world's computers end up in China to be recycled. 

They're trying to get all the valued metals out of those components.

This is a road where it's been shored up by computer boards in one of the biggest towns where they're recycling.

So that's the photographs that I wanted to show you. 

I want to dedicate my wishes to my two girls.

They've been sitting on my shoulder the whole time while I've been thinking.

One's Megan, the one of the right, and Katja there.

And to me the whole notion -- the things I'm photographing are out of a great concern about the scale of our progress and what we call progress.

And it isn't something that isn't just affecting our world, but it starts to go up -- because I think we can start correcting our footprint and bring it down -- but there's a growing footprint that's happening in Asia, and is growing at a rapid, rapid rate, and so I don't think we can equalize it.

So part of my thinking, and part of my wishes, is sitting with these thoughts in mind, and thinking about, "How is their life going to be when they want to have children, or when they're ready to get married 20 years from now -- or whatever, 15 years from now?"

And it is through communications today that I believe that that is not an unreal idea.

Oh, and I went in search -- I wanted to put what I had in mind, hitch it onto something.

One of them I'm starting from almost nothing, but the other one, I wanted to find out what's going on that's working right now.

And it just started about 14 months ago.

And the beauty of what's going on there is that the tone of the conversation is the tone that I like.

And it's looking at technology, and it's looking at new energy-saving devices, and it's looking at how to rethink and how to re-strategize the movement towards sustainability. 

And so for me, one of the things that I thought would be to put some of my work in the service of promoting the Worldchanging.com website.

They could be posted through the Web; they could be used as a billboard or a bus shelter, or anything of that nature.

So we're looking at this as trying to build out.

And what we ended up discussing was that in most media you get mostly an image with a lot of text, and the text is blasted all over. 

What was unusual, according to Stephen, is less than five percent of ads are actually leading with image.

So Worldchanging.com, and building that blog, and it is a blog, and I'm hoping that it isn't -- I don't see it as the kind of blog where we're all going to follow each other to death.

I think there's a chance to have a dialogue, a conversation about sustainability at Worldchanging.com.

And anything that you can do to promote that would be fantastic. 

Wish two is more of the bottom-up, ground-up one that I'm trying to work with.

And this one is: I wish to launch a groundbreaking competition that motivates kids to invest ideas on, and invent ideas on, sustainability.

And you think about it, you know, grade four -- my wife and I, we say age seven is the age of reason, so they're into the age of reason.

You know, we know that from earlier presentations. 

And the prize has to be a verifiable thing, so it's not about just ideas.

The art pieces are about the ideas and how they present them and do them, but the actual things have to be verifiable.

In that way, what's happening is that we're motivating a certain age group to start thinking.

And they're going to push that up, from the bottom -- up into, I believe, into the households.

And again, in "In My World," the competition -- we would use the artwork that comes in from that competition to promote it.

I think all schools could use extra equipment, extra cash -- it's going to be an incentive for them to do that.

And these are some of the ideas in terms of where we could possibly put in some promotion for "In My World."

