Ten years ago, I had my first exhibition here.

And then this incredible thing happened.

It transformed.

And before I knew it, we had the world's first underwater sculpture park. 

In 2009, I moved to Mexico and started by casting local fisherman.

This grew to a small community, to almost an entire movement of people in defense of the sea.

And then finally, to an underwater museum, with over 500 living sculptures.

Gardening, it seems, is not just for greenhouses.

Each project, we use materials and designs that help encourage life; a long-lasting pH-neutral cement provides a stable and permanent platform.

It is textured to allow coral polyps to attach.

The formations are all configured so that they aggregate fish on a really large scale.

Even this VW Beetle has an internal living habitat to encourage crustaceans such as lobsters and sea urchins. 

So why exhibit my work in the ocean?

Because honestly, it's really not easy.

When you're in the middle of the sea under a hundred-foot crane, trying to lower eight tons down to the sea floor, you start to wonder whether I shouldn't have taken up watercolor painting instead. 

But in the end, the results always blow my mind. 

The ocean is the most incredible exhibition space an artist could ever wish for.

It's a bit of a cliché, but nothing man-made can ever match the imagination of nature. 

Fireworms scrawl white lines as they feed.

Coralline algae applies a kind of purple paint.

The deepest red I've ever seen in my life lives underwater.

And grey angelfish glide silently overhead. 

Because as we all know, our reefs are dying, and our oceans are in trouble. 

So here's the thing: the most used, searched and shared image of all my work thus far is this.

What I really hope is that people are beginning to understand that when we think of the environment and the destruction of nature, that we need to start thinking about our oceans, too. 

Since building these sites, we've seen some phenomenal and unexpected results.

Besides creating over 800 square meters of new habitats and living reef, visitors to the marine park in Cancun now divide half their time between the museum and the natural reefs, providing significant rest for natural, overstressed areas.

Visitors to "Ocean Atlas" in the Bahamas highlighted a leak from a nearby oil refinery.

The subsequent international media forced the local government to pledge 10 million dollars in coastal cleanups.

The sculpture park in Grenada was instrumental in the government designating a spot -- a marine-protected area.

Entrance fees to the park now help fund park rangers to manage tourism and fishing quotas.

The site was actually listed as a "Wonder of the World" by National Geographic. 

So why are we all here today in this room?

What do we all have in common?

I think we all share a fear that we don't protect our oceans enough.

And one way of thinking about this is that we don't regard our oceans as sacred, and we should.

So I want to finish up tonight by talking about sacred things.

They're places where we keep objects of great value to us, where we simply treasure them for them being themselves.

If someone was to throw an egg at the Sistine Chapel, we'd all go crazy.

If someone wanted to build a seven-star hotel at the bottom of the Grand Canyon, then we would laugh them out of Arizona.

Yet every day we dredge, pollute and overfish our oceans.

And I think it's easier for us to do that, because when we see the ocean, we don't see the havoc we're wreaking.

Because for most people, the ocean is like this.

And it's really hard to think of something that's just so plain and so enormous, as fragile.

It's simply too massive, too vast, too endless.

And what do you see here?

I think most people actually look past to the horizon.

Cancun is famous for spring break, tequila and foam parties.

And its waters are where frat boys can ride around on Jet Skis and banana boats.

But because of our work there, there's now a little corner of Cancun that is simply precious for being itself.

And we don't want to stop in Grenada, in Cancun or the Bahamas.

Because for me, this is just the beginning of the mission.

We want to team up with other inventors, creators, philanthropists, educators, biologists, to see better futures for our oceans.

And we want to see beyond sculpture, beyond art, even. 

Say you're a 14-year-old kid from the city, and you've never seen the ocean.

So let's think big and let's think deep.

Who knows where our imagination and willpower can lead us?

Our oceans are sacred. 

Thank you. 

