I'm going to discuss with you three of my inventions that can have an effect on 10 to a 100 million people, which we will hope to see happen.

At the present time, it takes an average of three hours after the first symptoms of a heart attack are recognized by the patient, before that patient arrives at an emergency room.

And people with silent ischemia -- which, translated into English, means they don't have any symptoms -- it takes even longer for them to get to the hospital.

About half of them, 600,000, have permanent damage to their heart that will cause them to have very bad problems later on.

Thus 900,000 people either have died or have significant damage to their heart muscle.

It's particularly true of diabetics and elderly women. 

Well, what is needed for the earliest possible warning of a heart attack?

A means to determine if there's a complete blockage of a coronary artery.

That, ladies and gentlemen, is a heart attack.

And if we had a computer put into the body of a person who's at risk, we could know, before they even have symptoms, that they're having a heart attack, to save their life.

And what we tried with the pig was external electrodes on the skin, like you see in an emergency room, and I'm going to show you why they don't work very well.

And then we put a lead, which is a wire, in the right ventricle inside the heart, which does the electrogram, which is the signal voltage from inside the heart.

Well, with the pig, at the baseline, before we blocked the pig's artery to simulate a heart attack, that was the signal.

But what happened when we looked inside the pig's heart, to the electrogram? 

There was the baseline -- first of all, a much bigger and more reliable signal.

Then, look at that after three minutes.

We see that the signal that's actually in the heart, we can use it to tell people that they're having a heart attack even before they have symptoms so we can save their life. 

And computers don't go to sleep.

We have a little battery and on this little battery that computer will run for five years without needing replacement. 

What does the system look like?

Well, on the left is the IMD, which is Implantable Medical Device, and tonight in the tent you can see it -- they've exhibited it.

It's about this big, the size of a pacemaker.

It's implanted with very conventional techniques.

And the EXD is an External Device that you can have on your night table.

And then, finally, a programmer that will set the level of the stimulation, which is the level which says you are having a heart attack. 

Tonight you'll see some of our invented stents.

We said, so we'll put in a stent, but we're not going to put in a stent that we'd put in people.

We're putting in a copper stent, and this copper stent erodes the artery and causes heart attacks.

That's not very nice, but, after all, we had to find out what the answer is.

So we took two copper stents and we put it in the artery of this pig, and let me show you the result that's very gratifying as far as people who have heart disease are concerned. 

So there it was, Thursday morning we stopped the pig's medication and there is his electrogram, the signal from inside the pig's heart coming out by radio telemetry.

Can you see it in the picture after the big rise of the QRS -- you see ST elevation?

This pig at 10:06 was having a heart attack.

What happens after you have the heart attack, this blockage?

But we had a little bit over an hour where we could've saved this pig's life.

But when it comes to the sake of a human, we can save their life.

We can save the lives of people who are at high risk for a heart attack. 

What is the response to acute myocardial infarction, a heart attack, today?

Well, you feel some chest pain or indigestion.

It's not all that bad; you decide not to do anything.

Several hours pass and it gets worse, and even the man won't ignore it.

Finally, you go to the emergency room.

So we developed the AngelMed Guardian System and we have a device inside this patient, called the Implanted AngelMed Guardian.

(Applause) 

And now I want to talk about something entirely different.

We have a mission statement for our company doing migraine, which is, "Prevent or ameliorate migraine headaches by the application of a safe, controlled magnetic pulse applied, as needed, by the patient."

That's what we have discovered. 

And when it hits the mid-brain, that's when the headache begins.

There's this migraine that is preceded by a visual aura, and this visual aura, by the way -- and I'll show you a picture -- but it sort of begins with little dancing lights, gets bigger and bigger until it fills your whole visual field.

And here's one of the patients who has an aura and always has a headache, bad one, after the aura.

This is what an aura looks like.

It's sort of funny dancing lights, shown there on the left and right side.

And that's a fully developed visual aura, as we see on top.

What does that mean?

That means that the magnetic pulse is generating an electric current that's interfering with the erroneous electrical activity in the brain.

And finally he says, "OK, now I'm going to -- " all of the aura get erased with an appropriately placed magnetic pulse. 

Well, the next thing they have to show is what was on ABC News, Channel 7, last week in New York City, in the 11 o'clock news. 

Anchor: For anyone who suffers from migraine headaches -- and there are 30 million Americans who do -- tonight: a possible answer.

Eyewitness news reporter Stacy Sager tonight, with a small and portable machine that literally zaps your migraines away.

Christina Sidebottom: Well, my first reaction was that it was -- looked awfully gun-like, and it was very strange.

Stacy Sager: But for Christina Sidebottom, almost anything was worth trying if it could stop a migraine.

SS: But is it safe to use everyday?

CS: It's been the most wonderful thing for my migraine.

SS: Researchers are hoping to present their studies to the FDA this summer. 

Robert Fischell: And that is the invention to treat migraines.

And this is the first device that we did, and I'm going to talk about my second wish, which has something to do with this.

Our conclusions from our studies so far, at three research centers, is there is a marked improvement in pain levels after using it just once.

And auras can be erased and the migraine, then, does not occur.

(Applause) 

The third and last invention began with an idea.

Epilepsy can best be treated by responsive electrical stimulation.

Now, why do we use -- add on, nearly, an epileptic focus?

Now, unfortunately, us technical people, unlike Mr. Bono, have to get into all these technical words.

We use current pacemaker defibrillator technology that's used for the heart.

We thought we could adapt it for the brain.

Form a company to develop a neuro-pacemaker for epilepsy, as well as other diseases of the brain, because all diseases of the brain are a result of some electrical malfunction in it, that causes many, if not all, of brain disorders. 

We formed a company called NeuroPace and we started work on responsive neurostimulation, and this is a picture of what the device looked like, that's placed into the cranial bone.

This is probably a better picture.

And tonight, you'll be able to see the device in the tent.

And this shows what an electroencephalogram is, and on the left is the signal of a spontaneous seizure of one of the patients.

(Applause) 

The first wish is to use the epilepsy responsive neurostimulator, called RNS, for Responsive NeuroStimulator -- that's a brilliant acronym -- for the treatment of other brain disorders.

Well, if we're going to do it for epilepsy, why the hell not try it for something else?

And some of the sponsors of this TED meeting are such organizations.

(Applause) 

So, to get quickly to my first wish -- the brain operates by electrical signals.

If the electrical signals create a brain disorder, electro-stimulation can overcome that disorder by acting on the brain's neurons.

In other words, if you've screwed up electrical signals, maybe, by putting other electrical signals from a computer in the brain, we can counteract that.

But even if there is no signal, electro-stimulation of an appropriate part of the brain can turn off a brain disorder.

And Mr. Fischer, and his group at NeuroPace, and myself believe that we can have a dramatic effect in improving OCD in America and in the world.

(Applause) 

Well, that's the good news.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Lawyers take cases on contingency with the hope of a big share of a big settlement by a sympathetic jury, because this patient really ended up badly.

The high cost of health care in the US is partly due to litigation and insurance costs.

I've seen pictures, graphs in today's USA Today showing it skyrocketing out of control, and this is one factor.

Well, how can the TED community help with this situation? 

For example, I asked the epilepsy people what are they using for informed consent.

Would you believe, 12 pages, single space, the patient has to read before they're in our trial to cure their epilepsy?

What do you think someone has at the end of reading 12 single-spaced pages?

They don't understand what the hell it's about.

And that is one of the ideas. 

The patient or spouse agrees not to file a lawsuit if one of the known procedure failures occurs.

Now, in America, in fact, you cannot give up your right to trial by jury.

If a medical error occurs, the patient or spouse agrees to a settlement for fair compensation by arbitration instead of going to court.

That would save hundreds of millions of dollars in legal costs in the United States and would decrease the cost of medicine for everyone. 

These are just some starting points.

And, so there, that's the end of all my wishes.

(Applause) 

