I want to start off by saying, Houston, we have a problem.

We stand a very big chance of losing our ability to inspire our youth to go out and continue this very important thing that we as a species have always done.

what we're looking forward to is not only the inspiration of our children, but the current plan right now is not really even allowing the most creative people in this country -- the Boeing's and Lockheed's space engineers -- to go out and take risks and try new stuff.

We're going to go back to the moon ... 50 years later?

That's the theme of my next 15 minutes here.

Let's take a snapshot at aviation.

And there was a wonderful little short four-year time period when marvelous things happened.

There were probably at least 30,000 different things tried, and when they crash and kill the pilot, don't try that again.

Well, who was inspired during that time period?

Aviation Week asked me to make a list of who I thought were the movers and shakers of the first 100 years of aviation.

And I wrote them down and I found out later that every one of them was a little kid in that wonderful renaissance of aviation.

Well, what did I do when I was a kid?

I spent about seven years during the Vietnam War flight-testing airplanes for the Air Force.

And we have developed more than one new type of airplane every year since 1982.

And there's a lot of them that I actually can't show you on this chart. 

The most impressive airplane ever, I believe, was designed only a dozen years after the first operational jet.

You know, a good example, of course, is the DARPA net.

Computers were used for artillery first, then IRS.

But when we got it, now you have all the level of activity, all the benefit from it.

This is a picture here taken from SpaceShipOne.

This is a picture here taken from orbit.

Our goal is to make it so that you can see this picture and really enjoy that.

We know how to do it for sub-orbital flying now, do it safe enough -- at least as safe as the early airlines -- so that can be done.

And I think I want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company. 

Well, first of all, what's going to happen next?

The first industry will be a high volume, a lot of players.

Because the moon doesn't have an atmosphere -- you can do an elliptical orbit and miss it by 10 feet if you want.

Oh, it's going to be so much fun. 

But what happened, the fact that we had this big industry, big development, big improvement and capability and so on, and they get out there in enough homes -- we were ripe for a new invention.

So fun is defendable. 

It went a whole life cycle without competition, took out of service.

But something is out there to inspire our kids now.

And I'm talking about if you've got a baby now, or if you've got a 10-year-old now.

What's out there is there's something really interesting going to happen here.

Sputnik wasn't a technical loss, but it was a prestige loss.

And then we flew Alan Shepherd weeks after Gagarin, not months or decades, or whatever.

Well, again, what's interesting here is we've lost to the Russians on the first couple of milestones already.

100 million bucks -- hey, I can go to the moon.

But, you know, would you have thought back in the '60s, when the space race was going on, that the first commercial capitalist-like thing to do to buy a ticket to go to the moon would be in Russian hardware?

But anyway, I think we need to beat them again. 

The Russians actually flew a supersonic transport before the Concorde.

And then they flew a few cargo flights, and took it out of service.

I think you kind of see the same kind of parallel when the commercial stuff is offered. 

OK, we'll talk just a little bit about commercial development for human space flight.

But NASA is developing the space liner, always has, and runs the only space line, OK. And we've shied away from it because we're afraid of it.

