On May 11th last year, I stood alone at the North geographic Pole.

I was the only human being in an area one-and-a-half times the size of America, five-and-a-half thousand square miles.

It's a journey that is right at the limit of human capability.

I skied the equivalent of 31 marathons back to back.

(Laughter) What we're going to try and do today, in the 16 and a bit minutes I've got left, is to try and answer three questions.

It all started back in 2001.

My first expedition was with a guy called Pen Hadow -- enormously experienced chap.

This was like my polar apprenticeship.

We were trying to ski from this group of islands up here, Severnaya Zemlya, to the North Pole.

And the thing that fascinates me about the North Pole, geographic North Pole, is that it's slap bang in the middle of the sea.

This is about as good as maps get, and to reach it you've got to ski literally over the frozen crust, the floating skin of ice on the Artic Ocean.

Some very unusual weather conditions, very difficult ice conditions.

We had decidedly low-tech communications.

We couldn't afford a satellite phone, so we had HF radio.

You can see two ski poles sticking out of the roof of the tent.

I was a failure. 

The one goal, the one dream I'd had for as long as I could remember -- I hadn't even come close.

And skiing along that first trip, I had two imaginary video clips that I'd replay over and over again in my mind when the going got tough, just to keep my motivation going.

And of course, neither of these things happened.

We didn't get to the Pole, and we didn't have any money to pay anyone to do the PR, so no one had heard of this expedition. 

I was physically exhausted, mentally an absolute wreck, considered myself a failure.

In a huge amount of debt personally to this expedition, and lying on my mum's sofa, day in day out, watching daytime TV.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Very famous, very accomplished Italian mountaineer, Reinhold Messner, tried it in 1995, and he was rescued after a week.

He described this expedition as 10 times as dangerous as Everest.

This meant everything from perfecting the sawn-off, sub-two-gram toothbrush, to working with one of the world's leading nutritionists in developing a completely new, revolutionary nutritional strategy from scratch: 6,000 calories a day. 

Our cameraman, who it turned out was a pretty nervous flier at the best of times, actually asked the pilot, before we got on the plane, how long this flight would take, and the pilot -- Russian pilot -- completely deadpan, replied, "Six hours -- if we live."

(Laughter) It was supposed to be an overnight stay.

(Laughter) It was supposed to be an overnight stay.

And I don't know if words will ever quite do that moment justice.

All I could think about was running back up to the door, banging on the door, and saying, "Look guys, I haven't quite thought this through."

(Laughter) To make things worse, you can just see the white dot up at the top right hand side of the screen; that's a full moon. 

(Laughter) To make things worse, you can just see the white dot up at the top right hand side of the screen; that's a full moon. 

(Laughter) To make things worse, you can just see the white dot up at the top right hand side of the screen; that's a full moon. 

I was, you can see there, pulling two sledges.

Grand total in all, 95 days of food and fuel, 180 kilos -- that's almost exactly 400 pounds.

Literally scrambling through what's called pressure ice -- the ice had been smashed up under the pressure of the currents of the ocean, the wind and the tides.

I was skiing into headwinds for nine out of the 10 weeks I was alone last year, and I was drifting backwards most of the time.

My record was minus 2.5 miles.

I got up in the morning, took the tent down, skied north for seven-and-a-half hours, put the tent up, and I was two and a half miles further back than when I'd started.

I literally couldn't keep up with the drift of the ice. 

(Video): So it's day 22.

I'm lying in the tent, getting ready to go.

This was my little bit of bio-mimicry.

Polar bears on the Artic Ocean move in dead straight lines.

If they come to water, they'll climb in, swim across it.

So we had a dry suit developed -- I worked with a team in Norway -- based on a sort of survival suit -- I suppose, that helicopter pilots would wear -- that I could climb into.

And this meant I could ski over very thin ice, and if I fell through, it wasn't the end of the world.

It also meant, if the worst came to the worst, I could actually jump in and swim across and drag the sledge over after me.

Some pretty radical technology, a radical approach --but it worked perfectly. 

Another exciting thing we did last year was with communications technology.

So, kind of a weird combination of high-tech and low-tech. 

I got to the Pole on the 11th of May.

It took me 68 days to get there from Russia, and there is nothing there.

(Laughter).

(Laughter).

(Laughter).

Stick a flag there, leave it there, pretty soon it will drift off, usually towards Canada or Greenland.

The only proof I've got that I was there is a blurry photo of my GPS, the little satellite navigation gadget.

You can just see -- there's a nine and a string of zeros here.

And I got three voicemails.

The entire planet is rotating beneath my feet.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I skied on for a week past the Pole.

I wanted to get as close to Canada as I could before conditions just got too dangerous to continue.

This was the last day I had on the ice.

He threw his cigarette out as he got on the front, and I climbed in the back.

(Laughter) Taxied up and down the runway a few times, just to flatten it out a bit, and he said, "Right, I'm going to -- I'm going to give it a go."

(Laughter) And only from the air did I see the big picture.

Of course, when you're on the ice, you only ever see one obstacle at a time, whether it's a pressure ridge or there's a bit of water.

There's a cafe and there's a tourist shop.

And it's also about potential, on a personal level.

This, for me, is a chance to explore the limits -- really push the limits of my own potential, see how far they stretch.

That's as close as I can come to summing that up. 

The next question is, how do you answer the call of nature at minus 40?

What's next: Antarctica.

It's the coldest, highest, windiest and driest continent on Earth.

Late 1911, early 1912, there was a race to be the first to the South Pole: the heart of the Antarctic continent.

And they turned around, headed back to the coast, and all five of them died on the return journey.

Since then, no one has ever skied -- this was 93 years ago -- since then, no one has ever skied from the coast of Antarctica to the Pole and back.

Two of us are doing it.

That's pretty much it. 

(Laughter) (Applause) I think if I've learned anything, it's this: that no one else is the authority on your potential.

Thank you very much. 

