Video: Narrator: An event seen from one point of view gives one impression.

Seen from another point of view, it gives quite a different impression.

But it's only when you get the whole picture you can fully understand what's going on. 

Sasha Vucinic: It's a great clip, isn't it?

So I thought that it will be good to start with it.

And also start with a little bit of statistics.

So they're deprived of understanding their reality.

That is just to understand how big and important this problem is.

Now those of you who are lucky enough to live in those societies that represent 17 percent, I think should enjoy it until it lasts.

You know, Sunday morning, you flick the paper, get your cappuccino.

Enjoy it while it lasts.

My story starts -- the story I want to share -- starts in 1991.

At that time I was running B92, the only independent, for that matter the only electronic media, in the country.

And I guess we were sharing -- we had that regular life of the only independent media in the country, operating in hostile environment, where government really wants to make your life miserable.

And there are different ways.

And you have a problem making ends meet. 

We were sitting over there with a country in a downfall, in a slow-motion downfall.

And we all had all of that on tapes.

It was still 1991.

He was running a media systems organization which is still in business, the gentleman is still in business.

And what did I know at that time about media systems?

I would think media systems were organizations, which means they should help you.

Because I thought, I still maintain, that serious and independent media companies are great business.

And I thought that B92 will survive and be a great company once Milosevic is gone, which turned out to be true.

It's now probably either the biggest or the second biggest media company in the country.

And I thought that the only thing that we needed at that time was 1,000,000-dollar loan to take us through those hard times. 

To make a long story short, the gentleman comes into the office, great suit and tie.

I gave him what I thought was a brilliant explanation of the political situation and explained how hard and difficult the war will be.

Actually, I underestimated the atrocities, I have to admit.

Anyway, after that whole, big, long explanation, the only question he had for me -- and this is not a joke -- is, are we paying royalties after we broadcast music of Michael Jackson?

That was really the only question he had.

So I thought that that's actually my problem.

Now we go from here, fast forward to 1995. 

And basically what I was saying is very simple.

It's business anywhere.

Media business, or any other business, it needs to be capitalized.

And what these guys need, actually, is access to capital.

See that it will not work.

He said, I'll give you a rope to hang yourself.

(Laughter) I knew two things after that meeting.

First, under no circumstances I want to hang myself.

And second, that I have no idea how to make it work.

So I had absolutely no idea how that could actually work.

Had the wrong idea; I thought that we can be a bank.

You see banks -- I don't know if there are any bankers over here; I apologize in advance -- but it's the best job in the world.

You know, you find somebody who is respectable and has a lot of money.

(Laughter) So here we are having our first client, brilliant.

First independent newspaper in Slovakia.

The government cutting them off from all the printing facilities in Bratislava.

So here's the daily newspaper that has to be printed 400 kilometers away from the capital.

It's a kind of very nice, sophisticated way how to economically strangle a daily newspaper.

They come to us with a request for a loan.

They want to -- the only way for them to survive is to get a printing press.

And we said, that's fine; let's meet; you'll bring us your business plan, which eventually they did. 

But however you put it, you know, the numbers do not make any sense.

And that's the best they could do.

We were the best that they could do.

So that is how we understood what our method is.

Lately we are going wild, charging seven percent from time to time.

We do it in 17 countries of the developing world.

97 percent of all the scheduled repayments came back to us on time.

What do we typically finance?

We finance anything that a media company would need, from printing presses to transmitters.

What is most important is we do it either in form of loans, equities, lease -- whatever is appropriate for, you know, supporting anybody.

That is a "Who is Who" list.

You see we started working in Eastern and Central Europe, and moved to Russia.

Our first loan in Russia was in Chelyabinsk.

I'll bet half of you have never heard of that place.

In the south of Russia there's a guy called Boris Nikolayevich Kirshin, who is running an independent newspaper there.

Anyway, he's running independent newspaper there.

After two years working with us, he becomes the most respected newspaper in that small place.

Six months later the newspaper was closed.

Luckily, we had enough time to help Boris Nikolayevich take all the assets out of that company and bring him into a new one, to get all the subscription lists, rehire staff.

So what the governor got was an empty shell.

But that is what happens if you're in business of independent media, and if you are a banker for independent media.

So it sounds like a great story. 

Somewhere down the road we opened a media management center.

We started our media lab, sounds like a real great story.

But there is a second angle to that.

40 million dollars over 10 years spread over 17 countries.

That is not too much, is it?

It's actually just a drop in the sea.

And it's why it was invented.

So from that perspective, what we did is just really one drop in the sea of that need that we can identify.

Now ours is just one story. 

I'm sure that in this room there are, like, 15 other wonderful stories of nonprofits doing spectacular work.

Here is where the problem is, and I'll explain to you as well as I can what the problem is.

And it's called fundraising.

Now that is how difficult it is to match people from this side of the room with people of that side of the room.

So we thought that some kind of a big idea is needed to reform, to totally rethink fundraising.

And we came up with this idea of issuing bonds, press freedom bonds.

We've decided to do it this fall; we will issue them, probably in denominations of 1,000 dollars.

I don't want to advertise them too much; that's not the point.

But the point is, if we ever survive to actually issue them, find enough investors that this can be considered a success, there's nothing stopping the next organization to start to issue bonds next spring.

And those can be environmental bonds.

And then two weeks later, Iqbal Quadir can issue his electricity in Bangladesh bonds.

And before you know it, any social cause can be actually financed in this way. 

But you can actually bring it to Europe, too.

You can bring it to Asia.

You can, once you have all of those different points, you can make it easy for investors.

Put all of those bonds at one place and they sit down and click.

Once you have more than 10 of them you have to develop some kind of a matrix.

What do investors get?

On one side financial, on the other side social.

Now take it to the last step.

Thank you. 

