In 2008, Burhan Hassan, age 17, boarded a flight from Minneapolis to the Horn of Africa.

And while Burhan was the youngest recruit, he was not alone.

Al-Shabaab managed to recruit over two dozen young men in their late teens and early 20s with a heavy presence on social media platforms like Facebook.

With the Internet and other technologies, they've changed our everyday lives, but they've also changed recruitment, radicalization and the front lines of conflict today. 

What about the links connecting Twitter, Google and protesters fighting for democracy?

Today, conflict is essentially borderless.

If there are bounds to conflict today, they're bound by digital, not physical geography.

And under all this is a vacuum of power where non-state actors, individuals and private organizations have the advantage over slow, outdated military and intelligence agencies.

And this is because, in the digital age of conflict, there exists a feedback loop where new technologies, platforms like the ones I mentioned, and more disruptive ones, can be adapted, learned, and deployed by individuals and organizations faster than governments can react. 

In 2007, there was absolutely no mention of cyber security.

In 2012, it crept up, still behind things like terrorism and proliferation.

In 2013, it became the top threat, in 2014 and for the foreseeable future. 

What things like that show us is that there is a fundamental inability today on the part of governments to adapt and learn in digital conflict, where conflict can be immaterial, borderless, often wholly untraceable.

And conflict isn't just online to offline, as we see with terrorist radicalization, but it goes the other way as well. 

What an individual hacker or a small group of anonymous individuals did was enter those social media conversations that so many of us took part in.

#JeSuisCharlie.

On Facebook, on Twitter, on Google, all sorts of places where millions of people, myself included, were talking about the events and saw images like this, the emotional, poignant image of a baby with "Je suis Charlie" on its wrist.

And this turned into a weapon.

What the hackers did was weaponize this image, where unsuspecting victims, like all of us in those conversations, saw this image, downloaded it but it was embedded with malware.

And so when you downloaded this image, it hacked your system.

It took six days to deploy a global malware campaign.

We see online radicalization of teens, who can then be deployed globally for offline terrorist attacks. 

So in another case, Anonymous vs. Los Zetas.

They severed her head, put it on top of her computer with a similar note.

But what was powerful about this was that anonymous individuals, not federal policia, not military, not politicians, could strike fear deep into the heart of one of the most powerful, violent organizations in the world.

And so we live in an era that lacks the clarity of the past in conflict, in who we're fighting, in the motivations behind attacks, in the tools and techniques used, and how quickly they evolve.

And the question still remains: what can individuals, organizations and governments do? 

Those people in relationships that bought over teens online, we can do that with peer-to-peer security.

Individuals have more power than ever before to affect national and international security.

They have an advantage to act across more borders, more effectively and more rapidly than governments can, and there's a set of real incentives there.

By banning encryption in favor of mass surveillance and mass hacking, sure, GCHQ and the NSA can spy on you.

But that doesn't mean that they're the only ones that can.

Capabilities are cheap, even free.

Technical ability is rising around the world, and individuals and small groups have the advantage.

So today it might just be the NSA and GCHQ, but who's to say that the Chinese can't find that backdoor?

Or in another generation, some kid in his basement in Estonia? 

And so I would say that it's not what governments can do, it's that they can't.

Governments today need to give up power and control in order to help make us more secure.

