Twelve years ago, I picked up a camera for the first time to film the olive harvest in a Palestinian village in the West Bank.

I thought I was there to make a single documentary and would then move on to some other part of the world.

But something kept bringing me back. 

Now, usually, when international audiences hear about that part of the world, they often just want that conflict to go away.

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is bad, and we wish it could just disappear.

We feel much the same way about other conflicts around the world.

But every time we turn our attention to the news, it seems like one more country has gone up in flames.

After witnessing several different kinds of struggles in the Middle East, I started noticing some patterns on the more successful ones.

I wondered whether these variables held across cases, and if they did, what lessons we could glean for waging constructive conflict, in Palestine, Israel and elsewhere. 

There is some science about this.

In a study of 323 major political conflicts from 1900 to 2006, Maria Stephan and Erica Chenoweth found that nonviolent campaigns were almost 100 percent more likely to lead to success than violent campaigns.

And, critically, they typically lead to more peaceful and democratic societies.

In other words, nonviolent resistance is a more effective and constructive way of waging conflict. 

But if that's such an easy choice, why don't more groups use it?

Political scientist Victor Asal and colleagues have looked at several factors that shape a political group's choice of tactics.

The greatest predictor of a movement's decision to adopt nonviolence is its ideology regarding the role of women in public life. 

When a movement includes in its discourse language around gender equality, it increases dramatically the chances it will adopt nonviolence, and thus, the likelihood it will succeed. 

The research squared up with my own documentation of political organizing in Israel and Palestine.

I've noticed that movements which welcome women into leadership positions, such as the one I documented in a village called Budrus, were much more likely to achieve their goals.

This village was under a real threat of being wiped off the map when Israel started building the separation barrier.

The proposed route would require the destruction of this community's olive groves, their cemeteries and would ultimately close the village from all sides.

Through inspired local leadership, they launched a nonviolent resistance campaign to stop that from happening.

The odds were massively stacked against them.

In that moment, the community of Budrus realized what was possible if they welcomed and encouraged women to participate in public life.

And so it was that the women of Budrus went to the front lines day after day, using their creativity and acumen to overcome multiple obstacles they faced in a 10-month unarmed struggle.

And as you can probably tell at this point, they win at the end. 

The separation barrier was changed completely to the internationally recognized green line, and the women of Budrus came to be known across the West Bank for their indomitable energy. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

The first one is that I don't believe women are inherently or essentially more peaceful than men.

But I do believe that in today's world, women experience power differently.

Having had to navigate being in the less powerful position in multiple aspects of their lives, women are often more adept at how to surreptitiously pressure for change against large, powerful actors.

The term "manipulative," often charged against women in a derogatory way, reflects a reality in which women have often had to find ways other than direct confrontation to achieve their goals.

And finding alternatives to direct confrontation is at the core of nonviolent resistance. 

Now to the second potential misunderstanding.

If we were to do that, they would be more successful.

They do not need this kind of help.

And we end up with a narrative that not only erases women from the struggles in the region but often misrepresents the struggles themselves. 

The news coverage at the time made it seem like stones, Molotov cocktails and burning tires were the only activities taking place in the Intifada.

They did this through networks of popular committees, and their use of direct action and communal self-help projects challenged Israel's very ability to continue ruling the West Bank and Gaza.

According to the Israeli Army itself, 97 percent of activities during the First Intifada were unarmed. 

And here's another thing that is not part of our narrative about that time.

Despite their extraordinary achievements, none of these women have made it into our narrative of the First Intifada. 

We do this in other parts of the globe, too.

In our history books, for instance, and in our collective consciousness, men are the public faces and spokespersons for the 1960s struggle for racial justice in the United States.

But women were also a critical driving force, mobilizing, organizing, taking to the streets.

How many of us think of Septima Clark when we think of the United States Civil Rights era?

Remarkably few.

But she played a crucial role in every phase of the struggle, particularly by emphasizing literacy and education.

This is not about getting credit.

It's more profound than that.

The stories we tell about a movement like the First Intifada or the United States Civil Rights era matter deeply and have a critical influence in the choices Palestinians, Americans and people around the world will make next time they encounter an injustice and develop the courage to confront it.

If we do not lift up the women who played critical roles in these struggles, we fail to offer up role models to future generations.

Without role models, it becomes harder for women to take up their rightful space in public life.

And as we saw earlier, one of the most critical variables in determining whether a movement will be successful or not is a movement's ideology regarding the role of women in public life. 

This is a question of whether we're moving towards more democratic and peaceful societies.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

