But I want to look at it a little bit from the short-term and the long-term perspective.

AG: Well, I think, basically, what triggered this huge increase was the Syrian refugee group.

The long-term ones, in relation to Syrians, is that hope is less and less clear for people.

Only half of the children go to school, which means that people are living very badly.

Not only are they refugees, out of home, not only have they suffered what they have suffered, but they are living in very, very dramatic conditions. 

And then the trigger was when all of a sudden, international aid decreased.

The World Food Programme was forced, for lack of resources, to cut by 30 percent food support to the Syrian refugees.

BG: But I think what surprised many people is it's not only sudden, but it wasn't supposed to be sudden.

The war in Syria has been happening for five years.

Millions of refugees are in camps and villages and towns around Syria.

You talk about one million people.

So, the question is: is this something that could have been managed if -- not mentioning the most important thing, which would have been addressing the root causes, but forgetting about root causes for now, looking at the phenomenon as it is -- if Europe were able to come together in solidarity to create an adequate reception capacity of entry points?

BG: It's already breaking down. 

AG: My country is supposed to receive four thousand.

Four thousand in Portugal means nothing.

They are the three countries that are, in the end, receiving the refugees.

The rest of Europe is looking without doing much. 

You say 550 million versus one million is not much, but realistically, how many people can Europe take? 

And it's not only about refugees; there are many other areas.

And let's be honest, this is the moment in which we need more Europe instead of less Europe.

But as the public less and less believes in European institutions, it is also each time more difficult to convince the public that we need more Europe to solve these problems. 

BG: We seem to be at the point where the numbers turn into political shifts, particularly domestically.

AG: But, if I may, on these: I mean, what does a European see at home in a village where there are no migrants?

What a European sees is, on television, every single day, a few months ago, opening the news every single day, a crowd coming, uncontrolled, moving from border to border, and the images on television were of hundreds or thousands of people moving.

And so their idea was, "They are coming to my village."

How do you imagine these people reacting? 

I'm not asking for the same to happen in Europe, for all European villages to have more refugees than inhabitants.

What I am asking is for Europe to do the job properly, and to be able to organize itself to receive people as other countries in the world were forced to do in the past. 

AG: Well, 86 percent of the refugees in the world are in the developing world.

And if you look at countries like Ethiopia -- Ethiopia has received more than 600,000 refugees.

They have Eritreans.

Now we see some problems with the Syrian situation, as the Syrian situation evolved into also a major security crisis, but the truth is that for a large period, all borders in the Middle East were open.

The truth is that for Afghans, the borders of Pakistan and Iran were open for, at the time, six million Afghans that came.

So I would say that even today, the trend in the developing world has been for borders to be open.

That reflects the general underfunding of the organizations working on these issues.

Now that the world seems to have woken up, are you getting more funding and more support, or it's still the same? 

AG: We are getting more support.

I would say that we are coming close to the levels of last year.

We were much worse during the summer.

But that is clearly insufficient to address the needs of the people and address the needs of the countries that are supporting the people.

And here we have a basic review of the criteria, the objectives, the priorities of development cooperation that is required. 

For instance, Lebanon and Jordan are middle-income countries.

Because they are middle-income countries, they cannot receive soft loans or grants from the World Bank.

They have millions of refugees there, and to be honest, they are pillars of stability in the region, with all the difficulties they face, and the first line of defense of our collective security.

So it doesn't make sense that these countries are not a first priority in development cooperation policies.

And they are not.

And, of course, if you look at today's situation of the indicators in these countries, it is clear that, especially their poor groups of the population, are living worse and worse because of the crisis they are facing. 

BG: Who should be providing this support?

Country by country, international organizations, the European Union?

Who should be coming up with this support? 

AG: We need to join all efforts.

BG: I would like your comment on something that was in newspapers this morning.

It is a statement made by the current front-runner for the Republican nomination for US President, Donald Trump.

Yesterday, he said this. 

AG: Well, it's not only Donald Trump.

We have seen several people around the world with political responsibility saying, for instance, that Muslims refugees should not be received.

And the reason why they say this is because they think that by doing or saying this, they are protecting the security of their countries.

BG: Have the recent attacks in Paris and the reactions to them made your job more difficult? 

AG: Undoubtedly. 

BG: In what sense? 

And I must say, I am convinced that the passport that appeared, I believe, was put by the person who has blown -- 

BG: -- himself up, yeah. 

And I think that is part of Daesh's strategy to make Europe react, closing its doors to Muslim refugees and having an hostility towards Muslims inside Europe, exactly to facilitate Daesh's work. 

And my deep belief is that it was not the refugee movement that triggered terrorism.

For me it is clear. 

For me it is clear that all societies will be multiethnic, multicultural, multi-religious in the future.

And Europe, to a large extent, failed in that investment in the past few decades. 

If you look back at 2005, when you entered that office for the first time, what do you see? 

AG: Well, look: In 2005, we were helping one million people go back home in safety and dignity, because conflicts had ended.

Last year, we helped 124,000.

In 2005, we had about 38 million people displaced by conflict in the world.

Today, we have more than 60 million.

At that time, we had had, recently, some conflicts that were solved.

It is clear that the world today is much more dangerous than it was.

It is clear that the capacity of the international community to prevent conflicts and to timely solve them, is, unfortunately, much worse than what it was 10 years ago.

BG: It's a tradition in American politics that when a President leaves the Oval Office for the last time, he leaves a handwritten note on the desk for his successor that walks in a couple of hours later.

If you had to write such a note to your successor, Filippo Grandi, what would you write? 

AG: Well, I don't think I would write any message.

So that, I will not do.

If I had to say something to him, it would be, "Be yourself, and do your best."

BG: Commissioner, thank you for the job you do.

Thank you for coming to TED. 

