We're at a tipping point in human history, a species poised between gaining the stars and losing the planet we call home. 

Kepler's data reveals planets' sizes as well as their distance from their parent star.

In turn, this provides clues as to whether these planets that we discover might be habitable or not. 

Unfortunately, at the same time as we're discovering this treasure trove of potentially habitable worlds, our own planet is sagging under the weight of humanity.

2014 was the hottest year on record.

Glaciers and sea ice that have been with us for millennia are now disappearing in a matter of decades.

These planetary-scale environmental changes that we have set in motion are rapidly outpacing our ability to alter their course. 

You could say that I look for choice alien real estate. 

Consider our neighbor, Mars.

Indeed, it's possible that Mars was habitable in the past, and in part, this is why we study Mars so much.

Private spaceflight companies now offer not just a short trip to near space but the tantalizing possibility of living our lives on Mars. 

But though these Martian vistas resemble the deserts of our own home world, places that are tied in our imagination to ideas about pioneering and frontiers, compared to Earth Mars is a pretty terrible place to live.

As much as I love interplanetary exploration, I deeply disagree with this idea.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

So where are they?

Well, one possible solution to Fermi's paradox is that, as civilizations become technologically advanced enough to consider living amongst the stars, they lose sight of how important it is to safeguard the home worlds that fostered that advancement to begin with.

It is hubris to believe that interplanetary colonization alone will save us from ourselves, but planetary preservation and interplanetary exploration can work together. 

If we truly believe in our ability to bend the hostile environments of Mars for human habitation, then we should be able to surmount the far easier task of preserving the habitability of the Earth. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

