That's largely true.

Actually, I just needed to have a bit of help to come up to the stage. 

But there is also a lot that I can do.

This is me rock climbing for the first time.

Actually, I love sports and I can play many sports, like swimming, skiing, skating, scuba diving, running and so on.

I want to be independent. 

I lost my sight at the age of 14 in a swimming pool accident.

The hardest thing for me was losing my independence.

Things that until then seemed simple became almost impossible to do alone.

For example, one of my challenges was textbooks.

Back then, there were no personal computers, no Internet, no smartphones.

Can you imagine?

(Laughter) I think they tried to stay away from me.

I don't blame them.

I really wanted to be freed from relying on someone.

That became my strong desire to ignite innovation. 

Jump ahead to the mid-1980s.

I got to know cutting-edge technologies and I thought to myself, how come there is no computer technology to create books in Braille?

These amazing technologies must be able to also help people with limitations like myself.

That's the moment my innovation journey began. 

I started developing digital book technologies, such as a digital Braille editor, digital Braille dictionary and a digital Braille library network.

Today, every student who is visually impaired can read textbooks, by using personal computers and mobile devices, in Braille or in voice.

This may not surprise you, since everyone now has digital books in their tablets in 2015.

But Braille went digital many years before digital books, already in the late 1980s, almost 30 years ago.

Strong and specific needs of the blind people made this opportunity to create digital books way back then.

Now I'm going to give you another example from my own life.

In the '90s, people around me started talking about the Internet and web browsing.

I remember the first time I went on the web.

I was astonished.

When I developed the Home Page Reader, I got many comments from users.

One that I strongly remember said, "For me, the Internet is a small window to the world."

It was a revolutionary moment for the blind.

The cyber world became accessible, and this technology that we created for the blind has many uses, way beyond what I imagined.

It can help drivers listen to their emails or it can help you listen to a recipe while cooking. 

For example, when I approached the stage just now, I needed assistance.

My goal is to come up here independently.

OK, now let me show you the latest technologies.

This is a smartphone app that we are working on. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

So now the app navigates me by analyzing beacon signals and smartphone sensors and permits me to move around indoor and outdoor environments all by myself.

But the computer vision part that showed who is approaching, in which mood -- we are still working on that part.

And recognizing facial expressions is very important for me to be social. 

So now the fusions of technologies are ready to help me see the real world.

We call this cognitive assistance.

It understands our surrounding world and whispers to me in voice or sends a vibration to my fingers.

It will be amazing if I can find you on the street before you notice me.

It will become my best buddy, and yours. 

So, this really is a great challenge.

Just this morning, we announced the open-source fundamental technologies you just saw in the video. 

The frontier is the real world.

The blind community is exploring this technical frontier and the pathfinder.

