What does a working mother look like?

If you ask the Internet, this is what you'll be told.

Never mind that this is what you'll actually produce if you attempt to work at a computer with a baby on your lap. 

That theme is amazing natural lighting, which, as we all know, is the hallmark of every American workplace. 

There are thousands of images like these.

Just put the term "working mother" into any Google image search engine, stock photo site.

But it's not fine.

As a country, we are sending millions of women back to work every year, incredibly and kind of horrifically soon after they give birth.

I got so annoyed and obsessed with the unreality of these images, which look nothing like my life, that I recently decided to shoot and star in a parody series of stock photos that I hoped the world would start to use just showing the really awkward reality of going back to work when your baby's food source is attached to your body.

I'm just going to show you two of them. 

And yet, for many new working mothers, this is the only place during the day that they can find to make food for their newborn babies. 

I put these things, a whole dozen of them, into the world.

I wanted to make a point.

I'm going to share 10 of their stories with you today.

Here's the first.

Most of the stories that these women, total strangers, send to me now, are not actually even about breastfeeding. 

Choice number two says that women are choosing to have babies, so women alone should bear the consequences of those choices.

The babies that women, many of them working women, are having today, will one day fill our workforce, protect our shores, make up our tax base.

Our procreation on a national scale is not optional.

88 percent.

88 percent of working mothers will not get one minute of paid leave after they have a baby. 

These corporate stock photos hide another reality, another layer.

We just couldn't manage any longer.

Physically it was hard, but emotionally it was worse.

I struggled for months being away from my son."

23 percent of new working mothers in America will be back on the job within two weeks of giving birth. 

Of course, this isn't just a scenario with economic and physical implications.

Childbirth is, and always will be, an enormous psychological event. 

So those are the mothers.

What of the babies?

As a country, do we care about the millions of babies born every year to working mothers?

We tell them we'll see them in 18 years, and getting there is kind of on them.

But those things are hidden behind images like this. 

America has a message for new mothers who work and for their babies.

That narrative of gratitude runs through a lot of the stories I hear. 

There's a little club of countries in the world that offer no national paid leave to new mothers.

Care to guess who they are?

The first eight make up eight million in total population.

They are Papua New Guinea, Suriname and the tiny island nations of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Palau and Tonga.

Number nine is the United States of America, with 320 million people.

Oh, that's it.

That's the end of the list.

Remember that 88 percent?

Those middle- and low-income women are not going to participate in that.

We know that there are staggering economic, financial, physical and emotional costs to this approach.

We pass them on anyway. 

All of this is to America's shame.

But it's also to America's risk.

The birthrate needed in America to keep the population stable is 2.1 live births per woman.

In America today, we are at 1.86.

It is long since time for the most powerful country on Earth to offer national paid leave to the people doing the work of the future of this country and to the babies who represent that future.

Childbirth is a public good.

This leave should be state-subsidized.

It should have no exceptions for small businesses, length of employment or entrepreneurs.

It should be able to be shared between partners.

Not one more woman should have to go back to work while she is hobbling and bleeding.

Not one more family should have to drain their savings account to buy a few days of rest and recovery and bonding.

But all of us have voices.

It should not matter.

This is an American issue. 

We need to stop buying the lie that these images tell us.

We need to stop being comforted by them.

