As a lover of human anatomy, I'm so excited that we're finally putting our bodies at the center of focus.

Through practices such as preventive medicine, patient empowerment and self-monitoring -- down to now obsessing over every single step we take in a day.

All of this works to promote a healthy connection between ourselves and our bodies. 

Despite all this focus on the healthy self, general public knowledge of the anatomical self is lacking.

Many people don't know the location of their vital organs, or even how they function.

And that's because human anatomy is a difficult and time-intensive subject to learn. 

How many of you here made it through anatomy?

I, like you, spent countless hours memorizing hundreds of structures.

Something no student of anatomy could do without the help of visuals.

Because at the end of the day, whether you remember every little structure or not, these medical illustrations are what makes studying anatomy so intriguing.

In looking at them, we're actually viewing a manual of our very selves. 

But what happens when we're done studying?

These beautiful illustrations are then shut back into the pages of a medical textbook, or an app, referenced only when needed.

And for the public, medical illustrations may only be encountered passively on the walls of a doctor's office. 

From the beginnings of modern medicine, medical illustration, and therefore anatomy, have existed primarily within the realm of medical education.

Yet there's something fascinating happening right now.

Artists are breaking anatomy out of the confines of the medical world and are thrusting it into the public space.

But before I get into showing you how artists are reclaiming anatomy today, it's important to understand how art influenced anatomy in the past. 

They relied on artists to help advertise their discoveries to their peers in the public.

And this drive to not only teach but also to entertain resulted in some of the strangest anatomical illustrations. 

Anatomy was caught in a struggle between science, art and culture that lasted for over 500 years.

Artists rendered dissected cadavers as alive, posed in these humorous anatomical stripteases.

Imagine seeing that in your textbooks today.

They also showed them as very much dead -- unwillingly stripped of their skin.

Disembodied limbs were often posed in literal still lives.

And some illustrations even included pop culture references.

Including her in this illustration was akin to celebrity sponsorship today. 

By the early 20th century, the perfect balance of science and art had finally been struck with the emergence of medical illustrators.

They created a universal representation of anatomy -- something that was neither alive nor dead, that was free from those influences of artistic culture.

And this focus on no-frills accuracy was precisely for the benefit of medical education.

And this is what we get to study from today. 

But why is it that medical illustration -- both past and present -- captures our imaginations?

Now, we are innately tuned into the beauty of the human body.

And medical illustration is still art.

Nothing can elicit an emotional response -- from joy to complete disgust -- more than the human body.

And today, artists armed with that emotion, are grasping anatomy from the medical world, and are reinvigorating it through art in the most imaginative ways. 

A perfect example of this is Spanish contemporary artist Fernando Vicente.

He takes 19th century anatomical illustrations of the male body and envelops them in a female sensuality.

Artistry can also be seen in the repair and recovery of the human body.

This is an X-ray of a woman who fractured and dislocated her ankle in a roller-skating accident.

As a tribute to her trauma, she commissioned Montreal-based architect Federico Carbajal to construct a wire sculpture of her damaged lower leg.

Now, notice those bright red screws magnified in the sculpture.

These are the actual surgical screws used in reconstructing her ankle.

It's medical hardware that's been repurposed as art. 

People often ask me how I choose the art that I showcase online or feature in gallery shows.

His serious figure drawings are often layered in elements of humor.

For instance, take a look at her face.

Notice those red marks.

Michael manifests the consuming insecurity of a skin condition as these maniacal cartoon monsters annoying and out of control in the background.

By doing this, Michael downplays the common perception of anatomy so closely tied to just disease and death. 

When you were a child, did you ever wish that your toys could come to life?

Fear of anatomy and guts is a learned reaction. 

This anatomization also extends to politically and socially charged objects.

In Noah Scalin's "Anatomy of War," we see a gun dissected to reveal human organs.

But if you look closely, you'll notice that it lacks a brain.

And if you keep looking, you might also notice that Noah has so thoughtfully placed the rectum at the business end of that gun barrel. 

He bends the rules of medical illustration by inserting a very dramatic light and shadow.

And this creates a 3-D illusion that lends itself very well to painting directly on the human skin.

Danny makes it look as if a person's skin has actually been removed.

And this effect -- also cool and tattoo-like -- easily transitions into a medical illustration.

But he's doing just fine. 

Then there are artists who are extracting anatomy from both the medical world and the art world and are placing it directly on the streets.

London-based SHOK-1 paints giant X-rays of pop culture icons.

Street artists believe that art belongs to the public.

That it elicits these responses at all is due to our intimate and often changing relationship with it. 

All of the artists that I showed you here today referenced medical illustrations for their art.

Thank you. 

