Now... let's go back in time.

It's 1974.

The beginning of this performance was easy.

People would give me the glass of water to drink, they'd give me the rose.

The women would tell the men what to do.

They carried me around and put me on the table, and put the knife between my legs.

And somebody took the pistol and bullet and put it against my temple.

And another person took the pistol and they started a fight. 

I was a mess.

They could not confront myself, with myself as a normal human being.

And then -- what happened is I went to the hotel, it was at two in the morning.

Alright -- please take off your blindfolds. 

Welcome to the performance world.

First of all, let's explain what the performance is.

In the performance, the blood is the material, and the razor blade or knife is the tool.

We're afraid of suffering, we're afraid of pain, we're afraid of mortality.

So what I'm doing -- I'm staging these kinds of fears in front of the audience.

I'm using your energy, and with this energy I can go and push my body as far as I can.

If I can do this for myself, you can do it for you. 

You know the knife and the pistols and the bullets, I exchange into love and trust.

It was the mountains, it was difficult.

It was climbing, it was ruins.

And then our relationship stopped. 

And then our relationship stopped. 

So here I am washing two and a half thousand dead, big, bloody cow bones.

You can't wash the blood, you never can wash shame off the wars.

And I understood that I have a very strong mission, that I have to communicate this experience to everybody. 

And I understood that I have a very strong mission, that I have to communicate this experience to everybody. 

Because thinking about immateriality, performance is time-based art.

It's not like a painting.

You have the painting on the wall, the next day it's there.

That's my subjective way. 

If you want to get experience, you have to give me your time.

And then after you finish, you get a certificate of accomplishment, so get home and frame it if you want. 

And then after you finish, you get a certificate of accomplishment, so get home and frame it if you want. 

This is orientation hall.

The public comes in, and the first thing you have to do is dress in lab coats.

It's this importance of stepping from being just a viewer into experimenter.

We are losing the time we have for ourselves.

This is an institute to actually give you back this time. 

So what you do here, first you start slow walking, you start slowing down.

You're going back to simplicity.

Then after this, you go to crystal chamber.

It can be music, it can be opera, it can be a theater piece, it can be film, it can be video dance.

You go to the long duration chairs because now you are comfortable.

And if you fall asleep, which is very possible because it's been a long day, you're going to be transported to the parking lot. 

And if you fall asleep, which is very possible because it's been a long day, you're going to be transported to the parking lot. 

In sleeping, you're still receiving art.

So this institute right now is virtual.

Counting rice will be another thing. 

You know, if you count rice you can make life, too.

How to count rice for six hours?

It's incredibly important.

You have to make the change on yourself.

Because the only way to change consciousness and to change the world around us, is to start with yourself.

But what we do on the personal level -- what is our contribution to this whole thing? 

Can you turn to your neighbor, the one you don't know, and look at them for two full minutes in their eyes, right now? 

And just look a complete stranger in your eyes, in his eyes. 

And just look a complete stranger in your eyes, in his eyes. 

(Silence) Thank you for trusting me. 

