Your company launches a search for an open position.

The applications start rolling in, and the qualified candidates are identified.

Now the choosing begins.

My colleagues and I created very official terms to describe two distinct categories of candidates.

You just heard a human resources director refer to people as Silver Spoons and Scrappers -- 

let me explain. 

A resume tells a story.

And over the years, I've learned something about people whose experiences read like a patchwork quilt, that makes me stop and fully consider them before tossing their resumes away.

At the very least, the Scrapper deserves an interview. 

But if your whole life has been engineered toward success, how will you handle the tough times?

Eventually, he quit.

But on the flip side, what happens when your whole life is destined for failure and you actually succeed? 

I want to urge you to interview the Scrapper.

I know a lot about this because I am a Scrapper.

Before I was born, my father was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, and he couldn't hold a job in spite of his brilliance.

Our lives were one part "Cuckoo's Nest," one part "Awakenings" and one part "A Beautiful Mind."

I'm the fourth of five children raised by a single mother in a rough neighborhood in Brooklyn, New York.

As I met successful business people and read profiles of high-powered leaders, I noticed some commonality. 

A remarkable and counterintuitive phenomenon has been discovered, which scientists call Post Traumatic Growth. 

One-third. 

Take this resume.

Would you hire this guy?

His name is Steve Jobs. 

In a study of the world's most highly successful entrepreneurs, it turns out a disproportionate number have dyslexia.

In the US, 35 percent of the entrepreneurs studied had dyslexia.

They don't think they are who they are in spite of adversity, they know they are who they are because of adversity.

They embrace their trauma and hardships as key elements of who they've become, and know that without those experiences, they might not have developed the muscle and grit required to become successful. 

One of my colleagues had his life completely upended as a result of the Chinese Cultural Revolution in 1966.

He had three months to learn the entire curriculum of middle and high school.

He did it, he succeeded.

His commitment to his education was unwavering, and he never lost hope.

Today, he holds a master's degree, and his daughters each have degrees from Cornell and Harvard. 

Scrappers are propelled by the belief that the only person you have full control over is yourself.

When things don't turn out well, Scrappers ask, "What can I do differently to create a better result?"

And that reminds me -- humor.

Scrappers know that humor gets you through the tough times, and laughter helps you change your perspective. 

And finally, there are relationships.

People who overcome adversity don't do it alone.

Somewhere along the way, they find people who bring out the best in them and who are invested in their success.

Having someone you can count on no matter what is essential to overcoming adversity.

I was lucky.

In my first job after college, I didn't have a car, so I carpooled across two bridges with a woman who was the president's assistant.

She watched me work and encouraged me to focus on my future and not dwell on my past.

Along the way I've met many people who've provided me brutally honest feedback, advice and mentorship.

These people don't mind that I once worked as a singing waitress to help pay for college. 

I'll leave you with one final, valuable insight.

Companies that are committed to diversity and inclusive practices tend to support Scrappers and outperform their peers.

According to DiversityInc, a study of their top 50 companies for diversity outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 25 percent. 

