Long ago in Europe, ancient people also entered these underground worlds.

You now walk the same path as these early artists.

When I'm in a cave, I often find myself wondering what drove these people to go so deep to brave dangerous and narrow passageways to leave their mark?

As we crawled forward, military-style, with the ceiling getting ever lower, we finally got to a point where the ceiling was so low that my husband and project photographer, Dylan, could no longer achieve focus on the ceiling with his DSLR camera.

So while he filmed me, I kept following the trail of red paint with a single light and a point-and-shoot camera that we kept for that type of occasion.

Half a kilometer underground. 

I mean -- me, it makes sense, right? 

But you know, this is the kind of question that I'm trying to answer with my research.

I study some of the oldest art in the world.

It was created by these early artists in Europe, between 10,000 and 40,000 years ago.

But what I'm interested in is the development of the modern mind, of the evolution of creativity, of imagination, of abstract thought, about what it means to be human.

While all species communicate in one way or another, only we humans have really taken it to another level.

Our desire and ability to share and collaborate has been a huge part of our success story.

Our modern world is based on a global network of information exchange made possible, in large part, by our ability to communicate -- in particular, using graphic or written forms of communication.

The thing is, though, that we've been building on the mental achievements of those that came before us for so long that it's easy to forget that certain abilities haven't already existed.

It's one of the things I find most fascinating about studying our deep history.

Those people didn't have the shoulders of any giants to stand on.

They were the original shoulders.

And while a surprising number of important inventions come out of that distant time, what I want to talk to you about today is the invention of graphic communication. 

Spoken and gestural are by their very nature ephemeral.

Graphic communication, on the other hand, decouples that relationship.

And with its invention, it became possible for the first time for a message to be transmitted and preserved beyond a single moment in place and time. 

Europe is one of the first places that we start to see graphic marks regularly appearing in caves, rock shelters and even a few surviving open-air sites.

But this is not the Europe we know today.

This was a world dominated by towering ice sheets, three to four kilometers high, with sweeping grass plains and frozen tundra.

This was the Ice Age. 

They provide us with a rare glimpse into the creative world and imagination of these early artists. 

But for me, it was the abstract shapes, what we call geometric signs, that drew me to study the art.

The funny this is that at most sites the geometric signs far outnumber the animal and human images.

But when I started on this back in 2007, there wasn't even a definitive list of how many shapes there were, nor was there a strong sense of whether the same ones appeared across space or time.

Before I could even get started on my questions, my first step was to compile a database of all known geometric signs from all of the rock art sites.

The problem was that while they were well documented at some sites, usually the ones with the very nice animals, there was also a large number of them where it was very vague -- there wasn't a lot of description or detail.

Some of them hadn't been visited in half a century or more.

These were the ones that I targeted for my field work. 

And it was totally worth it.

We found new, undocumented geometric signs at 75 percent of the sites we visited.

This is the level of accuracy I knew I was going to need if I wanted to start answering those larger questions. 

So let's get to those answers.

Barring a handful of outliers, there are only 32 geometric signs.

That is a very small number.

Some signs start out strong, before losing popularity and vanishing, while other signs are later inventions.

On a side note, there is surprising degree of similarity in the earliest rock art found all the way from France and Spain to Indonesia and Australia.

We might not know what they meant, but the people of the time certainly did.

The repetition of the same signs, for so long, and at so many sites tells us that the artists were making intentional choices.

If we're talking about geometric shapes, with specific, culturally recognized, agreed-upon meanings, than we could very well be looking at one of the oldest systems of graphic communication in the world. 

I'm not talking about writing yet.

So a picture of a bird would really have represented that animal.

It's only later that we start to see these pictographs become more stylized, until they almost become unrecognizable and that we also start to see more symbols being invented to represent all those other missing words in language -- things like pronouns, adverbs, adjectives. 

So knowing all this, it seems highly unlikely that the geometric signs from Ice Age Europe were truly abstract written characters.

Could some of the signs be weaponry or housing?

Or what about celestial objects like star constellations?

Some researchers have begun to ask these questions about certain signs at specific sites, but I believe the time has come to revisit this category as a whole.

The irony in all of this, of course, is that having just carefully classified all of the signs into a single category, I have a feeling that my next step will involve breaking it back apart as different types of imagery are identified and separated off. 

But it's important to remember that those early writing systems didn't come out of a vacuum.

Thank you. 

