Have you ever wondered what animals think and feel?

What is going on?

Something's going on. 

But why is the question always do they love us?

Why is it always about us?

Why are we such narcissists?

I found a different question to ask animals.

Who are you? 

There are capacities of the human mind that we tend to think are capacities only of the human mind.

But is that true?

What are other beings doing with those brains?

What are they thinking and feeling?

Is there a way to know?

I think there is a way in.

I think there are several ways in.

The first thing to remember is: our brain is inherited.

The first neurons came from jellyfish.

The vertebrates came out of the sea, and here we are.

What does that say about the minds of crayfish?

Can we tell anything about that?

Well, it turns out that if you give a crayfish a lot of little tiny electric shocks every time it tries to come out of its burrow, it will develop anxiety.

If you give the crayfish the same drug used to treat anxiety disorder in humans, it relaxes and comes out and explores.

How do we show how much we care about crayfish anxiety?

Mostly, we boil them. 

How do we celebrate the ape-like intelligence of this invertebrate?

Mostly boiled.

The moray may go into the crevice and get the fish, but the fish may bolt and the grouper may get it.

This is an ancient partnership that we have just recently found out about.

How do we celebrate that ancient partnership?

Mostly fried.

A pattern is emerging and it says a lot more about us than it does about them. 

Chimpanzees don't teach.

Killer whales teach and killer whales share food. 

And our brain has come to us through the enormity of the deep sweep of time.

Well, we can see the working of the mind in the logic of behaviors.

So these elephants, you can see, obviously, they are resting.

We've been neighbors for a very long time.

No one would mistake these elephants as being relaxed.

They're obviously very concerned about something.

What are they concerned about?

But if you record the voices of herders who carry spears and often hurt elephants in confrontations at water holes, the elephants will bunch up and run away from the hidden speaker.

They have been watching us for much longer than we have been watching them.

They know us better than we know them.

Whether we're outfitted for hiking in the hills of Africa or outfitted for diving under the sea, we are basically the same.

We are kin under the skin.

The elephant has the same skeleton, the killer whale has the same skeleton, as do we.

We recognize affection.

Consciousness is simply the thing that feels like something.

If you see, if you hear, if you feel, if you're aware of anything, you are conscious, and they are conscious. 

Empathy is the mind's ability to match moods with your companions.

It's a very useful thing.

If your companions start to move quickly, you have to feel like you need to hurry up.

We're all in a hurry now.

The oldest form of empathy is contagious fear.

If your companions suddenly startle and fly away, it does not work very well for you to say, "Jeez, I wonder why everybody just left."

I see you happy, it makes me happy. 

And then if we're motivated to act on sympathy, I call that compassion. 

Far from being the thing that makes us human, human empathy is far from perfect.

We round up empathic creatures, we kill them and we eat them.

Now, maybe you say OK, well, those are different species.

That's just predation, and humans are predators.

But we don't treat our own kind too well either.

People who seem to know only one thing about animal behavior know that you must never attribute human thoughts and emotions to other species.

That is not scientific. 

That tall-finned male is L41.

He's 38 years old.

The female right on his left side is L22.

She's 44.

They've known each other for decades.

They know exactly who they are.

Their life follows the arc of a career.

They know where they are all the time. 

This is an elephant named Philo.

He was a young male.

This is him four days later.

Humans not only can feel grief, we create an awful lot of it.

We want to carve their teeth.

Why can't we wait for them to die?

Elephants once ranged from the shores of the Mediterranean Sea all the way down to the Cape of Good Hope.

In 1980, there were vast strongholds of elephant range in Central and Eastern Africa.

And now their range is shattered into little shards.

Of course, we take much better care of our wildlife in the United States.

In Yellowstone National Park, we killed every single wolf.

We killed every single wolf south of the Canadian border, actually.

And then people came.

And I went there and I watched this incredible family of wolves.

A pack is a family.

It has some breeding adults and the young of several generations.

And I watched the most famous, most stable pack in Yellowstone National Park.

The rest of the family immediately descended into sibling rivalry.

Sisters kicked out other sisters.

That one on the left tried for days to rejoin her family.

They wouldn't let her because they were jealous of her.

She was getting too much attention from two new males, and she was the precocious one.

That was too much for them.

She wound up wandering outside the park and getting shot.

The alpha male wound up being ejected from his own family.

As winter was coming in, he lost his territory, his hunting support, the members of his family and his mate. 

We cause so much pain to them.

The mystery is, why don't they hurt us more than they do?

Those people in the boat had nothing at all to fear.

This whale is T20.

He had just finished tearing a seal into three pieces with two companions.

The seal weighed about as much as the people in the boat.

They had nothing to fear.

They eat seals.

Why don't they eat us?

Why can we trust them around our toddlers?

Why is it that killer whales have returned to researchers lost in thick fog and led them miles until the fog parted and the researchers' home was right there on the shoreline?

And that's happened more than one time. 

When she shows up, it's a big happy reunion.

How could dolphins know that one of the human hearts had just stopped?

Why would they care?

And why would it spook them?

At an aquarium in South Africa was a little baby bottle-nosed dolphin named Dolly.

Somehow, this baby bottle-nosed dolphin got the idea of using milk to represent smoke.

When human beings use one thing to represent another, we call that art. 

The things that make us human are not the things that we think make us human.

What makes us human is that, of all these things that our minds and their minds have, we are the most extreme.

But love is not the thing that makes us human.

It's not special to us.

We are not the only ones who care about our mates.

We are not the only ones who care about our children. 

Passing life from one generation to the next is the chain of being.

This is not the relationship we are supposed to have with the rest of the world.

But we, who have named ourselves after our brains, never think about the consequences.

When we welcome new human life into the world, we welcome our babies into the company of other creatures.

We paint animals on the walls.

We don't paint cell phones.

We don't paint work cubicles.

We paint animals to show them that we are not alone.

We have company.

We're going to ask another question.

Are we capable of using what we have to care enough to simply let them continue? 

Thank you very much. 

