I think each one is about the size of California.

Tell us about Kiribati. 

I think I've been sharing my story with a lot of people who don't care too much.

These islands are entirely made up of coral atolls, and on average about two meters above sea level.

And so this is what we have.

Usually not more than two kilometers in width.

They have no concept of what it is that's involved.

But these are the kinds of issues that people don't understand. 

CA: So certainly this is just a picture of fragility there.

When was it that you yourself realized that there might be impending peril for your country? 

And so that's when I got very serious.

But when the scenarios, the predictions came in 2007, it became a real issue for us. 

CA: Now, those predictions are, I think, that by 2100, sea levels are forecast to rise perhaps three feet.

And quite apart from that, we are getting the swells at the moment.

So it's not about getting two feet.

I think what many people do not understand is they think climate change is something that is happening in the future.

Well, we're at the very bottom end of the spectrum.

It's already with us.

We have communities who already have been dislocated.

CA: And then, I think the country suffered its first cyclone, and this is connected, yes?

We create them, and then we send them either north or south. 

But they aren't supposed to come back.

But for our two southernmost islands, we had waves come over half the island, and so this has never happened before.

It's a new experience.

And I've just come back from my own constituency, and I've seen these beautiful trees which had been there for decades, they've been totally destroyed.

CA: So the country is already seeing effects now.

As you look forward, what are your options as a country, as a nation? 

AT: Well, I've been telling this story every year.

I think I visit a number of -- I've been traveling the world to try and get people to understand.

We have a plan, we think we have a plan.

The Japanese are interested in building floating islands. 

But even that, it's going to be very, very difficult to get the kind of resourcing that we would need. 

CA: And then the only recourse is some form of forced migration. 

CA: Well, there's forced migration in your country's past, and I think just this week, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, you visited these people.

Some of them later recognized me, but I think they were very happy.

Later they really wanted to have the opportunity to welcome me formally.

I saw them, there was this lady with red teeth.

She was chewing betel nuts, and it's not something we do in Kiribati.

We don't chew betel nuts.

I met also a family who have married the local people here, and so this is what is happening.

As you go into another community, there are bound to be changes.

AT: This is our wish.

It's something that's got to be done collectively. 

And so it's a matter for you to weigh this, these moral issues.

It's about industry as opposed to the survival of a people. 

CA: You know, I ask you yesterday what made you angry, and you said, "I don't get angry."

I think this made you angry. 

AT: I'd refer you to my earlier statement at the United Nations.

I was very angry, very frustrated and then depressed.

I had to change my approach.

CA: Now, a core part of your nation's identity is fishing.

I think you said pretty much everyone is involved in fishing in some way. 

We don't have a lot of livestock, so it's fish that we depend on. 

Can you tell us about that?

I think something happened right here in the Phoenix Islands. 

AT: Let me give some of the background of what fish means for us.

We have one of the largest tuna fisheries remaining in the world.

CA: Of your national revenue. 

The yellowfin was also heavily fished.

Skipjack remains healthy.

And so we had to do something like that, and so that was the reason I did that.

Another reason why I did that was because I had been asking the international community that in order to deal with climate change, in order to fight climate change, there has got to be sacrifice, there has got to be commitment.

So in asking the international community to make a sacrifice, I thought we ourselves need to make that sacrifice.

And so we made the sacrifice.

And forgoing commercial fishing in the Phoenix Islands protected area would mean a loss of revenue.

CA: So there's so many things playing into this.

On the one hand, it may prompt healthier fisheries.

I mean, how much are you able to move the price up that you charge for the remaining areas? 

For any vessel to come in to fish for a day, we have raised the fee from -- it was $6,000 and $8,000, now to $10,000, $12,000 per vessel day.

And so there's been that significant increase.

There was a time when the Brazilian fleet moved from the Atlantic to the Pacific.

They couldn't.

They started experimenting if they could, per se.

But now they've got ways of doing it, and they've become so efficient. 

CA: Can you give us a sense of what it's like in those negotiations?

Because you're up against companies that have hundreds of millions of dollars at stake, essentially.

How do you hold the line?

What advice would you give? 

And we only get about 10 percent.

What we have been trying to do over the years is actually to increase our participation in the industry, in the harvesting, in the processing, and eventually, hopefully, the marketing.

In order to increase our rate of return, we have to become more involved.

And so we've started doing that, and we have to restructure the industry.

We've got to tell these people that the world has changed.

Now we want to produce the fish ourselves. 

Or is that being run on a sustainable basis? 

The tuna fishery is really entirely for the foreign market, mostly here in the US, Europe, Japan.

