What if I could present you a story that you would remember with your entire body and not just with your mind?

But it really wasn't until I got involved with virtual reality that I started seeing these really intense, authentic reactions from people that really blew my mind. 

So the deal is that with VR, virtual reality, I can put you on scene in the middle of the story.

By putting on these goggles that track wherever you look, you get this whole-body sensation, like you're actually, like, there.

So five years ago was about when I really began to push the envelope with using virtual reality and journalism together.

And I wanted to do a piece about hunger.

Now, I knew I couldn't make people feel hungry, but maybe I could figure out a way to get them to feel something physical. 

Believe me, I had a lot of colleagues laughing at me.

Until one day she came back to my office and she was bawling, she was just crying.

And this man with diabetes doesn't get food in time, his blood sugar drops too low, and he collapses into a coma.

As soon as I heard that audio, I knew that this would be the kind of evocative piece that could really describe what was going on at food banks. 

And then we tried to convey what happened that day with as much as accuracy as is possible. 

Voice: OK, he's having a seizure. 

Voice: We need an ambulance. 

Nonny de la Peña: So the man on the right, for him, he's walking around the body.

For him, he's in the room with that body.

Like, that guy is at his feet.

And even though, through his peripheral vision, he can see that he's in this lab space, he should be able to see that he's not actually on the street, but he feels like he's there with those people.

He's very cautious not to step on this guy who isn't really there, right? 

And when we went, I was really terrified.

So you can hear the surprise in my voice, right?

And I had a lot of people come out of that piece saying, "Oh my God, I was so frustrated.

And I really wanted to do something about Syrian refugee kids, because children have been the worst affected by the Syrian civil war.

And then we also recreated a street scene in which a young girl is singing and a bomb goes off.

Now, when you're in the middle of that scene and you hear those sounds, and you see the injured around you, it's an incredibly scary and real feeling.

I've had individuals who have been involved in real bombings tell me that it evokes the same kind of fear. 

[The civil war in Syria may seem far away] [until you experience it yourself.]

NP: We were then invited to take the piece to the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.

And it wasn't advertised.

And it doesn't really matter where you're from or what age you are -- it's really evocative. 

But it turns out we can feel like we're in two places at once.

Right? 

So that means, of course, that I have to be very cautious about creating these pieces.

Let me give you an example.

To make that piece, we got the architectural drawings of the entire complex, and we rebuilt the entire scene inside and out, based on those drawings.

All of the action is informed by the real 911 recorded calls to the police.

And interestingly, we broke some news with this story.

The forensic house that did the audio reconstruction, Primeau Productions, they say that they would testify that George Zimmerman, when he got out of the car, he cocked his gun before he went to give chase to Martin. 

We're still following the same principles that we would always.

And this is kind of what has driven me forward with these pieces, and thinking about how to make them.

We're trying to make this, obviously, beyond the headset, more available.

We're creating mobile pieces like the Trayvon Martin piece.

And these things have had impact.

And "Hunger in LA," well, it's helped start a new form of doing journalism that I think is going to join all the other normal platforms in the future. 

