This is the Air Jordan 3 Black Cement.

This might be the most important sneaker in history.

First released in 1988, this is the shoe that started Nike marketing as we know it.

The Air Jordan 3 Black Cement did for sneakers what the iPhone did for phones.

It's been re-released four times.

Every celebrity's been seen wearing it.

There's a site about what to wear with the Black Cement.

And right about now, most of you are probably thinking, "Sneakers?"

Some extraordinary things about sneakers and data and Nike and how they're all related, possibly, to the future of all online commerce. 

And just minutes after that, thousands of those pairs were on eBay for two and three times retail.

In fact, there's over 1,000 pairs on eBay right now, four years later.

That's an "I love Dad" T-shirt. 

For the brands, sneakerheads are a very important demographic.

These are the tastemakers; these are the Apple fanboys.

Because who else is going to buy a pair of $8,000 Back to the Future sneakers? 

Yeah, 8,000 dollars. 

And while that's obviously the anomaly, the resell sneaker market is definitely not.

Thirty years in the making, what started as an underground culture of a few people who like sneakers just a bit too much -- 

Now we have sneaker addictions.

In a market where in the past 12 months, there have been over nine million pairs of shoes resold in the United States alone, at a value of 1.2 billion dollars.

This is my collection.

People have thousands. 

I'm a very typical 37-year-old sneakerhead.

But here's where mine diverged.

Now sneakerheads check prices while camping out for releases.

Others have used the data to validate insurance claims.

And the top investment banks in the world now use resell data to analyze the retail footwear industry.

So sneakerhead Dan builds his collection and identifies which 352 are his.

At the asset level, he can see gain-loss by shoe.

Here he's made over 600 dollars on one pair.

I have one of those. 

So an unregulated 1.2 billion dollar industry that thrives as much on the street as it does online, and has spawned fundamental financial services for sneakers?

And now they use the data to do it together.

And that's because sneakers are an investment opportunity where none other exists.

And I don't just mean the kid selling sneakers instead of drugs.

How about all kids?

You have to be 18 to play the stock market.

The cards are long dead, and the candy market's usually quite local. 

Which is why the story you're probably most familiar with is people killing each other for sneakers.

And while that definitely happens and is tragic, it's not nearly the epidemic some media would have you believe.

In fact, it's a very small piece of a much bigger and better story. 

Someone is making the rules.

In the case of sneakers, that someone is Nike. 

Let me walk you through some numbers. 

The resell market, we know, is $1.2 billion.

Nike, including Jordan brand, accounts for 96 percent of all shoes sold on the secondary market.

Just complete domination.

Sneakerheads love Jordans.

And profit on the secondary market is about a third.

That means that sneakerheads made 380 million dollars selling Nikes last year.

Let's jump to retail for a second.

And in the 12 months ending in June, Skechers's net income was 209 million dollars.

How is that even possible? 

Shoes that sell for 8,000 dollars do so because they're very rare.

But we certainly don't want them to, nor is it in their best interest.

That's because unlike Apple, who will sell an iPhone to anyone who wants one, Nike doesn't make their money by just selling $200 sneakers.

They sell millions of shoes to millions of people for 60 dollars.

And sneakerheads are the ones who drive the marketing and the hype and the PR and the brand cachet, and enable Nike to sell millions of $60 sneakers. 

It's marketing.

And they do so by controlling supply and distribution. 

In fact, there is no central exchange.

By last count, there were 48 different online markets that I know of.

Can you imagine if that's how stocks were bought?

That would surely make you say: 

Of course that's not how we buy stock.

But what if that's not how we need to buy sneakers either?

What if the inverse is true, and what if we could buy sneakers exactly the same way as we buy stock?

What if there was a stock market for commerce?

A stock market of things.

Shorts and options and futures and well, maybe you see where this is going.

Maybe you want to invest in a stock market of things.

Because if you had invested in a pair of Air Jordan 3 Black Cement in 2011, you could either be wearing them onstage, 

And that's why we're talking about sneakers. 

Thank you. 

