Religion is more than belief.

It's power, and it's influence.

And yet this is a common practice in almost every world religion today. 

I was the type of girl that fought every form of gender discrimination growing up.

I played pickup basketball games with the boys and inserted myself.

I'm the first woman in both sides of my family to ever work outside the home and ever receive a higher education. 

I have eight siblings, a stay-at-home mother.

My father's actually a religious leader in the community.

And I grew up in a world believing that my worth and my standing was in keeping these rules that I'd known my whole life.

It determined what underwear we wore.

I was the kind of religious where everyone I know donated 10 percent of everything they earned to the church, including myself.

From paper routes and babysitting, I donated 10 percent.

Until I stopped, and I realized that I had been allowing myself to be treated as the support staff to the real work of men.

And I faced this contradiction in myself, and I joined with other activists in my community.

We've been working very, very, very hard for the last decade and more. 

The first thing we did was raise consciousness.

You can't change what you can't see.

We started podcasting, blogging, writing articles.

The next thing we did was build advocacy organizations.

We were attacked in social media and national press.

And I began to expect this reaction from my own people.

But what utterly shocked me was throughout all of this work I received equal measures of vitriol from the secular left, the same vehemence as the religious right.

And what it caused me to do was defend myself and my people and everything we believe in, because we're not stupid. 

So criticism and hostility doesn't work, and I didn't listen to these arguments.

And let me try to help you understand their perspective.

In Mormonism, we believe that after you die, if you keep all the rules and you follow all the rituals, you can be together as a family again.

And to my parents, me doing something as simple as having a sleeveless top right now, showing my shoulders, that makes me unworthy.

I won't be with my family in the eternities.

The other thing that the secular left and the atheists and the orthodox and the religious right, what they all don't understand was why even care about religious activism?

Why would you try to change it?

These laws get legally and culturally codified.

In fact, my own religion has had an enormous effect on this nation.

Forty years ago, political historians will say, that if it wasn't for the Mormon opposition to the Equal Rights Amendment, we'd have an Equal Rights Amendment in our Constitution today.

How many lives did that affect?

Why is that the assumption? 

Because religion doesn't just create the roots of morality, it creates the seeds of normality.

Religions can't be dismissed or ignored.

We need to take them seriously.

But it's not easy to influence a religion, like we just talked about. 

But I'll tell you what my people have done.

My groups are small, there's hundreds of us, but we've had huge impact.

As of last week, in a historic move, three women were invited down to three leadership boards that oversee the entire church.

I never had that.

It wasn't easy standing in those lines trying to get into those male meetings.

It's time that half of the world's population had voice and equality within our world's religions, churches, synagogues, mosques and shrines around the world.

