I will show you why that, philosophically, is almost an impossibility. 

But let me first elaborate, just a little bit, on a basic principle behind each search query that we sometimes seem to forget.

What are the building blocks of a water molecule?

Great -- Google away.

There's not a group of scientists who are this close to proving that it's actually London and H30.

You don't see a big conspiracy among those things.

We agree, on a global scale, what the answers are to these isolated facts. 

And to get to knowledge, you have to bring 10 or 20 or 100 facts to the table and acknowledge them and say, "Yes, these are all true."

This is when we start to argue, to form society.

So, I promised you an example just to show you why it's so hard to get to the point of true, clean, objective knowledge -- as food for thought.

It's a perfect search result, more or less.

It's just her in the picture, not even the President. 

How does this work?

Quite simple.

Google uses a lot of smartness to achieve this, but quite simply, they look at two things more than anything.

First, what does it say in the caption under the picture on each website?

Does it say "Michelle Obama" under the picture?

Pretty good indication it's actually her on there.

Again, is it called "MichelleObama.jpeg"?

Pretty good indication it's not Clint Eastwood in the picture.

So, you've got those two and you get a search result like this -- almost. 

There was a picture distributed widely over the Internet where her face was distorted to look like a monkey.

And that picture was published all over.

And people published it very, very purposefully, to get it up there in the search results.

They made sure to write "Michelle Obama" in the caption and they made sure to upload the picture as "MichelleObama.jpeg," or the like.

You get why -- to manipulate the search result.

And it worked, too.

So when you picture-Googled for "Michelle Obama" in 2009, that distorted monkey picture showed up among the first results. 

And I don't think anyone in this room thinks that was a bad idea.

Me neither. 

But then, a couple of years go by, and the world's most-Googled Anders, Anders Behring Breivik, did what he did.

This is July 22 in 2011, and a terrible day in Norwegian history.

This man, a terrorist, blew up a couple of government buildings walking distance from where we are right now in Oslo, Norway and then he traveled to the island of Utøya and shot and killed a group of kids.

Almost 80 people died that day. 

It's not true.

It was three steps.

He blew up those buildings, he shot those kids, and he sat down and waited for the world to Google him.

And he prepared all three steps equally well. 

And if there was somebody who immediately understood this, it was a Swedish web developer, a search engine optimization expert in Stockholm, named Nikke Lindqvist.

And how?

Strangely enough, Google didn't intervene this time.

They did not step in and manually clean those search results up.

Is there anything different between what happened to Michelle Obama and what happened to Anders Behring Breivik?

Of course not.

Why?

Because Michelle Obama is an honorable person, that's why, and Anders Behring Breivik is a despicable person.

See what happens there?

An evaluation of a person takes place and there's only one power-player in the world with the authority to say who's who.

So I'm asking you to remember that behind every algorithm is always a person, a person with a set of personal beliefs that no code can ever completely eradicate.

And my message goes out not only to Google, but to all believers in the faith of code around the world.

You need to identify your own personal bias.

You need to understand that you are human and take responsibility accordingly. 

And I say this because I believe we've reached a point in time when it's absolutely imperative that we tie those bonds together again, tighter: the humanities and the technology.

Tighter than ever.

And, if nothing else, to remind us that that wonderfully seductive idea of the unbiased, clean search result is, and is likely to remain, a myth. 

Thank you for your time. 

