There is no Wi-Fi involved, it's just light. 

And you may wonder, what's the point?

In my view, such an extension of the Internet can only work if it's almost energy-neutral.

This means we need to use existing infrastructure as much as possible.

And this is where the solar cell and the LED come in. 

I demonstrated for the first time, at TED in 2011, Li-Fi, or Light Fidelity.

Li-Fi uses off-the-shelf LEDs to transmit data incredibly fast, and also in a safe and secure manner.

Data is transported by the light, encoded in subtle changes of the brightness.

I wanted to find a way to also use existing infrastructure to receive data from our Li-Fi lights.

And this is why I have been looking into solar cells and solar panels. 

A solar cell absorbs light and converts it into electrical energy.

This is why we can use a solar cell to charge our mobile phone.

But now we need to remember that the data is encoded in subtle changes of the brightness of the LED, so if the incoming light fluctuates, so does the energy harvested from the solar cell.

This means we have a principal mechanism in place to receive information from the light and by the solar cell, because the fluctuations of the energy harvested correspond to the data transmitted. 

Of course the question is: can we receive very fast and subtle changes of the brightness, such as the ones transmitted by our LED lights?

And the answer to that is yes, we can.

We have shown in the lab that we can receive up to 50 megabytes per second from a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell.

And this is faster than most broadband connections these days. 

Now let me show you in practice.

In this box is a standard, off-the-shelf LED lamp.

This is a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell; it is connected to the laptop.

This is because the solar cell already harvests light from the ambient light. 

Now what I would like to do first is switch on the light, and I'll simply, only switch on the light, for a moment, and what you'll notice is that the instrument jumps to the right.

So the solar cell, for a moment, is harvesting energy from this artificial light source.

But next I would like to activate the streaming of the video.

And I've done this by pressing this button.

So now this LED lamp here is streaming a video by changing the brightness of the LED in a very subtle way, and in a way that you can't recognize with your eye, because the changes are too fast to recognize.

But in order to prove the point, I can block the light of the solar cell.

So first you notice the energy harvesting drops and the video stops as well.

If I remove the blockage, the video will restart. 

And I can repeat that.

So we stop the transmission of the video and energy harvesting stops as well.

So that is to show that the solar cell acts as a receiver. 

But now imagine that this LED lamp is a street light, and there's fog.

And so I want to simulate fog, and that's why I brought a handkerchief with me. 

And let me put the handkerchief over the solar cell.

First you notice the energy harvested drops, as expected, but now the video still continues.

This means, despite the blockage, there's sufficient light coming through the handkerchief to the solar cell, so that the solar cell is able to decode and stream that information, in this case, a high-definition video. 

What's really important here is that a solar cell has become a receiver for high-speed wireless signals encoded in light, while it maintains its primary function as an energy-harvesting device.

That's why it is possible to use existing solar cells on the roof of a hut to act as a broadband receiver from a laser station on a close by hill, or indeed, lamp post. 

As I said to you, this is the first time I've shown this in public.

It's very much a lab demonstration, a prototype.

