This is one of the most amazing animals on the face of the Earth.

This is a tapir.

Now this, this is a baby tapir, the cutest animal offspring in the animal kingdom. 

By far.

There is no competition here. 

But at the moment, I've been thinking really, really hard about the impact of my work.

I've been questioning myself about the real contributions I have made for the conservation of these animals I love so much.

Am I being effective in safeguarding their survival?

Am I doing enough?

The world is facing so many different conservation crises.

Adults can weigh up to 300 kilos.

That's half the size of a horse.

They're gorgeous. 

But their habitat is being destroyed, and they have been hunted out of several parts of their geographic distribution. 

They're herbivores.

Fifty percent of their diet consists of fruit, and when they eat the fruit, they swallow the seeds, which they disperse throughout the habitat through their feces.

Isn't that amazing?

If you think about it, the extinction of tapirs would seriously affect biodiversity as a whole. 

I started my tapir work in 1996, still very young, fresh out of college, and it was a pioneer research and conservation program.

At that point, we had nearly zero information about tapirs, mostly because they're so difficult to study.

But what is it that a conservationist does?

Well, first, we need data.

We need field research.

And then we can gather information about how they use space, how they move through the landscape, what are their priority habitats, and so much more. 

Next, we must disseminate what we learn.

We have to educate people about tapirs and how important these animals are.

And it's amazing how many people around the world do not know what a tapir is.

In fact, many people think this is a tapir.

Let me tell you, this is not a tapir. 

This is a giant anteater.

And then next we have to provide training, capacity building.

It is our responsibility to prepare the conservationists of the future.

Our first tapir program took place in the Atlantic Forest in the eastern part of Brazil, one of the most threatened biomes in the world.

The destruction of the Atlantic Forest began in the early 1500s, when the Portuguese first arrived in Brazil, beginning European colonization in the eastern part of South America.

This forest was almost completely cleared for timber, agriculture, cattle ranching and the construction of cities, and today only seven percent of the Atlantic forest is still left standing.

And tapirs are found in very, very small, isolated, disconnected populations.

In the Atlantic Forest, we found out that tapirs move through open areas of pastureland and agriculture going from one patch of forest to patch of forest.

So our main approach in this region was to use our tapir data to identify the potential places for the establishment of wildlife corridors in between those patches of forest, reconnecting the habitat so that tapirs and many other animals could cross the landscape safely. 

After 12 years in the Atlantic Forest, in 2008, we expanded our tapir conservation efforts to the Pantanal in the western part of Brazil near the border with Bolivia and Paraguay.

This is the largest continuous freshwater floodplain in the world, an incredible place and one of the most important strongholds for lowland tapirs in South America.

And working in the Pantanal has been extremely refreshing because we found large, healthy tapir populations in the area, and we have been able to study tapirs in the most natural conditions we'll ever find, very much free of threats. 

This camera is equipped with a movement sensor and it photographs animals when they walk in front of it.

So thanks to these amazing devices, we have been able to gather precious information about tapir reproduction and social organization which are very important pieces of the puzzle when you're trying to develop those conservation strategies. 

And somehow, tapirs are still there, which gives me a lot of hope.

But I have to say that starting this new program in the Cerrado was a bit of a slap in the face.

When you drive around and you find dead tapirs along the highways and signs of tapirs wandering around in the middle of sugarcane plantations where they shouldn't be, and you talk to kids and they tell you that they know how tapir meat tastes because their families poach and eat them, it really breaks your heart. 

I am swimming against the tide.

We really came to a point in the conservation world where we have to think out of the box.

We'll have to be a lot more creative than we are right now.

And I told you, roadkill is a big problem for tapirs in the Cerrado, so we just came up with the idea of putting reflective stickers on the GPS collars we put on the tapirs.

These are the same stickers used on big trucks to avoid collision.

But the point is, maybe this is the kind of stuff that needs to be done. 

And although I'm struggling with all these questions in my mind right now, I have a pact with tapirs.

I know in my heart that tapir conservation is my cause.

This is my passion.

I am not alone.

And I'll keep doing this for Ted, a baby tapir we captured in December last year also in the Pantanal. 

And I will keep doing this for the hundreds of tapirs that I've had the pleasure to meet over the years and the many others I know I will encounter in the future.

Thank you so much. 

