And the war that drove them there was still raging in its fourth year.

And the community that once welcomed them there had become weary of them.

And one day, men on motorcycles tried to kidnap her.

Once an aspiring student thinking only of her future, now she was scared all the time. 

And Doaa was terrified of the water.

Day two on the water, they were sick with worry and sick to their stomachs from the rough sea. 

He said, "In 16 hours we will reach the shores of Italy."

They were weak and weary.

The parents were terrified for their children, and they collectively refused to disembark.

The 300 people below deck were doomed.

And miraculously, Bassem found a life ring.

Bassem was a good swimmer, so he held her hand and tread water.

Around them there were corpses.

Millions of refugees are living in exile, in limbo.

Even if they wanted to return, they can't.

Their homes, their businesses, their towns and their cities have been completely destroyed.

This is a UNESCO World Heritage City, Homs, in Syria.

Hundreds of thousands of people live in camps like these, and thousands and thousands more, millions, live in towns and cities.

There are simply not enough schools, water systems, sanitation.

The Syria war has driven almost four million people over the borders, but over seven million people are on the run inside the country.

That means that over half the Syrian population has been forced to flee.

Back to those neighboring countries hosting so many.

They feel that the richer world has done too little to support them.

And days have turned into months, months into years.

A refugee's stay is supposed to be temporary. 

Later that day, a mother came up to Doaa with her small 18-month-old daughter, Masa.

So Doaa, the 19-year-old refugee who was terrified of the water, who couldn't swim, found herself in charge of two little baby kids.

Around them, the bodies were bloating and turning black.

It was very frightening.

But his heart soon stopped, and Doaa had to release the little boy into the water. 

And it had become dark, but finally the searchlights found her and they extended a rope, astonished to see a woman clutching onto two babies. 

Only 11 people survived that wreck, of the 500.

And then the news cycle moved on. 

Her glucose levels were dangerously low.

My colleagues also visited and said pretty words to her in Arabic.

Amazingly, little Masa survived. 

An Egyptian family took her into their home as soon as she was released.

And soon word went around about Doaa's survival, and a phone number was published on Facebook.

Messages started coming in. 

But she wants to still go to Sweden.

She wants to reunite with her family there.

She is an extraordinary survivor. 

Why did she have to go through all that?

Why wasn't there a legal way for her to study in Europe?

Why couldn't Masa have taken an airplane to Sweden?

Why couldn't Bassem have found work?

Why is there so little investment in the neighboring countries hosting so many refugees?

Until these issues are resolved, people will continue to take to the seas and to seek safety and asylum. 

And what happens next?

Well, that is largely Europe's choice.

And I understand the public fears.

People are worried about their security, their economies, the changes of culture.

But is that more important than saving human lives?

No person fleeing war or persecution should have to die crossing a sea to reach safety. 

So on behalf of little Masa and on behalf of Doaa and of Bassem and of those 500 people who drowned with them, can we make sure that they did not die in vain?

Could we be inspired by what happened, and take a stand for a world in which every life matters? 

Thank you. 

