A girl I've never met before changed my life and the life of thousands of other people.

I'm the CEO of DoSomething.org.

It's one of the largest organizations in the world for young people.

In fact it's bigger than the Boy Scouts in the United States.

And we're not homophobic. 

And we'll text them.

But there's one weird side effect.

We couldn't believe this was happening.

We couldn't believe that something so horrific could happen to a human being, and that she would share it with us -- something so intimate, so personal.

And we realized we had to stop triaging this and we had to build a crisis text line for these people in pain.

And in four months, we were in all 295 area codes in America.

Just to put that into perspective, that's zero marketing and faster growth than when Facebook first launched. 

No one hears you talking.

We can do things like predictive work.

We can do all kinds of conclusions and learnings from that data set.

So we can be better, and the world can be better.

How do you know that person's any good?

Oh, they have a degree from Harvard on the wall?

Are you sure he didn't graduate in the bottom 10 percent? 

When my husband and I saw a marriage counselor, I thought she was a genius when she said, "I'll see you guys in two weeks -- but I need to see you next week, sir."

We have the data to know what makes a great counselor.

We know that if you text the words "numbs" and "sleeve," there's a 99 percent match for cutting.

We know that if you text in the words "mg" and "rubber band," there's a 99 percent match for substance abuse.

And we know that if you text in "sex," "oral" and "Mormon," you're questioning if you're gay.

It makes us more accurate. 

On the day that Robin Williams committed suicide, people flooded hotlines all over this country.

We had a spike in volume also.

The difference was if you text us, "I want to die," or "I want to kill myself," the algorithm reads that, you're code orange, and you become number one in the queue.

So we can handle severity, not chronological. 

And it's in a place called CrisisTrends.org.

Because I want schools to be able to see that Monday is the worst day for eating disorders, so that they can plan meals and guidance counselors to be there on Mondays.

And I want families to see that substance abuse questions spike at 5am.

I want somebody to take care of those Native American reservations in Montana. 

Data, evidence makes policy, research, journalism, policing, school boards -- everything better.

I don't think of myself as a mental health activist.

I love data.

I want to use tech and data to make the world a better place.

Because the truth is we never heard from her again.

