A few years ago, I broke into my own house.

And as I stood on the front porch fumbling in my pockets, I found I didn't have my keys.

In fact, I could see them through the window, lying on the dining room table where I had left them.

This was going to be expensive, but probably no more expensive than a middle-of-the-night locksmith, so I figured, under the circumstances, I was coming out even. 

Now, I'm a neuroscientist by training and I know a little bit about how the brain performs under stress.

It releases cortisol that raises your heart rate, it modulates adrenaline levels and it clouds your thinking.

And it wasn't until I got to the airport check-in counter, that I realized I didn't have my passport. 

Well, I had a lot of time to think during those eight hours and no sleep. 

Or at least if bad things happen, will minimize the likelihood of it being a total catastrophe.

It's something that he had gotten from the psychologist Gary Klein, who had written about it a few years before, also called the pre-mortem.

Now, you all know what the postmortem is.

Whenever there's a disaster, a team of experts come in and they try to figure out what went wrong, right?

So what I want to talk to you about today are some of the things we can do in the form of a pre-mortem.

Some of them are obvious, some of them are not so obvious.

I'll start with the obvious ones. 

It's the part of the brain that allows squirrels to find their nuts.

And if you're wondering, somebody actually did the experiment where they cut off the olfactory sense of the squirrels, and they could still find their nuts.

But it's really good for things that don't move around much, not so good for things that move around.

So this is why we lose car keys and reading glasses and passports.

If you designate a spot and you're scrupulous about it, your things will always be there when you look for them. 

What about travel?

Take a cell phone picture of your credit cards, your driver's license, your passport, mail it to yourself so it's in the cloud.

If these things are lost or stolen, you can facilitate replacement. 

Cortisol is toxic, and it causes cloudy thinking.

So part of the practice of the pre-mortem is to recognize that under stress you're not going to be at your best, and you should put systems in place. 

And there's perhaps no more stressful a situation than when you're confronted with a medical decision to make.

And so I want to talk about that.

It's for the number needed to treat.

And you're thinking, what kind of crazy statistic is that?

The number should be one.

My doctor wouldn't prescribe something to me if it's not going to help.

But actually, medical practice doesn't work that way.

We haven't figured out the underlying mechanisms well enough.

But GlaxoSmithKline estimates that 90 percent of the drugs work in only 30 to 50 percent of the people.

So the number needed to treat for the most widely prescribed statin, what do you suppose it is?

How many people have to take it before one person is helped?

300.

This is according to research by research practitioners Jerome Groopman and Pamela Hartzband, independently confirmed by Bloomberg.com.

I ran through the numbers myself.

300 people have to take the drug for a year before one heart attack, stroke or other adverse event is prevented. 

So for this particular drug, the side effects occur in five percent of the patients.

Remember under stress you're not thinking clearly.

You're 15 times more likely to be harmed by the drug than you are to be helped by the drug. 

Now, I'm not saying whether you should take the statin or not.

I'm just saying you should have this conversation with your doctor.

And the side effects in that case occur in 50 percent of the patients.

They include impotence, erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, rectal tearing, fecal incontinence.

And if you're lucky, and you're one of the 50 percent who has these, they'll only last for a year or two. 

You don't want to have to manufacture all of this on the spot.

And you also want to think about things like quality of life.

You might change your mind in the heat of the moment, but at least you're practiced with this kind of thinking. 

There's an evolutionary reason for this.

I think the important point here is recognizing that all of us are flawed.

We all are going to fail now and then.

The idea is to think ahead to what those failures might be, to put systems in place that will help minimize the damage, or to prevent the bad things from happening in the first place. 

So I'm not completely organized, but I see organization as a gradual process, and I'm getting there. 

Thank you very much. 

