It is the only old building in the government district that was not destroyed during the Second World War, and it sits right next to the Federal Chancellery.

No one is closer to Chancellor Merkel than the Swiss diplomats. 

And this is interesting from an artistic point of view.

The opportunities to exercise participation and to express oneself are always bound to a certain order and always subject to a specific regulation.

With an awareness of the dependencies of these regulations, we can gain a new perspective.

The given terms and conditions shape our perception, our actions and our lives. 

And this is crucial in another context.

The antennas of the British GCHQ are hidden in a white cylindrical radome, while the listening post of the American NSA is covered by radio transparent screens. 

And we used this opportunity to exploit the specific situation. 

A helicopter circled over our heads with a camera registering each and every move we made, and on the roof of the US Embassy, security officers patrolled.

Although the government district is governed by a strict police order, there are no specific laws relating to digital communication.

The antennas created an open and free Wi-Fi communication network in which anyone who wanted to would be able to participate using any Wi-Fi-enabled device without any hindrance, and be able to send messages to those listening on the frequencies that were being intercepted.

Text messages, voice chat, file sharing -- anything could be sent anonymously.

And people did communicate.

Over 15,000 messages were sent.

Here are some examples. 

We also organized guided tours to experience and sound out the power constellations on-site.

The tours visited the restricted zones around the embassies, and we discussed the potential and the highlights of communication. 

If we become aware of the constellation, the terms and conditions of communication, it not only broadens our horizon, it allows us to look behind the regulations that limit our worldview, our specific social, political or aesthetic conventions. 

Let's look at an actual example.

It's not poverty, not racism, not exclusion that are new.

These are real hotels.

People can stay there.

But they aren't a commercial enterprise.

They are a symbol.

You can go online and ask for a personal invitation to come and live for a few days in the Hotel Gelem, in their homes, eating, working and living with the Roma families.

The point is not to make judgments, but rather to find out about the context that determines these disparate and seemingly insurmountable contradictions.

In the world of globalization, the continents are drifting closer to each other.

For us, it was no problem to enter the country.

These procedures are declared to be secret military operations.

During our stay, however, we managed to reach out and work with asylum seekers who were imprisoned, despite strict screening and isolation.

From these contexts was born an installation in the art space of the Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane. 

Visitors were offered the opportunity to talk directly to a refugee who was or had been imprisoned in a specific detention facility and engage in a personal conversation.

In the protected context of the art exhibition, asylum seekers felt free to talk about themselves, their story and their situation, without fear of consequences.

Several revisited the exhibition.

It was a powerful experience. 

We should not take it for granted to be boundlessly connected.

We should start making our own connections, fighting for this idea of an equal and globally interconnected world.

This is essential to overcome our speechlessness and the separation provoked by rival political forces.

It is only in truly exposing ourselves to the transformative power of this experience that we can overcome prejudice and exclusion. 

Thank you. 

Gelem means something specific in the Roma language. 

BG: That's just to add the detail to your talk.

BG: And allow them to talk as well.

