Interpreter: Piano, "p," is my favorite musical symbol.

It means to play softly.

If you're playing a musical instrument and you notice a "p" in the score, you need to play softer.

Two p's -- even softer.

Four p's -- extremely soft.

This is my drawing of a p-tree, which demonstrates no matter how many thousands upon thousands of p's there may be, you'll never reach complete silence.

I'd like to share a little bit about the history of American Sign Language, ASL, plus a bit of my own background.

So it has a history of about 200 years. 

And I believed it to be true.

Yet, I realize now that that wasn't the case at all.

Sound was very much a part of my life, really, on my mind every day.

As a Deaf person living in a world of sound, it's as if I was living in a foreign country, blindly following its rules, customs, behaviors and norms without ever questioning them. 

So how is it that I understand sound?

Well, I watch how people behave and respond to sound.

At the same time, I've learned that I create sound, and I've seen how people respond to me.

Maybe I think about sound etiquette more than the average hearing person does.

I'm hyper-vigilant around sound.

And I'm always waiting in eager nervous anticipation around sound, about what's to come next. 

In Deaf culture, movement is equivalent to sound.

In the year 2008, I had the opportunity to travel to Berlin, Germany, for an artist residency there.

Prior to this time, I had been working as a painter.

During this summer, I visited different museums and gallery spaces, and as I went from one place to the next, I noticed there was no visual art there.

Now sound has come into my art territory.

Is it going to further distance me from art?

So I decided to reclaim ownership of sound and to put it into my art practice.

And everything that I had been taught regarding sound, I decided to do away with and unlearn.

I started creating a new body of work.

And when I presented this to the art community, I was blown away with the amount of support and attention I received.

In the back of my mind, I've always felt that sound was your thing, a hearing person's thing.

And sound is so powerful that it could either disempower me and my artwork, or it could empower me.

I chose to be empowered. 

There's a massive culture around spoken language.

And just because I don't use my literal voice to communicate, in society's eyes it's as if I don't have a voice at all.

So I need to work with individuals who can support me as an equal and become my voice.

And that way, I'm able to maintain relevancy in society today. 

So at school, at work and institutions, I work with many different ASL interpreters.

And their voice becomes my voice and identity.

They help me to be heard.

And their voices hold value and currency.

If I didn't continue this practice, I feel that I could just fade off into oblivion and not maintain any form of social currency. 

So with sound as my new art medium, I delved into the world of music.

And I was surprised to see the similarities between music and ASL.

For example, a musical note cannot be fully captured and expressed on paper.

And the same holds true for a concept in ASL.

They're both highly spatial and highly inflected -- meaning that subtle changes can affect the entire meaning of both signs and sounds. 

I'd like to share with you a piano metaphor, to have you have a better understanding of how ASL works.

So, envision a piano.

ASL is broken down into many different grammatical parameters.

If just one of those keys were to change the chord, it would create a completely different meaning.

The same applies to music in regards to pitch, tone and volume.

In ASL, by playing around with these different grammatical parameters, you can express different ideas. 

For example, take the sign TO-LOOK-AT.

This is the sign TO-LOOK-AT.

I'm looking at you.

Staring at you. 

Oh -- busted. 

This is "all day."

If I was to repeat it and slow it down, visually it looks like a piece of music.

And this led me to thinking about three different kinds of nights: "last night," "overnight," (Sings) "all night long."

I feel like the third one has a lot more musicality than the other two. 

This represents how time is expressed in ASL and how the distance from your body can express the changes in time.

For example, 1H is one hand, 2H is two hand, present tense happens closest and in front of the body, future is in front of the body and the past is to your back.

So, the first example is "a long time ago."

Then "past," "used to" and the last one, which is my favorite, with the very romantic and dramatic notion to it, "once upon a time."

"Common time" is a musical term with a specific time signature of four beats per measure.

Yet when I see the word "common time," what automatically comes to mind for me is "at the same time."

So notice RH: right hand, LH: left hand.

We have the staff across the head and the chest. 

I'm now going to demonstrate a hand shape called the "flash claw."

Can you please follow along with me?

Everybody, hands up.

Yes, got it.

That means "to fall in love" in International [Sign]. 

International [Sign], as a note, is a visual tool to help communicate across cultures and sign languages around the world. 

And now this.

This is "colonization" in ASL. 

Now the third -- please follow along again.

And again.

This is "enlightenment" in ASL.

So let's do all three together.

However, in this day and age, we live in a very audio-centric world.

And just because ASL has no sound to it, it automatically holds no social currency.

And this could possibly be a step to lead to a more inclusive society.

ASL is such a rich treasure that I'd like you to have the same experience.

And I'd like to invite you to open your ears, to open your eyes, take part in our culture and experience our visual language.

And you never know, you might just fall in love with us. 

Thank you. 

Denise Kahler-Braaten: Hey, that's me. 

