When I was a kid, my parents would tell me, "You can make a mess, but you have to clean up after yourself."

So freedom came with responsibility.

But my imagination would take me to all these wonderful places, where everything was possible.

And growing up, I found out that adults make a mess, and they're not very good at cleaning up after themselves. 

And it doesn't take too long before my students walk on a beach and stumble upon piles of trash.

So as good citizens, we clean up the beaches -- and no, he is not drinking alcohol, and if he is, I did not give it to him. 

And so it's sad to say, but today more than 80 percent of the oceans have plastic in them.

It's a horrifying fact.

And in past decades, we've been taking those big ships out and those big nets, and we collect those plastic bits that we look at under a microscope, and we sort them, and then we put this data onto a map.

So with my students, ages six to 15, we've been dreaming of inventing a better way.

So we've transformed our tiny Hong Kong classroom into a workshop.

And let me tell you, kids with power tools are awesome and safe. 

Not really.

And so, back to plastic.

And so this is how we work.

I let the imaginations of my students run wild.

And so we have agreed that instead of collecting plastic bits, we are going to collect only the data.

What was really cool about this project was that the students saw a local problem, and boom -- they are trying to immediately address it. 

But my students in Hong Kong are hyperconnected kids.

But, there's a technology that's rather simple, that's called spectrometry, that allows you see what's in the water.

So we packed this prototype of a sensor, and we shipped it to Bangladesh.

So what was cool about this project was that beyond addressing a local problem, or looking at a local problem, my students used their empathy and their sense of being creative to help, remotely, other kids. 

It was so violent that it triggered several giant waves -- they are called tsunami -- and those tsunami destroyed many cities on the eastern coast of Japan.

More than 14,000 people died in an instant.

Also, it damaged the nuclear power plant of Fukushima, the nuclear power plant just by the water.

And today, I read the reports and an average of 300 tons are leaking from the nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean.

And today the whole Pacific Ocean has traces of contamination of cesium-137.

If you go outside on the West Coast, you can measure Fukushima everywhere.

Well, reality is a bit more complicated than this. 

And so we built the elevation map, we sprinkled pigments to represent real-time data for radioactivity, and we sprayed water to simulate the rainfall.

And with this we could see that the radioactive dust was washing from the top of the mountain into the river system, and leaking into the ocean.

So it was a rough estimate. 

But with this in mind, we organized this expedition, which was the closest civilians have been to the nuclear power plant.

We are sailing 1.5 kilometers away from the nuclear power plant, and with the help of the local fisherman, we are collecting sediment from the seabed with a custom sediment sampler we've invented and built.

You can see a progression here -- we've gone from a local problem to a remote problem to a global problem.

And it's been super exciting to work at these different scales, with also very simple, open-source technologies.

But at the same time, it's been increasingly frustrating because we have only started to measure the damage that we have done.

We haven't even started to try to solve the problems.

And so I wonder if we should just take a leap and try to invent better ways to do all these things. 

And so the classroom started to feel a little bit small, so we found an industrial site in Hong Kong, and we turned it into the largest mega-space focused on social and environmental impact.

And its a place where adults and kids can play together.

It's a place where kids' dreams can come true, with the help of adults, and where adults can be kids again. 

Or, can we help the mobility of the aging population by transforming very standard wheelchairs into cool, electric vehicles? 

So citizen scientists, makers, dreamers -- we must prepare the next generation that cares about the environment and people, and that can actually do something about it. 

Thank you. 

