So I want to tell you about someone like this that I know.

I'm going to call her Ella.

Ella lives in a British city on a run down estate.

The TV's on at full volume.

Ella is stuck.

She has lived with crisis for 40 years.

She knows nothing else, and she knows no way out.

She's had a whole series of abusive partners, and, tragically, one of her children has been taken into care by social services.

And the governments say that there are 100,000 families in Britain today like Ella's, struggling to break the cycle of economic, social and environmental deprivation.

None of these well-meaning visitors are making a difference. 

This is a chart we made in the same city with another family like Ella's.

This shows 30 years of intervention in that family's life.

And just as with Ella, not one of these interventions is part of an overall plan.

There's no end goal in sight.

None of the interventions are dealing with the underlying issues.

These are just containment measures, ways of managing a problem.

One of the policemen says to me, "Look, I just deliver the message and then I leave."

I want to know what it feels like to live in Ella's family.

I want to know what's going on and what we can do differently. 

Well, the first thing I learned is that cost is a really slippery concept.

It rules out the possibility of what's needed to build a relationship between Tom and Ryan. 

When we made this chart, the frontline workers, the professionals -- they stared at it absolutely amazed.

It snaked around the walls of their offices.

So many hours, so well meant, but ultimately so futile.

So in a really brave step, the leaders of the city where Ella lives agreed that we could start by reversing Ryan's ratio.

And even more radically, the families would lead and they would decide who was in a best position to help them.

And so one of the families went out for supper.

And one mother took the money and she used it as a float to start a social enterprise. 

And then some remarkable changes took place.

They've made some new friendships.

And all the same people have been involved in this transformation -- same families, same workers.

But the relationship between them has been supported to change. 

So I'm telling you about Ella because I think that relationships are the critical resource we have in solving some of these intractable problems.

But today, our relationships are all but written off by our politics, our social policies, our welfare institutions.

And I've learned that this really has to change. 

So what do I mean by relationships?

And the impact of Beveridge on the way the modern state sees social issues just can't be underestimated.

The Beveridge Report sold over 100,000 copies in the first weeks of publication alone.

The cultures, the bureaucracies, the institutions -- they are global, and they've come to seem like common sense.

So let me tell you a second story.

What do you think today is a bigger killer than a lifetime of smoking?

It's loneliness.

According to government statistics, one person over 60 -- one in three -- doesn't speak to or see another person in a week.

One person in 10, that's 850,000 people, doesn't speak to anyone else in a month.

And so the services that Beveridge designed and exported -- they can't address this kind of problem.

Loneliness is like a collective relational challenge, and it can't be addressed by a traditional bureaucratic response. 

I wanted to know what we could do differently.

And if you ask them, people tell you they want two things.

They want on-demand, practical support.

And they want to have fun.

So five Circle members had organized themselves to take care of Belinda.

It's relationships that are making the difference. 

I've talked about the first two factors.

And you can contrast this with a neighborhood organization of the 1970s, when this kind of scale just wasn't possible, neither was the quality or the longevity that the spine of technology can provide. 

In my work at the front line, I've seen again and again how up to 80 percent of resource is spent keeping people out.

So professionals have to administer these increasingly complex forms of administration that are basically about stopping people accessing the service or managing the queue.

And Circle, like the relational services that we and others have designed, inverts this logic.

What it says is, the more people, the more relationships, the stronger the solution.

So I want to tell you my third and final story, which is about unemployment.

In Britain, as in most places in the world, our welfare states were primarily designed to get people into work, to educate them for this, and to keep them healthy.

But here, too, the systems are failing.

But guess how most people find work today?

But not surprisingly, people who perhaps most need this rich and diverse network are those who are most isolated from it. 

So knowing this, and also knowing about the costs and failure of current systems, we designed something new with relationships at its heart.

We've used it to bring people face to face and connect them with each other, building real relationships and supporting people to find work. 

At the end of his life, in 1948, Beveridge wrote a third report.

And this omission, he said, led to seeing people, and people starting to see themselves, within the categories of the bureaucracies and the institutions.

And human relationships were already withering.

Relationships are the critical resource we have. 

Thank you. 

