I'd like to start by asking you all to go to your happy place, please.

Good. 

Now I'd like to you to mentally answer the following questions.

Is there any strip lighting in your happy place?

Any plastic tables?

Polyester flooring?

Mobile phones?

We'll be reading or eating or knitting.

And we're surrounded by natural light and organic elements.

Natural things make us happy.

And happiness is a great motivator; we strive for happiness.

So let's start there -- with the idea that good design should feel natural. 

Your phone is not very natural.

We're not addicted to devices, we're addicted to the information that flows through them.

I wonder how long you would be happy in your happy place without any information from the outside world.

I'm interested in how we access that information, how we experience it.

Humans also like simple tools.

Your phone is not a very simple tool.

A fork is a simple tool. 

I think there are better solutions than a world mediated by screens.

I don't hate screens, but I don't feel -- and I don't think any of us feel that good about how much time we spend slouched over them.

Fortunately, the big tech companies seem to agree.

The parents in crisis over screen time need physical digital toys teaching their kids to read, as well as family-safe app stores.

And I think, actually, that's already really happening. 

Reality is richer than screens.

For example, I love books.

For me they are time machines -- atoms and molecules bound in space, from the moment of their creation to the moment of my experience.

But frankly, the content's identical on my phone.

So what makes this a richer experience than a screen?

I mean, scientifically.

But there's more than you can do with these magic boxes.

Your phone is not the Internet's door bitch. 

And I'm going to show you a few examples of those. 

A while ago, I got to work with a design agency, Berg, on an exploration of what the Internet without screens might actually look like.

And they showed us a range ways that light can work with simple senses and physical objects to really bring the Internet to life, to make it tangible.

Like this wonderfully mechanical YouTube player.

And this was an inspiration to me. 

Next I worked with the Japanese agency, AQ, on a research project into mental health.

We wanted to create an object that could capture the subjective data around mood swings that's so essential to diagnosis.

It's like a digital emoji stick.

The binoculars are actually a birthday present for the Sydney Opera House's 40th anniversary.

Our friends at Tellart in Boston brought over a pair of street binoculars, the kind you might find on the Empire State Building, and they fitted them with 360-degree views of other iconic world heritage sights -- 

using Street View.

And then we stuck them under the steps.

So, they became this very physical, simple reappropriation, or like a portal to these other icons.

So you might see Versailles or Shackleton's Hut.

Basically, it's virtual reality circa 1955. 

In our office we use hacky sacks to exchange URLs.

This is incredibly simple, it's like your Opal card.

You basically put a website on the little chip in here, and then you do this and ... bosh!

It's about 10 cents. 

As you can see, we're at the cardboard stage with this one. 

And we hope to have something like this working by the end of the year. 

Humans love information.

Humans need simple tools.

You may feel uncomfortable about the age of information that we're moving into.

It's a really extraordinary period of human history. 

And although it may seem inevitable, that what the public wants is watches and websites and widgets, maybe we could give a bit of thought to cork and light and hacky sacks. 

Thank you very much. 

