A few years ago, with my colleague, Emmanuelle Charpentier, I invented a new technology for editing genomes.

It's called CRISPR-Cas9.

The CRISPR technology allows scientists to make changes to the DNA in cells that could allow us to cure genetic disease. 

You might be interested to know that the CRISPR technology came about through a basic research project that was aimed at discovering how bacteria fight viral infections.

So, many bacteria have in their cells an adaptive immune system called CRISPR, that allows them to detect viral DNA and destroy it. 

The CRISPR technology has already been used to change the DNA in the cells of mice and monkeys, other organisms as well.

Chinese scientists showed recently that they could even use the CRISPR technology to change genes in human embryos.

And scientists in Philadelphia showed they could use CRISPR to remove the DNA of an integrated HIV virus from infected human cells. 

What I want to do now is tell you what the CRISPR technology is, what it can do, where we are today and why I think we need to take a prudent path forward in the way that we employ this technology. 

When viruses infect a cell, they inject their DNA.

And these integrated bits of viral DNA get inserted at a site called CRISPR.

It's a mechanism that allows cells to record, over time, the viruses they have been exposed to.

RNA is a chemical cousin of DNA, and it allows interaction with DNA molecules that have a matching sequence. 

It searches through all of the DNA in the cell, to find sites that match the sequences in the bound RNAs.

It makes a very precise break.

That's sort of analogous to the way that we use a word-processing program to fix a typo in a document. 

So if we have a way to introduce double-stranded breaks into DNA at precise places, we can trigger cells to repair those breaks, by either the disruption or incorporation of new genetic information.

So if we were able to program the CRISPR technology to make a break in DNA at the position at or near a mutation causing cystic fibrosis, for example, we could trigger cells to repair that mutation. 

Genome engineering is actually not new, it's been in development since the 1970s.

We've had technologies for sequencing DNA, for copying DNA, and even for manipulating DNA.

So, the opportunity to take a technology like CRISPR and utilize it has appeal, because of its relative simplicity.

Right now, a lot of the work that's going on applies to animal models of human disease, such as mice.

The technology is being used to make very precise changes that allow us to study the way that these changes in the cell's DNA affect either a tissue or, in this case, an entire organism. 

And when we sequence the DNA from these animals, we find that the change in the DNA has occurred at exactly the place where we induced it, using the CRISPR technology. 

We also want to understand better how to control the way that DNA is repaired after it's cut, and also to figure out how to control and limit any kind of off-target, or unintended effects of using the technology. 

And because of the excitement around this technology, there's a lot of interest in start-up companies that have been founded to commercialize the CRISPR technology, and lots of venture capitalists that have been investing in these companies. 

But we have to also consider that the CRISPR technology can be used for things like enhancement.

"Designer humans," if you will.

Right now, the genetic information to understand what types of genes would give rise to these traits is mostly not known.

But it's important to know that the CRISPR technology gives us a tool to make such changes, once that knowledge becomes available. 

So, genome-engineered humans are not with us yet, but this is no longer science fiction.

Genome-engineered animals and plants are happening right now.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Jennifer, this is a technology with huge consequences, as you pointed out.

Your attitude about asking for a pause or a moratorium or a quarantine is incredibly responsible.

This is one of the latest issues of The Economist -- "Editing humanity."

It's all about genetic enhancement, it's not about therapeutics.

What kind of reactions did you get back in March from your colleagues in the science world, when you asked or suggested that we should actually pause this for a moment and think about it? 

Jennifer Doudna: My colleagues were actually, I think, delighted to have the opportunity to discuss this openly.

It's interesting that as I talk to people, my scientific colleagues as well as others, there's a wide variety of viewpoints about this.

So clearly it's a topic that needs careful consideration and discussion. 

BG: There's a big meeting happening in December that you and your colleagues are calling, together with the National Academy of Sciences and others, what do you hope will come out of the meeting, practically? 

JD: Well, I hope that we can air the views of many different individuals and stakeholders who want to think about how to use this technology responsibly.

It may not be possible to come up with a consensus point of view, but I think we should at least understand what all the issues are as we go forward. 

Is there a possible split happening in the science community about this?

I mean, are we going to see some people holding back because they have ethical concerns, and some others just going forward because some countries under-regulate or don't regulate at all? 

JD: Well, I think with any new technology, especially something like this, there are going to be a variety of viewpoints, and I think that's perfectly understandable.

I think that in the end, this technology will be used for human genome engineering, but I think to do that without careful consideration and discussion of the risks and potential complications would not be responsible. 

BG: There are a lot of technologies and other fields of science that are developing exponentially, pretty much like yours.

I'm thinking about artificial intelligence, autonomous robots and so on.

JD: Well, I think it's hard for scientists to get out of the laboratory.

Speaking for myself, it's a little bit uncomfortable to do that.

But I do think that being involved in the genesis of this really puts me and my colleagues in a position of responsibility.

BG: Jennifer, thanks for coming to TED. 

