And I could easily tell you that I was shaped by the jazz and hip hop that I grew up with, by the Ethiopian heritage of my ancestors, or by the 1980s pop on my childhood radio stations.

I'm going to start today with nature, but before we do that, let's quickly listen to this snippet of an opera singer warming up.

Here it is. 

It's beautiful, isn't it?

Gotcha!

Let's listen to the full-speed recording. 

Now, let's hear the two of them together so your brain can juxtapose them. 

It's incredible.

Perhaps the techniques of opera singing were inspired by birdsong.

As humans, we intuitively understand birds to be our musical teachers. 

In Ethiopia, birds are considered an integral part of the origin of music itself.

One by one, these birds became his teachers.

They taught him music -- scales, in fact.

And he used these scales to compose and to create an indigenous musical notation system.

And these scales evolved into what is known as kiñit, the unique, pentatonic, five-note, modal system that is very much alive and thriving and still evolving in Ethiopia today. 

Now, I love this story because it's true at multiple levels.

Saint Yared was a real, historical figure, and the natural world can be our musical teacher.

And countless works of music were inspired by bird and forest song.

Yes, the natural world can be our cultural teacher. 

So let's go now to the uniquely human world of language.

As an Ethiopian-American woman, I grew up around the language of Amharic, Amhariña.

But there's also this melodicism, a musicality built right in.

Take, for example, the word: "indey."

It kind of depends on the situation.

It has a melody.

You can almost see the shape as it springs from someone's mouth.

"Indey" -- it dips, and then raises again.

And as a musician and composer, when I hear that word, something like this is floating through my mind. 

And in both of those cases, what I did was I took the melody and the phrasing of those words and phrases and I turned them into musical parts to use in these short compositions.

And I like to write bass lines, so they both ended up kind of as bass lines. 

And this score has not a single note written and there is not a single note played for four minutes and 33 seconds.

And controversial though it was, and even controversial though it remains, Cage's point is that there is no such thing as true silence.

Even in the most silent environments, we still hear and feel the sound of our own heartbeats.

The world is alive with musical expression.

We are already immersed. 

And it stopped me cold.

I thought, "What a weird, cool swing that cooking pan lid has."

Now, John Cage wasn't instructing musicians to mine the soundscape for sonic textures to turn into music.

He was saying that on its own, the environment is musically generative, that it is generous, that it is fertile, that we are already immersed. 

We can add to the soundtrack, but it's already playing. 

And it doesn't mean don't study music.

Study music, trace your sonic lineages and enjoy that exploration.

But there is a kind of sonic lineage to which we all belong.

When seeking melodic inspiration, look no further than dawn and dusk avian orchestras or to the natural lilt of emphatic language.

Thank you. 

