So this right here is the tiny village of Elle, close to Lista.

It's right at the southernmost tip of Norway.

And on January 2 this year, an elderly guy who lives in the village, he went out to see what was cast ashore during a recent storm.

And on a patch of grass right next to the water's edge, he found a wetsuit.

It was grey and black, and he thought it looked cheap.

Out of each leg of the wetsuit there were sticking two white bones.

It was clearly the remains of a human being. 

And usually, in Norway, dead people are identified quickly.

So they ran a DNA profile, and they started searching internationally through Interpol.

Nothing.

This was a person that nobody seemed to be missing.

It was an invisible life heading for a nameless grave.

But then, after a month, the police in Norway got a message from the police in the Netherlands.

A couple of months earlier, they had found a body, in an identical wetsuit, and they had no idea who this person was.

But this was all they were able to figure out.

The customer paid cash.

There was no surveillance footage from the shop.

So it became a cold case. 

It's the spot in continental Europe closest to Britain, and a lot of migrants and refugees are staying in this camp and are trying desperately to cross over to Britain.

And right there was a plausible theory about the identity of the two people, and the police made this theory as well.

Well, if you disappear one day, nobody will notice.

The police won't come search for you because nobody knows you're gone. 

And this is what happened to Shadi Omar Kataf and Mouaz Al Balkhi from Syria. 

It is a story about the fact that everybody has a name, everybody has a story, everybody is someone.

But it is also a story about what it's like to be a refugee in Europe today. 

So you have 60 million refugees globally.

About half a million have made the crossing over the Mediterranean into Europe so far this year, and roughly 4,000 are staying in Calais.

And first, I want to tell you about one of them.

This is 22-year-old Mouaz Al Balkhi from Syria.

We first heard about him after being in Calais the first time looking for answers to the theory of the two dead bodies.

And after a while, we heard this story about a Syrian man who was living in Bradford in England, and had been desperately searching for his nephew Mouaz for months.

And it turned out the last time anybody had heard anything from Mouaz was October 7, 2014.

That was the same date the wetsuits were bought.

The analysis concluded the body who was found in a wetsuit on a beach in the Netherlands was actually Mouaz Al Balkhi.

And while we were doing all this investigation, we got to know Mouaz's story.

He was born in the Syrian capital of Damascus in 1991.

He was raised in a middle class family, and his father in the middle there is a chemical engineer who spent 11 years in prison for belonging to the political opposition in Syria.

While his father was in prison, Mouaz took responsibility and he cared for his three sisters.

They said he was that kind of guy.

Mouaz studied to become an electrical engineer at the University of Damascus. 

So he goes to Turkey. 

We know he made at least 12 failed attempts to cross the English Channel by hiding in a truck.

But at some point, he must have given up all hope.

The last night we know he was alive, he spent at a cheap hotel close to the train station in Dunkirk.

We found his name in the records, and he seems to have stayed there alone.

The day after, he went into Calais, entered a sports shop a couple of minutes before 8 o'clock in the evening, along with Shadi Kataf.

They both bought wetsuits, and the woman in the shop was the last person we know of to have seen them alive.

We have tried to figure out where Shadi met Mouaz, but we weren't able to do that.

But they do have a similar story.

We first heard about Shadi after a cousin of his, living in Germany, had read an Arabic translation of the story made of Mouaz on Facebook.

So we got in touch with him.

Shadi, a couple of years older than Mouaz, was also raised in Damascus.

He was a working kind of guy.

He ran a tire repair shop and later worked in a printing company.

He lived with his extended family, but their house got bombed early in the war.

So the family fled to an area of Damascus known as Camp Yarmouk. 

Yarmouk is being described as the worst place to live on planet Earth.

They've been bombed by the military, they've been besieged, they've been stormed by ISIS and they've been cut off from supplies for years.

There was a UN official who visited last year, and he said, "They ate all the grass so there was no grass left."

Out of a population of 150,000, only 18,000 are believed to still be left in Yarmouk.

Shadi and his sisters got out.

The parents are still stuck inside. 

So Shadi and one of his sisters, they fled to Libya.

And in this last remaining sort of stability in Libya, Shadi took up scuba diving, and he seemed to spend most of his time underwater.

Reality was not that easy.

And by the end of September, he was living on the streets somewhere in France.

His cousin, of course, tried to warn him not to, but Shadi's battery on the phone went flat, and his phone was never switched on again.

What was left of Shadi was found nearly three months later, 800 kilometers away in a wetsuit on a beach in Norway.

He's still waiting for his funeral in Norway, and none of his family will be able to attend. 

And this is all within our reach pretty easily. 

Thank you. 

BG: That's an editor taking responsibility.

The story, by the way, has been translated and published across several European countries, and certainly will continue to do.

