We all go to doctors.

And we do so with trust and blind faith that the test they are ordering and the medications they're prescribing are based upon evidence -- evidence that's designed to help us.

However, the reality is that that hasn't always been the case for everyone.

What if I told you that the medical science discovered over the past century has been based on only half the population? 

I'm an emergency medicine doctor.

Why would we?

We were never taught that there were any differences between men and women. 

A recent Government Accountability study revealed that 80 percent of the drugs withdrawn from the market are due to side effects on women.

So let's think about that for a minute.

Why are we discovering side effects on women only after a drug has been released to the market?

Do you know that it takes years for a drug to go from an idea to being tested on cells in a laboratory, to animal studies, to then clinical trials on humans, finally to go through a regulatory approval process, to be available for your doctor to prescribe to you?

Not to mention the millions and billions of dollars of funding it takes to go through that process.

So why are we discovering unacceptable side effects on half the population after that has gone through?

What's happening? 

How is it that the male model became our framework for medical research?

And then they're drowsy and they're getting behind the wheel of the car, and they're at risk for motor vehicle accidents.

How many other things need to be analyzed by gender?

What else are we missing? 

So some much-needed guidelines or rules were set into place, and part of that was this desire to protect women of childbearing age from entering into any medical research studies.

Not to mention, at this time, there was a general assumption that men and women were alike in every way, apart from their reproductive organs and sex hormones.

What did this do to the notion of women's health?

It's this term we now refer to as "bikini medicine."

And this stayed this way until about the 1980s, when this concept was challenged by the medical community and by the public health policymakers when they realized that by excluding women from all medical research studies we actually did them a disservice, in that apart from reproductive issues, virtually nothing was known about the unique needs of the female patient. 

Since that time, an overwhelming amount of evidence has come to light that shows us just how different men and women are in every way.

And we say that to remind ourselves that children actually have a different physiology than normal adults.

And it's because of this that the medical specialty of pediatrics came to light.

And we now conduct research on children in order to improve their lives.

And I know the same thing can be said about women.

Women are not just men with boobs and tubes.

But they have their own anatomy and physiology that deserves to be studied with the same intensity. 

Let's take the cardiovascular system, for example.

This area in medicine has done the most to try to figure out why it seems men and women have completely different heart attacks.

And we call this typical.

And so what is some of the evidence to help explain some of these differences?

And then if we think about the medications -- common medications that we use, like aspirin.

What this is doing is merely telling us that we are scratching the surface.

Emergency medicine is a fast-paced business.

In how many life-saving areas of medicine, like cancer and stroke, are there important differences between men and women that we could be utilizing?

The Institute of Medicine has said every cell has a sex.

What does this mean?

Sex is DNA.

Gender is how someone presents themselves in society.

It used to be thought that those sex-determining chromosomes pictured here -- XY if you're male, XX if you're female -- merely determined whether you would be born with ovaries or testes, and it was the sex hormones that those organs produced that were responsible for the differences we see in the opposite sex.

Right now.

That's a big job.

It's changing the way medical training has been done since its inception. 

But I believe in them.

I know they're going to see the value of incorporating the gender lens into the current curriculum.

It's about training the future health care providers correctly.

We've created a 360-degree model of education.

We have programs for the doctors, for the nurses, for the students and for the patients.

Because this cannot just be left up to the health care leaders.

We all have a role in making a difference.

But I must warn you: this is not easy.

In fact, it's hard.

It's essentially changing the way we think about medicine and health and research.

It's changing our relationship to the health care system.

But there's no going back.

We now know just enough to know that we weren't doing it right. 

And the first step towards change is awareness.

This is not just about improving medical care for women.

This is about personalized, individualized health care for everyone.

This awareness has the power to transform medical care for men and women.

And from now on, I want you to ask your doctors whether the treatments you are receiving are specific to your sex and gender.

Thank you. 

