In the next decade?

And here they are: these goals are the product of a massive consultation exercise.

The Global Goals are who we, humanity, want to be. 

Can this vision for a better world really be achieved?

Well, I'm here today because we've run the numbers, and the answer, shockingly, is that maybe we actually can.

But not with business as usual. 

Now, the idea that the world is going to get a better place may seem a little fanciful.

But please, I invite you to suspend your disbelief for just a moment.

The target was to take from a baseline of 1990, when 36 percent of the world's population lived in poverty, to get to 18 percent poverty this year. 

Did we hit this target?

This year, global poverty is going to fall to 12 percent.

But the pessimists and doomsayers who say that the world can't get better are simply wrong. 

So how did we achieve this success?

Well, a lot of it was because of economic growth.

So can we pull off the same trick again?

Can economic growth get us to the Global Goals?

Over 17 goals, there are then 169 targets and literally hundreds of indicators.

So to help us with this benchmarking, I'm going to use a tool called the Social Progress Index.

Secondly, does everyone have the building blocks of a better life: education, information, health and a sustainable environment?

And does everyone have the opportunity to improve their lives, through rights, freedom of choice, freedom from discrimination, and access to the world's most advanced knowledge? 

And what we find is that there's a wide diversity of performance in the world today.

That's where we are today: 61 out of 100.

So there's our target, 75 out of 100.

Can we get there? 

And what that lets us do is understand the relationship between economic growth and social progress. 

Let me show you on this chart.

So here on the vertical axis, I've put social progress, the stuff the Global Goals are trying to achieve.

Higher is better.

However, as we get richer, each extra dollar of GDP is buying us less and less social progress.

We have a social progress score of 61 and a GDP per capita of $14,000.

And the place we're trying to get to, remember, is 75, that Global Goals target.

That's what we need to know next.

Now this seems a bit strange.

Well, I think there are two things.

The first is that in a way, we're the victims of our own success.

We've used up the easy wins from economic growth, and now we're moving on to harder problems.

And also, we know that economic growth comes with costs as well as benefits.

There are costs to the environment, costs from new health problems like obesity. 

We're not going to get to the Global Goals just by getting richer. 

So are the pessimists right? 

Well, maybe not.

Because the Social Progress Index also has some very good news.

Let me take you back to that regression line.

But as you saw already, there is actually lots of noise around this trend line. 

We have countries that are underperforming on social progress, relative to their wealth.

Russia has lots of natural resource wealth, but lots of social problems.

India has a space program and millions of people without toilets.

Now, on the other hand, we have countries that are overperforming on social progress relative to their GDP.

And Costa Rica's not alone.

From poor countries like Rwanda to richer countries like New Zealand, we see that it's possible to get lots of social progress, even if your GDP is not so great. 

And that's really important, because it tells us two things.

It also tells us that we're not slaves to GDP.

Well, let's look at some numbers.

What we know already: the world today is scoring 61 on social progress, and the place we want to get to is 75.

If we rely on economic growth alone, we're going to get to 62.4.

It's a bit better, but still quite a long way to go.

Well then, we get to 67.

And now let's be even bolder still.

Can we achieve the Global Goals?

Certainly not with business as usual.

If we're going to achieve the Global Goals we have to do things differently.

We have to prioritize social progress, and really scale solutions around the world.

And I want to finish by showing you a way to do that, called the People's Report Card.

Our world today is scoring a C-.

Let's choose the world that we want. 

Thank you. 

Now the new Global Goals are explicitly universal.

They ask for every country to show action and to show progress.

And every country is going to have challenges in getting to the Global Goals.

Even, I'm sorry to say, Bruno, Switzerland has got to work to do.

Then we can really see, how are we doing?

And it's not going to be rich countries scoring straight A's.

BG: Thank you very much. 

BG: Thank you very much. 

