Can we, as adults, grow new nerve cells?

There's still some confusion about that question, as this is a fairly new field of research.

So Robert, you know, being the good doctor that he is, wanted to come to my lab to understand the topic a little bit better.

So this is this gray structure in the center of the brain.

And what we've known already for very long, is that this is important for learning, memory, mood and emotion.

However, what we have learned more recently is that this is one of the unique structures of the adult brain where new neurons can be generated.

And if we slice through the hippocampus and zoom in, what you actually see here in blue is a newborn neuron in an adult mouse brain.

But by the time we turn 50, we will have all exchanged the neurons we were born with in that structure with adult-born neurons. 

So why are these new neurons important and what are their functions?

First, we know that they're important for learning and memory.

And in the lab we have shown that if we block the ability of the adult brain to produce new neurons in the hippocampus, then we block certain memory abilities.

And this is especially new and true for spatial recognition -- so like, how you navigate your way in the city. 

We are still learning a lot, and neurons are not only important for memory capacity, but also for the quality of the memory.

And more interesting to my colleague Robert is the research we have been doing on neurogenesis and depression.

So in an animal model of depression, we have seen that we have a lower level of neurogenesis.

But moreover, if you just block neurogenesis, then you block the efficacy of the antidepressant.

So by then, Robert had understood that very likely his patients were suffering from depression even after being cured of their cancer, because the cancer drug had stopped newborn neurons from being generated.

And it will take time to generate new neurons that reach normal functions. 

So the next question is: can we control neurogenesis?

The answer is yes.

And we are now going to do a little quiz.

I'm going to give you a set of behaviors and activities, and you tell me if you think they will increase neurogenesis or if they will decrease neurogenesis.

Are we ready?

OK, let's go. 

So what about learning?

Increasing?

Yes.

Learning will increase the production of these new neurons. 

How about sleep deprivation?

Indeed, it will decrease neurogenesis. 

How about sex?

Oh, wow! 

Yes, you are right, it will increase the production of new neurons.

about too much sex leading to sleep deprivation. 

How about getting older?

And then finally, how about running?

I will let you judge that one by yourself. 

And here you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had no running wheel in its cage.

And the little black dots you see are actually newborn neurons-to-be.

And now, you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had a running wheel in its cage.

So you see the massive increase of the black dots representing the new neurons-to-be. 

So activity impacts neurogenesis, but that's not all.

What you eat will have an effect on the production of new neurons in the hippocampus.

So here we have a sample of diet -- of nutrients that have been shown to have efficacy.

Intermittent fasting -- spacing the time between your meals -- will increase neurogenesis.

Intake of flavonoids, which are contained in dark chocolate or blueberries, will increase neurogenesis.

Omega-3 fatty acids, present in fatty fish, like salmon, will increase the production of these new neurons.

Conversely, a diet rich in high saturated fat will have a negative impact on neurogenesis.

Ethanol -- intake of alcohol -- will decrease neurogenesis.

So next time you are at a dinner party, you might want to reach for this possibly "neurogenesis-neutral" drink. 

So all of this data, where we need to look at the cellular level, has been generated using animal models.

On our side -- neuroscientists interested in neurogenesis -- we need to understand better the function of these new neurons, and how we can control their survival and their production.

We also need to find a way to protect the neurogenesis of Robert's patients.

And on your side -- I leave you in charge of your neurogenesis. 

Thank you. 

Margaret Heffernan: Fantastic research, Sandrine.

Sandrine Thuret: Very good. 

Or is it really just about aerobic exercise, getting oxygen to the brain?

Could it be any kind of vigorous exercise? 

MH: So I don't have to get a running wheel in my office? 

