Two twin domes, two radically opposed design cultures.

One is made of thousands of steel parts, the other of a single silk thread.

One is synthetic, the other organic.

One is imposed on the environment, the other creates it.

One is designed for nature, the other is designed by her. 

Michelangelo said that when he looked at raw marble, he saw a figure struggling to be free.

The chisel was Michelangelo's only tool.

But living things are not chiseled.

They grow.

And in our smallest units of life, our cells, we carry all the information that's required for every other cell to function and to replicate. 

Tools also have consequences.

At least since the Industrial Revolution, the world of design has been dominated by the rigors of manufacturing and mass production.

But you don't find homogenous material assemblies in nature.

Take human skin, for example.

Our facial skins are thin with large pores.

Our back skins are thicker, with small pores.

These two worldviews, my left brain and right brain, analysis and synthesis, will play out on the two screens behind me.

Why was this not possible 10 or even five years ago?

This helmet combines stiff and soft materials in 20-micron resolution.

This is the resolution of a human hair.

Its surface, as in nature, varies its functionality not by adding another material or another assembly, but by continuously and delicately varying material property. 

But is nature ideal?

Are there no parts in nature?

The whole tree was a fruit.

Instead, the land grew trees that have bark and stems and flowers.

The land created a world made of parts.

We thought if we could tune its properties, we could generate structures that are multifunctional out of a single part.

So that's what we did.

We called Legal Seafood -- 

In order to print the structures in large scale, we built a robotically controlled extrusion system with multiple nozzles.

When the parts are ready, they're left to dry and find a form naturally upon contact with air.

So why are we still designing with plastics?

A fruit-bearing fruit tree.

Working with an ancient material, one of the first lifeforms on the planet, plenty of water and a little bit of synthetic biology, we were able to transform a structure made of shrimp shells into an architecture that behaves like a tree.

The setting for our next exploration using the same design principles was the solar system.

To do that, we needed to contain bacteria and be able to control their flow.

It's called microfluidics.

We 3D-printed our own channels in order to control the flow of these liquid bacterial cultures.

In our first piece of clothing, we combined two microorganisms.

And the second, E. coli, the bacterium that inhabits the human gut.

One converts light into sugar, the other consumes that sugar and produces biofuels useful for the built environment.

Now, these two microorganisms never interact in nature.

In fact, they never met each other.

They've been here, engineered for the first time, to have a relationship inside a piece of clothing.

Where we wanted more photosynthesis, we would design more transparent channels.

This wearable digestive system, when it's stretched end to end, spans 60 meters.

This is half the length of a football field, and 10 times as long as our small intestines.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

What if we could create structures that would augment living matter?

What if we could create personal microbiomes that would scan our skins, repair damaged tissue and sustain our bodies?

Think of this as a form of edited biology.

I call this material ecology. 

To do this, we always need to return back to nature.

By now, you know that a 3D printer prints material in layers.

No additive manufacturing today gets even close to this level of sophistication.

It does so by combining not two materials, but two proteins in different concentrations.

One acts as the structure, the other is the glue, or the matrix, holding those fibers together.

And this happens across scales.

Tension and compression, the two forces of life, manifested in a single material. 

We realized that designing these templates allowed us to give shape to raw silk without boiling a single cocoon. 

They would healthily metamorphisize, and we would be able to create these things. 

So we scaled this process up to architectural scale.

We had a robot spin the template out of silk, and we placed it on our site.

We then created holes, or apertures, that would lock in the rays of light and heat, distributing those silkworms on the structure. 

We were ready to receive the caterpillars.

We ordered 6,500 silkworms from an online silk farm.

And after four weeks of feeding, they were ready to spin with us.

Bucky Fuller said that tension is the great integrity, and he was right.

As they spin biological silk over robotically spun silk, they give this entire pavilion its integrity.

And over two to three weeks, 6,500 silkworms spin 6,500 kilometers.

In a curious symmetry, this is also the length of the Silk Road.

The moths, after they hatch, produce 1.5 million eggs.

This could be used for 250 additional pavilions for the future. 

So here they are, the two worldviews.

One spins silk out of a robotic arm, the other fills in the gaps. 

If the final frontier of design is to breathe life into the products and the buildings around us, to form a two-material ecology, then designers must unite these two worldviews.

Which brings us back, of course, to the beginning.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

