Over our lifetimes, we've all contributed to climate change.

Actions, choices and behaviors will have led to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.

And I think that that's quite a powerful thought.

But it does have the potential to make us feel guilty when we think about decisions we might have made around where to travel to, how often and how, about the energy that we choose to use in our homes or in our workplaces, or quite simply the lifestyles that we lead and enjoy.

We can either choose to start to take climate change seriously, and significantly cut and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions, and then we will have to adapt to less of the climate change impacts in future.

But if we do that, we are also choosing to adapt to very much more powerful climate impacts in future.

And not only that.

But the choice that we don't have is a no climate change future. 

That's the temperature that's associated with dangerous impacts across a range of different indicators, to humans and to the environment.

But dangerous climate change can be subjective.

But if that exact same weather event happens in a part of the world where there is poor infrastructure, or where people are not well-insured, or they're not having good support networks, then that same climate change impact could be devastating.

And what's immediately striking about this is that emissions have been growing exponentially.

If we focus in on a shorter period of time from 1950, we have established in 1988 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, then rolling on a few years, in 2009 we had the Copenhagen Accord, where it established avoiding a two-degree temperature rise in keeping with the science and on the basis of equity.

And then in 2012, we had the Rio+20 event.

Now, let's just pause for a moment and think about this four-degree global average temperature.

Now, because the sea has a greater thermal inertia than the land, the average temperatures over land are actually going to be higher than they are over the sea.

The second thing is that we as human beings don't experience global average temperatures.

So now put yourself in a city center.

Imagine somewhere in the world: Mumbai, Beijing, New York, London.

It's the hottest day that you've ever experienced.

And the problem with these extremes, and not just the temperature extremes, but also the extremes in terms of storms and other climate impacts, is our infrastructure is just not set up to deal with these sorts of events.

So our roads and our rail networks have been designed to last for a long time and withstand only certain amounts of impacts in different parts of the world.

Our power stations are expected to be cooled by water to a certain temperature to remain effective and resilient.

And our buildings are designed to be comfortable within a particular temperature range.

And this is all going to be significantly challenged under a four-degree-type scenario.

Our infrastructure has not been designed to cope with this. 

So if we go back, also thinking about four degrees, it's not just the direct impacts, but also some indirect impacts.

So if we take food security, for example.

Maize and wheat yields in some parts of the world are expected to be up to 40 percent lower under a four-degree scenario, rice up to 30 percent lower.

This will be absolutely devastating for global food security.

So all in all, the kinds of impacts anticipated under this four-degree centigrade scenario are going to be incompatible with global organized living. 

So back to our trajectories and our graphs of four degrees and two degrees.

Is it reasonable still to focus on the two-degree path?

But we really need to get to grips with the numbers to work out how to do it. 

And that's because of cumulative emissions, or the carbon budget.

It will accumulate, and greenhouse gases tend to be cumulative.

And that tells us something about these trajectories.

First of all, it tells us that it's the area under these curves that matter, not where we reach at a particular date in future.

And that's important, because it doesn't matter if we come up with some amazing whiz-bang technology to sort out our energy problem on the last day of 2049, just in the nick of time to sort things out.

So in other words, if we don't reduce emissions in the short to medium term, then we'll have to make more significant year-on-year emission reductions.

We also know that we have to decarbonize our energy system.

But if we don't start to cut emissions in the short to medium term, then we will have to do that even sooner.

So this poses really big challenges for us. 

The other thing it does is tells us something about energy policy.

If you live in a part of the world where per capita emissions are already high, it points us towards reducing energy demand.

And that's because with all the will in the world, the large-scale engineering infrastructure that we need to roll out rapidly to decarbonize the supply side of our energy system is just simply not going to happen in time.

Another issue that we really need to grapple with is the issue of well-being and equity.

There are many parts of the world where the standard of living needs to rise.

The economist Nicholas Stern said that emission reductions of more than one percent per year had only ever been associated with economic recession or upheaval.

This is a really difficult message to take, because what it suggests is that we really need to do things differently.

This is about doing things differently, about whole system change, and sometimes it's about doing less things.

Because we really need to make significant change.

At the moment, we're choosing a four-degree scenario.

If we really want to avoid the two-degree scenario, there really is no time like the present to act. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Alice, basically what you're saying, the talk is, unless wealthy nations start cutting 10 percent per year the emissions now, this year, not in 2020 or '25, we are going to go straight to the four-plus-degree scenario.

I am wondering what's your take on the cut by 70 percent for 2070. 

Alice Bows-Larkin: Yeah, it's just nowhere near enough to avoid two degrees.

One of the things that often -- when there are these modeling studies that look at what we need to do, is they tend to hugely overestimate how quickly other countries in the world can start to reduce emissions.

So they make kind of heroic assumptions about that.

The more we do that, because it's the cumulative emissions, the short-term stuff that really matters.

So it does make a huge difference.

If a big country like China, for example, continues to grow even for just a few extra years, that will make a big difference to when we need to decarbonize.

So I don't think we can even say when it will be, because it all depends on what we have to do in the short term.

But I think we've just got huge scope, and we don't pull those levers that allow us to reduce the energy demand, which is a shame. 

BG: Alice, thank you for coming to TED and sharing this data. 

