Raise your hand if you've ever been asked the question "What do you want to be when you grow up?"

Now if you had to guess, how old would you say you were when you were first asked this question?

Any anxiety at all. 

I'm someone who's never been able to answer the question "What do you want to be when you grow up?"

Maybe you've heard of us. 

The first was that I wasn't sure how I was going to turn any of this into a career.

I thought that I would eventually have to pick one thing, deny all of my other passions, and just resign myself to being bored.

The other reason it caused me so much anxiety was a little bit more personal.

If you can relate to my story and to these feelings, I'd like you to ask yourself a question that I wish I had asked myself back then.

And the truth is that no one really cares what you say when you're that age. 

Why? 

See, while this question inspires kids to dream about what they could be, it does not inspire them to dream about all that they could be.

This is Dr. Bob Childs -- 

and he's a luthier and psychotherapist.

And this is Amy Ng, a magazine editor turned illustrator, entrepreneur, teacher and creative director.

But most kids don't hear about people like this.

All they hear is that they're going to have to choose.

But it's more than that.

The notion of the narrowly focused life is highly romanticized in our culture.

But what if you're someone who isn't wired this way?

What if there are a lot of different subjects that you're curious about, and many different things you want to do?

Well, there is no room for someone like you in this framework.

And so you might feel alone.

You might feel like you don't have a purpose.

And you might feel like there's something wrong with you.

There's nothing wrong with you.

What you are is a multipotentialite. 

A multipotentialite is someone with many interests and creative pursuits.

It's a mouthful to say.

Actually, during the Renaissance period, it was considered the ideal to be well-versed in multiple disciplines.

Barbara Sher refers to us as "scanners."

Use whichever term you like, or invent your own.

I have to say I find it sort of fitting that as a community, we cannot agree on a single identity. 

It's easy to see your multipotentiality as a limitation or an affliction that you need to overcome.

But what I've learned through speaking with people and writing about these ideas on my website, is that there are some tremendous strengths to being this way.

Here are three multipotentialite super powers. 

One: idea synthesis.

That is, combining two or more fields and creating something new at the intersection.

Sha Hwang and Rachel Binx drew from their shared interests in cartography, data visualization, travel, mathematics and design, when they founded Meshu.

Meshu is a company that creates custom geographically-inspired jewelry.

Sha and Rachel came up with this unique idea not despite, but because of their eclectic mix of skills and experiences.

Innovation happens at the intersections.

That's where the new ideas come from.

And multipotentialites, with all of their backgrounds, are able to access a lot of these points of intersection. 

The second multipotentialite superpower is rapid learning.

When multipotentialites become interested in something, we go hard.

We observe everything we can get our hands on.

What's more, many skills are transferable across disciplines, and we bring everything we've learned to every new area we pursue, so we're rarely starting from scratch. 

Nora Dunn is a full-time traveler and freelance writer.

As a child concert pianist, she honed an incredible ability to develop muscle memory.

Now, she's the fastest typist she knows. 

Before becoming a writer, Nora was a financial planner.

You might apply that knowledge in a different field entirely, in a way that you couldn't have anticipated. 

Abe Cajudo is sometimes a video director, sometimes a web designer, sometimes a Kickstarter consultant, sometimes a teacher, and sometimes, apparently, James Bond. 

He's valuable because he does good work.

He's even more valuable because he can take on various roles, depending on his clients' needs.

Fast Company magazine identified adaptability as the single most important skill to develop in order to thrive in the 21st century.

The economic world is changing so quickly and unpredictably that it is the individuals and organizations that can pivot in order to meet the needs of the market that are really going to thrive. 

As a society, we have a vested interest in encouraging multipotentialites to be themselves.

Now, let's say that you are, in your heart, a specialist.

In fact, some of the best teams are comprised of a specialist and multipotentialite paired together.

The specialist can dive in deep and implement ideas, while the multipotentialite brings a breadth of knowledge to the project.

It's a beautiful partnership.

But we should all be designing lives and careers that are aligned with how we're wired.

And sadly, multipotentialites are largely being encouraged simply to be more like their specialist peers. 

But to the multipotentialites in the room, including those of you who may have just realized in the last 12 minutes that you are one -- 

And perhaps more importantly -- multipotentialites, the world needs us. 

Thank you. 

