Last year, I went on my first book tour.

In 13 months, I flew to 14 countries and gave some hundred talks.

Whenever I heard this opening sentence, no matter the country that concluded it -- England, America, Ghana, Nigeria -- I thought, "But that's not true."

Yes, I was born in England and grew up in the United States.

My mum, born in England, and raised in Nigeria, currently lives in Ghana.

For this reason, my introducers also called me "multinational."

"But Nike is multinational," I thought, "I'm a human being."

We were discussing the role of locality in writing, when suddenly it hit me.

I'm not multinational.

I'm not a national at all.

How could I come from a nation?

How can a human being come from a concept?

It's a question that had been bothering me for going on two decades.

In my lifetime, countries had disappeared -- Czechoslovakia; appeared -- Timor-Leste; failed -- Somalia.

My parents came from countries that didn't exist when they were born.

To me, a country -- this thing that could be born, die, expand, contract -- hardly seemed the basis for understanding a human being. 

And so it came as a huge relief to discover the sovereign state.

What we call countries are actually various expressions of sovereign statehood, an idea that came into fashion only 400 years ago.

When I learned this, beginning my masters degree in international relations, I felt a sort of surge of relief.

It was as I had suspected.

History was real, cultures were real, but countries were invented.

For the next 10 years, I sought to re- or un-define myself, my world, my work, my experience, beyond the logic of the state. 

Now, if I'm honest, I knew just what she meant.

I've got a friend named Layla who was born and raised in Ghana.

Her parents are third-generation Ghanians of Lebanese descent.

Layla, who speaks fluent Twi, knows Accra like the back of her hand, but when we first met years ago, I thought, "She's not from Ghana."

I, like my critics, was imagining some Ghana where all Ghanaians had brown skin or none held U.K. passports.

Speaking with Colum McCann that day, the penny finally dropped.

"All experience is local," he said.

"All identity is experience," I thought.

"I'm not a national," I proclaimed onstage.

See, "Taiye Selasi comes from the United States," isn't the truth.

I have no relationship with the United States, all 50 of them, not really.

My relationship is with Brookline, the town where I grew up; with New York City, where I started work; with Lawrenceville, where I spend Thanksgiving.

What makes America home for me is not my passport or accent, but these very particular experiences and the places they occur.

Despite my pride in Ewe culture, the Black Stars, and my love of Ghanaian food, I've never had a relationship with the Republic of Ghana, writ large.

These are the places that shape my experience.

My experience is where I'm from. 

This would tell us so much more about who and how similar we are.

Tell me you're from France, and I see what, a set of clichés?

Adichie's dangerous single story, the myth of the nation of France?

Tell me you're a local of Fez and Paris, better yet, Goutte d'Or, and I see a set of experiences.

Our experience is where we're from. 

So, where are you a local?

I propose a three-step test.

I call these the three "R’s": rituals, relationships, restrictions. 

What kind of rituals are these?

Where do they occur?

In what city or cities in the world do shopkeepers know your face?

As a child, I carried out fairly standard suburban rituals in Boston, with adjustments made for the rituals my mother brought from London and Lagos.

We took off our shoes in the house, we were unfailingly polite with our elders, we ate slow-cooked, spicy food.

In snowy North America, ours were rituals of the global South.

The first time I went to Delhi or to southern parts of Italy, I was shocked by how at home I felt.

The rituals were familiar.

"R" number one, rituals. 

Now, think of your relationships, of the people who shape your days.

My mother in Accra, my twin sister in Boston, my best friends in New York: these relationships are home for me.

"R" number two, relationships. 

By restrictions, I mean, where are you able to live?

What passport do you hold?

Are you restricted by, say, racism, from feeling fully at home where you live?

By civil war, dysfunctional governance, economic inflation, from living in the locality where you had your rituals as a child?

Rituals, relationships, restrictions. 

Take a piece of paper and put those three words on top of three columns, then try to fill those columns as honestly as you can.

A very different picture of your life in local context, of your identity as a set of experiences, may emerge. 

So let's try it.

Olu was born in Nuremberg and lived there until age 10.

When his family moved to Lagos, he studied in London, then came to Berlin.

Where is Olu from? 

I have another friend named Udo.

He's also 35 years old.

Udo studied in Buenos Aires, and nine years ago came to Berlin.

Where is Udo from?

With his blonde hair and blue eyes, Udo could pass for German, but holds an Argentinian passport, so needs a visa to live in Berlin.

Olu, who looks Nigerian, needs a visa to visit Nigeria.

He speaks Yoruba with an English accent, and English with a German one.

To claim that he's "not really Nigerian," though, denies his experience in Lagos, the rituals he practiced growing up, his relationship with family and friends. 

To say Olu is from Nigeria and Udo is from Argentina distracts from their common experience.

Their rituals, their relationships, and their restrictions are the same. 

Replacing the language of nationality with the language of locality asks us to shift our focus to where real life occurs.

Even that most glorious expression of countryhood, the World Cup, gives us national teams comprised mostly of multilocal players.

As a unit of measurement for human experience, the country doesn't quite work.

That's why Olu says, "I'm German, but my parents come from Nigeria."

"I'm a local of Lagos and Berlin," suggests overlapping experiences, layers that merge together, that can't be denied or removed.

You can take away my passport, but you can't take away my experience.

That I carry within me.

Where I'm from comes wherever I go. 

To be clear, I'm not suggesting that we do away with countries.

There's much to be said for national history, more for the sovereign state.

Culture exists in community, and community exists in context.

Geography, tradition, collective memory: these things are important.

What I'm questioning is primacy.

What are we really seeking, though, when we ask where someone comes from?

And what are we really seeing when we hear an answer? 

I'm with him.

To call one student American, another Pakistani, then triumphantly claim student body diversity ignores the fact that these students are locals of the same milieu.

The same holds true on the other end of the economic spectrum.

A Mexican gardener in Los Angeles and a Nepali housekeeper in Delhi have more in common in terms of rituals and restrictions than nationality implies. 

Perhaps my biggest problem with coming from countries is the myth of going back to them.

I'm often asked if I plan to "go back" to Ghana.

I go to Accra every year, but I can't "go back" to Ghana.

It's not because I wasn't born there.

My father can't go back, either.

The country in which he was born, that country no longer exists.

We can never go back to a place and find it exactly where we left it.

People. 

In creative writing, locality bespeaks humanity.

The myth of national identity and the vocabulary of coming from confuses us into placing ourselves into mutually exclusive categories.

In fact, all of us are multi -- multi-local, multi-layered.

To begin our conversations with an acknowledgement of this complexity brings us closer together, I think, not further apart.

Thank you. 

