In the year 1901, a woman called Auguste was taken to a medical asylum in Frankfurt.

Auguste was delusional and couldn't remember even the most basic details of her life.

Her doctor was called Alois.

Now here's the even more striking thing.

If Auguste had instead been alive today, we could offer her no more help than Alois was able to 114 years ago.

Since 1901, medicine has advanced greatly.

We've discovered antibiotics and vaccines to protect us from infections, many treatments for cancer, antiretrovirals for HIV, statins for heart disease and much more.

But we've made essentially no progress at all in treating Alzheimer's disease. 

I'm part of a team of scientists who has been working to find a cure for Alzheimer's for over a decade.

So I think about this all the time.

Alzheimer's now affects 40 million people worldwide.

If you're hoping to live to be 85 or older, your chance of getting Alzheimer's will be almost one in two.

In other words, odds are you'll spend your golden years either suffering from Alzheimer's or helping to look after a friend or loved one with Alzheimer's.

Already in the United States alone, Alzheimer's care costs 200 billion dollars every year.

One out of every five Medicare dollars get spent on Alzheimer's.

It may surprise you that, put simply, Alzheimer's is one of the biggest medical and social challenges of our generation.

But we've done relatively little to address it.

Today, of the top 10 causes of death worldwide, Alzheimer's is the only one we cannot prevent, cure or even slow down.

For most of the past 114 years, everyone, including scientists, mistakenly confused Alzheimer's with aging.

We thought that becoming senile was a normal and inevitable part of getting old.

As well as triggering severe loss of memory and mental abilities, the damage to the brain caused by Alzheimer's significantly reduces life expectancy and is always fatal. 

Remember Dr. Alzheimer found strange plaques and tangles in Auguste's brain a century ago.

For almost a century, we didn't know much about these.

Today we know they're made from protein molecules.

You can imagine a protein molecule as a piece of paper that normally folds into an elaborate piece of origami.

There are spots on the paper that are sticky.

And when it folds correctly, these sticky bits end up on the inside.

But sometimes things go wrong, and some sticky bits are on the outside.

That's what we see in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. 

We've spent the past 10 years at the University of Cambridge trying to understand how this malfunction works.

There are many steps, and identifying which step to try to block is complex -- like defusing a bomb.

Cutting one wire might do nothing.

Cutting others might make the bomb explore.

We have to find the right step to block, and then create a drug that does it. 

Until recently, we for the most part have been cutting wires and hoping for the best.

Now let me show you some of our latest results.

And you can see they're clearly sick.

But if we give our new drugs to these worms at an early stage, then we see that they're healthy, and they live a normal lifespan.

This is just an initial positive result, but research like this shows us that Alzheimer's is a disease that we can understand and we can cure. 

But to grow that hope, to finally beat Alzheimer's, we need help.

We need you to raise awareness that Alzheimer's is a disease and that if we try, we can beat it.

Today, we see that same drive to beat cancer.

But Alzheimer's patients are often unable to speak up for themselves.

And their families, the hidden victims, caring for their loved ones night and day, are often too worn out to go out and advocate for change.

So, it really is down to you.

Alzheimer's isn't, for the most part, a genetic disease.

Everyone with a brain is at risk.

Thank you. 

