It's a show produced by murderers and shared around the world via the Internet.

Their names have become familiar: James Foley, Steven Sotloff, David Haines, Alan Henning, Peter Kassig, Haruna Yukawa, Kenji Goto Jogo. 

We don't do things like that.

But that's the irony.

But it is to do with us.

The Islamic State beheadings are not ancient or remote.

They're entirely dependent on the power of technology to connect us.

And whether we like it or not, everyone who watches is a part of the show. 

And lots of people watch.

We don't know exactly how many.

Obviously, it's difficult to calculate.

But a poll taken in the UK, for example, in August 2014, estimated that 1.2 million people had watched the beheading of James Foley in the few days after it was released.

And that's just the first few days, and just Britain.

A similar poll taken in the United States in November 2014 found that nine percent of those surveyed had watched beheading videos, and a further 23 percent had watched the videos but had stopped just before the death was shown.

Nine percent may be a small minority of all the people who could watch, but it's still a very large crowd.

Nick Berg's beheading quickly became one of the most searched for items on the Internet.

Within a day, it was the top search term across search engines like Google, Lycos, Yahoo.

In the week after Nick Berg's beheading, these were the top 10 search terms in the United States.

The al-Qaeda-linked website that first showed Nick Berg's beheading had to close down within a couple of days due to overwhelming traffic to the site.

One Dutch website owner said that his daily viewing figures rose from 300,000 to 750,000 every time a beheading in Iraq was shown.

A similar pattern was seen again and again when videos of beheadings were released during the Iraq War. 

As soon as the camera appeared on the scene, a full lifetime ago on June 17, 1939, it had an immediate and unequivocal effect. 

That day, the first film of a public beheading was created in France.

It was the execution, the guillotining, of a German serial killer, Eugen Weidmann, outside the prison Saint-Pierre in Versailles.

The camera may have made these scenes more accessible than ever before, but it's not just about the camera.

If we take a bigger leap back in history, we'll see that for as long as there have been public judicial executions and beheadings, there have been the crowds to see them.

And a beheading, which was a rare event in England at the time, attracted even more. 

In May 1820, five men known as the Cato Street Conspirators were executed in London for plotting to assassinate members of the British government.

They were hung and then decapitated.

It was a gruesome scene.

Each man's head was hacked off in turn and held up to the crowd.

People climbed lamp posts.

People had been known to have died in the crush on popular execution days. 

Evidence suggests that throughout our history of public beheadings and public executions, the vast majority of the people who come to see are either enthusiastic or, at best, unmoved.

Perhaps the most striking example of the human ability to watch a beheading and remain unmoved and even be disappointed was the introduction in France in 1792 of the guillotine, that famous decapitation machine.

To us in the 21st century, the guillotine may seem like a monstrous contraption, but to the first crowds who saw it, it was actually a disappointment.

They were used to seeing long, drawn-out, torturous executions on the scaffold, where people were mutilated and burned and pulled apart slowly.

To them, watching the guillotine in action, it was so quick, there was nothing to see.

The end of torturous public judicial executions in Europe and America was partly to do with being more humane towards the criminal, but it was also partly because the crowd obstinately refused to behave in the way that they should.

All too often, execution day was more like a carnival than a solemn ceremony. 

Take, for example, the incidents of suicide baiting.

One paper in 1981 found that in 10 out of 21 threatened suicide attempts, there was incidents of suicide baiting and jeering from a crowd.

And there have been incidents reported in the press this year.

This was a very widely reported incident in Telford and Shropshire in March this year. 

When it comes to brutal murderers who post their beheading videos, the Internet has created a new kind of crowd.

We feel less accountable for our actions when we interact online.

There's a sense of anonymity, a sense of invisibility, so we feel less accountable for our behavior.

The Internet also makes it far easier to stumble upon things inadvertently, things that we would usually avoid in everyday life.

All these things make it easier as an Internet user for us to give in to our sense of curiosity about death, to push our personal boundaries, to test our sense of shock, to explore our sense of shock. 

But we're not passive when we watch.

On the contrary, we're fulfilling the murderer's desire to be seen.

When the victim of a decapitation is bound and defenseless, he or she essentially becomes a pawn in their killer's show.

Unlike a trophy head that's taken in battle, that represents the luck and skill it takes to win a fight, when a beheading is staged, when it's essentially a piece of theater, the power comes from the reception the killer receives as he performs.

In other words, watching is very much part of the event.

The event no longer takes place in a single location at a certain point in time as it used to and as it may still appear to.

Now the event is stretched out in time and place, and everyone who watches plays their part. 

We should stop watching, but we know we won't.

Thank you. 

Thank you.

I was working on the cranial collections, and it just struck me as ironic that here were people coming to see this gory, primitive, savage culture that they were almost fantasizing about and creating without really understanding what they were seeing, and all the while these vast -- I mean hundreds of thousands of skulls in our museums, all across Europe and the States -- were kind of upholding this Enlightenment pursuit of scientific rationality.

So I wanted to kind of twist it round and say, "Let's look at us."

We're looking through the glass case at these shrunken heads.

Let's look at our own history and our own cultural fascination with these things.

BG: Thank you for sharing that. 

FL: Thank you. 

