So eight years ago, I got the worst career advice of my life.

And this is right about when I got this sage advice to build up my resume. 

Well, as I'm trying to figure out what two-story window I'm going to jump out of and change things up, I read some altogether different advice from Warren Buffett, and he said, "Taking jobs to build up your resume is the same as saving up sex for old age."

It was that I would ask one simple question.

I want to share those three with you, so we can use them as a lens for the rest of today and hopefully the rest of our life. 

And the thing is that no one is going to do this for us.

I mean, you spend more time picking out a dorm room TV set than you do you picking your major and your area of study.

And so the first step of our compass is finding out what our unique strengths are.

And the Strengths Finder 2.0 is a book and also an online tool.

I highly recommend it for sorting out what it is that you're naturally good at. 

And next, what's our framework or our hierarchy for making decisions?

Write down what it is about them that inspires you.

There's two reasons why people don't do things.

The things is, everyone was impossible until somebody did it.

Every invention, every new thing in the world, people thought were crazy at first.

And then what happened?

Two months later, 16 people broke the four-minute mile.

I'm terrified of deep, dark, blue water.

But anything above here, if it's murky, I can already feel it right now.

I swear there's something in there.

Anyway, three years ago I find myself on this tugboat right down here in the San Francisco Bay.

I'm going to try to swim across the Golden Gate.

And my guess is some people in this room might have done that before.

And of the 80 people swimming that day, 65 of them were between the ages of nine and 13.

And he's just flailing like this.

And he's barely able to sip some air before he slams his head back down.

And then all of a sudden they walk a few more feet and they plop him down in his wheelchair.

And he puts his fists up in the most insane show of victory I've ever seen.

I mean, where is he going to be in 20 years?

How many people told him he couldn't do that, that he would die if tried that? 

And the best way to do this is to surround yourself with passionate people.

The fastest things to do things you don't think can be done is to surround yourself with people already doing them. 

And he found that every time the cyclists in the group would cycle faster.

Has anyone ever had a hobby or a passion they poured their heart and soul into, unbelievable amount of time, and they so badly want to call it a business, but no one's paying attention and it doesn't make a dime?

Thank you guys for the support. 

And I got unbelievably inspired by seeing this, and instead of shutting it down, I decided, let's take it seriously.

And I did everything I could to spend my time, every waking hour possible trying to hound these guys, hanging out and having beers and workouts, whatever it was.

And after four years of zero growth, within six months of hanging around these people, the community at Live Your Legend grew by 10 times.

In another 12 months, it grew by 160 times.

And today over 30,000 people from 158 countries use our career and connection tools on a monthly basis.

And those people have made up that community of passionate folks who inspired that possibility that I dreamed of for Live Your Legend so many years back. 

And then I'm over here in San Francisco, and everyone around me was doing it.

It became normal, so my thinking went from how could I possibly do this to how could I possibly not.

And right then, when that happens, that switch goes on in your head, it ripples across your whole world.

Because this is the group of people that inspires possibility.

We have a whole day to spend together and plenty more. 

To sum things up, in terms of these three pillars, they all have one thing in common more than anything else.

They are 100 percent in our control.

No one can tell you you can't learn about yourself.

No one can tell you you can't push your limits and learn your own impossible and push that.

No one can tell you you can't surround yourself with inspiring people or get away from the people who bring you down.

And the thing is, it's starting to happen on a widespread level.

They thought this was an anomaly, but it's happened three months straight.

That's not a cliché anymore.

I don't care what it is that you're into, what passion, what hobby.

Everything was impossible until somebody did it.

You can either hang around the people who tell you it can't be done and tell you you're stupid for trying, or surround yourself with the people who inspire possibility, the people who are in this room.

And that's already starting to happen.

First, do the things that inspire us, so we can inspire other people to do the things that inspire them.

Because I imagine a world where 80 percent of people love the work they do.

Things would start to change. 

And it's what is the work you can't not do?

Thank you guys. 

