So here are a couple of sample questions. 

Number 12: If you could wake up tomorrow having gained any one quality or ability, what would it be? 

Number 28: When did you last cry in front of another person?

By yourself? 

As you can see, they really do get more personal as they go along. 

And I thought it made a good story, so I sent it to the Modern Love column a few months later. 

And this question is really what I want to talk about today.

But let's come back to it. 

So the week before the article came out, I was very nervous.

And that felt like a lot of attention on a relatively new relationship.

But as it turned out, I had no idea. 

It's one thing to work up the confidence to write honestly about your experiences with love, but it is another thing to discover that your love life has made international news -- 

and to realize that people across the world are genuinely invested in the status of your new relationship. 

They were from students and journalists and friendly strangers like this one.

I understand that this is part of the deal.

If you write about your relationship in an international newspaper, you should expect people to feel comfortable asking about it.

But I just wasn't prepared for the scope of the response.

The 36 questions seem to have taken on a life of their own.

So my first impulse in the face of all of this attention was to become very protective of my own relationship.

I said no to every request for the two of us to do a media appearance together.

I turned down TV interviews, and I said no to every request for photos of the two us.

But this was a question I didn't feel capable of answering.

My own relationship was only a few months old, and I felt like people were asking the wrong question in the first place.

What would knowing whether or not we were still together really tell them?

If the answer was no, would it make the experience of doing these 36 questions any less worthwhile?

Sounds romantic, doesn't it?

But the study did work.

I don't think this is the answer he was looking for.

In fact, I don't think this is the answer that any of us are looking for when it comes to love. 

So I turned to science.

I researched everything I could find about the science of romantic love, and I think I was hoping that it might somehow inoculate me from heartache.

I hoped that if I armed myself with the knowledge of romantic love, I might never have to feel as terrible and lonely as I did then.

So the story that the media told about the 36 questions was that there might be a shortcut to falling in love.

But falling in love is not the same thing as staying in love.

I want it to be enough to have asked and answered 36 questions, and to have chosen to love someone so generous and kind and fun and to have broadcast that choice in the biggest newspaper in America.

