I'm here to recruit men to support gender equality. 

I mean, the word gender is about women.

Actually, I'm even here speaking as a middle class white man. 

Now, I wasn't always a middle class white man.

So every week, 11 women and me got together. 

We would read some text in feminist theory and have a conversation about it.

And during one of our conversations, I witnessed an interaction that changed my life forever.

It was a conversation between two women.

One of the women was white, and one was black.

So she gives a guest lecture for me when I teach.

I give a guest lecture for her when she teaches.

All that semester, whenever my colleague opened her mouth, what my students saw was a woman.

That is mind-body dualism right there. 

So making gender visible to men is the first step to engaging men to support gender equality. 

I was on a TV talk show opposite four white men.

This is the beginning of the book I wrote, 'Angry White Men.'

And the reason I'm telling you this is I want you to hear the title of this particular show.

I want to know about the word 'my.'

Where did you get the idea it was your job?

It is called "the history of the world."

If you listen to what men say about what they want in their lives, gender equality is actually a way for us to get the lives we want to live. 

Gender equality is good for countries.

And that's not just because they're all in Europe. 

Even within Europe, those countries that are more gender equal also have the highest levels of happiness. 

It is also good for companies.

They have an easier time recruiting.

And the other thing is, it's good for men.

I was talking, to give you an illustration of this change -- Some of you may remember this.

When I was a lot younger, there was a riddle that was posed to us.

Some of you may wince to remember this riddle.

This riddle went something like this. 

We were flummoxed by this.

We could not figure this out. 

Well, I decided to do a little experiment with my 16-year old son.

Younger men today expect to be able to balance work and family.

They want to be dual-career, dual-carer couples.

They want to be able to balance work and family with their partners.

They want to be involved fathers. 

Data from psychologists and sociologists are quite persuasive here.

I think we have the persuasive numbers, the data, to prove to men that gender equality is not a zero-sum game, but a win-win.

Here's what the data show.

And I'm going to propose something a little bit more radical, one word: "share."

Their children have lower rates of absenteeism, higher rates of achievement.

They are less likely to be diagnosed with ADHD.

They are less likely to see a child psychiatrist.

They are less likely to be put on medication. 

So when men share housework and childcare, their children are happier and healthier, and men want this. 

They smoke less, drink less, take recreational drugs less often.

And who wouldn't want that? 

And finally, when men share housework and childcare, they have more sex. 

Now, of these four fascinating findings, which one do you think Men's Health magazine put on its cover? 

It's not a win-lose.

It is a win-win for everyone.

We know this.

Thank you. 

