Getting me all wound up, now! 

You know, when I was watching the video again of the match, you must have felt like the fate of the world's women was on every stroke you took.

Were you feeling that? 

And that's the reason I beat him, actually, because I respected him. 

But I knew it was about social change.

And that changed everything. 

So you can have a law, but it's changing the hearts and minds to match up with it.

They got to play team sports in a way they hadn't before.

What now are you looking to accomplish with The Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative? 

That's who I truly am, just fighting for people. 

It was just ... you have to.

And learn to stick up for yourself, hear your own voice.

Every single person. 

PM: And your story, Billie, has inspired so many women everywhere.

Now with the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative, you're taking on an even bigger cause.

Because one thing we hear a lot about is women taking their voice, working to find their way into leadership positions.

But what you're talking about is even bigger than that.

It's inclusive leadership.

And this is a generation that has grown up thinking more inclusively -- 

So she's working two jobs.

So he made sure they saw he was well-educated.

It just goes on and on.

a little uncomfortable, a little surge in my gut, feeling not totally comfortable in my own skin.

So, I think you have to ask yourself -- I want people to be themselves, whatever that is, just let it be. 

But what you've just looked at is this millennial generation, who have benefited from all these equal opportunities -- which may not be equal but exist everywhere -- 

BJK: First of all, I'm really lucky.

Partnership with Teneo, a strategic company that's amazing.

That's really the reason I'm able to do this.

That's not good enough anymore, which is so good!

So the millennials are fantastic; they want connection, engagement.

PM: What did the research show you about millennials?

Are they going to make a difference?

Are they going to create a world where there is really an inclusive work force? 

BJK: Well, in 2025, 75 percent of the global workforce is going to be millennials.

I think they are going to help solve problems.

I think they have the wherewithal to do it.

I know they care a lot.

They have big ideas and they can make big things happen.

PM: I don't think there's any chance!

But what you found out in the research about millennials is not really the experience that a lot of people have with millennials. 

They actually have proven 

that the average focus for an 18-year-old is 37 seconds. 

They can't focus.

And they don't really care.

And I want to hear from people.

But we really have to protect what Title IX stands for worldwide.

And you heard President Carter talk about how Title IX is protected.

And it is amazing.

PM: So what gets you up every morning?

What keeps you sustaining your work, sustaining the fight for equality, extending it, always exploring new areas, trying to find new ways ... ? 

My younger brother was a Major League Baseball player.

My poor parents did not care if we were any good. 

And I think it's because of what I'm hearing today in TED talks.

PM: He's an amazing man. 

So don't ever give up on yourself. 

PM: Billie, you have been an inspiration for us. 

