Well, we all need a reason to wake up.

For me, it just took 11,000 volts. 

I know you're too polite to ask, so I will tell you. 

We'd certainly done stupider things.

But we who work in it are also unwitting agents for a system that too often does not serve. 

Why?

Which is to say, of course, it was badly designed.

And nowhere are the effects of bad design more heartbreaking or the opportunity for good design more compelling than at the end of life, where things are so distilled and concentrated.

There are no do-overs. 

My purpose today is to reach out across disciplines and invite design thinking into this big conversation.

That is, to bring intention and creativity to the experience of dying.

So let's begin at the end.

For most people, the scariest thing about death isn't being dead, it's dying, suffering.

It's a key distinction.

To get underneath this, it can be very helpful to tease out suffering which is necessary as it is, from suffering we can change.

It can be really good to realize forces larger than ourselves.

It took me a while, but I learned it eventually.

Now, another great thing about necessary suffering is that it is the very thing that unites caregiver and care receiver -- human beings.

This, we are finally realizing, is where healing happens.

Yes, compassion -- literally, as we learned yesterday -- suffering together. 

Now, on the systems side, on the other hand, so much of the suffering is unnecessary, invented.

It serves no good purpose.

But the good news is, since this brand of suffering is made up, well, we can change it.

How we die is indeed something we can affect.

Making the system sensitive to this fundamental distinction between necessary and unnecessary suffering gives us our first of three design cues for the day.

After all, our role as caregivers, as people who care, is to relieve suffering -- not add to the pile. 

True to the tenets of palliative care, I function as something of a reflective advocate, as much as prescribing physician.

It's simply about comfort and living well at any stage.

So please know that you don't have to be dying anytime soon to benefit from palliative care. 

In this way, Frank grieves.

Loss is one thing, but regret, quite another.

So it wasn't surprising when he came into clinic one day, saying he wanted to raft down the Colorado River.

Was this a good idea?

Frank's decision, while maybe dramatic, is exactly the kind so many of us would make, if we only had the support to figure out what is best for ourselves over time. 

So much of what we're talking about today is a shift in perspective.

After my accident, when I went back to college, I changed my major to art history.

But we ask too much of our hospitals.

Now mind you -- I am not giving up on the notion that our institutions can become more humane.

Beauty can be found anywhere.

And there was no window in my room, but it was great to just imagine it coming down all sticky.

Next day, one of my nurses smuggled in a snowball for me.

In a hospital, that's a stolen moment. 

In my work over the years, I've known many people who were ready to go, ready to die.

There are already record numbers of us living with chronic and terminal illness, and into ever older age.

And we are nowhere near ready or prepared for this silver tsunami.

We need an infrastructure dynamic enough to handle these seismic shifts in our population.

Now is the time to create something new, something vital.

I know we can because we have to.

The alternative is just unacceptable.

We have tons of input for designers of all stripes to work with. 

Over Zen Hospice's nearly 30 years, we've learned much more from our residents in subtle detail.

Little things aren't so little.

Take Janette.

She finds it harder to breathe one day to the next due to ALS.

Well, guess what?

Priorities change.

Sensuous, aesthetic gratification, where in a moment, in an instant, we are rewarded for just being.

So much of it comes down to loving our time by way of the senses, by way of the body -- the very thing doing the living and the dying. 

