Chris Anderson: You were something of a mathematical phenom.

What was that about? 

And I knew that existed.

And they paid a lot.

So that was an irresistible pull.

So, I went there. 

CA: You were a code-cracker. 

JS: I was. 

CA: Until you got fired. 

CA: How come? 

JS: Well, how come?

JS: ... which were different from General Taylor's.

But in the end, nobody said anything.

But then, I was 29 years old at this time, and some kid came around and said he was a stringer from Newsweek magazine and he wanted to interview me and ask what I was doing about my views.

And I told him, "I'm doing mostly mathematics now, and when the war is over, then I'll do mostly their stuff."

And I told him what I said.

CA: OK. 

JS: But it wasn't bad. 

CA: It wasn't bad, because you went on to Stony Brook and stepped up your mathematical career.

You started working with this man here.

Who is this? 

I had known him when I was a graduate student at Berkeley.

CA: It led to you publishing a famous paper together.

Can you explain at all what that work was? 

CA: How about explaining this? 

I was very happy with it; so was Chern.

It even started a little sub-field that's now flourishing.

Today, those things in there called Chern-Simons invariants have spread through a lot of physics.

And it was amazing.

We didn't know any physics.

CA: This is so incredible.

How can that happen? 

JS: God knows. 

But so often it comes back to save the day.

General relativity is an example.

It is a mystery. 

CA: So, here's a mathematical piece of ingenuity.

Tell us about this. 

What I'm going to show here was originally observed by [Leonhard] Euler, the great mathematician, in the 1700s.

That paper up there had its roots in this.

And vertices minus edges plus faces still equals two.

Vertices minus edges comes out to be zero.

It'll always come out to zero.

Every time you cover a torus with squares or triangles or anything like that, you're going to get zero.

So, this is called the Euler characteristic.

And it's what's called a topological invariant.

So that was the first sort of thrust, from the mid-1700s, into a subject which is now called algebraic topology. 

There were a bunch of these types of invariants.

But if it wasn't for Mr. Euler -- who wrote almost 70 volumes of mathematics and had 13 children, who he apparently would dandle on his knee while he was writing -- if it wasn't for Mr. Euler, there wouldn't perhaps be these invariants. 

Let's talk about Renaissance.

Because you took that amazing mind and having been a code-cracker at the NSA, you started to become a code-cracker in the financial industry.

I think you probably didn't buy efficient market theory.

JS: I did it by assembling a wonderful group of people.

When I started doing trading, I had gotten a little tired of mathematics.

I was in my late 30s, I had a little money.

I started trading and it went very well.

I made quite a lot of money with pure luck.

I mean, I think it was pure luck.

It certainly wasn't mathematical modeling.

But in looking at the data, after a while I realized: it looks like there's some structure here.

You design an algorithm, you test it out on a computer.

CA: Can we take a look at this?

Because here's a typical graph of some commodity.

I look at that, and I say, "That's just a random, up-and-down walk -- maybe a slight upward trend over that whole period of time."

How on earth could you trade looking at that, and see something that wasn't just random? 

Not necessarily the very light trend you see here, but trending in periods.

You'd make money, you'd lose money, you'd make money.

It's a very vestigial system. 

By the '80s, it wasn't. 

CA: Because everyone could see that.

So, how did you stay ahead of the pack? 

JS: We stayed ahead of the pack by finding other approaches -- shorter-term approaches to some extent.

We went down to the Federal Reserve and copied interest rate histories and stuff like that, because it didn't exist on computers.

I couldn't make a business out of that.

So, that's what we did.

And gradually these models got better and better, and better and better. 

Their motivation was doing exciting mathematics and science. 

JS: Well, I'd hoped that might be true.

But some of it was money. 

CA: They made a lot of money. 

JS: I can't say that no one came because of the money.

I think a lot of them came because of the money.

But they also came because it would be fun. 

CA: What role did machine learning play in all this? 

JS: In a certain sense, what we did was machine learning.

You look at a lot of data, and you try to simulate different predictive schemes, until you get better and better at it.

CA: So these different predictive schemes can be really quite wild and unexpected.

CA: What sort of things? 

JS: Well, everything.

Everything is grist for the mill -- except hem lengths.

And store it away and massage it and get it ready for analysis.

You're looking for anomalies.

You're looking for -- like you said, the efficient market hypothesis is not correct. 

CA: But any one anomaly might be just a random thing.

So, is the secret here to just look at multiple strange anomalies, and see when they align? 

You can see an anomaly that's persistent for a sufficiently long time -- the probability of it being random is not high.

But these things fade after a while; anomalies can get washed out.

So you have to keep on top of the business. 

Do you have any worries about that industry, and perhaps the financial industry in general?

Kind of being on a runaway train that's -- I don't know -- helping increase inequality?

How would you champion what's happening in the hedge fund industry? 

JS: I think in the last three or four years, hedge funds have not done especially well.

We've done dandy, but the hedge fund industry as a whole has not done so wonderfully.

Hedge funds are all different kinds of creatures. 

CA: Rumor has it you charge slightly higher fees than that. 

JS: We charged the highest fees in the world at one time.

Five and 44, that's what we charge. 

CA: Five and 44.

So five percent flat, 44 percent of upside.

You still made your investors spectacular amounts of money. 

But at a certain point, as I think I told you, we bought out all the investors because there's a capacity to the fund. 

CA: But should we worry about the hedge fund industry attracting too much of the world's great mathematical and other talent to work on that, as opposed to the many other problems in the world? 

JS: Well, it's not just mathematical.

We hire astronomers and physicists and things like that.

I don't think we should worry about it too much.

It's still a pretty small industry.

So I'm not too worried about Einstein going off and starting a hedge fund. 

This is your wife, Marilyn.

You're working on philanthropic issues together.

Tell me about that. 

I think '94.

I claim it was '93, she says it was '94, but it was one of those two years. 

We started the foundation, just as a convenient way to give charity.

And that's what we've done.

Six years ago or so, I left Renaissance and went to work at the foundation.

So that's what we do. 

And really trying to make that more effective and make that a calling to which teachers can aspire. 

What are we looking at here?

JS: Well, I'll save that for a second.

And then I'll tell you what you're looking at.

Origins of life is a fascinating question.

How did we get here?

And the other question is, what did we start with?

What material, if any, did we have to work with on this route?

Those are two very, very interesting questions.

Well, more than we think.

So what's pictured there is a star in formation.

Now, every year in our Milky Way, which has 100 billion stars, about two new stars are created.

So, in steady state, there are about two million stars in formation at any time.

That one is somewhere along this settling-down period.

And it'll form probably a solar system, or whatever it forms.

But here's the thing -- in this dust that surrounds a forming star have been found, now, significant organic molecules.

Molecules not just like methane, but formaldehyde and cyanide -- things that are the building blocks -- the seeds, if you will -- of life.

So, that may be typical.

Maybe.

But it's a question of how tortuous this path is from those frail beginnings, those seeds, all the way to life.

And most of those seeds will fall on fallow planets. 

CA: So for you, personally, finding an answer to this question of where we came from, of how did this thing happen, that is something you would love to see. 

It'd be great to know. 

Listening to you, what I hear you saying is taking math seriously, that has infused your whole life.

It's made you an absolute fortune, and now it's allowing you to invest in the futures of thousands and thousands of kids across America and elsewhere.

Could it be that science actually works?

That math actually works? 

But this has been fun.

Working with Marilyn and giving it away has been very enjoyable. 

CA: I just find it -- it's an inspirational thought to me, that by taking knowledge seriously, so much more can come from it.

So thank you for your amazing life, and for coming here to TED. 

