I was eight at the time, living in the village with my grandmother, who was raising me and other children.

Famine had hit my country of Zimbabwe, and we just didn't have enough to eat.

We were hungry.

And that's when the girl in the blue uniform came to my village with the United Nations to feed the children. 

Two years later, famine hit my country for the second time.

My grandmother had no choice but to send me to the city to live with an aunt I had never met before.

So at the age of 10, I found myself in school for the very first time.

And there, at the city school, I would experience what it was to be unequal.

You see, in the village, we were all equal.

But in the eyes and the minds of the other kids, I was not their equal.

I couldn't speak English, and I was way behind in terms of reading and writing.

But this feeling of inequality would get even more complex.

Every school holiday spent back in the village with my grandmother made me consciously aware of the inequalities this incredible opportunity had created within my own family.

I felt guilty.

Today, I want to share with you a simple idea that seeks to uplift all of us together.

This is an invitation for those who believe in equality for women and men, and those who don't yet know that they believe. 

The initiative is based on a simple idea: that what we share is much more powerful than what divides us.

We all feel the same things.

It's moving us towards an inflection point for gender equality. 

Imagine a blank page with one horizontal line splitting it in half.

Now imagine that women are represented here, and men are represented here.

In our current population, HeForShe is about moving the 3.2 billion men, one man at a time, across that line, so that ultimately, men can stand alongside women and be on the right side of history, making gender equality a reality in the 21st century. 

However, engaging men in the movement would prove quite controversial.

In fact, men don't care, we were told. 

But something incredible happened when we launched HeForShe.

In just three days, more than 100,000 men had signed up and committed to be agents of change for equality.

Within that first week, at least one man in every single country in the world stood up to be counted, and within that same week, HeForShe created more than 1.2 billion conversations on social media.

We heard from a man out of Zimbabwe, who, after hearing about HeForShe, created a "husband school."

He literally went around his village, hand-picking all of the men that were abusive to their partners, and committed to turn them into better husbands and fathers.

In Pune, India, a youth advocate organized an innovative bicycle rally, mobilizing 700 cyclists to share the HeForShe messages within their own community. 

Personal impact stories such as these show that we are tapping into something within men, but getting to a world where women and men are equal is not just a matter of bringing men to the cause.

We want concrete, systematic, structural change that can equalize the political, economic and social realities for women and men.

We want male leaders to become role models and change agents within their own institutions. 

Already, a number of prominent men and leaders have stepped up and made some concrete HeForShe commitments.

In a few early success stories, a leading French hospitality company, Accor, has committed to eliminate the pay gap for all of its 180,000 employees by 2020. 

In Japan, the University of Nagoya is building, as part of their HeForShe commitments, what will become one of Japan's leading gender-research centers. 

Now, eight months later, a movement is building.

In Europe alone, all the male EU Commissioners and the members of Parliament of the Swedish and Iceland governments have signed up to be HeForShe.

In fact, one in 20 men in Iceland has joined the movement.

The rallying call of our passionate goodwill ambassador, Emma Watson, has garnered more than five billion media impressions, mobilizing hundreds and thousands of students around the world to create more than a hundred HeForShe student associations. 

Now this is the beginning of the vision that HeForShe has for the world that we want to see.

If women and men are part of a greater whole, as Einstein suggests, it is my hope that HeForShe can help free us to realize that it is not our gender that defines us, but ultimately, our shared humanity.

So that's what it is about.

HeForShe is about uplifting all of us together. 

Thank you. 

