So let me take you to the Andes mountains in Chile, 500 kilometers, 300 miles northeast of Santiago.

It's kind of a magic place, the mountain.

It's a wonderful combination of very remote mountaintop with exquisitely sophisticated technology. 

And our ancestors, for as long as there's been recorded history, have looked at the night sky and pondered the nature of our existence.

And we're no exception, our generation.

The only difficulty is that the night sky now is blocked by the glare of city lights.

And so astronomers go to these very remote mountaintops to view and to study the cosmos.

So telescopes are our window to the cosmos. 

It's no exaggeration to say that the Southern Hemisphere is going to be the future of astronomy for the 21st century.

We have an array of existing telescopes already, in the Andes mountains in Chile, and that's soon to be joined by a really sensational array of new capability.

There will be two international groups that are going to be building giant telescopes, sensitive to optical radiation, as our eyes are.

And then there will be telescopes in space.

There'll be a satellite called TESS that will discover planets outside of our solar system. 

So, essentially the size of this entire auditorium.

It's comparable to the size of the Statue of Liberty.

The cosmic dawn.

It's a telescope that's going to allow us to peer back, witness galaxies as they were when they were actually assembling, the first black holes in the universe, the first galaxies. 

Now, for thousands of years, we have been studying the cosmos, we've been wondering about our place in the universe.

We've learned in the 20th century that the universe is expanding and that our own solar system is not at the center of that expansion.

So we're looking now at the deepest image of the cosmos that's ever been taken.

It was taken using the Hubble Space Telescope, and by pointing the telescope at what was previously a blank region of sky, before the launch of Hubble.

And the faintness of those images and the tiny size is only a result of the fact that those galaxies are so far away, the vast distances.

And each of those galaxies may contain within it a few billion or even hundreds of billions of individual stars.

So, we've learned in the last century that there are exotic objects in the universe -- black holes.

So the way we infer the presence of dark matter -- we can't see it -- but there's an unmistakable tug, due to gravity.

We now can look out, we see this sea of galaxies in a universe that's expanding. 

What I do myself is to measure the expansion of the universe, and one of the projects that I carried out in the 1990s used the Hubble Space Telescope to measure how fast the universe is expanding.

We can now trace back to 14 billion years.

We've learned over time that stars have individual histories; that is, they have birth, they have middle ages and some of them even have dramatic deaths.

So the embers from those stars actually then form the new stars that we see, most of which turn out to have planets going around them. 

But now, there are almost 2,000 other planets orbiting other stars that we can now detect, measure masses for.

They come in a bewildering variety of different kinds.

So we know there's at least one planet, our own Earth, in which there is life.

And given all that we've discovered, the overwhelming numbers now suggest that there may be millions, perhaps -- maybe even hundreds of millions -- of other [planets] that are close enough -- just the right distance from their stars that they're orbiting -- to have the existence of liquid water and maybe could potentially support life.

So we marvel now at those odds, the overwhelming odds, and the amazing thing is that within the next decade, the GMT may be able to take spectra of the atmospheres of those planets, and determine whether or not they have the potential for life. 

It also involves Chile. 

And so, if you think about the precision of these mirrors, the bumps on the mirror, over the entire 27 feet, amount to less than one-millionth of an inch.

That's one five-thousandths of the width of one of my hairs, over this entire 27 feet.

So, what does that precision buy us?

So, keep your eyes on those bright images again.

This is what we see on one of the most powerful existing telescopes on the Earth, and this, again, what the GMT will see.

Extraordinary precision. 

We've cast the second and the third mirrors.

And we're about to cast the fourth mirror.

And the full telescope will be finished in the middle of the next decade, with all seven mirrors. 

So we're now poised to look back at the distant universe, the cosmic dawn.

We'll be able to study other planets in exquisite detail. 

And my hope is that with the construction of this and other facilities, that many young women and men will be inspired to reach for the stars. 

