Death follows in the form of organ failure from low blood pressure. 

Sounds familiar?

That is actually twice the number of people that have been killed by Ebola in the nearly four decades that we've known about it.

As for measles, so much in the news recently, the death toll is actually tenfold higher.

Yet for the last year, it has been Ebola that has stolen all of the headlines and the fear. 

Clearly, there is something deeply rooted about it, something which scares us and fascinates us more than other diseases.

But what is it, exactly?

And so, that's the clue.

We may have it someday.

In fact, it's much less transmissible than viruses such as flu or measles.

We fear Ebola because of the fact that it kills us and we can't treat it.

We fear the certain inevitability that comes with Ebola.

Ebola has this inevitability that seems to defy modern medical science. 

We've known about Ebola since 1976.

We've known what it's capable of.

We've had ample opportunity to study it in the 24 outbreaks that have occurred.

Why is that those vaccines are just going into clinical trials now? 

This goes to the fundamental problem we have with vaccine development for infectious diseases.

It goes something like this: The people most at risk for these diseases are also the ones least able to pay for vaccines.

Ebola was relatively ignored until September 11 and the anthrax attacks, when all of a sudden, people perceived Ebola as, potentially, a bioterrorism weapon. 

Why is it that the Ebola vaccine wasn't fully developed at this point?

And this is really the point.

The sad reality is, we develop vaccines not based upon the risk the pathogen poses to people, but on how economically risky it is to develop these vaccines.

Vaccine development is expensive and complicated.

It can cost hundreds of millions of dollars to take even a well-known antigen and turn it into a viable vaccine. 

Fortunately for diseases like Ebola, there are things we can do to remove some of these barriers.

The first is to recognize when there's a complete market failure.

In that case, if we want vaccines, we have to provide incentives or some type of subsidy.

We also need to do a better job at being able to figure out which are the diseases that most threaten us.

We have to stop waiting until we see evidence of a disease becoming a global threat before we consider it as one.

and a pipeline of vaccines that are following behind. 

These bugs are going to continue to evolve and they're going to threaten the world.

And vaccines are our best defense.

So if we want to be able to prevent epidemics like Ebola, we need to take on the risk of investing in vaccine development and in stockpile creation.

Thank you. 

