This is a painting from the 16th century from Lucas Cranach the Elder.

It shows the famous Fountain of Youth.

If you drink its water or you bathe in it, you will get health and youth.

Every culture, every civilization has dreamed of finding eternal youth.

There are people like Alexander the Great or Ponce De León, the explorer, who spent much of their life chasing the Fountain of Youth.

They didn't find it.

But what if there was something to it?

What if there was something to this Fountain of Youth? 

But what Tom Rando, a stem-cell researcher, reported in 2007, was that old muscle from a mouse can be rejuvenated if it's exposed to young blood through common circulation.

This was reproduced by Amy Wagers at Harvard a few years later, and others then showed that similar rejuvenating effects could be observed in the pancreas, the liver and the heart.

But what I'm most excited about, and several other labs as well, is that this may even apply to the brain. 

So, what we found is that an old mouse exposed to a young environment in this model called parabiosis, shows a younger brain -- and a brain that functions better.

One big problem we have -- to try to understand how this really works at a very molecular mechanistic level -- is that we can't study the brains in detail, in living people.

This is what neuropathologists do, for example.

And what connects all the different tissues in the body is blood.

So if we look at how the blood changes in disease or age, can we learn something about the brain?

And the way this looks is shown in this graph.

On the other hand, the person here, highlighted with the red dot, is not even 40, but has a biological age of 65.

Is this a person at an increased risk of developing an age-related disease?

So what I've shown you so far is simply correlational, right?

You can just say, "Well, these factors change with age," but you don't really know if they do something about aging.

So what I'm going to show you now is very remarkable and it suggests that these factors can actually modulate the age of a tissue.

And that's where we come back to this model called parabiosis. 

And for this purpose, we use young mice that are an equivalency of 20-year-old people, and old mice that are roughly 65 years old in human years. 

What we found is quite remarkable.

We find there are more neural stem cells that make new neurons in these old brains.

And there's less of this bad inflammation.

But we observed that there are no cells entering the brains of these animals.

So when we connect them, there are actually no cells going into the old brain, in this model.

As mice get older, like us humans, they have memory problems.

Can we make them smarter? 

Many of us have probably had some problems with that. 

So, let's look at an old mouse here.

So, it could remember where that hole was. 

And it also suggests that there is something not only in young mouse plasma, but in young human plasma that has the capacity to help this old brain.

So to summarize, we find the old mouse, and its brain in particular, are malleable.

They're not set in stone; we can actually change them.

It can be rejuvenated.

So there are old-blood factors that can accelerate aging.

So, is this magic transferable to humans?

We're running a small clinical study at Stanford, where we treat Alzheimer's patients with mild disease with a pint of plasma from young volunteers, 20-year-olds, and do this once a week for four weeks, and then we look at their brains with imaging.

We test them cognitively, and we ask their caregivers for daily activities of living.

What we hope is that there are some signs of improvement from this treatment.

And if that's the case, that could give us hope that what I showed you works in mice might also work in humans. 

Now, I don't think we will live forever.

But maybe we discovered that the Fountain of Youth is actually within us, and it has just dried out.

And if we can turn it back on a little bit, maybe we can find the factors that are mediating these effects, we can produce these factors synthetically and we can treat diseases of aging, such as Alzheimer's disease or other dementias. 

Thank you very much. 

