Over the past 10 years, I've been researching the way people organize and visualize information.

But over time, interestingly enough, this concept adopted the branching schema of a tree in what became known as the Porphyrian tree, also considered to be the oldest tree of knowledge. 

The branching scheme of the tree was, in fact, such a powerful metaphor for conveying information that it became, over time, an important communication tool to map a variety of systems of knowledge.

We can see trees being used to map consanguinity, the various blood ties between people.

We can also see trees being used to map genealogy, perhaps the most famous archetype of the tree diagram.

I think many of you in the audience have probably seen family trees.

Many of you probably even have your own family trees drawn in such a way.

We can see trees even mapping systems of law, the various decrees and rulings of kings and rulers.

And finally, of course, also a very popular scientific metaphor, we can see trees being used to map all species known to man.

However, nowadays we are really facing new complex, intricate challenges that cannot be understood by simply employing a simple tree diagram.

And a new metaphor is currently emerging, and it's currently replacing the tree in visualizing various systems of knowledge.

It's really providing us with a new lens to understand the world around us.

And this new metaphor is the metaphor of the network.

And we can see this shift from trees into networks in many domains of knowledge. 

We can see this shift in the way we try to understand the brain.

And this is only mapping 10 percent of a mammalian neocortex.

We can also see this shift in the way we try to conceive of human knowledge. 

These are some remarkable trees of knowledge, or trees of science, by Spanish scholar Ramon Llull.

But perhaps the most beautiful of all trees of knowledge, at least for me, was created for the French encyclopedia by Diderot and d'Alembert in 1751.

But knowledge is much more intricate than this.

And I think by looking at these maps and other ones that have been created of Wikipedia -- arguably one of the largest rhizomatic structures ever created by man -- we can really understand how human knowledge is much more intricate and interdependent, just like a network. 

We can also see this interesting shift in the way we map social ties between people.

This is the typical organization chart.

I'm assuming many of you have seen a similar chart as well, in your own corporations, or others.

It's a top-down structure that normally starts with the CEO at the very top, and where you can drill down all the way to the individual workmen on the bottom.

I think the Internet is really changing this paradigm quite a lot.

This is a fantastic map of online social collaboration between Perl developers.

One of the main challenges of understanding terrorism nowadays is that we are dealing with decentralized, independent cells, where there's no leader leading the whole process.

And here, you can actually see how visualization is being used.

The diagram that you see behind me shows all the terrorists involved in the Madrid attack in 2004.

And the blue lines tie together the people that were present in that network year after year.

We can also see this shift from trees into networks in the way we classify and organize species.

There's actually a letter from Darwin to the publisher, expanding on the importance of this particular diagram.

It was critical for Darwin's theory of evolution.

And finally, we can really see this shift, again, when we look at ecosystems around our planet.

No more do we have these simplified predator-versus-prey diagrams we have all learned at school.

This is a much more accurate depiction of an ecosystem.

This is a diagram created by Professor David Lavigne, mapping close to 100 species that interact with the codfish off the coast of Newfoundland in Canada.

And I think here, we can really understand the intricate and interdependent nature of most ecosystems that abound on our planet. 

But even though recent, this metaphor of the network, is really already adopting various shapes and forms, and it's almost becoming a growing visual taxonomy.

It's almost becoming the syntax of a new language.

And this is one aspect that truly fascinates me.

And here is an example.

And here are a few more examples of the many I've been collecting, of this growing visual taxonomy of networks. 

But networks are not just a scientific metaphor.

As designers, researchers, and scientists try to map a variety of complex systems, they are in many ways influencing traditional art fields, like painting and sculpture, and influencing many different artists.

And perhaps because networks have this huge aesthetical force to them -- they're immensely gorgeous -- they are really becoming a cultural meme, and driving a new art movement, which I've called "networkism."

And we can see this influence in this movement in a variety of ways.

This is just one of many examples, where you can see this influence from science into art.

And on your right side, you have "Transient Structures and Unstable Networks" by Sharon Molloy, using oil and enamel on canvas.

And here are a few more paintings by Sharon Molloy, some gorgeous, intricate paintings. 

And here's another example of that interesting cross-pollination between science and art.

But networkism doesn't happen only in two dimensions.

And I just find this particular project to be immensely powerful.

It was created by Tomás Saraceno, and he occupies these large spaces, creates these massive installations using only elastic ropes.

As you actually navigate that space and bounce along those elastic ropes, the entire network kind of shifts, almost like a real organic network would. 

This was created by Japanese artist Chiharu Shiota in a piece called "In Silence."

Networks really embody notions of decentralization, of interconnectedness, of interdependence.

And this new way of thinking is critical for us to solve many of the complex problems we are facing nowadays, from decoding the human brain, to understanding the vast universe out there.

It was the largest and most realistic simulation of the growth of cosmic structure.

It was able to recreate the history of 20 million galaxies in approximately 25 terabytes of output.

And coincidentally or not, I just find this particular comparison between the smallest scale of knowledge -- the brain -- and the largest scale of knowledge -- the universe itself -- to be really quite striking and fascinating.

Because as Bruce Mau once said, "When everything is connected to everything else, for better or for worse, everything matters."

Thank you so much. 

