It's also known as a copyright trap.

Because then, if my fake place shows up on your map, I can be well and truly sure that you have robbed me.

Agloe is a scrabblization of the initials of the two guys who made this map, Ernest Alpers and Otto [G.] Lindberg, and they released this map in 1937.

Decades later, Rand McNally releases a map with Agloe, New York, on it, at the same exact intersection of two dirt roads in the middle of nowhere.

Well, you can imagine the delight over at General Drafting.

But what interests me ultimately more than the medium in which this happened, is the phenomenon itself.

It's easy enough to say that the world shapes our maps of the world, right?

Like the overall shape of the world is obviously going to affect our maps.

But what I find a lot more interesting is the way that the manner in which we map the world changes the world.

Because the world would truly be a different place if North were down.

And the world would be a truly different place if Alaska and Russia weren't on opposite sides of the map.

And the world would be a different place if we projected Europe to show it in its actual size.

The world is changed by our maps of the world.

I believe that what we map changes the life we lead.

And I don't mean that in some, like, secret-y Oprah's Angels network, like, you-can-think-your-way- out-of-cancer sense.

But I do believe that while maps don't show you where you will go in your life, they show you where you might go.

So I was a really terrible student when I was a kid.

My GPA was consistently in the low 2s.

And I think the reason that I was such a terrible student is that I felt like education was just a series of hurdles that had been erected before me, and I had to jump over in order to achieve adulthood.

I didn't want a good job!

They literally put nooses on themselves, and then they went off to their jobs, whatever they were.

That's not a recipe for a happy life.

These people -- in my, symbol-obsessed, twelve year-old imagination -- these people who are strangling themselves as one of the first things they do each morning, they can't possibly be happy.

Why would I want to jump over all of these hurdles and have that be the end?

And then, when I was in tenth grade, I went to this school, Indian Springs School, a small boarding school, outside of Birmingham, Alabama.

And all at once I became a learner.

And I became a learner, because I found myself in a community of learners.

What is the process of cartography?

And that's when learning really began for me.

But a lot of the learning that I did in high school wasn't about what happened inside the classroom, it was about what happened outside of the classroom.

And along the way, the map of my life got better.

It got bigger; it contained more places.

There were more things that might happen, more futures I might have.

It wasn't a formal, organized learning process, and I'm happy to admit that.

It was spotty, it was inconsistent, there was a lot I didn't know.

I might know the idea of opportunity cost, but I didn't know the law of diminishing returns.

But the great thing about imagining learning as cartography, instead of imagining it as arbitrary hurdles that you have to jump over, is that you see a bit of coastline, and that makes you want to see more.

And then I wrote a book.

I hated it.

I read many, many books during this two-year period.

And then, in 2006, I met that guy.

His name is Ze Frank.

I didn't actually meet him, just on the Internet.

Ze Frank was running, at the time, a show called "The Show with Ze Frank," and I discovered the show, and that was my way back into being a community learner again.

(Video) Ze Frank: Las Vegas was built in the middle of a huge, hot desert.

These fish are almost as out of place as my pig that flew.

Contrasted to the scorching desert that surrounds this place, so are these people.

Here, there's no reason to feel like you're missing anything.

As I walked around this morning, I noticed most of the buildings were huge mirrors reflecting the sun back into the desert.

So we played Ze Frank at chess collaboratively, and we beat him.

We organized ourselves to take a young man on a road trip across the United States.

But I think in a lot of ways, the YouTube page resembles a classroom.

(Video) Let's cut to the chase.

As of July 4, 2012, the Higgs boson is the last fundamental piece of the standard model of particle physics to be discovered experimentally.

First, just like the electron is an excitation in the electron field, the Higgs boson is simply a particle which is an excitation of the everywhere-permeating Higgs field.

The Higgs field in turn plays an integral role in our model for the weak nuclear force.

In particular, the Higgs field helps explain why it's so weak.

(Video) The immediate cause was of course the assassination in Sarajevo of the Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand, on June 28, 1914, by a Bosnian-Serb nationalist named Gavrilo Princip.

Quick aside: It's worth noting that the first big war of the twentieth century began with an act of terrorism.

And then Russia, due to its alliance with the Serbs, mobilized its army.

Here's a video about abstract mathematics. 

And you're learning about, I don't know, the sums of infinite series.

That's a high school topic, right?

Which is odd, because it's a cool topic, but they somehow manage to ruin it anyway.

So I guess that's why they allow infinite series in the curriculum.

So, in a quite understandable need for distraction, you're doodling and thinking more about what the plural of "series" should be than about the topic at hand: "serieses," "seriese," "seriesen," and "serii?"

JG: And lastly, here's Destin, from "Smarter Every Day," talking about the conservation of angular momentum, and, since it's YouTube, cats: 

So you've probably observed that cats almost always land on their feet.

Today's question is: why?

Like most simple questions, there's a very complex answer.

And I know that YouTube comments have a very bad reputation in the world of the Internet, but in fact, if you go on comments for these channels, what you'll find is people engaging the subject matter, asking difficult, complicated questions that are about the subject matter, and then other people answering those questions.

And because the YouTube page is set up so that the page in which I'm talking to you is on the exact -- the place where I'm talking to you is on the exact same page as your comments, you are participating in a live and real and active way in the conversation.

And because I'm in comments usually, I get to participate with you.

You also see young people using the tools and the sort of genres of the Internet in order to create places for intellectual engagement, instead of the ironic detachment that maybe most of us associate with memes and other Internet conventions -- you know, "Got bored.

Vi Hart and "Minute Physics" introduced me to all kinds of things that I didn't know before.

And I know that we all hearken back to the days of the Parisian salon in the Enlightenment, or to the Algonquin Round Table, and wish, "Oh, I wish I could have been a part of that, I wish I could have laughed at Dorothy Parker's jokes."

Thank you. 

