A couple of seconds later, he asked me, "So what do you do?"

Now, this matter is vitally important to me.

As a young Muslim woman, I am very proud of my faith.

It gives me the strength and conviction to do my work every day.

It's the reason I can be here in front of you.

The misrepresentation and misuse and manipulation of religious scripture has influenced our social and cultural norms, our laws, our daily lives, to a point where we sometimes don't recognize it. 

Yes, 11.

And they were fair.

I was never subjected to religion through a cultural lens.

I was treated the same, the same was expected of me.

I was never taught that God judged differently based on gender.

And my parents' understanding of God as a merciful and beneficial friend and provider shaped the way I looked at the world. 

Lucky for you, she's here.

But being one of 11 children and having 10 siblings teaches you a lot about power structures and alliances.

It teaches you the importance of messaging.

You have to ask questions in the right way to get the answers you know you want, and you have to say no in the right way to keep the peace. 

But the most important lesson I learned growing up was the importance of being at the table.

I am not speaking from experience, of course. 

It was ice cream and trips to the beach and really excited relatives. 

Turns out it's not the same as a 15-year-old young lady.

I very quickly became introduced to the cultural aspect of religion.

And even with the foundation my parents had provided for me, I found myself questioning the role of women in my faith. 

Khadija financed the Islamic movement in its infancy.

We wouldn't be here if it weren't for her.

So why weren't we learning about her?

Why weren't we learning about these women?

Why were women being relegated to positions which predated the teachings of our faith?

And why, if we are equal in the eyes of God, are we not equal in the eyes of men? 

To me, it all came back to the lessons I had learned as a child.

The decision maker, the person who gets to control the message, is sitting at the table, and unfortunately, in every single world faith, they are not women.

Our foundation is broken.

My mom actually says, you can't build a straight house on a crooked foundation. 

In 2011, the Libyan revolution broke out, and my family was on the front lines.

And there's this amazing thing that happens in war, a cultural shift almost, very temporary.

And it was the first time that I felt it was not only acceptable for me to be involved, but it was encouraged.

It was demanded.

Myself and other women had a seat at the table.

And I wanted and needed for that change to be permanent. 

Turns out, that's not that easy.

It's how they gained popular support for their opinions. 

So initially, I focused on the economic and political empowerment of women.

I thought that would lead to cultural and social change.

It turns out, it does a little, but not a lot.

I decided to use their defense as my offense, and I began to cite and highlight Islamic scripture as well. 

In 2012 and 2013, my organization led the single largest and most widespread campaign in Libya.

We entered homes and schools and universities, even mosques.

We spoke to 50,000 people directly, and hundreds of thousands more through billboards and television commercials, radio commercials and posters. 

I used scripture.

Policies were changed.

So really, the United Nations just copied us. 

By changing the message, we were able to provide an alternative narrative which promoted the rights of women in Libya.

And I remain a very strong believer that women's rights and religion are not mutually exclusive.

But we have to be at the table.

By saying that we're going to fight for women's rights and fight extremism with bombs and warfare, we completely cripple local societies which need to address these issues so that they're sustainable. 

It is not easy, challenging distorted religious messaging.

You will have your fair share of insults and ridicule and threats.

But we have to do it.

And the only way we can do that, our only option, is to be, and remain, at the table. 

Thank you. 

