In the early days of Twitter, it was like a place of radical de-shaming.

If a newspaper ran some racist or homophobic column, we realized we could do something about it.

We could get them.

Advertisers would withdraw their advertising.

When powerful people misused their privilege, we were going to get them.

This was like the democratization of justice.

Hierarchies were being leveled out.

We were going to do things better. 

And he had the opportunity to publicly apologize at a foundation lunch.

This was going to be the most important speech of his life.

Maybe it would win him some salvation.

(Laughter) Another one in a monitor screen in his eye line. 

(Laughter) Another one in a monitor screen in his eye line. 

And here were some of the Tweets that were cascading into his eye line, as he was trying to apologize: 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

That one must have been written by the best psychiatrist ever, to know that about such a tiny figure behind a lectern. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Power shifts fast.

Let me tell you a story.

It's about a woman called Justine Sacco.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

A few weeks later, I talked to the Gawker journalist.

Did Justine's joke overwhelm your Twitter feed the way it did mine?

Maybe instead of gleefully flaunting her privilege, she was mocking the gleeful flaunting of privilege.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

A lot of companies were making good money that night.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Nobody went after that person.

We knew something that Justine didn't.

Can you think of anything less judicial than this?

On Twitter that night, we were like toddlers crawling towards a gun.

Somebody worked out exactly which plane she was on, so they linked to a flight tracker website.

So why did we do it?

And if somebody gets in the way, we screen them out.

And do you know what that's the opposite of?

It's the opposite of democracy.

She was waking up in the middle of the night, forgetting who she was.

She was got because she was perceived to have misused her privilege.

And of course, that's a much better thing to get people for than the things we used to get people for, like having children out of wedlock.

Justine had 170 Twitter followers, and so to make it work, she had to be fictionalized.

Word got around that she was the daughter the mining billionaire Desmond Sacco.

And I think back on the early days of Twitter, when people would admit shameful secrets about themselves, and other people would say, "Oh my God, I'm exactly the same."

These days, the hunt is on for people's shameful secrets.

Let's not do that. 

Thank you. 

BG: Don't go away.

A couple of weeks later, they started creeping back up to the top result.

Is this a totally lost battle? 

But if a shaming happens and there's a babble of voices, like in a democracy, where people are discussing it, I think that's much less damaging.

So I think that's the way forward, but it's hard, because if you do stand up for somebody, it's incredibly unpleasant. 

By the way, it's mandatory reading for everybody, okay?

You stood up because the book actually puts the spotlight on shamers.

And I assume you didn't only have friendly reactions on Twitter. 

JR: It didn't go down that well with some people.

As soon as I say, "We are the powerful people abusing our power now," I get people saying, "Well you must be a racist too."

On the other, every time you turned to your phone, there is this deluge of insults. 

