The picture I made that day ended up becoming one of my best-known portraits.

At the time I made this picture, Stacey was working as an attorney for the State of Texas.

Stacey Baker: In the years since, Alec and I have done a number of magazine projects together, and we've become friends. 

A few months ago, I started talking to Alec about a fascination of mine.

I've always been obsessed with how couples meet.

He liked her purple hair.

She said yes, and that was it.

I then asked Alec if he'd be interested in doing a photography project exploring this question. 

So as part of this project, I thought it'd be interesting if she tried to meet someone.

SB: We ended up at what was advertised as the world's largest speed dating event.

I had 19 dates and each date lasted three minutes.

My first date was Colin.

This is Carl.

I asked Carl, "What's the first thing you notice about a woman?"

Austin and Mike came together.

Mike asked me a hypothetical question.

I told him I didn't wear any makeup at all and he seemed to think that that was a good thing.

Craig told me he didn't think I was willing to be vulnerable.

He was also frustrated when I couldn't remember my most embarrassing moment.

He thought I was lying, but I wasn't.

I didn't think he liked me at all, but at the end of the night, he came back to me and he gave me a box of chocolates. 

William was really difficult to talk to.

Actor Chris McKenna was the MC of the event.

He used to be on "The Young and the Restless."

I didn't actually go on a date with him.

Alec said he saw several women give their phone numbers to him. 

Needless to say, I didn't fall in love.

AS: Now, the most beautiful thing to me -- (Laughter) -- as a photographer is the quality of vulnerability.

The physical exterior reveals a crack in which you can get a glimpse at a more fragile interior.

SB: After 45 years of marriage, Anastasia's husband died two years ago, 

so we asked if she had an old wedding picture.

He was the first person she'd dated. 

Like a lot of the couples we met, they weren't especially philosophical about their early choices.

Bob and Trudy met on a blind date when she was still in high school.

SB: The story that stayed with me the most was that of George, the photography club president, and his wife, Mary.

This was George and Mary's second marriage.

They met at a country-western club in Louisville, Kentucky called the Sahara.

He was there alone drinking and she was with friends.

George was actually an alcoholic when they married, and Mary knew it.

At some point in their marriage, he says he consumed 54 beers in one day.

George has been involved in Alcoholics Anonymous and hasn't had a drink in 36 years. 

At the end of the day, after we left Sun City, I told Alec that I didn't actually think that the stories of how these couples met were all that interesting.

What was more interesting was how they managed to stay together. 

My favorite pictures on this trip were of Joe and Roseanne.

Now, by the time we met Joe and Roseanne, we'd gotten in the habit of asking couples if they had an old wedding photograph.

Thank you. 

