It was the middle of summer and well past closing time in the downtown Berkeley bar where my friend Polly and I worked together as bartenders.

Usually at the end of our shift we had a drink -- but not that night.

I'd graduated from college just a few months earlier and I was in a new relationship when I found out that I was pregnant.

How would I know what the right decision was?

I worried that I would regret an abortion later.

Coming of age on the beaches of Southern California, I grew up in the middle of our nation's abortion wars.

I was born in a trailer on the third anniversary of Roe vs. Wade.

Our community was surfing Christians.

We cared about God, the less fortunate, and the ocean.

Everyone was pro-life.

As a kid, the idea of abortion made me so sad that I knew if I ever got pregnant I could never have one.

And then I did.

It was a step towards the unknown.

According to the Guttmacher Institute, one in three women in America will have an abortion in their lifetime.

But for the last few decades, the dialogue around abortion in the United States has left little room for anything beyond pro-life and pro-choice.

But as much as abortion is hotly debated, it's still rare for us, whether as fellow women or even just as fellow people, to talk with one another about the abortions that we have.

There is a gap.

This isn't just about abortion.

There are so many important issues that we can't talk about.

And so finding ways to shift the conflict to a place of conversation is the work of my life.

There are two main ways to get started.

We needed a new framework that could hold all the experiences that we were hearing on our talk-line.

We didn't think it was right to ask women to pick a side.

We wanted to show them that the whole world was on their side, as they were going through this deeply personal experience.

It also works on deeply personal topics that might only matter to you and your immediate family and friends.

They have a terminal illness, their mother just died, they have a child with special needs and they can't talk about it.

Listening and storytelling are the hallmarks of pro-voice practice.

Pro-voice is hard because we are talking about things everyone's fighting about or the things that no one wants to talk about.

I wish I could tell you that there would be a feminist welcoming party for you, or that there's a long-lost sisterhood of people who are just ready to have your back when you get slammed.

But it can be vulnerable and exhausting to tell our own stories when it feels like nobody cares.

And if we truly listen to one another, we will hear things that demand that we shift our own perceptions.

There is no perfect time and there is no perfect place to start a difficult conversation.

There's never a time when everyone will be on the same page, share the same lens, or know the same history.

So, let's talk about listening and how to be a good listener.

There's lots of ways to be a good listener and I'm going to give you just a couple.

One is to ask open-ended questions.

If someone is talking about their own personal experience, use the words that they use.

If someone is talking about an abortion and they say the word "baby," you can say "baby."

If they say "fetus," you can say "fetus."

If someone describes themselves as gender queer to you, you can say "gender queer."

If someone kind of looks like a he, but they say they're a she -- it's cool.

Call that person a she.

Now, some of our volunteers are religious, but this particular one was not.

At first, it felt a little weird for her to talk to callers about God.

So, she decided to get comfortable.

And she stood in front of her mirror at home, and she said the word "God."

So, another way to be pro-voice is to share stories, and one risk that you take on, when you share your story with someone else, is that given the same set of circumstances as you they might actually make a different decision.

For example, if you're telling a story about your abortion, realize that she might have had the baby.

She might have placed for adoption.

She might have told her parents and her partner -- or not.

She might have felt relief and confidence, even though you felt sad and lost.

This is okay.

Empathy gets created the moment we imagine ourselves in someone else's shoes.

It doesn't mean we all have to end up in the same place.

It's not agreement, it's not sameness that pro-voice is after.

It creates a culture and a society that values what make us special and unique.

It values what makes us human, our flaws and our imperfections.

And this way of thinking allows us to see our differences with respect, instead of fear.

So, last year I was pregnant again.

This time I was looking forward to the birth of my son.

And while pregnant, I had never been asked how I was feeling so much in all my life.

(Laughter) And however I replied, whether I was feeling wonderful and excited or scared and totally freaked out, there was always someone there giving me a "been there" response.

It was awesome.

It was a welcome, yet dramatic departure from what I experience when I talk about my mixed feelings of my abortion.

Pro-voice is about the real stories of real people making an impact on the way abortion and so many other politicized and stigmatized issues are understood and discussed.

From sexuality and mental health to poverty and incarceration.

Far beyond definition as single right or wrong decisions, our experiences can exist on a spectrum.

Pro-voice focuses that conversation on human experience and it makes support and respect possible for all.

