About 10 years ago, I went through a little bit of a hard time.

So I decided to go see a therapist.

It sounded like the setup to a joke, but I knew she was serious.

And to my surprise, they said my primary caregiver had been a distant relative of the family.

I had called her my auntie. 

But my clearest and sharpest memory of my auntie, is also one of my first memories of life at all.

I remember her being beaten and slapped by another member of my family.

I became so hysterical over her treatment, that eventually, she was just beaten behind closed doors. 

Things got so bad for her that eventually she ran away.

I never did, though.

Because she had saved me.

And I had not saved her. 

I think this profound disconnect actually symbolizes most of our understanding about human trafficking.

I spent time in jails and brothels, interviewed hundreds of survivors and law enforcement, NGO workers.

And when I think about what we've done about human trafficking, I am hugely disappointed.

Partly because we don't even talk about the problem right at all.

When I say "human trafficking," most of you probably don't think about someone like my auntie.

That is real suffering, and that is a real story.

That story makes me angry for far more than just the reality of that situation, though. 

That story lets us off the hook.

Let me show you what I mean.

Forced prostitution accounts for 22 percent of human trafficking.

Ten percent is in state- imposed forced labor.

That is food and care and shelter.

And somehow, these most essential workers are also among the world's most underpaid and exploited today.

Human trafficking is the use of force, fraud or coercion to compel another person's labor.

And it's found in cotton fields, and coltan mines, and even car washes in Norway and England.

It's found in U.S. military bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. 

It's found in Thailand's fishing industry.

That country has become the largest exporter of shrimp in the world.

Human trafficking is found on a smaller scale than just that, and in places you would never even imagine.

Traffickers have forced young people to drive ice cream trucks, or to sing in touring boys' choirs.

Trafficking has even been found in a hair braiding salon in New Jersey. 

The scheme in that case was incredible.

They made their traffickers nearly four million dollars. 

This is a huge problem.

So what have we done about it?

We've mostly turned to the criminal justice system.

But keep in mind, most victims of human trafficking are poor and marginalized.

They're migrants, people of color.

Sometimes they're in the sex trade.

In study after study, in countries ranging from Bangladesh to the United States, between 20 and 60 percent of the people in the sex trade who were surveyed said that they had been raped or assaulted by the police in the past year alone.

People in prostitution, including people who have been trafficked into it, regularly receive multiple convictions for prostitution.

Workers outside of the sex sector -- if they try and resist their treatment, they risk deportation.

In case after case I've studied, employers have no problem calling on law enforcement to try and threaten or deport their striking trafficked workers.

Law enforcement is supposed to identify victims and prosecute traffickers.

But out of an estimated 21 million victims of human trafficking in the world, they have helped and identified fewer than 50,000 people.

As for convictions, out of an estimated 5,700 convictions in 2013, fewer than 500 were for labor trafficking.

I've heard one expert say that trafficking happens where need meets greed.

I'd like to add one more element to that.

Trafficking happens in sectors where workers are excluded from protections, and denied the right to organize.

Trafficking doesn't happen in a vacuum.

It happens in systematically degraded work environments.

Let me tell you what that looks like. 

They were sent all over the States, to work in Hawaii pineapple plantations, and Washington apple orchards, and anywhere the work was needed.

They were promised three years of solid agricultural work.

So they made a calculated risk.

They sold their land, they sold their wives' jewelry, to make thousands in recruitment fees for this company, Global Horizons.

But once they were brought over, their passports were confiscated.

Some of the men were beaten and held at gunpoint.

They worked so hard they fainted in the fields.

This case hit me so hard. 

After I came back home, I was wandering through the grocery store, and I froze in the produce department.

I was remembering the over-the-top meals the Global Horizons survivors would make for me every time I showed up to interview them.

And don't they taste so much better when you know the people whose hands picked them for you?"

So, like the journalist I am, I started digging into the agricultural sector.

And I found there are too many fields, and too few labor inspectors.

I found multiple layers of plausible deniability between grower and distributor and processor, and God knows who else.

The Global Horizons survivors had been brought to the States on a temporary guest worker program.

That guest worker program ties a person's legal status to his or her employer, and denies that worker the right to organize.

Mind you, none of what I am describing about this agricultural sector or the guest worker program is actually human trafficking.

It is merely what we find legally tolerable.

And I would argue this is fertile ground for exploitation.

And all of this had been hidden to me, before I had tried to understand it. 

I wasn't the only person grappling with these issues.

Pierre Omidyar, founder of eBay, is one of the biggest anti-trafficking philanthropists in the world.

And even he wound up accidentally investing nearly 10 million dollars in the pineapple plantation cited as having the worst working conditions in that Global Horizons case.

I totally agree. 

If we demanded laws calling for the same?

If all the CEOs out there decided that they were going to go through their businesses and say, "no more"?

If we ended recruitment fees for migrant workers?

If we decided that guest workers should have the right to organize without fear of retaliation?

These would be decisions heard around the world.

This isn't a matter of buying a fair-trade peach and calling it a day, buying a guilt-free zone with your money.

That's not how it works.

This is the decision to change a system that is broken, and that we have unwittingly but willingly allowed ourselves to profit from and benefit from for too long. 

We often dwell on human trafficking survivors' victimization.

But that is not my experience of them.

Each one of us is more than what we have lived through.

Especially trafficking survivors.

These Indian shipyard workers were trafficked to do post-Hurricane Katrina reconstruction.

They were threatened with deportation, but they broke out of their work compound and they marched from New Orleans to Washington, D.C., to protest labor exploitation.

And although the Department of Justice declined to take their case, a team of civil rights lawyers won the first of a dozen civil suits this February, and got their clients 14 million dollars. 

These survivors are fighting for people they don't even know yet, other workers, and for the possibility of a just world for all of us.

This is our chance to do the same.

I was so reluctant to share my story of my auntie with you.

I also haven't done my journalistic due diligence on this.

I don't know her story of what happened, and of her life now.

We are all implicated in this problem.

But that means we are all also part of its solution.

Figuring out how to build a more just world is our work to do, and our story to tell.

So let us tell it the way we should have done, from the very beginning.

Let us tell this story together. 

Thank you so much. 

