Not the Anna and Elsa from "Frozen," as this was not a Disney-sanctioned event.

These two entrepreneurs had a business of running princess parties.

It is a blazing hot Saturday morning in August in Ohio.

We get there at 10 o'clock, the scheduled start time, and we are handed number 59.

Would I be an advocate?

And I had a split second to decide. 

We are taught right now that we are living in a world of constant and increasing polarity.

Or, are you absolutely and uncompromisingly pro-war, pro-life, pro-death penalty, a believer that the Second Amendment is absolute, anti-immigrant and pro-business?

It's all or none, you're with us or against us.

That is polarity. 

But if we are pulled in these two directions, but it's not really where we exist -- polarity is not our actual reality -- where do we go from there?

What's at the other end of that spectrum? 

Duality is a state of having two parts, but not in diametrical opposition, in simultaneous existence.

Don't think it's possible?

But the question is: Can we own our duality?

Can we have the courage to hold both things? 

I work at a restaurant in town, I became really good friends with the busser.

And we were close, even though we came from very different worlds.

Her individual morality was so strongly rooted that she had the courage to hold both things.

Our moral integrity is our responsibility and we must be prepared to defend it even when it's not convenient.

I would rather have her say lover, than say nothing at all. 

If you don't see my gayness, then you don't see me.

If you do not see that struggle that is unique to my human experience because I am gay, then you don't see me.

If you are going to be an ally, I need you to see me. 

And what if duality is just the first step?

What if through compassion and empathy and human interaction we are able to learn to hold two things?

You are all holding so many things right now.

What can you do to hold just a few more? 

I'm at the front of the line, niece on my shoulders, the frazzled clerk calls me Dad.

Have you ever been called something you are not?

I am accustomed to this familiar hurt, but I will do whatever I need to do to protect the people I love from it. 

All that matters is the smile on her face.

And if I can hold two things in that environment, I can hold so many more things.

