I'd been thinking about it a lot lately, partly because it's now exactly 100 years since drugs were first banned in the United States and Britain, and we then imposed that on the rest of the world.

And a few years ago, I was looking at some of the addicts in my life who I love, and trying to figure out if there was some way to help them.

And the thing I realized that really blew my mind is, almost everything we think we know about addiction is wrong, and if we start to absorb the new evidence about addiction, I think we're going to have to change a lot more than our drug policies. 

But let's start with what we think we know, what I thought I knew.

That's what I thought. 

If I step out of this TED Talk today and I get hit by a car and I break my hip, I'll be taken to hospital and I'll be given loads of diamorphine.

Diamorphine is heroin.

And anyone who is watching this anywhere in the world, this is happening.

(Laughter) 

He's a professor of psychology in Vancouver who carried out an incredible experiment I think really helps us to understand this issue.

None of them ever overdose.

You go from almost 100 percent overdose when they're isolated to zero percent overdose when they have happy and connected lives. 

It was called the Vietnam War.

Ninety-five percent of them just stopped.

That's what we want as human beings. 

And a core part of addiction, I came to think, and I believe the evidence suggests, is about not being able to bear to be present in your life. 

Now, this has really significant implications.

The most obvious implications are for the War on Drugs.

There was a doctor in Canada, Dr. Gabor Maté, an amazing man, who said to me, if you wanted to design a system that would make addiction worse, you would design that system. 

In the year 2000, Portugal had one of the worst drug problems in Europe.

They punished people and stigmatized them and shamed them more, and every year, the problem got worse.

So they do do residential rehab, they do psychological therapy, that does have some value.

Overdose is massively down, HIV is massively down among addicts.

Now, that's the political implications.

I actually think there's a layer of implications to all this research below that.

It looked at the number of close friends the average American believes they can call on in a crisis.

That number has been declining steadily since the 1950s.

And Bruce Alexander, the guy who did the Rat Park experiment, says, we talk all the time in addiction about individual recovery, and it's right to talk about that, but we need to talk much more about social recovery.

If you've ever seen the show "Intervention," it's a pretty simple premise.

Get an addict, all the people in their life, gather them together, confront them with what they're doing, and they say, if you don't shape up, we're going to cut you off.

So what they do is they take the connection to the addict, and they threaten it, they make it contingent on the addict behaving the way they want.

And I began to think, I began to see why that approach doesn't work, and I began to think that's almost like the importing of the logic of the Drug War into our private lives. 

And I think the core of that message -- you're not alone, we love you -- has to be at every level of how we respond to addicts, socially, politically and individually.

For 100 years now, we've been singing war songs about addicts.

The opposite of addiction is connection. 

Thank you. 

