Growing up in that country, I couldn't make my own choices in life.

I couldn't even explore personal opportunities in life. 

These girls grew up under the same roof.

The other girl is my little sister.

My little sister was only 11 years old when she got pregnant.

It's a hurtful thing.

Not only did it hurt her, even me.

I was going through a hard time as well. 

As it is in my culture, once you reach puberty stage, you are supposed to go to initiation camps.

In these initiation camps, you are taught how to sexually please a man.

Imagine the trauma that these young girls go through every day.

Most girls end up pregnant.

They even contract HIV and AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. 

For my little sister, she ended up being pregnant.

Her first marriage did not survive, nor did her second marriage. 

On the other side, there is this girl.

She's amazing.

(Laughter) (Applause) I call her amazing because she is.

I said no because I knew where I was going.

I knew what I wanted in life.

I had a lot of dreams as a young girl.

So we tried.

It was very hard, but we pushed.

In my community, that was the first time a community, they had to call the bylaws, the first bylaw that protected girls in our community. 

When the child marriage bill was being presented in February, we were there at the Parliament house.

Every day, girls' lives are being wasted away.

This is high time for leaders to honor their commitment.

In honoring this commitment, it means keeping girls' issues at heart every time.

We can do more. 

And another thing for Malawi, and not just Malawi but other countries: The laws which are there, you know how a law is not a law until it is enforced?

Girls face issues, difficult issues, at the community level every day.

What we need is what girls elsewhere need: good education, and above all, not to marry whilst 11. 

And furthermore, I know that together, we can transform the legal, the cultural and political framework that denies girls of their rights.

I am standing here today and declaring that we can end child marriage in a generation.

