So whether it's through sensors or videos, or apps, we can track our movement with incredibly fine detail. 

So what we're doing is turning our athletes into -- you probably guessed it -- moving dots. 

We taught it things like passes, shots and rebounds.

Things that most casual fans would know.

And then we moved on to things slightly more complicated.

Basically things only professionals know.

So we have taught a machine to see with the eyes of a coach. 

So how have we been able to do this?

And here's kind of how it goes.

So there's the guy on offense without the ball the ball and he goes next to the guy guarding the guy with the ball, and he kind of stays there and they both move and stuff happens, and ta-da, it's a pick-and-roll. 

So that is also an example of a terrible algorithm.

So, if the player who's the interferer -- he's called the screener -- goes close by, but he doesn't stop, it's probably not a pick-and-roll.

Or if he does stop, but he doesn't stop close enough, it's probably not a pick-and-roll.

So, luckily, with machine learning, we can go beyond our own ability to describe the things we know. 

Because the first thing is, you have to make it sound hard -- because it is. 

It turns out in modern basketball, this pick-and-roll is perhaps the most important play.

And knowing how to run it, and knowing how to defend it, is basically a key to winning and losing most games.

His teammate can either roll or pop.

Can it know more than person could know?

And it turns out the answer is yes. 

The coaches want players to take good shots.

Until now. 

So why is this important?

Those are NBA players.

The size is the size of the player and the color is the position.

On the x-axis, we have the shot probability.

On the [y-axis] is their shooting ability.

And the reason that's important is that there are lots of 47s out there.

And so it's really important to know if the 47 that you're considering giving 100 million dollars to is a good shooter who takes bad shots or a bad shooter who takes good shots.

Machine understanding doesn't just change how we look at players, it changes how we look at the game. 

So, here's the shot.

So, bear with me. 

Won't go! 

That's roughly how it happened. 

It's the fact you don't have to be a professional team to track movement.

You do not have to be a professional player to get insights about movement. 

Which could literally be happening any second now. 

