A few years ago, my mom developed rheumatoid arthritis.

Her wrists, knees and toes swelled up, causing crippling, chronic pain.

Some mornings it was too painful for her to brush her teeth.

I wanted to help.

But I didn't know how.

I'm not a doctor. 

Turns out, UCLA has an entire history of pain collection in their archives.

Yet, I had never heard of him.

There were no biographies of him, no Hollywood movies.

His name was John J. Bonica.

But when our story begins, he was better known as Johnny "Bull" Walker. 

It was a summer day in 1941.

The circus had just arrived in the tiny town of Brookfield, New York.

You know, on that particular day, a voice rang out over the circus P.A.

They needed a doctor urgently, in the live animal tent.

Something had gone wrong with the lion tamer.

When the lion finally did relax its jaws, the lion tamer just slumped to the ground, motionless.

When he came to a few minutes later, he saw a familiar figure hunched over him.

It was Bull Walker.

The strongman had given the lion tamer mouth-to-mouth, and saved his life. 

Now, the strongman hadn't told anyone, but he was actually a third-year medical student.

His medical colleagues didn't know his secret, either.

He even kept it a secret that same year, when he was crowned the Light Heavyweight Champion of the world. 

Over the years, John J. Bonica lived these parallel lives.

But that all happened later. 

His internship at New York's St. Vincent's Hospital paid nothing.

With his championship belt, he wrestled in big-ticket venues, like Madison Square Garden, against big-time opponents, like Everett "The Blonde Bear" Marshall, or three-time world champion, Angelo Savoldi. 

One night, The Terrible Turk's big toe scratched a scar like Capone's down the side of his face.

But worst of all were his mangled cauliflower ears.

He said they felt like two baseballs on the sides of his head.

Pain just kept accumulating in his life. 

Next, he watched his wife go into labor at his hospital.

She heaved and pushed, clearly in anguish.

Her obstetrician called out to the intern on duty to give her a few drops of ether to ease her pain.

She vomited and choked, and started to turn blue.

At that moment, he decided to devote his life to anesthesiology.

Later, he'd even go on to help develop the epidural, for delivering mothers.

But before he could focus on obstetrics, Bonica had to report for basic training. 

At 7,700 beds, it was one of the largest army hospitals in America.

Bonica was in charge of all pain control there.

He was only 27.

Treating so many patients, Bonica started noticing cases that contradicted everything he had learned.

But in some cases, like after a patient had a leg amputated, that patient might still complain of pain in that nonexistent leg.

And he tried to get their opinions on his patients.

It took too long, so he started organizing group meetings over lunch.

It would be like a tag team of specialists going up against the patient's pain.

No one had ever focused on pain this way before. 

After that, he hit the books.

He read every medical textbook he could get his hands on, carefully noting every mention of the word "pain."

Out of the 14,000 pages he read, the word "pain" was on 17 and a half of them.

So over the next eight years, Bonica would talk about it.

He'd write about it; he'd write those missing pages.

He wrote what would later be known as the Bible of Pain.

But the most important thing about his book was that it was kind of an emotional alarm bell for medicine.

A desperate plea to doctors to take pain seriously in patients' lives.

He recast the very purpose of medicine.

The goal wasn't to make patients better; it was to make patients feel better.

But as they did -- a tragic twist.

Bonica's years of wrestling caught up to him.

He had been out of the ring for over 20 years, but those 1,500 professional bouts had left a mark on his body.

Still in his mid-50s, he suffered severe osteoarthritis.

He could barely raise his arm, turn his neck.

He needed aluminum crutches to walk.

Already a workaholic, he worked even more -- 15- to 18-hour days.

On a business trip to Florida in the early 1980s, Bonica got a former student to drive him to the Hyde Park area in Tampa.

But now they were like him: retired.

But still, I love imagining it.

The strongman and the human cannonballs reunited, showing off old scars, and new ones.

Maybe Bonica gave them medical advice.

Bonica saw pain close up.

And it made it impossible for him to ignore in others.

In that same oral history, Bonica claimed that pain is the most complex human experience.

That it involves your past life, your current life, your interactions, your family.

That was definitely true for Bonica. 

But it was also true for my mom.

Sometimes I get stuck seeing her that same way.

But as I saw Bonica's pain -- a testament to his fully lived life -- I started to remember all the things that my mom's pain holds.

They folded samosas for our entire mosque.

When I was a kid, they cut my hair, wiped my nose, tied my shoes. 

Thank you. 

