And a lot of times, when we go into a country, we not only the meet the king or the president, but we also meet the villagers who live in the most remote areas of Africa. 

(Applause) 

There are a couple of reasons for this that I'll mention to begin with.

And they interpret these rules to make sure that women are ordinarily relegated to a secondary position compared to men in the eyes of God. 

But the basic thing is the scriptures are misinterpreted to keep men in an ascendant position.

The other very serious blight that causes this problem is the excessive resort to violence, and that is increasing tremendously around the world.

When I was in office as governor of Georgia, one out of every 1,000 Americans were in prison.

Nowadays, 7.3 people per 1,000 are in prison.

That's a sevenfold increase.

And we rank right alongside the countries that are most abusive in all elements of human rights in encouraging the death penalty.

If you add that up, that's 307 million dollars it costs California to send a person to be executed.

(Applause) So the resort to violence and abuse of poor people and helpless people is another cause of the increase in abuse of women. 

One is genital mutilation.

And then later, when she gets married, the same cutter goes in and opens the orifice up so she can have sex.

This is not a rare thing, although it's against the law in most countries.

In Egypt, for instance, 91 percent of all the females that live in Egypt today have been sexually mutilated in that way.

In some countries, it's more than 98 percent of the women are cut that way before they reach maturity.

This is a horrible affliction on all women that live in those countries. 

An analysis was done in Egypt not so long ago by the United Nations and it showed that 75 percent of these murders of a girl are perpetrated by the father, the uncle or the brother, but 25 percent of the murders are conducted by women. 

There are 30 million people now living in slavery.

Atlanta, Georgia, where the Carter Center is located and where I teach at Emory University, they have between 200 and 300 women, people sold into slavery every month.

It's the number one place in the nation because of that.

Atlanta has the busiest airport in the world, and they also have a lot of passengers that come from the Southern Hemisphere.

If a brothel owner wants to buy a girl that has brown or black skin, they can do it for 1,000 dollars.

The sex trade in Atlanta, Georgia, exceeds the total drug trade in Atlanta, Georgia.

In the United States, we take just the opposite position.

For every male arrested for illegal sex trade, 25 women are arrested in the United States of America.

Canada, Ireland, I've already said Sweden, France, and other countries are moving now towards this so-called Swedish model.

That's another thing that can be done. 

In the military, they are now analyzing how many sexual assaults take place.

That law needs to be changed. 

They're not prosecuted.

Those are the kinds of things that go on in our society. 

Another thing that's very serious about the abuse of women and girls is the lack of equal pay for equal work, as you know.

Well, that's what goes on in our country. 

Another problem with the United States is we are the most warlike nation on Earth.

But anyway, those kinds of things, the resort to violence and the misinterpretation of the holy scriptures are what causes, are the basic causes, of abuse of women and girls. 

(Applause) That's true.

So what is the basic thing that we need to do today?

(Applause) 

