And as a four-year-old, I had the opportunity to sail for the first time. 

I will never forget the excitement as we closed the coast.

So I did what I could in my life to get closer to that dream.

Age 10, it was saving my school dinner money change.

Every single day for eight years, I had mashed potato and baked beans, which cost 4p each, and gravy was free.

Every day I would pile up the change on the top of my money box, and when that pile reached a pound, I would drop it in and cross off one of the 100 squares I'd drawn on a piece of paper.

Finally, I bought a tiny dinghy.

I spent hours sitting on it in the garden dreaming of my goal.

And I could barely contain my excitement as I sat in that first design meeting designing a boat on which I was going to sail solo nonstop around the world.

From that first meeting to the finish line of the race, it was everything I'd ever imagined.

Just like in my dreams, there were amazing parts and tough parts.

We were blown on our side in the Southern Ocean.

But the sunsets, the wildlife, and the remoteness were absolutely breathtaking.

After three months at sea, age just 24, I finished in second position.

Seventy-five foot long, 60 foot wide.

I affectionately called her Moby.

She was a multihull.

The bar was now much, much higher. 

And these boats were exciting to sail.

This was a training sail off the French coast.

This I know well because I was one of the five crew members on board.

It was Christmas Day.

I was forging into the Southern Ocean underneath Australia.

The conditions were horrendous.

I was approaching a part in the ocean which was 2,000 miles away from the nearest town.

The nearest land was Antarctica, and the nearest people would be those manning the European Space Station above me.

(Laughter) You really are in the middle of nowhere.

If you need help, and you're still alive, it takes four days for a ship to get to you and then four days for that ship to get you back to port.

No helicopter can reach you out there, and no plane can land.

We are forging ahead of a huge storm.

The waves were already 40 to 50 feet high, and the spray from the breaking crests was blown horizontally like snow in a blizzard.

If we didn't sail fast enough, we'd be engulfed by that storm, and either capsized or smashed to pieces.

Now you have white knuckles and you're gripping the steering wheel.

That's what it's like in the Southern Ocean.

But you're not a passenger.

I was absolutely exhausted, physically and mentally.

Eight sail changes in 12 hours.

But out there, those lowest of the lows are so often contrasted with the highest of the highs.

A few days later, we came out of the back of the low.

It's hard to explain, but you enter a different mode when you head out there.

Your boat is your entire world, and what you take with you when you leave is all you have.

If I said to you all now, "Go off into Vancouver and find everything you will need for your survival for the next three months," that's quite a task.

That's food, fuel, clothes, even toilet roll and toothpaste.

No experience in my life could have given me a better understanding of the definition of the word "finite."

And never in my life had I ever translated that definition of finite that I'd felt on board to anything outside of sailing until I stepped off the boat at the finish line having broken that record. 

Suddenly I connected the dots.

Our global economy is no different.

It's entirely dependent on finite materials we only have once in the history of humanity.

I chose the first.

And my curiosity took me to some extraordinary places. 

This photo was taken in the burner of a coal-fired power station.

I was fascinated by coal, fundamental to our global energy needs, but also very close to my family.

This is a photo of him, and when you see that photo, you see someone from another era.

No one wears trousers with a waistband quite that high in this day and age.

(Laughter) 

He talked of the camaraderie underground, and the fact that the miners used to save the crusts of their sandwiches to give to the ponies they worked with underground.

It was like it was yesterday.

We only have them once.

And yet, our speed that we've used these materials has increased rapidly, exponentially.

With more people in the world with more stuff, we've effectively seen 100 years of price declines in those basic commodities erased in just 10 years.

And this affects all of us.

And the more I learned, the more I started to change my own life.

But it sat uneasy with me.

It didn't feel right.

It felt like we were buying ourselves time.

We were eking things out a bit longer.

Even if everybody changed, it wouldn't solve the problem.

It wouldn't fix the system.

It was vital in the transition, but what fascinated me was, in the transition to what?

At sea, I had to understand complex systems.

I had to make sense of it.

Life itself has existed for billions of years and has continually adapted to use materials effectively.

It's a complex system, but within it, there is no waste.

Everything is metabolized.

It's not a linear economy at all, but circular. 

And I felt like the child in the garden.

For the first time on this new journey, I could see exactly where we were headed.

If we could build an economy that would use things rather than use them up, we could build a future that really could work in the long term.

I was excited.

Many schools of thought fed our thinking and pointed to this model: industrial symbiosis, performance economy, sharing economy, biomimicry, and of course, cradle-to-cradle design.

So what could this economy look like?

What if engines were re-manufacturable, and we could recover the component materials and significantly reduce energy demand.

What if we could recover components from circuit boards, reutilize them, and then fundamentally recover the materials within them through a second stage?

Could cars become a service and provide us with mobility in the future?

All of this sounds amazing, but these aren't just ideas, they're real today, and these lie at the forefront of the circular economy.

What lies before us is to expand them and scale them up. 

So how would you shift from linear to circular?

Is the circular economy able to rebuild natural capital?

Could the circular economy replace current chemical fertilizer use?"

But what inspired me most about the circular economy was its ability to inspire young people.

When young people see the economy through a circular lens, they see brand new opportunities on exactly the same horizon.

So could we achieve this in their lifetimes?

Is it actually possible?

I believe yes.

When you look at the lifetime of my great-grandfather, anything's possible.

When he was 14, we flew for the first time in history.

Ten years before he died, we built the first mobile phone.

Thank you. 

