So in 1885, Karl Benz invented the automobile.

In America alone, 33,000 people are killed each year.

To put that in perspective, that's the same as a 737 falling out of the sky every working day.

It's kind of unbelievable.

And all of this has a very human cost.

It's unbelievable.

And then, there are those of us who don't have the privilege of sitting in traffic.

So this is Steve.

He doesn't have that same freedom that you and I have to get around.

We should do something about that. 

Now, conventional wisdom would say that we'll just take these driver assistance systems and we'll kind of push them and incrementally improve them, and over time, they'll turn into self-driving cars.

And so I'm going to talk to you about three different ways that self-driving systems are different than driver assistance systems.

And I'm going to start with some of our own experience. 

And we gave them the car and we allowed them to use it in their daily lives.

We tested it a lot, but it could still fail.

Sure enough, the phone is charging.

So we thought about this and we said, it's kind of obvious, right?

The better the technology gets, the less reliable the driver is going to get.

So by just making the cars incrementally smarter, we're probably not going to see the wins we really need. 

Let me talk about something a little technical for a moment here.

And the vertical axis is how often the car is going to apply the brakes when it's supposed to to help you avoid an accident.

Now, if we look at the bottom left corner here, this is your classic car.

We just reduced accidents on our roads by a factor of two.

There are now 17,000 less people dying every year in America. 

But if we want a self-driving car, we need a technology curve that looks like this.

But let's look at it from a different direction for a moment.

So let's look at how often the technology has to do the right thing.

And so this green dot up here is a driver assistance system.

It turns out that human drivers make mistakes that lead to traffic accidents about once every 100,000 miles in America.

Eight orders of magnitude.

So there's a pretty big gap there. 

And then finally, there's how the system can handle uncertainty.

So this pedestrian here might be stepping into the road, might not be.

So it can be much safer than a driver assistance system can ever be.

So that's enough about the differences between the two.

Let's spend some time talking about how the car sees the world. 

So this is our vehicle.

Then we know where the car is in the moment, but we have to do better than that: we have to predict what's going to happen.

It's really just two numbers at the end of the day.

So how hard can it really be? 

Back when we started in 2009, this is what our system looked like.

So you can see our car in the middle and the other boxes on the road, driving down the highway.

The car needs to understand where it is and roughly where the other vehicles are.

It's really a geometric understanding of the world.

Once we started driving on neighborhood and city streets, the problem becomes a whole new level of difficulty.

And then once you have that problem solved, the vehicle has to be able to deal with construction.

It has to deal with other people moving through that construction zone as well.

And of course, if anyone's breaking the rules, the police are there and the car has to understand that that flashing light on the top of the car means that it's not just a car, it's actually a police officer.

Now, the way we accomplish this is by sharing data between the vehicles.

The first, most crude model of this is when one vehicle sees a construction zone, having another know about it so it can be in the correct lane to avoid some of the difficulty.

And then, even more importantly, we could take from that a model of how we expect them to move through the world.

So here the yellow box is a pedestrian crossing in front of us.

Here the blue box is a cyclist and we anticipate that they're going to nudge out and around the car to the right.

Here there's a cyclist coming down the road and we know they're going to continue to drive down the shape of the road.

Now, we don't have to deal with just ducks.

Watch to the right as someone jumps out of this truck at us.

Here, as we make a lane change, the car to our left decides it wants to as well.

And here, we watch a car blow through a red light and yield to it.

(Laughter) 

Now, I just fire-hosed you with a lot of stuff there, so I'm going to break one of these down pretty quickly.

Unfortunately the other drivers next to us were not paying as much attention.

And off we go. 

In the time I have given this talk today, 34 people have died on America's roads. 

How soon can we bring it out?

My oldest son is 11, and that means in four and a half years, he's going to be able to get his driver's license.

My team and I are committed to making sure that doesn't happen. 

Thank you. 

(Laughter) (Applause) Chris Anderson: Chris, I've got a question for you. 

Chris Urmson: Sure. 

CA: So certainly, the mind of your cars is pretty mind-boggling.

So some of the companies, for example, Tesla, are going the driver-assisted route.

What you're saying is that that's kind of going to be a dead end because you can't just keep improving that route and get to fully driverless at some point, and then a driver is going to say, "This feels safe," and climb into the back, and something ugly will happen. 

CA: We will be tracking your progress with huge interest.

