His name was Joe McKenna.

His wife was taking care of him, but nothing she did made a difference, and when they got the local doctor in, nothing he did mattered either. 

People who got infections either recovered, if they were lucky, or they died.

My great uncle was not lucky.

He was 30 years old. 

If you look back through history, most people died the way my great uncle died.

It seemed like a miracle, and ever since, we have been living inside the golden epoch of the miracle drugs. 

And now, we are coming to an end of it.

My great uncle died in the last days of the pre-antibiotic era.

In fact, they already are.

Briefly, it works like this.

Other bacteria, to protect themselves, evolve defenses against that chemical attack.

Here is what happened next: Penicillin was distributed in 1943, and widespread penicillin resistance arrived by 1945.

Vancomycin arrived in 1972, vancomycin resistance in 1988.

Imipenem in 1985, and resistance to in 1998.

Daptomycin, one of the most recent drugs, in 2003, and resistance to it just a year later in 2004. 

This is what that looks like.

Today, that infection, known as KPC, has spread to every state but three, and to South America, Europe and the Middle East.

In 2008, doctors in Sweden diagnosed a man from India with a different infection resistant to all but one drug that time.

The gene that creates that resistance, known as NDM, has now spread from India into China, Asia, Africa, Europe and Canada, and the United States. 

It would be natural to hope that these infections are extraordinary cases, but in fact, in the United States and Europe, 50,000 people a year die of infections which no drugs can help.

A project chartered by the British government known as the Review on Antimicrobial Resistance estimates that the worldwide toll right now is 700,000 deaths a year. 

What you didn't think about, none of us do, is that antibiotics support almost all of modern life. 

How many athletic baby boomers need new hips and knees?

A recent study estimates that without antibiotics, one out of ever six would die. 

Next, we'd probably lose surgery.

Many operations are preceded by prophylactic doses of antibiotics.

Without that protection, we'd lose the ability to open the hidden spaces of the body.

So no heart operations, no prostate biopsies, no Cesarean sections.

We'd have to learn to fear infections that now seem minor.

More than anything else, we'd lose the confident way we live our everyday lives.

He walked into his garden and scratched his face on a thorn.

That British project I mentioned which estimates that the worldwide toll right now is 700,000 deaths a year also predicts that if we can't get this under control by 2050, not long, the worldwide toll will be 10 million deaths a year. 

The difficult answer is, we did it to ourselves.

Resistance is an inevitable biological process, but we bear the responsibility for accelerating it.

We did this by squandering antibiotics with a heedlessness that now seems shocking.

Penicillin was sold over the counter until the 1950s.

In much of the developing world, most antibiotics still are.

In the United States, 50 percent of the antibiotics given in hospitals are unnecessary.

Forty-five percent of the prescriptions written in doctor's offices are for conditions that antibiotics cannot help.

And because bacteria can pass their DNA to each other like a traveler handing off a suitcase at an airport, once we have encouraged that resistance into existence, there is no knowing where it will spread. 

This was predictable.

In fact, it was predicted by Alexander Fleming, the man who discovered penicillin.

He was given the Nobel Prize in 1945 in recognition, and in an interview shortly after, this is what he said: 

Can we avert it?

There are companies working on novel antibiotics, things the superbugs have never seen before.

But that probably won't be enough.

Here's why: Evolution always wins.

Bacteria birth a new generation every 20 minutes.

It takes pharmaceutical chemistry 10 years to derive a new drug.

Every time we use an antibiotic, we give the bacteria billions of chances to crack the codes of the defenses we've constructed.

There has never yet been a drug they could not defeat. 

This is asymmetric warfare, but we can change the outcome.

We could build systems to harvest data to tell us automatically and specifically how antibiotics are being used.

We could build surveillance systems to tell us where resistance is emerging next. 

Those are the tech solutions.

Antibiotic resistance is a habit.

We all know how hard it is to change a habit.

But as a society, we've done that in the past.

We changed social norms.

We could change social norms around antibiotic use too. 

We could take those kinds of steps for antibiotic use too.

We could forgo giving an antibiotic if we're not sure it's the right one.

We could ask every restaurant, every supermarket, where their meat comes from.

But we have to do it soon.

Penicillin began the antibiotic era in 1943.

In just 70 years, we walked ourselves up to the edge of disaster.

We won't get 70 years to find our way back out again. 

Thank you very much. 

