So what the hell was that?

Well, you don't know because you couldn't understand it.

It wasn't clear.

But hopefully, it was said with enough conviction that it was at least alluringly mysterious. 

Here's an example.

There is no other typographic information or visual information on the front, and the name of the book is "Only What's Necessary."

So this is sort of symbolic about the decisions I have to make every day about the design that I'm perceiving, and the design I'm creating. 

So clarity.

Now, something like this, whether we can read it or not, needs to be really, really clear.

Is it? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So let's look at the yin to the clarity yang, and that is mystery.

Mystery is a lot more complicated by its very definition.

Here's an example of a design that I've done recently for a novel by Haruki Murakami, who I've done design work for for over 20 years now, and this is a novel about a young man who has four dear friends who all of a sudden, after their freshman year of college, completely cut him off with no explanation, and he is devastated.

And the friends' names each have a connotation in Japanese to a color.

So there's Mr. Red, there's Mr. Blue, there's Ms. White, and Ms. Black.

Tsukuru Tazaki, his name does not correspond to a color, so his nickname is Colorless, and as he's looking back on their friendship, he recalls that they were like five fingers on a hand.

So I created this sort of abstract representation of this, but there's a lot more going on underneath the surface of the story, and there's more going on underneath the surface of the jacket.

The four fingers are now four train lines in the Tokyo subway system, which has significance within the story.

And then you have the colorless subway line intersecting with each of the other colors, which basically he does later on in the story.

He catches up with each of these people to find out why they treated him the way they did. 

This is a way to use a more familiar kind of mystery.

It's not connected to any of the essays in the book.

It came to the author's boyfriend in a dream.

Thank you very much, so -- (Laughter) -- so usually, I am creating a design that is in some way based on the text, but this is all the text there is.

So you've got this mysterious title that really doesn't mean anything, so I was trying to think: Where might I see a bit of mysterious text that seems to mean something but doesn't?

We're just seeing this strange thing and we know we love David Sedaris, and so we're hoping that we're in for a good time. 

There is another kind of graffiti that I find far more interesting, which I call editorial graffiti.

And it got my attention. 

So I was thinking, how do we apply this to this book?

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And it's a story about a Japanese-American detective in Los Angeles in 1941 investigating a murder.

And then Pearl Harbor happens, and as if his life wasn't difficult enough, now the race relations have really ratcheted up, and then the Japanese-American internment camps are quickly created, and there's lots of tension and horrible stuff as he's still trying to solve this murder.

And so I did at first think very literally about this in terms of all right, we'll take Pearl Harbor and we'll add it to Los Angeles and we'll make this apocalyptic dawn on the horizon of the city.

And so that's a picture from Pearl Harbor just grafted onto Los Angeles.

But also, being alive to my surroundings, I work in a high-rise in Midtown, and every night, before I leave the office, I have to push this button to get out, and the big heavy glass doors open and I can get onto the elevator.

And one night, all of a sudden, I looked at this and I saw it in a way that I hadn't really noticed it before.

Mary Roach is an amazing writer who takes potentially mundane scientific subjects and makes them not mundane at all; she makes them really fun.

So in this particular case, it's about the human digestive system.

(Laughter) Every morning I look at myself in the medicine cabinet mirror to see if my tongue is black.

And if it's not, I'm good to go.

(Laughter) I recommend you all do this.

(Laughter) I don't even have to complete the sentence.

(Laughter) I don't even have to complete the sentence.

["Unuseful mystery"] What happens when clarity and mystery get mixed up?

What we need is useful clarity, so just for fun, I redesigned this.

This is using all the same elements.

(Laughter) You know, I'm actually not even using more colors than they use.

They just didn't even bother to make the 4 and the 5 green, those idiots.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

["Useful mystery"] All right.

Now, here is a piece of mystery that I love: packaging.

But part of what makes it so heartening to me as a designer is that he's taken the visual vernacular of Diet Coke -- the typefaces, the colors, the silver background -- and he's reduced them to their most essential parts, so it's like going back to the Charlie Brown face.

It looks great, and you would go into a delicatessen and all of a sudden see that on the shelf, and it's wonderful.

Times Square subway station: Coca-Cola has bought out the entire thing for advertising.

It was pulled almost instantly due to consumer backlash and all sorts of unflattering parodies on the web -- (Laughter) -- and also that dot next to "You're on," that's not a period, that's a trademark.

So thanks a lot. 

It was just incredible to me. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Applause) 

