The virus then hopped the Canadian border, infecting more than 100 children in Quebec.

One of the tragic things about this outbreak is that measles, which can be fatal to a child with a weakened immune system, is one of the most easily preventable diseases in the world.

Why?

Here's why.

This is a graph of autism prevalence estimates rising over time.

For most of the 20th century, autism was considered an incredibly rare condition.

But then, in the 1990s, the numbers started to skyrocket.

So what's going on?

If it isn't vaccines, what is it?

But that kind of language doesn't do much to allay the fears of a young mother who is searching her two-year-old's face for eye contact.

If the diagnostic criteria had to be broadened, why were they so narrow in the first place?

Why were cases of autism so hard to find before the 1990s? 

Five years ago, I decided to try to uncover the answers to these questions.

There was a second, more accurate story of autism which had been lost and forgotten in obscure corners of the clinical literature.

This second story tells us everything about how we got here and where we need to go next. 

The first story starts with a child psychiatrist at Johns Hopkins Hospital named Leo Kanner.

By the 1950s, as the world's leading authority on the subject, he declared that he had seen less than 150 true cases of his syndrome while fielding referrals from as far away as South Africa.

He once bragged that he had turned nine out of 10 kids referred to his office as autistic by other clinicians without giving them an autism diagnosis. 

He classified autism as a form of infantile psychosis caused by cold and unaffectionate parents.

These children, he said, had been kept neatly in a refrigerator that didn't defrost.

One boy in his clinic could distinguish between 18 symphonies before he turned two.

Amazingly, it wasn't until the 1970s that researchers began to test Kanner's theory that autism was rare.

Lorna Wing was a cognitive psychologist in London who thought that Kanner's theory of refrigerator parenting were "bloody stupid," as she told me.

Lorna and her colleague Judith Gould decided to do something that should have been done 30 years earlier.

What they saw made clear that Kanner's model was way too narrow, while the reality of autism was much more colorful and diverse.

Some kids couldn't talk at all, while others waxed on at length about their fascination with astrophysics, dinosaurs or the genealogy of royalty.

At first, they were at a loss to make sense of their data.

How had no one noticed these children before?

Kanner knew about this competing paper, but scrupulously avoided mentioning it in his own work.

It had never even been translated into English, but luckily, Lorna's husband spoke German, and he translated it for her. 

The paper offered an alternate story of autism.

Its author was a man named Hans Asperger, who ran a combination clinic and residential school in Vienna in the 1930s.

Asperger's ideas about teaching children with learning differences were progressive even by contemporary standards.

Mornings at his clinic began with exercise classes set to music, and the children put on plays on Sunday afternoons.

Crucially, Asperger viewed autism as a diverse continuum that spans an astonishing range of giftedness and disability.

He went so far as to say, it seems that for success in science and art, a dash of autism is essential. 

Lorna and Judith realized that Kanner had been as wrong about autism being rare as he had been about parents causing it.

In the late '80s and early 1990s, their changes went into effect, swapping out Kanner's narrow model for Asperger's broad and inclusive one. 

These changes weren't happening in a vacuum.

Before "Rain Man" came out in 1988, only a tiny, ingrown circle of experts knew what autism looked like, but after Dustin Hoffman's unforgettable performance as Raymond Babbitt earned "Rain Man" four Academy Awards, pediatricians, psychologists, teachers and parents all over the world knew what autism looked like. 

The combination of "Rain Man," the changes to the criteria, and the introduction of these tests created a network effect, a perfect storm of autism awareness.

The number of diagnoses started to soar, just as Lorna and Judith predicted, indeed hoped, that it would, enabling autistic people and their families to finally get the support and services they deserved. 

Then Andrew Wakefield came along to blame the spike in diagnoses on vaccines, a simple, powerful, and seductively believable story that was as wrong as Kanner's theory that autism was rare. 

If the CDC's current estimate, that one in 68 kids in America are on the spectrum, is correct, autistics are one of the largest minority groups in the world.

By autistic standards, the normal human brain is easily distractable, obsessively social, and suffers from a deficit of attention to detail.

To be sure, autistic people have a hard time living in a world not built for them.

We can't afford to waste a brain. 

Thank you. 

