They were all plump and fully feathered and egg production had increased dramatically.

They'd pecked the rest to death.

(Laughter) The individually productive chickens had only achieved their success by suppressing the productivity of the rest. 

I've started and run businesses because invention is a joy, and because working alongside brilliant, creative people is its own reward.

They brought in hundreds of volunteers, they put them into groups, and they gave them very hard problems to solve.

First of all, they showed high degrees of social sensitivity to each other.

And thirdly, the more successful groups had more women in them.

So how does this play out in the real world?

An example: Arup is one of the world's most successful engineering firms, and it was commissioned to build the equestrian center for the Beijing Olympics.

And the problem the engineer confronted was, what quantity of waste to cater for?

The problem was solved in less than a day.

Arup believes that the culture of helpfulness is central to their success. 

Helpfulness means I don't have to know everything, I just have to work among people who are good at getting and giving help.

At SAP, they reckon that you can answer any question in 17 minutes.

When I was running my first software company, I realized that we were getting stuck.

At Idexx, a company up in Maine, they've created vegetable gardens on campus so that people from different parts of the business can work together and get to know the whole business that way.

Have they all gone mad?

And what motivates people are the bonds and loyalty and trust they develop between each other.

What matters is the mortar, not just the bricks. 

So teams that work together longer get better, because it takes time to develop the trust you need for real candor and openness.

And time is what builds value.

When Alex Pentland suggested to one company that they synchronize coffee breaks so that people would have time to talk to each other, profits went up 15 million dollars, and employee satisfaction went up 10 percent.

And it's only through the generous contribution, faith and challenge that they achieve their potential.

And that's what social capital supports. 

Now, we aren't really used to talking about this, about talent, about creativity, in this way.

(Laughter) (Applause) Once you appreciate truly how social work is, a lot of things have to change.

Management by talent contest has routinely pitted employees against each other.

Now, rivalry has to be replaced by social capital.

Now, we need to let people motivate each other.

And for years, we've thought that leaders were heroic soloists who were expected, all by themselves, to solve complex problems.

Now, we need to redefine leadership as an activity in which conditions are created in which everyone can do their most courageous thinking together. 

We know that this works.

But one team that rose to the challenge adopted three key principles.

The first was the head of engineering, Frank Maslen, said, there will be no stars in this team.

We need everybody.

Everybody has a valid perspective.

Now, this didn't mean Tudhope did nothing.

Thank you. 

