The first time I uttered a prayer was in a glass-stained cathedral. 

I was kneeling long after the congregation was on its feet, 

all over the wooden pew. 

I asked Jesus to fix me, 

but shame lingered as an aftertaste. 

my mother told me of the miracle I was, 

said I could grow up to be anything I want. 

I decided to be a boy. 

It was cute. 

I had snapback, toothless grin, 

used skinned knees as street cred, 

I was it. 

The winner to a game the other kids couldn't play, 

I was the mystery of an anatomy, 

and when I turned 12, the boy phase wasn't deemed cute anymore. 

who reminded me that my kind of attitude would never bring a husband home, 

that I exist for heterosexual marriage and child-bearing. 

And I swallowed their insults along with their slurs. 

Naturally, I did not come out of the closet. 

The kids at my school opened it without my permission. 

Called me by a name I did not recognize, 

said "lesbian," 

but I was more boy than girl, more Ken than Barbie. 

It had nothing to do with hating my body, 

I just love it enough to let it go, 

I treat it like a house, 

and when your house is falling apart, 

you make it comfortable enough to house all your insides, 

you make it pretty enough to invite guests over, 

you make the floorboards strong enough to stand on. 

My mother fears I have named myself after fading things. 

She fears that I'll die without a whisper, 

that I'll turn into "what a shame" conversations at the bus stop. 

She claims I have turned myself into a mausoleum, 

Bruce Jenner on everyone's lips while the brutality of living in this body 

No one ever thinks of us as human 

because we are more ghost than flesh, 

because people fear that my gender expression is a trick, 

that my body is a feast for their eyes and hands 

they'll regurgitate all the parts they did not like. 

They'll put me back into the closet, hang me with all the other skeletons. 

I will be the best attraction. 

to misspell their names on gravestones. 

And people still wonder why there are boys rotting, 

they are afraid of becoming another hashtag in a second 

afraid of classroom discussions becoming like judgment day 

way before we learn how to love them. 

like my blood is not the wine that washed over Jesus' feet. 

My prayers are now getting stuck in my throat. 

maybe I just don't care, 

maybe God finally listened to my prayers. 

