Now, Huxley knew that brain activity and conscious experiences are correlated, but he didn't know why.

To the science of his day, it was a mystery.

Well, some experts think that we can't solve this problem because we lack the necessary concepts and intelligence.

I think we've simply made a false assumption.

Once we fix it, we just might solve this problem.

Today, I'd like tell you what that assumption is, why it's false, and how to fix it. 

I open my eyes and I have an experience that I describe as a red tomato a meter away.

As a result, I come to believe that in reality, there's a red tomato a meter away.

I think so, but could I be wrong?

Could I be misinterpreting the nature of my perceptions? 

We have misinterpreted our perceptions before.

Copernicus and Galileo discovered, again, that we were wrong. 

Galileo then wondered if we might be misinterpreting our experiences in other ways.

Now, that's a stunning claim.

Could Galileo be right?

Could we really be misinterpreting our experiences that badly?

What does modern science have to say about this? 

Well, neuroscientists tell us that about a third of the brain's cortex is engaged in vision.

When you simply open your eyes and look about this room, billions of neurons and trillions of synapses are engaged. 

Now, this is a bit surprising, because to the extent that we think about vision at all, we think of it as like a camera.

It just takes a picture of objective reality as it is.

Now, there is a part of vision that's like a camera: the eye has a lens that focuses an image on the back of the eye where there are 130 million photoreceptors, so the eye is like a 130-megapixel camera.

But that doesn't explain the billions of neurons and trillions of synapses that are engaged in vision.

What are these neurons up to? 

It feels like we're just taking a snapshot of this room the way it is, but in fact, we're constructing everything that we see.

Now, there are many demonstrations that are quite compelling that we construct what we see.

I'll just show you two.

Now, the screen of course is flat, so the three-dimensional cube that you're experiencing must be your construction. 

In fact, no dots move.

All I'm doing from frame to frame is changing the colors of dots from blue to black or black to blue.

But when I do this quickly, your visual system creates the glowing blue bars with the sharp edges and the motion.

There are many more examples, but these are just two that you construct what you see. 

But neuroscientists go further.

They say that we reconstruct reality.

Now, why would neuroscientists say that we don't just construct, we reconstruct?

Well, the standard argument given is usually an evolutionary one.

Those of our ancestors who saw more accurately had a competitive advantage compared to those who saw less accurately, and therefore they were more likely to pass on their genes.

We are the offspring of those who saw more accurately, and so we can be confident that, in the normal case, our perceptions are accurate.

They give you a survival advantage. 

Well, let's first look at a couple of examples in nature. 

The Australian jewel beetle is dimpled, glossy and brown.

When he finds one, he alights and mates.

The male of this species has a massive brain that he uses to hunt for cold beer.

(Laughter) And when he finds one, he drains it, and sometimes throws the bottle into the outback.

Now, as it happens, these bottles are dimpled, glossy, and just the right shade of brown to tickle the fancy of these beetles.

The males swarm all over the bottles trying to mate.

They lose all interest in the real females.

Classic case of the male leaving the female for the bottle.

(Laughter) Now, the males had successfully found females for thousands, perhaps millions of years.

It looked like they saw reality as it is, but apparently not.

Evolution had given them a hack.

(Laughter) Even when crawling all over the bottle, the male couldn't discover his mistake. 

(Laughter) Even when crawling all over the bottle, the male couldn't discover his mistake. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Fortunately, we don't have to wave our hands and guess; evolution is a mathematically precise theory.

A key notion in those equations is fitness.

Consider this steak: What does this steak do for the fitness of an animal?

Well, for a hungry lion looking to eat, it enhances fitness.

For a well-fed lion looking to mate, it doesn't enhance fitness.

Fitness is not the same thing as reality as it is, and it's fitness, and not reality as it is, that figures centrally in the equations of evolution. 

So, in my lab, we have run hundreds of thousands of evolutionary game simulations with lots of different randomly chosen worlds and organisms that compete for resources in those worlds.

Who wins? 

Well, I hate to break it to you, but perception of reality goes extinct.

In almost every simulation, organisms that see none of reality but are just tuned to fitness drive to extinction all the organisms that perceive reality as it is.

So the bottom line is, evolution does not favor veridical, or accurate perceptions.

Those perceptions of reality go extinct. 

Now, this is a bit stunning.

How can it be that not seeing the world accurately gives us a survival advantage?

The jewel beetle survived for thousands, perhaps millions of years, using simple tricks and hacks.

What the equations of evolution are telling us is that all organisms, including us, are in the same boat as the jewel beetle.

How can not perceiving reality as it is be useful?

In fact, it's there to hide that reality.

You don't want to know about the diodes and resistors and all the megabytes of software.

If you had to deal with that, you could never write your text file or edit your photo.

So the idea is that evolution has given us an interface that hides reality and guides adaptive behavior.

Space and time, as you perceive them right now, are your desktop.

Physical objects are simply icons in that desktop. 

There's an obvious objection.

Similarly, evolution has shaped us with perceptual symbols that are designed to keep us alive.

We'd better take them seriously.

They're designed to keep us safe, and we should take them seriously.

That does not mean that we should take them literally.

That's a logical error. 

Another objection: There's nothing really new here.

Physicists have told us for a long time that the metal of that train looks solid but really it's mostly empty space with microscopic particles zipping around.

There's nothing new here.

Well, not exactly.

Well, not really -- you're still on the desktop, and that's the point.

Those microscopic particles are still in space and time: they're still in the user interface.

So I'm saying something far more radical than those physicists. 

But remember this example.

The same is true of the train.

We're inclined to think that perception is like a window on reality as it is.

The theory of evolution is telling us that this is an incorrect interpretation of our perceptions.

Space as you perceive it is your desktop.

Physical objects are just the icons in that desktop. 

We were wrong.

We had misinterpreted our perceptions.

We're misinterpreting the content of our perceptual experiences.

There's something that exists when you don't look, but it's not spacetime and physical objects.

But we have an advantage over the jewel beetle: our science and technology.

By peering through the lens of a telescope we discovered that the Earth is not the unmoving center of reality, and by peering through the lens of the theory of evolution we discovered that spacetime and objects are not the nature of reality.

When I have a perceptual experience that I describe as a red tomato, I am interacting with reality, but that reality is not a red tomato and is nothing like a red tomato.

Similarly, when I have an experience that I describe as a lion or a steak, I'm interacting with reality, but that reality is not a lion or a steak.

Brains and neurons have no causal powers.

They cause none of our perceptual experiences, and none of our behavior.

Brains and neurons are a species-specific set of symbols, a hack. 

What does this mean for the mystery of consciousness?

Well, it opens up new possibilities.

For instance, perhaps reality is some vast machine that causes our conscious experiences.

I doubt this, but it's worth exploring.

Perhaps reality is some vast, interacting network of conscious agents, simple and complex, that cause each other's conscious experiences.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: If that's really you there, thank you.

So there's so much from this.

