In 2011, during the final six months of Kim Jong-Il's life, I lived undercover in North Korea. 

I was born and raised in South Korea, their enemy.

I live in America, their other enemy. 

So I posed as a teacher and a missionary at an all-male university in Pyongyang. 

The students were 270 young men, expected to be the future leaders of the most isolated and brutal dictatorship in existence.

When I arrived, they became my students. 

To celebrate the occasion, the regime shut down all universities, and sent students off to the fields to build the DPRK's much-heralded ideal as the world's most powerful and prosperous nation.

My students were the only ones spared from that fate. 

North Korea is a gulag posing as a nation.

Everything there is about the Great Leader.

The school was a heavily guarded prison, posing as a campus.

Teachers could only leave on group outings accompanied by an official minder.

Even then, our trips were limited to sanctioned national monuments celebrating the Great Leader.

The students were not allowed to leave the campus, or communicate with their parents.

Their days were meticulously mapped out, and any free time they had was devoted to honoring their Great Leader.

Lesson plans had to meet the approval of North Korean staff, every class was recorded and reported on, every room was bugged, and every conversation, overheard.

We were never allowed to discuss the outside world.

As students of science and technology, many of them were computer majors but they did not know the existence of the Internet.

They had never heard of Mark Zuckerberg or Steve Jobs.

Facebook, Twitter -- none of those things would have meant a thing.

And I could not tell them. 

I went there looking for truth.

But where do you even start when an entire nation's ideology, my students' day-to-day realities, and even my own position at the universities, were all built on lies? 

I started with a game.

We played "Truth and Lie."

A volunteer would write a sentence on the chalkboard, and the other students had to guess whether it was a truth or a lie.

Once a student wrote, "I visited China last year on vacation," and everyone shouted, "Lie!"

They all knew this wasn't possible.

Virtually no North Korean is allowed to leave the country.

Even traveling within their own country requires a travel pass. 

The difference between truth and lies seemed at times hazy to them.

Or, at moments, they lied out of habit.

But if all they have ever known were lies, how could we expect them to be otherwise? 

Essays are about coming up with one's own thesis, and making an evidence-based argument to prove it.

These students, however, were simply told what to think, and they obeyed.

In their world, critical thinking was not allowed. 

I also gave them the weekly assignment of writing a personal letter, to anybody.

Although those were just homework, and would never reach their intended recipients, my students slowly began to reveal their true feelings in them.

They wrote that they were fed up with the sameness of everything.

They were worried about their future.

In those letters, they rarely ever mentioned their Great Leader. 

I was spending all of my time with these young men.

We all ate meals together, played basketball together.

I often called them gentlemen, which made them giggle.

They blushed at the mention of girls.

And I came to adore them.

And watching them open up even in the tiniest of ways, was deeply moving. 

But something also felt wrong.

During those months of living in their world, I often wondered if the truth would, in fact, improve their lives.

But for them, the truth was dangerous.

By encouraging them to run after it, I was putting them at risk -- of persecution, of heartbreak. 

When you're not allowed to express anything in the open, you become good at reading what is unspoken.

In one of their personal letters to me, a student wrote that he understood why I always called them gentlemen.

It was because I was wishing them to be gentle in life, he said. 

On my last day in December of 2011, the day Kim Jong-Il's death was announced, their world shattered.

I had to leave without a proper goodbye.

But I think they knew how sad I was for them. 

Thank you. 

