You probably think of FBI agents gunning down bad guys like John Dillinger, or arresting corrupt politicians. 

Compare than to just 2.6 billion dollars combined for organized crime, financial fraud, public corruption and all other types of traditional criminal activity. 

In those same 14 years, the Bureau, however, has bragged about how it's foiled dozens of terrorism plots.

FBI agents were told to find terrorists before they struck.

To do this, agents recruited a network of more than 15,000 informants nationwide, all looking for anyone who might be dangerous.

Mujahidh had schizoaffective disorder, he had trouble distinguishing between reality and fantasy.

In 2012, the FBI arrested these two men for conspiring to attack a military recruiting station outside Seattle with weapons provided, of course, by the FBI.

The FBI's informant was Robert Childs, a convicted rapist and child molester who was paid 90,000 dollars for his work on the case.

This isn't an outlier. 

In 2009, an FBI informant who had fled Pakistan on murder charges led four men in a plot to bomb synagogues in the Bronx.

The lead defendant was James Cromitie, a broke Walmart employee with a history of mental problems.

And the informant had offered him 250,000 dollars if he participated in that plot.

There are many more examples. 

Today, The Intercept published my new story about a counterterrorism sting in Tampa involving Sami Osmakac, a young man who was living near Tampa, Florida.

Osmakac also had schizoaffective disorder.

A federal judge doesn't want you to hear about these conversations.

But that didn't stop the FBI.

They provided Sami Osmakac everything he needed.

As they were working the sting, the squad supervisor tells his agents he wanted a Hollywood ending.

And he got a Hollywood ending.

When Sami Osmakac attempted to deliver what he thought was a car bomb, he was arrested, convicted and sentenced to 40 years in prison. 

Sami Osmakac isn't alone.

He's one of more than 175 so-called terrorists, for whom the FBI has created Hollywood endings.

U.S. government officials call this the War on Terror.

How can you back this up? 

And we submitted that to the FBI and we asked them to respond to our database.

Tell us about your article and why there. 

So my story in The Intercept, which was just published today, tells the story of how Sami Osmakac was set up in this FBI sting and goes into much greater detail.

When he went to trial, the central piece of evidence was that he paid for these weapons, when in truth, these transcripts show how the FBI orchestrated someone who was essentially mentally ill and broke to get money to then pay for weapons that they could then charge him in a conspiracy for. 

Less than 10 days ago, the FBI arrested some potential ISIS suspects in Brooklyn, saying that they might be headed to Syria, and were those real, or examples of more of the same? 

