It's a cramped, tiny space and it's just three feet away from the train tracks.

As John sits on Dan's bed, a train goes rushing by, rattling everything in the room.

And then, something falls off the wall. 

We all know what he's talking about.

As human beings, we get used to everyday things really fast.

As a product designer, it's my job to see those everyday things, to feel them, and try to improve upon them.

For example, see this piece of fruit?

See this little sticker?

That sticker wasn't there when I was a kid.

But somewhere as the years passed, someone had the bright idea to put that sticker on the fruit.

Why?

So it could be easier for us to check out at the grocery counter. 

But now, there's a new problem.

And then trying to flick it off your fingers.

(Applause) It's not fun, not at all. 

But something interesting happened.

See the first time you did it, you probably felt those feelings.

You just wanted to eat the piece of fruit.

By the 10th time, you started to become less upset and you just started peeling the label off.

So why is that?

Why do we get used to everyday things?

Well as human beings, we have limited brain power.

And so our brains encode the everyday things we do into habits so we can free up space to learn new things.

Now, habituation isn't always bad.

Remember learning to drive?

I sure do.

As the weeks went by, driving became easier and easier.

You habituated it.

It started to become fun and second nature.

And then, you could talk to your friends again and listen to music. 

So there's a good reason why our brains habituate things.

If we didn't, we'd notice every little detail, all the time.

But sometimes, habituation isn't good.

And if it stops us from noticing and fixing those problems, well, then that's really bad. 

Comedians know all about this.

He'd reach out and grab the handle and turn it slightly one way, and it was 100 degrees too hot.

And then he'd turn it the other way, and it was 100 degrees too cold.

He just wanted a comfortable shower.

Now, we've all been there, we just don't remember it.

But Jerry did, and that's a comedian's job. 

But designers, innovators and entrepreneurs, it's our job to not just notice those things, but to go one step further and try to fix them. 

See this, this person, this is Mary Anderson.

In 1902 in New York City, she was visiting.

It was a cold, wet, snowy day and she was warm inside a streetcar.

As she was going to her destination, she noticed the driver opening the window to clean off the excess snow so he could drive safely.

That wasn't the case for me.

I had to work at it.

He called it staying beginners, and wanted to make sure that we focused on those tiny little details to make them faster, easier and seamless for the new customers. 

So I remember this clearly in the very earliest days of the iPod.

See, back in the '90s, being a gadget freak like I am, I would rush out to the store for the very, very latest gadget.

I'd take all the time to get to the store, I'd check out, I'd come back home, I'd start to unbox it.

And then, there was another little sticker: the one that said, "Charge before use."

It was crazy. 

But you know what?

Almost every product back then did that.

When it had batteries in it, you had to charge it before you used it.

What did we do instead?

Well, first off, we could make a higher quality product, be easy to test, and make sure it was great for the customer.

But most importantly, the battery came fully charged right out of the box, ready to use.

So that customer, with all that exhilaration, could just start using the product.

It was great, and it worked.

People liked it. 

No more, "Charge before use."

So why am I telling you this?

Well, it's seeing the invisible problem, not just the obvious problem, that's important, not just for product design, but for everything we do.

But first we need to see them, to feel them. 

So, I'm hesitant to give you any tips about neuroscience or psychology.

My first tip is to look broader.

You see, when you're tackling a problem, sometimes, there are a lot of steps that lead up to that problem.

And sometimes, a lot of steps after it.

If you can take a step back and look broader, maybe you can change some of those boxes before the problem.

Maybe you can combine them.

Maybe you can remove them altogether to make that better. 

You could turn them up or turn them down.

People understood them.

But in the 1970s, the energy crisis struck, and customers started thinking about how to save energy.

So what happened?

Thermostat designers decided to add a new step.

Instead of just turning up and down, you now had to program it.

So you could tell it the temperature you wanted at a certain time.

Now that seemed great.

Every thermostat had started adding that feature.

Well, people couldn't predict the future.

They just didn't know how their weeks would change season to season, year to year.

And you know what?

It worked.

People are saving energy without any programming. 

For my second tip, it's to look closer.

One of my greatest teachers was my grandfather.

He taught me all about the world.

We went back to the drawing board just instantly after we figured out we didn't get it right.

They were like, "Why are you spending so much time on a little screw?

Get out there and sell more!"

So my last piece of advice is to think younger.

Every day, I'm confronted with interesting questions from my three young kids.

We say, "Son, that's just the way the world works."

So the more we're exposed to something, the more we get used to it.

But kids haven't been around long enough to get used to those things.

So my advice that we take to heart is to have young people on your team, or people with young minds.

It's not easy.

It requires us pushing back against one of the most basic ways we make sense of the world.

But if we do, we could do some pretty amazing things.

For me, hopefully, that's better product design.

For you, that could mean something else, something powerful. 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

