In particular, in my lab in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT, I have spent the past decade trying to understand the mystery of how children learn so much from so little so quickly.

I'm going to give you just two examples today.

One is about a problem of generalization, and the other is about a problem of causal reasoning.

And although I'm going to talk about work in my lab, this work is inspired by and indebted to a field.

I'm grateful to mentors, colleagues, and collaborators around the world. 

Let me start with the problem of generalization.

Generalizing from small samples of data is the bread and butter of science.

We poll a tiny fraction of the electorate and we predict the outcome of national elections.

We see how a handful of patients responds to treatment in a clinical trial, and we bring drugs to a national market.

But this only works if our sample is randomly drawn from the population.

If our sample is cherry-picked in some way -- say, we poll only urban voters, or say, in our clinical trials for treatments for heart disease, we include only men -- the results may not generalize to the broader population. 

Well, babies have to generalize from small samples of data all the time.

They see a few rubber ducks and learn that they float, or a few balls and learn that they bounce.

So do babies care whether the tiny bit of evidence they see is plausibly representative of a larger population?

Let's find out.

And if you're a baby, that's like a TED Talk.

It doesn't get better than that.

(Laughter) But the important point is it's really easy to pull three blue balls in a row out of a box of mostly blue balls.

You could do that with your eyes closed.

It's plausibly a random sample from this population.

And if you can reach into a box at random and pull out things that squeak, then maybe everything in the box squeaks.

So maybe babies should expect those yellow balls to squeak as well.

Now, those yellow balls have funny sticks on the end, so babies could do other things with them if they wanted to.

They could pound them or whack them.

But let's see what the baby does. 

LS: I don't even have to talk, right?

You [probably won't] randomly draw three blue balls in a row out of a box of mostly yellow balls.

That is not plausibly randomly sampled evidence.

That evidence suggests that maybe Hyowon was deliberately sampling the blue balls.

Maybe there's something special about the blue balls.

Maybe only the blue balls squeak.

Let's see what the baby does. 

Let's see what the baby does. 

And if you could reach into a box at random and pull out something that squeaks, maybe everything in the box squeaks.

So even though babies are going to see much less evidence for squeaking, and have many fewer actions to imitate in this one ball condition than in the condition you just saw, we predicted that babies themselves would squeeze more, and that's exactly what we found.

And this might not seem like a problem to you, but like most problems, it's only a problem when things go wrong.

Take this baby, for instance.

Things are going wrong for him.

He would like to make this toy go, and he can't.

I'll show you a few-second clip.

Here's the setup.

Hyowon is going to try to make the toy go and succeed.

But the important point here is it provides a little bit of evidence that the problem isn't with the toy, it's with the person.

Some people can make this toy go, and some can't.

Now, when the baby gets the toy, he's going to have a choice.

So again, the really important question is what happens when we change the statistical data ever so slightly.

This time, babies are going to see the toy work and fail in exactly the same order, but we're changing the distribution of evidence.

This time, Hyowon is going to succeed once and fail once, and so am I.

And this suggests it doesn't matter who tries this toy, the toy is broken.

I want to close with just two points.

If you've been following my world, the field of brain and cognitive sciences, for the past few years, three big ideas will have come to your attention.

The first is that this is the era of the brain.

And maybe, as it tackles problems of scene understanding and natural language processing, to tell us something about human cognition.

Folks, human minds do not only learn from small amounts of data.

Human minds think of altogether new ideas.

We even heal them.

Thank you very much. 

It has to be that powerful.

CA: And if I understand you right, the other key point you're making is, we've been through these years where there's all this talk of how quirky and buggy our minds are, that behavioral economics and the whole theories behind that that we're not rational agents.

You're really saying that the bigger story is how extraordinary, and there really is genius there that is underappreciated. 

There are orders of magnitude more decisions you make every day that get the world right.

We have incredibly powerful computers, and they do do amazingly sophisticated things, often with very big amounts of data.

