I'm really excited to share with you some findings that really surprise me about what makes companies succeed the most, what factors actually matter the most for startup success. 

I believe that the startup organization is one of the greatest forms to make the world a better place.

If you take a group of people with the right equity incentives and organize them in a startup, you can unlock human potential in a way never before possible.

You get them to achieve unbelievable things. 

But if the startup organization is so great, why do so many fail?

That's what I wanted to find out.

I wanted to find out what actually matters most for startup success. 

And I wanted to try to be systematic about it, avoid some of my instincts and maybe misperceptions I have from so many companies I've seen over the years. 

And when I graduated from college, I started software companies.

We learned a lot from those failures. 

So I tried to look across what factors accounted the most for company success and failure.

So I looked at these five.

First, the idea.

I used to think that the idea was everything.

I named my company Idealab for how much I worship the "aha!"

But then over time, I came to think that maybe the team, the execution, adaptability, that mattered even more than the idea. 

So much about a team's execution is its ability to adapt to getting punched in the face by the customer.

The customer is the true reality.

And that's why I came to think that the team maybe was the most important thing. 

Does the company have a very clear path generating customer revenues?

That started rising to the top in my thinking about maybe what mattered most for success. 

Then I looked at the funding.

Sometimes companies received intense amounts of funding.

Maybe that's the most important thing? 

And then of course, the timing.

Is the idea way too early and the world's not ready for it?

So first, on these Idealab companies, the top five companies -- Citysearch, CarsDirect, GoTo, NetZero, Tickets.com -- those all became billion-dollar successes.

And the five companies on the bottom -- Z.com, Insider Pages, MyLife, Desktop Factory, Peoplelink -- we all had high hopes for, but didn't succeed. 

I tried to look at what factors actually accounted the most for success and failure across all of these companies, and the results really surprised me. 

The number one thing was timing.

Timing accounted for 42 percent of the difference between success and failure.

Team and execution came in second, and the idea, the differentiability of the idea, the uniqueness of the idea, that actually came in third. 

The last two, business model and funding, made sense to me actually.

Of course, people proved that wrong.

But one of the reasons it succeeded, aside from a good business model, a good idea, great execution, is the timing. 

Same thing with Uber.

Uber came out, incredible company, incredible business model, great execution, too.

Drivers were looking for extra money; it was very, very important. 

We thought the idea was so great, but actually, the timing was probably maybe more important.

Great idea, but unbelievable timing.

In fact, YouTube didn't even have a business model when it first started.

It wasn't even certain that that would work out.

But that was beautifully, beautifully timed. 

So what I would say, in summary, is execution definitely matters a lot.

The idea matters a lot.

But timing might matter even more.

And the best way to really assess timing is to really look at whether consumers are really ready for what you have to offer them.

As I said earlier, I think startups can change the world and make the world a better place.

