I can walk down the street in the exact same outfit and what the world expects of me and the way I'm treated depends on the arrangement of this piece of cloth.

This is about looking beyond your bias. 

Why? 

We all have our biases.

They're the filters through which we see the world around us.

Rather, it's something that has to be identified, acknowledged and mitigated against.

The fact is, we all have biases against what's different, what's different to our social norms. 

They started blind auditions.

So rather than face-to-face auditions, you would have to play behind a screen.

Now funnily enough, no immediate change was registered until they asked the audition-ers to take their shoes off before they entered the room.

because the clickity-clack of the heels against the hardwood floors was enough to give the ladies away.

And it almost tripled their chances of getting in.

What does that tell us?

Well, unfortunately for the guys, men actually didn't play differently, but there was the perception that they did.

And it was that bias that was determining their outcome. 

Let me give you an example.

A son and his father are in a horrible car accident.

The father dies on impact and the son, who's severely injured, is rushed to hospital.

But, if the merit idea was true, why would identical resumes, in an experiment done in 2012 by Yale, identical resumes sent out for a lab technician, why would Jennifers be deemed less competent, be less likely to be offered the job, and be paid less than Johns.

But, hey. 

Well, I'm glad you can.

(Applause) Because ladies and gentlemen, that's my day job.

And the cool thing about it is that it's pretty entertaining.

Actually, in places like Malaysia, Muslim women on rigs isn't even comment-worthy.

There are that many of them.

But, it is entertaining. 

Now, in 2010, The Australian National University did an experiment where they sent out 4,000 identical applications to entry level jobs, essentially.

In places like Silicon Valley, it's not that much better.

In Google, they put out some diversity results and 61 percent white, 30 percent Asian and nine, a bunch of blacks, Hispanics, all that kind of thing.

And most of the minorities that are at that sort of level are non-executive board directors.

So their influence isn't that great. 

Let me offer you a solution.

And as I've said before, we live in a world where we're looking for an ideal.

And if we want to create a world where the circumstances of your birth don't matter, we all have to be part of the solution.

And interestingly, the author of the lab resume experiment offered some sort of a solution.

She said the one thing that brought the successful women together, the one thing that they had in common, was the fact that they had good mentors. 

I challenge each and every one of you to mentor someone different.

Think about it.

Everyone wants to mentor someone who kind of is familiar, who looks like us, we have shared experiences.

If I see a Muslim chick who's got a bit of attitude, I'm like, "What's up?

The idea of finding someone different to mentor, someone who doesn't come from the same background as you, whatever that background is, is about opening doors for people who couldn't even get to the damn hallway. 

I was born in one of the poorest cities in the world, Khartoum.

However, I also acknowledge the fact that I was born with privilege.

I was born with amazing parents, I was given an education and had the blessing of migrating to Australia.

And I'm not the only one.

And he's able to change the lives of so many other young people.

Or a lady here in Brisbane, an Afghan lady who's a refugee, who could barely speak English when she came to Australia, her mentors helped her become a doctor and she took our Young Queenslander of the Year Award in 2008.

She's an inspiration.

This is so not smooth. 

This is me.

But I'm also the woman in the rig clothes, and I'm also the woman who was in the abaya at the beginning.

Would you have chosen to mentor me if you had seen me in one of those other versions of who I am?

Because I'm that same person.

So if we're going to create a change, if we're going to create a world where we all have those kinds of opportunities, then choose to open doors for people.

Because you might think that diversity has nothing to do with you, but we are all part of this system and we can all be part of that solution. 

But each and every one one of you has the potential to change that.

Thank you. 

