It came as a part of my participation in a public safety crime reduction strategy that saw a 79 percent reduction in violent crime over an eight-year period in a major city. 

But I didn't start out wanting to be a part of somebody's crime reduction strategy.

I was 25, had my first church.

If you would have asked me what my ambition was, I would have told you I wanted to be a megachurch pastor.

I wanted a 15-, 20,000-member church.

(Laughter) I wanted to be your long distance carrier.

(Laughter) 

After about a year of pastoring, my membership went up about 20 members.

So megachurchdom was way down the road.

Someone with the wrong color shirt on, on the wrong street corner at the wrong time.

And something needed to be done about that.

It got to the point where it started to change the character of the city.

And so while my colleagues were building these cathedrals great and tall and buying property outside of the city and moving their congregations out so that they could create or recreate their cities of God, the social structures in the inner cities were sagging under the weight of all of this violence. 

I started to preach decrying the violence in the community.

I even tried to be innovative in my preaching.

You all have heard of rap music, right?

Rap music?

I even tried to rap sermon one time.

It didn't work, but at least I tried it.

I'll never forget the young person who came to me after that sermon.

(Laughter) 

It was a kid by the name of Jesse McKie, walking home with his friend Rigoberto Carrion to the housing project down the street from my church.

They met up with a group of youth who were from a gang in Dorchester, and they were killed.

But as Jesse was running from the scene mortally wounded, he was running in the direction of my church, and he died some 100, 150 yards away.

And I took that as a sign.

When they caught some of the youth that had done this deed, to my surprise, they were around my age, but the gulf that was between us was vast.

It was like we were in two completely different worlds. 

Which meant not about building programs to catch those who were on the fences of violence, but to reach out and to embrace those who were committing the acts of violence, the gang bangers, the drug dealers. 

As soon as I came to that realization, a quick question came to my mind.

Why me?

I mean, isn't this a law enforcement issue?

I mean, isn't that how movements start anyway?

They don't start with a grand convention and people coming together and then walking in lockstep with a statement.

But it starts with just a few, or maybe just one. 

It started with me that way, and so I decided to figure out the culture of violence in which these young people who were committing them existed, and I started to volunteer at the high school.

After about two weeks of volunteering at the high school, I realized that the youth that I was trying to reach, they weren't going to high school.

I started to walk in the community, and it didn't take a rocket scientist to realize that they weren't out during the day.

So I started to walk the streets at night, late at night, going into the parks where they were, building the relationship that was necessary. 

A tragedy happened in Boston that brought a number of clergy together, and there was a small cadre of us who came to the realization that we had to come out of the four walls of our sanctuary and meet the youth where they were, and not try to figure out how to bring them in.

I imagine we were quite the anomaly when we first started walking.

It was probably a really odd thing.

So when they saw that we had none of that, they decided to talk to us.

And then we did an amazing thing for preachers.

We decided to listen and not preach.

Come on, give it up for me.

(Laughter) (Applause) All right, come on, you're cutting into my time now, okay?

Help us to see what we're not seeing.

Help us to understand what we're not understanding."

And as we were talking with them, a number of myths were dispelled about them with us.

Most of the young people who were out there on the streets are just trying to make it on the streets.

And we also found out that some of the most intelligent and creative and magnificent and wise people that we've ever met were on the street, engaged in a struggle.

We stopped looking at them as the problem to be solved, and we started looking at them as partners, as assets, as co-laborers in the struggle to reduce violence in the community.

The Boston Miracle was about bringing people together.

We had other partners.

I helped to start an organization 20 years ago, a faith-based organization, to deal with this issue.

Now, there is a movement in the United States of young people who I am very proud of who are dealing with the structural issues that need to change if we're going to be a better society.

But there is this political ploy to try to pit police brutality and police misconduct against black-on-black violence.

But it's a fiction.

It's all connected.

When you think about decades of failed housing policies and poor educational structures, when you think about persistent unemployment and underemployment in a community, when you think about poor healthcare, and then you throw drugs into the mix and duffel bags full of guns, little wonder that you would see this culture of violence emerge.

And then the response that comes from the state is more cops and more suppression of hot spots.

You have to value that community component. 

I believe that we can end the era of violence in our cities.

I believe that it is possible and that people are doing it even now.

But I need your help.

Go back to your city.

