Why do we cheat?

And why do happy people cheat?

Why do we think that men cheat out of boredom and fear of intimacy, but women cheat out of loneliness and hunger for intimacy?

And is an affair always the end of a relationship? 

For the past 10 years, I have traveled the globe and worked extensively with hundreds of couples who have been shattered by infidelity.

And yet, this extremely common act is so poorly understood.

So this talk is for anyone who has ever loved. 

(Laughter) So how do we reconcile what is universally forbidden, yet universally practiced? 

Because when it comes to sex, the pressure for men is to boast and to exaggerate, but the pressure for women is to hide, minimize and deny, which isn't surprising when you consider that there are still nine countries where women can be killed for straying. 

Now, monogamy used to be one person for life.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) 

We used to marry, and had sex for the first time.

But now we marry, and we stop having sex with others.

The fact is that monogamy had nothing to do with love.

Men relied on women's fidelity in order to know whose children these are, and who gets the cows when I die. 

Now, everyone wants to know what percentage of people cheat.

I've been asked that question since I arrived at this conference.

(Laughter) It applies to you.

So because there is no universally agreed-upon definition of what even constitutes an infidelity, estimates vary widely, from 26 percent to 75 percent.

But on top of it, we are walking contradictions.

(Laughter) 

And alchemy is the key word here, because the erotic frisson is such that the kiss that you only imagine giving, can be as powerful and as enchanting as hours of actual lovemaking.

As Marcel Proust said, it's our imagination that is responsible for love, not the other person. 

And never has infidelity exacted such a psychological toll.

When marriage was an economic enterprise, infidelity threatened our economic security.

But now that marriage is a romantic arrangement, infidelity threatens our emotional security.

Ironically, we used to turn to adultery -- that was the space where we sought pure love.

But now that we seek love in marriage, adultery destroys it. 

Now, there are three ways that I think infidelity hurts differently today.

And infidelity tells me I'm not.

It is the ultimate betrayal.

Infidelity shatters the grand ambition of love.

So my patient Fernando, he's plagued.

And this is also what my patient Heather is telling me, when she's talking to me about her story with Nick.

Married, two kids.

Heather, she goes digging, and she finds hundreds of messages, and photos exchanged and desires expressed.

But then we have another paradox that we're dealing with these days.

Because of this romantic ideal, we are relying on our partner's fidelity with a unique fervor.

And if we used to divorce because we were unhappy, today we divorce because we could be happier.

And if divorce carried all the shame, today, choosing to stay when you can leave is the new shame.

Staying is the new shame. 

So if we can divorce, why do we still have affairs?

Now, the typical assumption is that if someone cheats, either there's something wrong in your relationship or wrong with you.

But what if passion has a finite shelf life?

What if there are things that even a good relationship can never provide?

If even happy people cheat, what is it about? 

The vast majority of people that I actually work with are not at all chronic philanderers.

But they find themselves in a conflict between their values and their behavior.

They often are people who have actually been faithful for decades, but one day they cross a line that they never thought they would cross, and at the risk of losing everything.

But for a glimmer of what?

At the heart of an affair, you will often find a longing and a yearning for an emotional connection, for novelty, for freedom, for autonomy, for sexual intensity, a wish to recapture lost parts of ourselves or an attempt to bring back vitality in the face of loss and tragedy. 

I'm thinking about another patient of mine, Priya, who is blissfully married, loves her husband, and would never want to hurt the man.

Priya, she fell for the arborist who removed the tree from her yard after Hurricane Sandy.

And with his truck and his tattoos, he's quite the opposite of her.

But at 47, Priya's affair is about the adolescence that she never had.

And her story highlights for me that when we seek the gaze of another, it isn't always our partner that we are turning away from, but the person that we have ourselves become.

And it isn't so much that we're looking for another person, as much as we are looking for another self. 

Now, all over the world, there is one word that people who have affairs always tell me.

They feel alive.

Will I ever feel that thing again?

And it has led me to think that perhaps these questions are the ones that propel people to cross the line, and that some affairs are an attempt to beat back deadness, in an antidote to death. 

And the very structure of an affair, the fact that you can never have your lover, keeps you wanting.

That in itself is a desire machine, because the incompleteness, the ambiguity, keeps you wanting that which you can't have. 

First of all, the conversation about monogamy is not the same as the conversation about infidelity.

(Laughter) 

So how do we heal from an affair?

But it can be healed.

And some affairs are death knells for relationships that were already dying on the vine.

But others will jolt us into new possibilities.

The fact is, the majority of couples who have experienced affairs stay together.

They'll be able to turn this into a generative experience.

I've noticed that a lot of couples, in the immediate aftermath of an affair, because of this new disorder that may actually lead to a new order, will have depths of conversations with honesty and openness that they haven't had in decades.

Something about the fear of loss will rekindle desire, and make way for an entirely new kind of truth. 

So when an affair is exposed, what are some of the specific things that couples can do?

We know from trauma that healing begins when the perpetrator acknowledges their wrongdoing.

But the truth is that I have noticed that quite a lot of people who have affairs may feel terribly guilty for hurting their partner, but they don't feel guilty for the experience of the affair itself.

And that distinction is important.

It's his responsibility to bring it up, because if he thinks about it, he can relieve Heather from the obsession, and from having to make sure that the affair isn't forgotten, and that in itself begins to restore trust. 

But for Heather, or deceived partners, it is essential to do things that bring back a sense of self-worth, to surround oneself with love and with friends and activities that give back joy and meaning and identity.

What was it like for you when you came home?

What is it about us that you value?

Are you pleased this is over? 

Betrayal in a relationship comes in many forms.

Sexual betrayal is only one way to hurt a partner.

In other words, the victim of an affair is not always the victim of the marriage. 

(Laughter) So, you're wrong.

I am not French.

(Laughter) (Applause) And I'm not pro-affair.

The main question that I've been asked since I arrived at this conference when I said I would talk about infidelity is, for or against?

(Laughter) 

Your first marriage is over.

Would you like to create a second one together? 

Thank you. 

