So, has everybody heard of CRISPR?

I would be shocked if you hadn't. 

Should we bring back the woolly mammoth?

Should we edit a human embryo?

This type of science is moving much faster than the regulatory mechanisms that govern it.

And so, for the past six years, I've made it my personal mission to make sure that as many people as possible understand these types of technologies and their implications. 

So what I want to do is drill down a little bit deeper and look into some of the myths and the realities around CRISPR. 

If you're trying to CRISPR a genome, the first thing that you have to do is damage the DNA.

The damage comes in the form of a double-strand break through the double helix.

That's how it works.

I like to think of it as a guided missile.

And the combination of those two is called CRISPR.

It's a system that we stole from an ancient, ancient bacterial immune system. 

The part that's amazing about it is that the guide RNA, only 20 letters of it, are what target the system.

This is really easy to design, and it's really cheap to buy.

This makes it a remarkably easy and powerful system to use. 

What does it do?

It calls its first responders.

There are two major repair pathways.

The first just takes the DNA and shoves the two pieces back together.

The second repair pathway is a lot more interesting.

In this repair pathway, it takes a homologous piece of DNA.

So that's where this comes from.

The repair is made, and now the genome is safe again. 

So now, you can put whatever you want in the center and the cell gets fooled.

The thing that's special about it is this modular targeting system.

I mean, we've been shoving DNA into organisms for years, right?

But because of the modular targeting system, we can actually put it exactly where we want it. 

The thing is that there's a lot of talk about it being cheap and it being easy.

Like, seriously. 

We're going to explore that a little bit.

So, how cheap is it?

Yeah, it is cheap in comparison.

It can cut it from weeks to days.

That's great.

You still need a professional lab to do the work in; you're not going to do anything meaningful outside of a professional lab.

I mean, don't listen to anyone who says you can do this sort of stuff on your kitchen table.

It's really not easy to do this kind of work.

And when it is, you can bet you're going to pay someone a really hefty licensing fee in order to use this stuff.

So, is it really cheap?

Well, it's cheap if you're doing basic research and you've got a lab. 

The devil is always in the details.

We don't really know that much about cells.

They're still kind of black boxes.

For example, we don't know why some guide RNAs work really well and some guide RNAs don't.

We don't know why some cells want to do one repair pathway and some cells would rather do the other. 

And besides that, there's the whole problem of getting the system into the cell in the first place.

There was a great story of some little girl who they saved from leukemia by taking the blood out, editing it, and putting it back with a precursor of CRISPR.

And this is a line of research that people are going to do.

But right now, if you want to get into the whole body, you're probably going to have to use a virus.

So you take the virus, you put the CRISPR into it, you let the virus infect the cell.

But now you've got this virus in there, and we don't know what the long-term effects of that are.

What's going to happen over time with that? 

But it ain't plug-and-play, not by a long shot.

So: Is it really easy?

Well, if you spend a few years working it out in your particular system, yes, it is. 

Now the other thing is, we don't really know that much about how to make a particular thing happen by changing particular spots in the genome.

That would be kind of cool, right?

Think about it.

We've got an infrastructure that allows a certain percentage of people to spend all their time doing research.

That makes us all the inventors of CRISPR, and I would say that makes us all the shepherds of CRISPR.

We all have a responsibility. 

Thanks. 

