Imagine you're walking through a forest.

It might remind you of a sort of intelligence. 

How do I know this?

Here's my story.

I grew up in the forests of British Columbia.

I used to lay on the forest floor and stare up at the tree crowns.

They were giants.

My grandfather was a giant, too.

He was a horse logger, and he used to selectively cut cedar poles from the inland rainforest.

Grandpa taught me about the quiet and cohesive ways of the woods, and how my family was knit into it.

So I followed in grandpa's footsteps. 

Our poor dog Jigs had slipped and fallen into the pit.

So grandpa ran up with his shovel to rescue the poor dog.

He was down there, swimming in the muck.

But as grandpa dug through that forest floor, I became fascinated with the roots, and under that, what I learned later was the white mycelium and under that the red and yellow mineral horizons.

And I wanted to know more.

So I studied forestry.

But soon I found myself working alongside the powerful people in charge of the commercial harvest.

The extent of the clear-cutting was alarming, and I soon found myself conflicted by my part in it.

Not only that, the spraying and hacking of the aspens and birches to make way for the more commercially valuable planted pines and firs was astounding.

It seemed that nothing could stop this relentless industrial machine. 

So I went back to school, and I studied my other world.

You see, scientists had just discovered in the laboratory in vitro that one pine seedling root could transmit carbon to another pine seedling root.

I thought yes.

Trees in real forests might also share information below ground.

I figured the birch and the fir would be connected in a belowground web, but not the cedar.

It was in its own other world.

and I bought some plastic bags and duct tape and shade cloth, a timer, a paper suit, a respirator.

But I was legally permitted. 

The first day of the experiment, we got out to our plot and a grizzly bear and her cub chased us off.

So I came back the next day, and mama grizzly and her cub were gone.

I used two isotopes, because I was wondering whether there was two-way communication going on between these species.

I waited an hour.

I figured it would take this long for the trees to suck up the CO2 through photosynthesis, turn it into sugars, send it down into their roots, and maybe, I hypothesized, shuttle that carbon belowground to their neighbors.

After the hour was up, I rolled down my window, and I checked for mama grizzly.

Oh good, she's over there eating her huckleberries.

The birch had taken up the radioactive gas.

Then the moment of truth.

Cedar was in its own world.

It was not connected into the web interlinking birch and fir. 

I was so excited, I ran from plot to plot and I checked all 80 replicates.

The evidence was clear.

The C-13 and C-14 was showing me that paper birch and Douglas fir were in a lively two-way conversation.

And at that moment, everything came into focus for me.

What was I thinking?

I'll come back to that. 

So how do we do science in complex systems like forests?

And we have to be really good at running from bears.

But mostly, we have to persevere in spite of all the stuff stacked against us.

And we have to follow our intuition and our experiences and ask really good questions.

And then we've got to gather our data and then go verify.

For me, I've conducted and published hundreds of experiments in the forest.

Some of my oldest experimental plantations are now over 30 years old.

You can check them out.

That's how forest science works. 

So now I want to talk about the science.

How were paper birch and Douglas fir communicating?

Well, it turns out they were conversing not only in the language of carbon but also nitrogen and phosphorus and water and defense signals and allele chemicals and hormones -- information.

And you know, I have to tell you, before me, scientists had thought that this belowground mutualistic symbiosis called a mycorrhiza was involved.

Mycorrhiza literally means "fungus root."

You see their reproductive organs when you walk through the forest.

They're the mushrooms.

The web is so dense that there can be hundreds of kilometers of mycelium under a single footstep.

You see, like all networks, mycorrhizal networks have nodes and links.

We made this map by examining the short sequences of DNA of every tree and every fungal individual in a patch of Douglas fir forest.

In this picture, the circles represent the Douglas fir, or the nodes, and the lines represent the interlinking fungal highways, or the links. 

The biggest, darkest nodes are the busiest nodes.

And if you can see those yellow dots, those are the young seedlings that have established within the network of the old mother trees.

In a single forest, a mother tree can be connected to hundreds of other trees.

And it turns out they do recognize their kin.

They even reduce their own root competition to make elbow room for their kids.

When mother trees are injured or dying, they also send messages of wisdom on to the next generation of seedlings.

And these two compounds have increased the resistance of those seedlings to future stresses.

So trees talk. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Through back and forth conversations, they increase the resilience of the whole community.

So let's come back to the initial point.

That's because there are many hub trees and many overlapping networks.

You can take out one or two and the plane still flies, but you take out one too many, or maybe that one holding on the wings, and the whole system collapses. 

Cool.

I'm glad. 

So, remember I said earlier that I hoped that my research, my discoveries would change the way we practice forestry.

Well, I want to take a check on that 30 years later here in western Canada. 

This is about 100 kilometers to the west of us, just on the border of Banff National Park.

That's a lot of clear-cuts.

It's not so pristine.

In Canada, it's 3.6 percent per year.

Now, by my estimation, that's about four times the rate that is sustainable. 

Now, massive disturbance at this scale is known to affect hydrological cycles, degrade wildlife habitat, and emit greenhouse gases back into the atmosphere, which creates more disturbance and more tree diebacks. 

Not only that, we're continuing to plant one or two species and weed out the aspens and birches.

These simplified forests lack complexity, and they're really vulnerable to infections and bugs.

And as climate changes, this is creating a perfect storm for extreme events, like the massive mountain pine beetle outbreak that just swept across North America, or that megafire in the last couple months in Alberta. 

Well, you know, the great thing about forests as complex systems is they have enormous capacity to self-heal.

In our recent experiments, we found with patch-cutting and retention of hub trees and regeneration to a diversity of species and genes and genotypes that these mycorrhizal networks, they recover really rapidly.

So with this in mind, I want to leave you with four simple solutions.

And we can't kid ourselves that these are too complicated to act on. 

First, we all need to get out in the forest.

Second, we need to save our old-growth forests.

These are the repositories of genes and mother trees and mycorrhizal networks.

So this means less cutting.

I don't mean no cutting, but less cutting. 

We need to be conservationists. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

