And so are books you might have or the cars you own.

They're all legal things.

The great apes that you'll see behind me, they too are legal things. 

Now, I can do that to a legal thing.

I can do whatever I want to my book or my car.

And he tells in his book how every single one them, almost every one of them, is an orphan who saw his mother and father die before his eyes.

They're legal things. 

So for centuries, there's been a great legal wall that separates legal things from legal persons.

On one hand, legal things are invisible to judges.

They don't count in law.

They don't have any legal rights.

They don't have the capacity for legal rights.

They are the slaves.

On the other side of that legal wall are the legal persons.

Legal persons are very visible to judges.

They count in law.

They may have many rights.

They have the capacity for an infinite number of rights.

And they're the masters.

Right now, all nonhuman animals are legal things.

But being human and being a legal person has never been, and is not today, synonymous with a legal person.

Humans and legal persons are not synonymous.

On the one side, there have been many human beings over the centuries who have been legal things.

Slaves were legal things.

Women, children, were sometimes legal things.

Now, on the other side are legal persons, but they've never only been limited to human beings.

In pre-independence India, a court held that a Hindu idol was a legal person, that a mosque was a legal person.

And I began to work as an animal protection lawyer.

It was not going to work, so I decided that the only thing that was going to work was they had, at least some of them, had to also be moved through a hole that we could open up again in that wall and begin feeding the appropriate nonhuman animals through that hole onto the other side of being legal persons. 

And so, in 1985, I figured that it would take about 30 years before we'd be able to even begin a strategic litigation, long-term campaign, in order to be able to punch another hole through that wall.

It turned out that I was pessimistic, that it only took 28. 

It turns out there's a very interesting case that had occurred almost 250 years ago in London called Somerset vs. Stewart, whereby a black slave had used the legal system and had moved from a legal thing to a legal person.

James Somerset was an eight-year-old boy when he was kidnapped from West Africa.

He survived the Middle Passage, and he was sold to a Scottish businessman named Charles Stewart in Virginia.

Now, 20 years later, Stewart brought James Somerset to London, and after he got there, James decided he was going to escape.

And so in the fall of 1771, James Somerset had a confrontation with Charles Stewart.

Well now James' godparents swung into action.

They approached the most powerful judge, Lord Mansfield, who was chief judge of the court of King's Bench, and they demanded that he issue a common law writ of habeus corpus on behalf of James Somerset. 

Now, the common law is the kind of law that English-speaking judges can make when they're not cabined in by statutes or constitutions, and a writ of habeus corpus is called the Great Writ, capital G, capital W, and it's meant to protect any of us who are detained against our will.

At that moment, James Somerset underwent a legal transubstantiation.

The free man who walked out of the courtroom looked exactly like the slave who had walked in, but as far as the law was concerned, they had nothing whatsoever in common. 

What values and principles did they imbibe with their mother's milk, were they taught in law school, do they use every day, do they believe with all their hearts -- and we chose liberty and equality. 

Now, liberty right is the kind of right to which you're entitled because of how you're put together, and a fundamental liberty right protects a fundamental interest.

And the supreme interest in the common law are the rights to autonomy and self-determination.

So they are so powerful that in a common law country, if you go to a hospital and you refuse life-saving medical treatment, a judge will not order it forced upon you, because they will respect your self-determination and your autonomy. 

Now, an equality right is the kind of right to which you're entitled because you resemble someone else in a relevant way, and there's the rub, relevant way.

So if you are that, then because they have the right, you're like them, you're entitled to the right.

Now, courts and legislatures draw lines all the time.

Some are included, some are excluded.

But you have to, at the bare minimum you must -- that line has to be a reasonable means to a legitimate end.

The Nonhuman Rights Project argues that drawing a line in order to enslave an autonomous and self-determining being like you're seeing behind me, that that's a violation of equality. 

We know the extraordinary cognitive capabilities that they have, and they also resemble the kind that human beings have.

And so we chose chimpanzees, and we began to then canvass the world to find the experts in chimpanzee cognition.

We found them in Japan, Sweden, Germany, Scotland, England and the United States, and amongst them, they wrote 100 pages of affidavits in which they set out more than 40 ways in which their complex cognitive capability, either individually or together, all added up to autonomy and self-determination. 

Now, these included, for example, that they were conscious.

They can anticipate tomorrow, which is why it's so terrible to imprison a chimpanzee, especially alone.

It's the thing that we do to our worst criminals, and we do that to chimpanzees without even thinking about it. 

They have some kind of moral capacity.

They can do some simple math.

They have a material culture, a social culture.

They have a symbolic culture.

Scientists in the Taï Forests in the Ivory Coast found chimpanzees who were using these rocks to smash open the incredibly hard hulls of nuts.

It takes a long time to learn how to do that, and they excavated the area and they found that this material culture, this way of doing it, these rocks, had passed down for at least 4,300 years through 225 chimpanzee generations. 

So now we needed to find our chimpanzee.

Our chimpanzee, first we found two of them in the state of New York.

Both of them would die before we could even get our suits filed.

We found him in a small room that was filled with cages in a larger warehouse structure on a used trailer lot in central New York.

We found Kiko, who is partially deaf.

Kiko was in the back of a cement storefront in western Massachusetts.

And we found Hercules and Leo.

They're two young male chimpanzees who are being used for biomedical, anatomical research at Stony Brook.

We found them. 

And so on the last week of December 2013, the Nonhuman Rights Project filed three suits all across the state of New York using the same common law writ of habeus corpus argument that had been used with James Somerset, and we demanded that the judges issue these common law writs of habeus corpus.

Now, all these cases are still going on.

And to quote Winston Churchill, the way we view our cases is that they're not the end, they're not even the beginning of the end, but they are perhaps the end of the beginning. 

Thank you. 

