When I was growing up, I really liked playing hide-and-seek a lot.

One time, though, I thought climbing a tree would lead to a great hiding spot, but I fell and broke my arm.

I actually started first grade with a big cast all over my torso.

The person I believed for half of my life to have superpowers suddenly needed help to get dressed or to cut food.

She went each week to physical therapy, but just like me, she barely followed the home treatment, and it took her over five months to feel better. 

Both my mom and I required physical therapy, a process of doing a suite of repetitive exercises in order to regain the range of movement lost due to an accident or injury.

At first, a physical therapist works with patients, but then it's up to the patients to do their exercises at home.

But patients find physical therapy boring, frustrating, confusing and lengthy before seeing results.

Sadly, patient noncompliance can be as high as 70 percent.

All physical therapists agree that special exercises reduce the time needed for recovery, but patients lack the motivation to do them. 

My physical therapist has already set up a schedule for my particular therapy.

Let's see how this looks.

The first game asks me to fly a bee up and down to gather pollen to deposit in beehives, all while avoiding the other bugs.

When designing a game, we speak to physical therapists at first to understand what movement patients need to do.

We then make that a video game to give patients simple, motivating objectives to follow.

But the software is very customizable, and physical therapists can also create their own exercises.

This basically extends the application for physical therapists to create whatever exercises they think are best. 

This is an auction house game for preventing falls, designed to strengthen muscles and improve balance.

Poor muscle tone and impaired balance are the number one cause of falls, so reversing these problems through targeted exercise will help keep older people like my grandmother safer and independent for longer.

When my schedule ends, MIRA briefly shows me how I progressed throughout my session. 

My physical therapist can go back to my profile and see the data gathered during my sessions.

I'm so pleased this version is now in use in over 10 clinics across Europe and the U.S., and we're working on the home version.

We want to enable physical therapists to prescribe this digital treatment and help patients play their way to recovery at home.

If my mom or I had a tool like this when we needed physical therapy, then we would have been more successful following the treatment, and perhaps gotten better a lot sooner. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Tom Rielly: So Cosmin, tell me what hardware is this that they're rapidly putting away?

What is that made of, and how much does it cost? 

Cosmin Milhau: So it's a Microsoft Surface Pro 3 for the demo, but you just need a computer and a Kinect, which is 120 dollars. 

TR: Right, and the Kinect is the thing that people use for their Xboxes to do 3D games, right? 

TR: Right, so this is less than a $1,000 solution. 

TR: So right now, you're doing clinical trials in clinics. 

CM: Exactly. 

CM: Exactly. 

