My mission is to get people to engage with the design that they care about so they begin to pay attention to all forms of design.

When you decode the world with design intent in mind, the world becomes kind of magical.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Yeah!

Happy 50th anniversary on your flag, Canada.

I'm kind of obsessed with flags.

There's just something about them that works on our emotions. 

That's the way it is. 

What I love about flags is that once you understand the design of flags, what makes a good flag, what makes a bad flag, you can understand the design of almost anything.

Narrator: The five basic principles of flag design. 

Vexillological. 

Ted Kaye: Vexillology is the study of flags. 

Narrator: Number one, keep it simple.

The flag should be so simple that a child can draw it from memory. 

RM: Before I moved to Chicago in 2005, I didn't even know cities had their own flags. 

TK: Most larger cities do have flags. 

He's a totally awesome guy. 

RM: Ted literally wrote the book on flag design. 

TK: Yes, it's called "Good Flag, Bad Flag: How to Design a Great Flag."

RM: And that first city flag I discovered in Chicago is a beaut: white field, two horizontal blue stripes, and four six-pointed red stars down the middle. 

Narrator: Number two: use meaningful symbolism. 

Whet Moser: Like, there's probably at least one store on every block near where I work that sells some sort of Chicago flag paraphernalia. 

RM: That's Whet Moser from Chicago magazine. 

The six-pointed stars in particular show up in all kinds of places.

WM: The coffee I bought the other day had a Chicago star on it.

RM: It's a distinct symbol of Chicago pride.

TK: When a police officer or a firefighter dies in Chicago, often it's not the flag of the United States on his casket.

It can be the flag of the city of Chicago.

That's how deeply the flag has gotten into the civic imagery of Chicago. 

RM: And it isn't just that people love Chicago and therefore love the flag.

TK: A positive feedback loop there between great symbolism and civic pride. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

TK: Well, let me start from the top. 

Narrator: The flag should be so simple that a child can draw it from memory. 

TK: It's a relatively complex flag. 

TK: A powerful symbol for San Francisco. 

TK: Which is a very attractive design element. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

RM: The United States flag doesn't say "USA" across the front.

In fact, country flags, they tend to behave.

Like, hats off to South Africa and Turkey and Israel and Somalia and Japan and Gambia.

They're on the international stage.

But city, state and regional flags are another story.

Here's the full list of NAVA flag design principles. 

Narrator: The five basic principles of flag design.

TK: Because you can't read that at a distance. 

RM: All the best flags tend to stick to these principles.

And like I said before, most country flags are okay.

Our biggest problem seems to be that fourth one.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

These flags are everywhere in the U.S.

So this is the city coat of arms of Amsterdam.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Are you ready?

It's the flag of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

(Laughter) I mean, it's distinctive, I'll give them that. 

(Laughter) I mean, it's distinctive, I'll give them that. 

Steve Kodis: It was adopted in 1955. 

RM: The city ran a contest and gathered a bunch of submissions with all kinds of designs. 

RM: It's a kitchen sink flag.

SK: It's really awful.

RM: But what puts the Milwaukee flag over the top, almost to the point of self-parody, is on it is a picture of the Civil War battle flag of the Milwaukee regiment. 

(Laughter) Yeah. 

(Laughter) Yeah. 

The most depressing part of this flag, though, is that there have been two major redesign contests.

The last one was held in 2001.

One hundred and five entries were received. 

TK: But in the end, the members of the Milwaukee Arts Board decided that none of the new entries were worthy of flying over the city. 

SK: I believe Milwaukee is a great city.

Every great city deserves a great flag. 

RM: Steve isn't ready to reveal his design yet.

Your design has to fit within that tiny rectangle.

Here's why. 

RM: Meanwhile, back in San Francisco.

Is there anything we can do? 

TK: I like to say that in every bad flag there's a good flag trying to get out.

And I would simply take the phoenix and make it a great big element in the middle of the flag. 

TK: I would simplify or stylize the phoenix.

Emphasize those flames. 

Fans of my radio show and podcast, they've heard me complain about bad flags.

They've sent me other suggested designs.

This one's by Neil Mussett.

And I think design awareness is at an all-time high.

(Laughter) That hurts me just to look at. 

(Laughter) That hurts me just to look at. 

