When I was nine years old, my mom asked me what I would want my house to look like, and I drew this fairy mushroom.

(Laughter) 

This is a six-story bespoke home on the island of Bali.

It's built almost entirely from bamboo.

It can get hot in the tropics, so we make big curving roofs to catch the breezes.

Now, we do have all the necessary luxuries, like bathrooms.

This one is a basket in the corner of the living room, and I've got tell you, some people actually hesitate to use it.

We have not quite figured out our acoustic insulation.

(Laughter) So there are lots of things that we're still working on, but one thing I have learned is that bamboo will treat you well if you use it right. 

It's actually a wild grass.

Now, we harvest from hundreds of family-owned clumps.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

It's a promise to the kids.

It's one sustainable material that they will not run out of.

This is a traditional Sumbanese home that we replicated, right down to the details and textiles.

A restaurant with an open-air kitchen.

Now, what we're doing, it's not entirely new.

From little huts to elaborate bridges like this one in Java, bamboo has been in use across the tropical regions of the world for literally tens of thousands of years.

There are islands and even continents that were first reached by bamboo rafts.

But until recently, it was almost impossible to reliably protect bamboo from insects, and so, just about everything that was ever built out of bamboo is gone.

And so that's why most people, especially in Asia, think that you couldn't be poor enough or rural enough to actually want to live in a bamboo house. 

First, we needed safe treatment solutions.

Treat it properly, design it carefully, and a bamboo structure can last a lifetime. 

Second, build something extraordinary out of it.

Inspire people.

No two poles alike, no straight lines, no two-by-fours here.

And bamboo model-making, it's an art, as well as some hardcore engineering. 

So that's the blueprint of the house. 

(Laughter) 

And we bring it to site, and with tiny rulers, we measure each pole, and consider each curve, and we choose a piece of bamboo from the pile to replicate that house on site. 

Let me tell you, sometimes I dream of sheet rock and plywood.

(Laughter) But if what you've got is skilled craftsmen and itsy bitsy little splits, weave that ceiling together, stretch a canvas over it, lacquer it.

How do you design durable kitchen countertops that do justice to this curving structure you've just built?

The structural connections of our buildings are reinforced by steel joints, but we use a lot of hand-whittled bamboo pins.

There are thousands of pins in each floor.

This floor is made of glossy and durable bamboo skin.

You can feel the texture under bare feet. 

And the floor that you walk on, can it affect the way that you walk?

Can it change the footprint that you'll ultimately leave on the world?

And we've got a really long way to go, there's a lot left to learn, but one thing I know is that with creativity and commitment, you can create beauty and comfort and safety and even luxury out of a material that will grow back. 

Thank you. 

