What do you do if you had to figure out the information behind 11.5 million documents, verify it and make sense of it?

That was a challenge that a group of journalists had to face late last year.

An anonymous person calling himself John Doe had somehow managed to copy nearly 40 years of records of the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca.

It represented the biggest cache of inside information into the tax haven system that anyone had ever seen.

But it also presented a gigantic challenge to investigative journalism.

Where do you even begin to tell a story that can trail off into every corner of the globe, and that can affect almost any person in any language, sometimes in ways they don't even know yet. 

But one user alone can never make sense of such a vast amount of information.

So the Süddeutsche Zeitung reached out to my organization in Washington, DC, The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.

By nature, investigative reporters are lone wolves.

And to be frank, when you get a good story, you like to keep the glory to yourself. 

But there's no doubt that we live in a shrinking world, and that the media has largely been slow to wake up to this.

The issues we report on are more and more transnational.

Giant corporations operate on a global level.

Environmental and health crises are global.

So, too, are financial flows and financial crises.

So it seems staggering that journalism has been so late to cover stories in a truly global way.

And it also seems staggering that journalism has been so slow to wake up to the possibilities that technology brings, rather than being frightened of it.

The advertising business models that have sustained reporting are broken.

And this has plunged journalism into crisis, forcing those institutions to reexamine how they function. 

But where there is crisis, there is also opportunity.

The first challenge presented by what would eventually become known as the Panama Papers was to make the documents searchable and readable.

There were nearly five million emails, two million PDFs that needed to be scanned and indexed, and millions more files and other kinds of documents.

They all needed to be housed in a safe and secure location in the cloud.

We next invited reporters to have a look at the documents.

"Native eyes on native names," we called it, the idea being, who best to tell you who was important to Nigeria than a Nigerian journalist?

Who best in Canada than a Canadian?

There were only two rules for everyone who was invited: we all agreed to share everything that we found with everybody else, and we all agreed to publish together on the same day. 

We chose our media partners based on trust that had been built up through previous smaller collaborations and also from leads that jumped out from the documents.

Over the next few months, my small nonprofit organization of less than 20 people was joined by more than 350 other reporters from 25 language groups.

For it became clear at this point that in order to make the biggest kind of noise, we first needed the biggest kind of silence. 

To manage the project over the many months it would take, we built a secure virtual newsroom.

We used encrypted communication systems, and we built a specially designed search engine.

Inside the virtual newsroom, the reporters could gather around the themes that were emerging from the documents.

For nine months, he refused paid work and lived off the earnings of his wife.

In all that time, he sat on information that would eventually bring down the leader of his country. 

We were big fans of "Game of Thrones."

Panama Papers actually allowed the reporters to look at the world through a different lens from everybody else. 

The Panama Papers actually had unique insights into each one of these unfolding events.

So you can imagine the pressure and the ego dramas that could have ruined what we were trying to do.

Any of one of these journalists, they could have broken the pact.

But they didn't.

And on April 3 this year, at exactly 8pm German time, we published simultaneously in 76 countries. 

The Panama Papers quickly became one of the biggest stories of the year.

This is the scene in Iceland the day after we published.

It was the first of many protests.

The Icelandic prime minister had to resign.

It was a first of many resignations.

And there were some unintended consequences.

They'd been using the address to register their offshore company. 

There's a kind of irony in what we've been able to do.

The technology -- the Internet -- that has broken the business model is allowing us to reinvent journalism itself.

And this dynamic is producing unprecedented levels of transparency and impact.

We put all-important context around what was given to us by John Doe.

Now, it was a big risk, and it wouldn't work for every story, but we showed with the Panama Papers that you can write about any country from just about anywhere, and then choose your preferred battleground to defend your work.

Try obtaining a court injunction that would prevent the telling of a story in 76 different countries.

Try stopping the inevitable. 

Shortly after we published, I got a three-word text from Johannes: "Wintris has arrived."

It had arrived and so, too, perhaps has a new era for journalism. 

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Gerard, thank you. 

I guess you're going to send that applause to the 350 journalists who worked with you, right? 

We had to calm them down.

Probably the biggest crisis we had was a week before publication.

At that point, Putin thought it was just about him.

And, of course, a lot of editors around the world were very nervous about this.

They thought the story was going to get out.

You can imagine the amount of time they'd spent, the amount of resources, money spent on this.

BG: And then a couple weeks ago or so, you released a lot of the documents as an open database for everybody to search via keyword, essentially. 

Now, we didn't publish the underlying documents of the journalists we're working with.

But the basic information such as the name of a person, what their offshore company was and the name of that company, is now all available online.

In fact, the biggest resource of its kind basically is out there now 

BG: Gerard, thank you for the work you do. 

GR: Thank you. 

