Most of us think of motion as a very visual thing.

If I walk across this stage or gesture with my hands while I speak, that motion is something that you can see.

So let me show you what I mean.

So how is this possible?

How can we get so much information out of so little motion?

On a personal note, we were pretty psyched when we figured this out.

(Laughter) But even with the right algorithm, we were still missing a pretty important piece of the puzzle.

You see, there are a lot of factors that affect when and how well this technique will work.

We would just get noise back.

And so a lot of our early experiments looked like this.

AD: So this experiment looks completely ridiculous.

(Laughter) I mean, I'm screaming at a bag of chips -- (Laughter) -- and we're blasting it with so much light, we literally melted the first bag we tried this on.

And so here's the video that we captured.

And this is what things sounded like from inside, next to the bag of chips. 

AD: And here's what we were able to recover from our silent video captured outside behind that window. 

AD: And there are other ways that we can push these limits as well.

And we can also push things by changing the hardware that we use.

And so what we found is that by analyzing these artifacts, we can actually recover sound using a modified version of our algorithm.

And so, again, that sounds distorted, but what's really amazing here is that we were able to do this with something that you could literally run out and pick up at a Best Buy. 

But keep in mind that there's already a lot of very mature technology out there for surveillance.

In fact, people have been using lasers to eavesdrop on objects from a distance for decades.

And the basic idea is that we're going to use the vibrations in a video to capture objects in a way that will let us interact with them and see how they react to us. 

So there's nothing special about this camera.

In fact, I've actually done this with my cell phone before.

And so here's what we've created.

And what I've shown you today is only the beginning.

And so looking to the future, it's going to be really exciting to explore what this can tell us about the world. 

