I am a plant geneticist.

I study genes that make plants resistant to disease and tolerant of stress.

In recent years, millions of people around the world have come to believe that there's something sinister about genetic modification.

Today, I am going to provide a different perspective. 

First, let me introduce my husband, Raoul.

This is one of the many ecological farming practices he uses to keep his farm healthy.

I believe this is the greatest challenge of our time. 

Let me give you a few examples.

On the left is an image of the ancient ancestor of modern corn.

You see a single roll of grain that's covered in a hard case.

Unless you have a hammer, teosinte isn't good for making tortillas.

Now, take a look at the ancient ancestor of banana.

You can see the large seeds.

And unappetizing brussel sprouts, and eggplant, so beautiful. 

Now, to create these varieties, breeders have used many different genetic techniques over the years.

The rice in the cereal that many of us fed our babies was developed using this approach. 

Now, today, breeders have even more options to choose from.

Some of them are extraordinarily precise. 

I want to give you a couple examples from my own work.

I work on rice, which is a staple food for more than half the world's people.

Each year, 40 percent of the potential harvest is lost to pest and disease.

This approach has been used for nearly 100 years.

In my laboratory, we isolated a gene for immunity to a very serious bacterial disease in Asia and Africa.

He said, "Seventy million rice farmers are having trouble growing rice."

That's because their fields are flooded, and these rice farmers are living on less than two dollars a day.

Flooding is expected to be increasingly problematic as the climate changes.

He told me that his graduate student Kenong Xu and himself were studying an ancient variety of rice that had an amazing property.

It could withstand two weeks of complete submergence.

Kenong spent 10 years looking for this gene.

But this is just a greenhouse experiment.

Would this work in the field? 

Breeders there developed a rice variety carrying the Sub1 gene using another genetic technique called precision breeding.

On the left, you can see the Sub1 variety, and on the right is the conventional variety.

In fact, it produces three and a half times more grain than the conventional variety.

Last year, with the help of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, three and a half million farmers grew Sub1 rice. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

I'm going to give you three examples. 

But now, look at this papaya.

This papaya is infected with papaya ringspot virus.

In the 1950s, this virus nearly wiped out the entire production of papaya on the island of Oahu in Hawaii.

He took a snippet of viral DNA and he inserted it into the papaya genome.

This is kind of like a human getting a vaccination.

Now, take a look at his field trial.

You can see the genetically engineered papaya in the center.

It's immune to infection.

The conventional papaya around the outside is severely infected with the virus.

Dennis' pioneering work is credited with rescuing the papaya industry.

Eighty percent of Hawaiian papaya is genetically engineered. 

If you bite into an organic or conventional papaya that is infected with the virus, you will be chewing on tenfold more viral protein. 

Now, take a look at this pest feasting on an eggplant.

In less developed countries, it's estimated that 300,000 people die every year because of insecticide misuse and exposure.

It's less toxic than table salt.

But this approach does not work well in Bangladesh.

That's because these insecticide sprays are difficult to find, they're expensive, and they don't prevent the insect from getting inside the plants.

In the genetic approach, scientists cut the gene out of the bacteria and insert it directly into the eggplant genome.

Will this work to reduce insecticide sprays in Bangladesh?

Definitely.

Last season, farmers reported they were able to reduce their insecticide use by a huge amount, almost down to zero.

They're able to harvest and replant for the next season. 

More than half will die.

For this reason, scientists supported by the Rockefeller Foundation genetically engineered a golden rice to produce beta-carotene, which is the precursor of Vitamin A.

This is the same pigment that we find in carrots.

Researchers estimate that just one cup of golden rice per day will save the lives of thousands of children.

But golden rice is virulently opposed by activists who are against genetic modification.

Just last year, activists invaded and destroyed a field trial in the Philippines.

But I say, look, I'm not asking you to believe me.

Science is not a belief system.

My opinion doesn't matter.

Raoul and I believe that, instead of worrying about the genes in our food, we must focus on how we can help children grow up healthy.

We must ask if farmers in rural communities can thrive, and if everyone can afford the food.

We have a huge challenge in front of us.

Let's celebrate scientific innovation and use it.

It's our responsibility to do everything we can to help alleviate human suffering and safeguard the environment. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Chris Anderson: Powerfully argued.

The people who argue against GMOs, as I understand it, the core piece comes from two things.

One, complexity and unintended consequence.

Nature is this incredibly complex machine.

The fear is that those incentives mean that the decision is not made on purely scientific grounds, and even if it was, that there would be unintended consequences.

How do we know that there isn't a big risk of some unintended consequence?

Often our tinkerings with nature do lead to big, unintended consequences and chain reactions. 

Pamela Ronald: Okay, so on the commercial aspects, one thing that's really important to understand is that, in the developed world, farmers in the United States, almost all farmers, whether they're organic or conventional, they buy seed produced by seed companies.

It's different in the less developed world.

Farmers there cannot afford the seed.

These seeds are not being sold.

CA: Wouldn't some activists say that this is actually part of the conspiracy?

This is the heroin strategy.

PR: There are a lot of conspiracy theories for sure, but it doesn't work that way.

There are no commercial profits in this situation.

I feel it's very important to talk about a specific crop and a specific product, and think about the needs of the consumer. 

Nature is a much more chaotic interplay of genetic changes that have been happening all the time anyway. 

PR: That's absolutely true, and there's no such thing as pure food.

I mean, you could not spray eggplant with insecticides or not genetically engineer it, but then you'd be stuck eating frass.

So there's no purity there. 

