On the path that American children travel to adulthood, two institutions oversee the journey.

The first is the one we hear a lot about: college.

Some of you may remember the excitement that you felt when you first set off for college.

Some of you may be in college right now and you're feeling this excitement at this very moment. 

It's expensive; it leaves young people in debt.

But all in all, it's a pretty good path.

Young people emerge from college with pride and with great friends and with a lot of knowledge about the world.

And perhaps most importantly, a better chance in the labor market than they had before they got there. 

Today I want to talk about the second institution overseeing the journey from childhood to adulthood in the United States.

And that institution is prison.

Young people on this journey are meeting with probation officers instead of with teachers.

They're going to court dates instead of to class.

Their junior year abroad is instead a trip to a state correctional facility.

And they're emerging from their 20s not with degrees in business and English, but with criminal records. 

But here, taxpayers are footing the bill and what kids are getting is a cold prison cell and a permanent mark against them when they come home and apply for work. 

Here's the OECD countries. 

Penn sits within a historic African-American neighborhood.

Soon, her cousin came home from a juvenile detention center.

He was 15, a freshman in high school.

trying to understand what young people were facing as they came of age.

Fourteen times in this first year and a half, I watched the police punch, choke, kick, stomp on or beat young men after they had caught them. 

He was playing on the basketball team and making C's and B's.

His younger brother, Tim, was 10.

And Tim loved Chuck; he followed him around a lot, looked to Chuck to be a mentor.

They lived with their mom and grandfather in a two-story row home with a front lawn and a back porch.

The family was really struggling. 

That winter, a kid in the schoolyard called Chuck's mom a crack whore.

So a cop pulls them over, runs the car, and the car comes up as stolen in California.

Chuck had no idea where in the history of this car it had been stolen.

They would sit side by side on their back porch looking out into the shared alleyway and Chuck would coach Tim how to spot undercover cars, how to negotiate a late-night police raid, how and where to hide. 

A neighborhood like the one I got to grow up in.

It never would have become an aggravated assault case.

Or had raided their frat parties in the middle of the night? 

It dropped precipitously in the '90s and through the 2000s.

Injustice is about being wrongfully convicted.

Why are we not providing support to young kids facing these challenges?

Why are we offering only handcuffs, jail time and this fugitive existence?

Can we imagine something better?

(Applause) A criminal justice system that acknowledges the legacy of exclusion that poor people of color in the U.S. have faced and that does not promote and perpetuate those exclusions.

(Applause) And finally, a criminal justice system that believes in black young people, rather than treating black young people as the enemy to be rounded up.

(Applause) 

The good news is that we already are.

President Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder have come out very strongly on sentencing reform, on the need to address racial disparity in incarceration.

We're seeing states throw out Stop and Frisk as the civil rights violation that it is.

We're seeing cities and states decriminalize possession of marijuana.

The question for us now is, how much can we make of it?

How much can we change? 

(Applause) 

