They were laughing very, very hard.

They were lying on the floor laughing.

They were screaming with laughter.

I did not know what they were laughing at, but I wanted in.

At the time, though, I didn't understand anything of that.

I just cared about the laughter, and actually, as a neuroscientist, I've come to care about it again.

And it is a really weird thing to do.

And finally we have -- this is a human female laughing.

It literally is that basic a way of making a sound.

That's the same for humans.

You find it associated with play, and all mammals play.

And wherever you find it, it's associated with interactions.

If you look at when they laugh, they're laughing with their friends.

And when we laugh with people, we're hardly ever actually laughing at jokes.

In our evolution, we have developed two different ways of vocalizing.

So I've been looking at this in more detail.

To do this, we've had to make recordings of people laughing, and we've had to do whatever it takes to make people laugh, and we got those same people to produce more posed, social laughter.

So they do seem to be genuinely these two different sorts of things. 

We just played people real and posed laughs.

We didn't tell them it was a study on laughter.

We don't tell them to do anything.

By the time you are older, you get better, but interestingly, you do not hit peak performance in this dataset until you are in your late 30s and early 40s.

You don't understand laughter fully by the time you hit puberty.

You need the social stuff there. 

He gets married couples, men and women, into the lab, and he gives them stressful conversations to have while he wires them up to a polygraph so he can see them becoming stressed.

You can see physically, people become more stressed.

So in fact, when you look at close relationships, laughter is a phenomenally useful index of how people are regulating their emotions together.

We're not just emitting it at each other to show that we like each other, we're making ourselves feel better together. 

Now, I don't think this is going to be limited to romantic relationships.

We're going to be okay. 

And in fact, all of us are doing this all the time.

You do it so often, you don't even notice it.

It's not something specific to humans -- it's a really ancient behavior which really helps us regulate how we feel and makes us feel better. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you.

Thank you.

