Virtual reality started for me in sort of an unusual place.

And the tool that I used to access virtual reality was the Evel Knievel stunt cycle.

That gyro-power sends him over 100 feet at top speed. 

Chris Milk: So this was my joy back then.

I rode this motorcycle everywhere.

And I was there with Evel Knievel; we jumped the Snake River Canyon together.

I wanted the rocket.

I never got the rocket, I only got the motorcycle.

I felt so connected to this world.

I had so much empathy for him. 

(Laughter) I went to art school.

I started making music videos.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Applause) 

Let's talk about film now.

It's a group of rectangles that are played in a sequence.

And we've done incredible things with those rectangles.

And here's one of the early experiments: (Music) 

So this is called "The Wilderness Downtown."

It was a collaboration with Arcade Fire.

It asked you to put in the address where you grew up at the beginning of it.

It's a website.

And out of it starts growing these little boxes with different browser windows.

So to do that, I started making art installations.

(Music) So now I've got you inside of the frame, and I saw people having even more visceral emotional reactions to this work than the previous one. 

But then I started thinking about frames, and what do they represent?

And a frame is just a window.

So that leads me back to virtual reality.

And this is actually someone dancing about architecture in virtual reality.

It's difficult because it's a very experiential medium.

You feel your way inside of it.

And you feel present in the world that you're inside and you feel present with the people that you're inside of it with. 

So we're shooting in every direction.

We take this and we build, basically, a sphere of a world that you inhabit.

And she and her family fled Syria through the desert into Jordan and she's been living in this camp for the last year and a half. 

(Video) Sidra: My name is Sidra.

I am 12 years old.

I am in the fifth grade.

I am from Syria, in the Daraa Province, Inkhil City.

I have lived here in the Zaatari camp in Jordan for the last year and a half.

He cries a lot.

I asked my father if I cried when I was a baby and he says I did not.

I think I was a stronger baby than my brother. 

You're looking around through this world.

You'll notice you see full 360 degrees, in all directions.

And when you're sitting there in her room, watching her, you're not watching it through a television screen, you're not watching it through a window, you're sitting there with her.

When you look down, you're sitting on the same ground that she's sitting on.

And because of that, you feel her humanity in a deeper way.

You empathize with her in a deeper way. 

And I think that we can change minds with this machine.

And we've already started to try to change a few.

So we took this film to the World Economic Forum in Davos in January.

And these are people who might not otherwise be sitting in a tent in a refugee camp in Jordan.

But in January, one afternoon in Switzerland, they suddenly all found themselves there.

(Applause) And they were affected by it. 

So we're going to make more of them.

We just finished shooting a story in Liberia.

And now, we're going to shoot a story in India.

And we're taking these films, and we're showing them at the United Nations to people that work there and people that are visiting there.

And we're showing them to the people that can actually change the lives of the people inside of the films. 

And that's where I think we just start to scratch the surface of the true power of virtual reality.

It's not a video game peripheral.

It connects humans to other humans in a profound way that I've never seen before in any other form of media.

And it can change people's perception of each other.

And that's how I think virtual reality has the potential to actually change the world. 

And ultimately, we become more human. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

