To be honest, by personality, I'm just not much of a crier.

But I think in my career that's been a good thing.

What I can tell you is this: that the Rwandan genocide was one of the world's greatest failures of simple compassion.

That word, compassion, actually comes from two Latin words: cum passio, which simply mean "to suffer with."

And the things that I saw and experienced in Rwanda as I got up close to human suffering, it did, in moments, move me to tears.

Now by contrast, I've also been involved with one of the world's greatest successes of compassion.

And that's the fight against global poverty.

I don't really remember what my first introduction to poverty was but I do remember the most jarring. 

When I met her, she had walked about 12 miles in the only garments she owned, to come to the capital city and to share her story.

For over 50 years, stories like this have been moving us to compassion.

We whose kids have plenty to eat.

And we're moved not only to care about global poverty, but to actually try to do our part to stop the suffering.

But first, let me begin with what you probably already know.

Thirty-five years ago, when I would have been graduating from high school, they told us that 40,000 kids every day died because of poverty.

That number, today, is now down to 17,000.

And I think you and I, I think, honestly, that we can feel proud and encouraged to see the way that compassion actually has the power to succeed in stopping the suffering of millions. 

But here's the part that you might not hear very much about.

So why, why are so many billions still stuck in such harsh poverty?

Well, let's think about Venus for a moment.

But until I had actually talked to Venus, I would have had no idea that none of those approaches actually addressed why she had to watch her son die.

You see, Venus was thrown into destitution by violence. 

This became even more clear to me when I met Griselda.

The experts call this the Girl Effect.

But when we met Griselda, she wasn't going to school.

In fact, she was rarely ever leaving her home. 

Days before we met her, while she was walking home from church with her family, in broad daylight, men from her community just snatched her off the street, and violently raped her.

And Griselda's not the only one.

The truth is, the poor of our world are trapped in whole systems of violence. 

But I would have no idea, until later, that he was actually a slave, held by violence in that rice mill since I was in high school.

Decades of anti-poverty programs right in his community were never able to rescue him or any of the hundred other slaves from the beatings and the rapes and the torture of violence inside the rice mill.

In fact, half a century of anti-poverty programs have left more poor people in slavery than in any other time in human history. 

Experts tell us that there's about 35 million people in slavery today.

This is why, over time, I have come to call this epidemic of violence the Locust Effect.

Because in the lives of the poor, it just descends like a plague and it destroys everything.

So for me, as a lawyer, of course, my first reaction was to think, well, of course we've got to change all the laws.

We've got to make all this violence against the poor illegal.

But then I found out, it already is.

The problem is not that the poor don't get laws, it's that they don't get law enforcement.

In the developing world, basic law enforcement systems are so broken that recently the U.N. issued a report that found that "most poor people live outside the protection of the law."

Functioning law enforcement for us is just a total assumption.

So we take this just completely for granted. 

But what if there was no law enforcement to protect you?

A woman in Oregon recently experienced what this would be like.

She was home alone in her dark house on a Saturday night, when a man started to tear his way into her home.

Dispatcher: I don't have anybody to send out there.

He's broken in before, busted down my door, assaulted me.

Dispatcher: Well, the only thing I can do is give you some advice, and call the sheriff's office tomorrow.

And this is where billions of our poorest live.

What does that look like?

In Bolivia, for example, if a man sexually assaults a poor child, statistically, he's at greater risk of slipping in the shower and dying than he is of ever going to jail for that crime.

In South Asia, if you enslave a poor person, you're at greater risk of being struck by lightning than ever being sent to jail for that crime.

And so the epidemic of everyday violence, it just rages on.

And it devastates our efforts to try to help billions of people out of their two-dollar-a-day hell.

Because the data just doesn't lie.

It turns out that you can give all manner of goods and services to the poor, but if you don't restrain the hands of the violent bullies from taking it all away, you're going to be very disappointed in the long-term impact of your efforts. 

So you would think that the disintegration of basic law enforcement in the developing world would be a huge priority for the global fight against poverty.

But it's not.

Auditors of international assistance recently couldn't find even one percent of aid going to protect the poor from the lawless chaos of everyday violence.

And honestly, when we do talk about violence against the poor, sometimes it's in the weirdest of ways.

A fresh water organization tells a heart-wrenching story of girls who are raped on the way to fetching water, and then celebrates the solution of a new well that drastically shortens their walk.

End of story.

But not a word about the rapists who are still right there in the community.

If a young woman on one of our college campuses was raped on her walk to the library, we would never celebrate the solution of moving the library closer to the dorm.

And yet, for some reason, this is okay for poor people. 

Now the truth is, the traditional experts in economic development and poverty alleviation, they don't know how to fix this problem.

And so what happens?

They don't talk about it.

But the more fundamental reason that law enforcement for the poor in the developing world is so neglected, is because the people inside the developing world, with money, don't need it.

Indeed, private security forces in the developing world are now, four, five and seven times larger than the public police force.

In Africa, the largest employer on the continent now is private security.

But see, the rich can pay for safety and can keep getting richer, but the poor can't pay for it and they're left totally unprotected and they keep getting thrown to the ground. 

This is a massive and scandalous outrage.

And it doesn't have to be this way.

Broken law enforcement can be fixed.

Violence can be stopped.

The path forward is really pretty clear.

Number one: We have to start making stopping violence indispensable to the fight against poverty.

In fact, any conversation about global poverty that doesn't include the problem of violence must be deemed not serious. 

And secondly, we have to begin to seriously invest resources and share expertise to support the developing world as they fashion new, public systems of justice, not private security, that give everybody a chance to be safe.

You know, from the hindsight of history, what's always most inexplicable and inexcusable are the simple failures of compassion.

There's actually, now, political will to do that.

GH: In Guatemala, for instance, we've started a project there with the local police and court system, prosecutors, to retrain them so that they can actually effectively bring these cases.

And we've seen prosecutions against perpetrators of sexual violence increase by more than 1,000 percent.

This project has been very modestly funded at about a million dollars a year, and the kind of bang you can get for your buck in terms of leveraging a criminal justice system that could function if it were properly trained and motivated and led, and these countries, especially a middle class that is seeing that there's really no future with this total instability and total privatization of security I think there's an opportunity, a window for change. 

Thanks so much. 

Gary Haugen. 

