Well, you know, sometimes the most important things come in the smallest packages.

In fact, the planets and moons you see here could host life -- all of them -- and we know that, and it's a strong possibility.

Is there life beyond our solar system? 

And when you look at the Earth, very far away from any sunlight, deep in the ocean, you have life thriving and it uses only chemistry for life processes. 

So when you think of it at that point, all walls collapse.

You have no limitations, basically.

So at that point, think also about Mars.

There is no life possible at the surface of Mars today, but it might still be hiding underground. 

This is what I call the Earth's biological horizon.

Beyond this horizon we don't know where we are coming from. 

Well clearly at the beginning of the solar system, Mars and the Earth were bombarded by giant asteroids and comets, and there were ejecta from these impacts all over the place.

Earth and Mars kept throwing rocks at each other for a very long time.

But that also means that we can go to Mars and try to find traces of our own origin.

Mars may hold that secret for us.

This is why Mars is so special to us. 

But for that to happen, Mars needed to be habitable at the time when conditions were right.

So was Mars habitable?

We have a number of missions telling us exactly the same thing today.

So to do that, it's easy.

I use planet Earth to go in very extreme environments where conditions were similar to those of Mars at the time when the climate changed, and there I'm trying to understand what happened.

So for one moment now I'm going to take you with me on a trip into that time machine. 

And now, what you see here, we are at 4,500 meters in the Andes, but in fact we are less than a billion years after the Earth and Mars formed.

Those are built by the descendants of the first organisms that gave us the first fossil on Earth. 

Basically, you are getting to those conditions on Mars when everything changed. 

But when we get to the summit, we actually find the lake we came for.

At this altitude, this lake is experiencing exactly the same conditions as those on Mars three and a half billion years ago.

And now we have to change our voyage into an inner voyage inside that lake, and to do that, we have to remove our mountain gear and actually don suits and go for it.

Here's another lake, right next to the first one.

The red color you see here is not due to minerals.

It has helped to understand the past climate of Mars and its evolution, but also its habitability potential.

Our most recent rover on Mars has discovered traces of organics.

Yeah, there are organics at the surface of Mars.

And it also discovered traces of methane.

And we don't know yet if the methane in question is really from geology or biology.

Regardless, what we know is that because of the discovery, the hypothesis that there is still life present on Mars today remains a viable one. 

And this can be achieved by our generation.

This can be our legacy, but only if we dare to explore. 

Right here in the journey of our own solar system, there is a very, very powerful message that says here's how we should look for alien life, small and big.

And they are telling us about diversity, they are telling us about abundance of life, and they are telling us how this life has survived thus far to reach civilization, intelligence, technology and, indeed, philosophy. 

Thank you. 

