This is a story about capitalism.

It's a system I love because of the successes and opportunities it's afforded me and millions of others. 

Fortunately, I was good enough that by the time I was 30, I was able to move into the upstairs world of money management, where I spent the next three decades as a global macro trader.

It's like we've ripped the humanity out of our companies.

It's threatening the very underpinnings of our society.

And here's how you'll see. 

But intuitively, that makes sense, right?

Because if the top 10 percent of American families own 90 percent of the stocks, as they take a greater share of corporate profits, then there's less wealth left for the rest of society. 

Again, income inequality is not a good thing.

This next chart, made by The Equality Trust, shows 21 countries from Austria to Japan to New Zealand.

On the horizontal axis is income inequality.

The further to the right you go, the greater the income inequality.

On the vertical axis are nine social and health metrics.

Where does it lie on that chart?

And guess what?

We're literally off the chart.

History always does it.

And let me just say, this profits mania that we're on is so deeply entrenched that we don't even realize how we're harming society.

When I realized that, I literally wanted to throw up.

But the point is, this mania is so deeply entrenched that well-intentioned people like myself don't even realize that we're part of it. 

Now, we're not going to change corporate behavior by simply increasing corporate philanthropy or charitable contributions.

About a year ago, some friends of mine and I started a not-for-profit called Just Capital.

At Just Capital, we don't know, and it's not for us to decide.

We're but messengers, but we have 100 percent confidence and faith in the American public to get it right.

And maybe over time, we'll find out that as people come to know which companies are the most just, human and economic resources will be driven towards them, and they'll become the most prosperous and help our country be the most prosperous. 

Now, capitalism has been responsible for every major innovation that's made this world a more inspiring and wonderful place to live in.

It's estimated that 47 percent of American workers can be displaced in the next 20 years.

I'm not against progress.

I want the driverless car and the jet pack just like everyone else.

But I'm pleading for recognition that with increased wealth and profits has to come greater corporate social responsibility. 

"If justice is removed," said Adam Smith, the father of capitalism, "the great, the immense fabric of human society must in a moment crumble into atoms."

The time is now for us to show them fairness, and we can do that, you and I, by starting where we work, in the businesses that we operate in.

And when we put justness on par with profits, we'll get the most wonderful thing in all the world.

We'll take back our humanity. 

Thank you. 

