This is a kindergarten we designed in 2007.

We made this kindergarten to be a circle.

It's a kind of endless circulation on top of the roof.

If you are a parent, you know that kids love to keep making circles.

And why did we design this?

There are three trees popping through.

And we were allowed to call this rope as a handrail.

But of course, rope has nothing to do with them.

They fall into the net.

The boy on the branch, he loves the tree so he is eating the tree.

It looks so nice from underneath.

Monkeys in the zoo.

(Laughter) Feeding time.

And the leg washing place -- there are many kinds of water taps.

But if you look at this, the boy is not washing his boots, he's putting water into his boots.

And there is no boundary between inside and outside.

So it means basically this architecture is a roof.

And also there is no boundary between classrooms.

So there is no acoustic barrier at all.

When you put many children in a quiet box, some of them get really nervous.

But in this kindergarten, there is no reason they get nervous.

He will come back eventually, because it's a circle, it comes back.

But here, just they leave and come back.

And secondly, we consider noise very important.

You know that children sleep better in noise.

They don't sleep in a quiet space.

And in this kindergarten, these children show amazing concentration in class.

And you know, our kind grew up in the jungle with noise.

They need noise.

And you know, you can talk to your friends in a noisy bar.

And you know, these days we are trying to make everything under control.

You know, it's completely open.

In summer you go swimming.

The sand is 50 degrees.

And also, you should know that you are waterproof.

You never melt in rain.

So, children are supposed to be outside.

This is how they divide classrooms.

They are supposed to help teachers.

They don't.

(Laughter) I didn't put him in.

And there are always some trees in the classroom.

A monkey trying to fish another monkey from above.

(Laughter) Monkeys.

(Laughter) And each classroom has at least one skylight.

The building is only five meters tall with seven floors.

And of course, the ceiling height is very low.

So you have to consider safety.

So, we put our children, a daughter and a son.

They tried to go in.

(Laughter) And he is trying to see if it is safe to jump off.

The traffic jam is awful in Tokyo, as you know.

(Laughter) The driver in front, she needs to learn how to drive.

Now these days, kids need a small dosage of danger.

And in this kind of occasion, they learn to help each other.

Now, this drawing is showing the movement of a boy between 9:10 and 9:30.

And the circumference of this building is 183 meters.

So it's not exactly small at all.

And this boy did 6,000 meters in the morning.

But the surprise is yet to come.

The children in this kindergarten do 4,000 meters on average.

And these children have the highest athletic abilities among many kindergartens.

(Laughter) They keep running.

They need to get some injury.

And that makes them learn how to live in this world.

I think architecture is capable of changing this world, and people's lives.

Thank you very much. 

