Dear friends, for centuries we were taught anger is bad.

Our parents, teachers, priests -- everyone taught us how to control and suppress our anger.

That I tried to do. 

Friends, most of the brightest ideas came to my mind out of anger.

Like when I was 35 and sat in a locked-up, tiny prison.

The whole night, I was angry.

But it has given birth to a new idea.

But I will come to that later on.

Let me begin with the story of how I got a name for myself. 

I had been a big admirer of Mahatma Gandhi since my childhood.

Gandhi fought and lead India's freedom movement.

And so, when India was celebrating Mahatma Gandhi's birth centenary in 1969 -- at that time I was 15 -- an idea came to my mind.

Why can't we celebrate it differently?

These are the people -- forget about allowing them to go to the temples, they cannot even go into the houses and shops of high-caste people. 

The day has come.

All these untouchables, three women and two men, they agreed to come.

I went back to the venue, which was a newly built Mahatma Gandhi Park.

That made me angry.

I was standing, leaning against Mahatma Gandhi's statue.

I was emotionally drained, rather exhausted.

Then I sat down where the food was lying.

And suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder.

And it was the healing, motherly touch of an untouchable woman.

And my friends, she was right. 

I came back home, a little after midnight, shocked to see that several high-caste elderly people were sitting in my courtyard.

Somehow they agreed to punish only me, and the punishment was purification.

It was total nonsense, and I refused to accept that punishment.

How did they punish me?

I was barred from entering into my own kitchen and my own dining room, my utensils were separated.

But the night when I was angry, they wanted to outcaste me.

(Applause) 

So I decided to drop my name.

(Applause) And that was the beginning of my transformative anger. 

I also learned how the most uncontrollable form of energy could be harnessed for good and making society better. 

I cannot explain my joy when I free a child.

I was so happy.

I complained to the police.

I thought that if I keep on freeing 10 children, and 50 more will join, that's not done.

In Europe and America, we have been successful.

(Applause) 

I created a book bank at the age of 11.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

