The ongoing persecution and operation against the Hazaras forced my parents to leave Afghanistan. 

He built minarets with their heads.

After the September 11 attack on the Twin Towers, I got a chance to go to Afghanistan for the first time, with foreign journalists.

I was only 18, and I got a job working as an interpreter.

It involves young kids dancing for warlords and powerful men in the society.

Along with my family, I returned back to Quetta.

The situation in Quetta had changed dramatically since I left in 2005.

Once a peaceful haven for the Hazaras, it had now turned into the most dangerous city in Pakistan.

I had known him since my childhood.

He was injured when his van was ambushed by terrorists in Quetta.

He later died of his injuries.

After Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, Australia is home to the fourth largest population of Hazaras in the world.

When it came time to leave Pakistan, Australia seemed the obvious choice.

But getting a visa was impossible.

In Indonesia, I joined a group of seven asylum seekers.

We all shared a bedroom in a town outside of Jakarta called Bogor.

There were 93 of us, and we were all below deck.

No one was allowed up on the top.

Waves tossed the boat around, and the timbers groaned.

People below deck were crying, praying, recalling their loved ones.

They were screaming.

It was a terrible moment.

We kept trying to attract their attention by waving our life jackets and whistling. 

Eventually, we made it to a small island.

It was a thick forest.

We all split up into many groups as we argued over what to do next.

We were all scared and confused.

Then, after spending the night on the beach, we found a jetty and coconuts.

When my documentary was aired on SBS Dateline, many of my friends came to know about my situation, and they tried to help me.

They did not allow me to take any other boat to risk my life.

But it had happened to be a little bit different with me.

I was lucky.

Not every asylum seeker is lucky like me.

It is really difficult to live a life with an uncertain fate, in limbo. 

The asylum seekers have been demonized and then presented to the people.

