I'd like to take you on the epic quest of the Rosetta spacecraft.

To escort and land the probe on a comet, this has been my passion for the past two years.

In order to do that, I need to explain to you something about the origin of the solar system. 

When we go back four and a half billion years, there was a cloud of gas and dust.

In the center of this cloud, our sun formed and ignited.

Along with that, what we now know as planets, comets and asteroids formed.

What then happened, according to theory, is that when the Earth had cooled down a bit after its formation, comets massively impacted the Earth and delivered water to Earth.

And sometimes these objects run into each other, and they gravitationally deflect, and then the gravity of Jupiter pulls them back into the solar system.

And they then become the comets as we see them in the sky. 

The important thing here to note is that in the meantime, the four and a half billion years, these comets have been sitting on the outside of the solar system, and haven't changed -- deep, frozen versions of our solar system. 

In the sky, they look like this.

We know them for their tails.

There are actually two tails.

We are only 20, 30, 40 kilometers away from the comet. 

So what's important to remember?

Comets are also suspected of having brought the elements which may have bootstrapped life.

In 1983, ESA set up its long-term Horizon 2000 program, which contained one cornerstone, which would be a mission to a comet.

From the results of that mission, it became immediately clear that comets were ideal bodies to study to understand our solar system.

Once the whole problem was solved, we left Earth in 2004 to the newly selected comet, Churyumov-Gerasimenko.

This particular comet has been in the solar system since 1959.

That's the first time when it was deflected by Jupiter, and it got close enough to the sun to start changing.

So it's a very fresh comet. 

Rosetta made a few historic firsts.

It's the first ever landing on a comet.

We actually orbit the comet using something which is not normally done with spacecraft.

We navigated by looking at landmarks on the comet.

And, of course, it's the first satellite to go beyond the orbit of Jupiter on solar cells.

But these solar arrays are big.

Now later on, of course, when we got to the comet, you find out that 65 square meters of sail close to a body which is outgassing is not always a very handy choice. 

Now, how did we get to the comet?

Because we had to go there for the Rosetta scientific objectives very far away -- four times the distance of the Earth to the sun -- and also at a much higher velocity than we could achieve with fuel, because we'd have to take six times as much fuel as the whole spacecraft weighed.

So what do you do?

We did that a few times.

We did Earth, we did Mars, we did twice Earth again, and we also flew by two asteroids, Lutetia and Steins.

Everything was switched off except for one clock.

Here you see in white the trajectory, and the way this works.

(Laughter) It's at Mars.

That's one of the cameras on the lander, and it just looks under the solar arrays, and you see the planet Mars and the solar array in the distance. 

Then we got in the vicinity of the comet, and these were the first pictures we saw.

We had hoped for some kind of spud-like thing where you could easily land.

So we went through this process, and we mapped the comet.

We used a technique called photoclinometry.

You use shadows thrown by the sun.

What you see here is a rock sitting on the surface of the comet, and the sun shines from above.

From the shadow, we, with our brain, can immediately determine roughly what the shape of that rock is.

For that, we flew special trajectories starting in August.

First, a triangle of 100 kilometers on a side at 100 kilometers' distance, and we repeated the whole thing at 50 kilometers.

At that time, we had seen the comet at all kinds of angles, and we could use this technique to map the whole thing. 

Now, this led to a selection of landing sites.

This whole process we had to do, to go from the mapping of the comet to actually finding the final landing site, was 60 days.

We didn't have more.

To give you an idea, the average Mars mission takes hundreds of scientists for years to meet about where shall we go?

We had 60 days, and that was it. 

The way this works is that Rosetta has to be at the right point in space, and aiming towards the comet, because the lander is passive.

The lander is then pushed out and moves towards the comet.

Rosetta had to turn around to get its cameras to actually look at Philae while it was departing and to be able to communicate with it. 

Now, the landing duration of the whole trajectory was seven hours.

That's no mean feat. 

Let me quickly take you through some of the science and the instruments.

The bottom graph is September of last year.

There is a long-term variation, which in itself is not surprising, but you see the sharp peaks.

This is a comet day.

Also, we measured dust particles.

Now, for you, this will not look very impressive, but the scientists were thrilled when they saw this.

Two dust particles: the right one they call Boris, and they shot it with tantalum in order to be able to analyze it.

Now, we found sodium and magnesium.

Of course, one of the important elements is the imaging.

Nobody had expected this body to look like this.

Here, you see the same image twice.

On the left-hand side, you see in the middle a pit.

On the right-hand side, if you carefully look, there are three jets coming out of the bottom of that pit.

So this is the activity of the comet.

Apparently, at the bottom of these pits is where the active regions are, and where the material evaporates into space.

There is a very intriguing crack in the neck of the comet.

These are called ground truth measurements. 

These are the landing descent images that were taken by the OSIRIS camera.

You see the lander getting further and further away from Rosetta.

The boulder there is some 10 meters.

So this is one of the last images we took before we landed on the comet.

Then, at the top, there is a before and an after image of the landing.

The only problem with the after image is, there is no lander.

Now, on a bit of a comical note here is that originally Rosetta was designed to have a lander which would bounce.

That was discarded because it was way too expensive.

Now, we forgot, but the lander knew.

At that red line, there is a change.

This is one of the iconic images of Rosetta.

It's a man-made object, a leg of the lander, standing on a comet.

This, for me, is one of the very best images of space science I have ever seen. 

One of the things we still have to do is to actually find the lander.

The blue area here is where we know it must be.

We haven't been able to find it yet, but the search is continuing, as are our efforts to start getting the lander to work again.

We listen every day, and we hope that between now and somewhere in April, the lander will wake up again. 

The findings of what we found on the comet: This thing would float in water.

The activity increase we saw in June, July, August last year was a four-fold activity increase.

By the time we will be at the sun, there will be 100 kilos a second leaving this comet: gas, dust, whatever.

That's 100 million kilos a day. 

With this image of the comet, I would like to leave you. 

Thank you. 

