Well, if we did the same thing, you tasted the same beer, now in the blind taste, things would look slightly different.

Most of the beers will go into one place.

What happens when people expect something from their physiology?

It relieved more pain from people, because expectations do change our physiology.

And of course, we all know that in sports, if you are a fan of a particular team, you can't help but see the game develop from the perspective of your team. 

So all of those are cases in which our preconceived notions and our expectations color our world.

But what happened in more important questions?

What happened with questions that had to do with social justice?

So we wanted to think about what is the blind tasting version for thinking about inequality?

So we started looking at inequality, and we did some large-scale surveys around the U.S. and other countries.

So we asked two questions: Do people know what kind of level of inequality we have?

And then, what level of inequality do we want to have?

So let's think about the first question.

Okay, here's what lots of Americans tell us.

The next group, they say, has 12 percent, 20 percent, and the richest 20 percent, people think has 58 percent of the wealth.

You can see how this relates to what you thought. 

Reality is slightly different.

The next group has 3.9, 11.3, and the richest group has 84-85 percent of the wealth.

So what we actually have and what we think we have are very different. 

How do we even figure this out?

So to look at this, to look at what we really want, we thought about the philosopher John Rawls.

If you remember John Rawls, he had this notion of what's a just society.

He said a just society is a society that if you knew everything about it, you would be willing to enter it in a random place.

But if you're going to go into that society in every possible situation, and you don't know, you have to consider all the aspects.

So, we took another group, a large group of Americans, and we asked them the question in the veil of ignorance.

What are the characteristics of a country that would make you want to join it, knowing that you could end randomly at any place?

And here is what we got.

The next group, 14 percent of the wealth, 21, 22 and 32. 

Now, nobody in our sample wanted full equality.

So for example, we asked people from different parts of the world about this question, people who are liberals and conservatives, and they gave us basically the same answer.

We went to Harvard and we checked almost every department, and in fact, from Harvard Business School, where a few people wanted the wealthy to have more and the [poor] to have less, the similarity was astonishing.

I know some of you went to Harvard Business School. 

Wealth is not just about wealth.

We asked, what about things like health?

What about availability of prescription medication?

What about life expectancy?

What about life expectancy of infants?

How do we want this to be distributed?

What about education for young people?

And for older people?

We also learned that people are particularly open to changes in equality when it comes to people who have less agency -- basically, young kids and babies, because we don't think of them as responsible for their situation. 

So what are some lessons from this?

How do we get people to think differently about inequality and the consequences of inequality in terms of health, education, jealousy, crime rate, and so on? 

Then we have the desirability gap.

How do we implement that to a higher degree on a more extensive scale? 

How do we take these things and actually do something about it?

