(Laughter) And inevitably, during that conversation one of these two phrases come up: A) "I was terrible at math, but it wasn't my fault.

(Laughter) And inevitably, during that conversation one of these two phrases come up: A) "I was terrible at math, but it wasn't my fault.

(Laughter) Or B) "But what is math really for?"

(Laughter) I'll now address Case B.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

When someone asks you what math is for, they're not asking you about applications of mathematical science.

(Laughter) That's what they're actually asking.

There's a strange 0.8 percent, among which I include myself. 

Who are the ones that attack?

(Laughter) Hardy, for instance, was a model of this type of attack. 

(Laughter) Hardy, for instance, was a model of this type of attack. 

He's one of the defensive ones. 

Okay, but who's right then?

Audience: What is math for? 

But it's also true that there, where scientists and technicians are looking for mathematical theories that allow them to advance, they're within the structure of math, which permeates everything. 

It's true that we have to go somewhat deeper, to see what's behind science.

Science operates on intuition, creativity.

Do the math and you'll see it's right.

That's what math is for. 

And in doing that, it helps us avoid the pitfalls of this painful world we live in.

There are sciences that help us in this way quite directly.

Oncological science, for example.

And there are others we look at from afar, with envy sometimes, but knowing that we are what supports them.

All that makes science, science is the rigor of math.

And that rigor factors in because its results are eternal. 

A theorem -- that really is forever.

(Laughter) The Pythagorean theorem is still true even though Pythagoras is dead, I assure you it's true.

(Laughter) Even if the world collapsed the Pythagorean theorem would still be true.

You need proof.

For example, let's say I have a big, enormous, infinite field.

I want to cover it with equal pieces, without leaving any gaps.

Which is the best shape to use?

One that covers the same surface, but has a smaller border.

In the year 300, Pappus of Alexandria said the best is to use hexagons, just like bees do.

He didn't prove it, it remained a conjecture.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

But what happens if we go to three dimensions?

(Laughter) What is the best shape to use?

(Applause) Come on.

(Laughter) Even a plastic one.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

But Kelvin didn't prove it.

It remained a conjecture -- Kelvin's conjecture.

It's very interesting that this structure, because of its geometric properties, was used to build the Aquatics Center for the Beijing Olympic Games. 

There, Michael Phelps won eight gold medals, and became the best swimmer of all time.

Well, until someone better comes along, right?

As may happen with the Weaire-€“Phelan structure.

It will then become a theorem, a truth, forever and ever.

For longer than any diamond. 

So, if you want to tell someone that you will love them forever you can give them a diamond.

But if you want to tell them that you'll love them forever and ever, give them a theorem!

