Not missiles, but microbes.

Now, part of the reason for this is that we've invested a huge amount in nuclear deterrents.

I followed it carefully through the case analysis tools we use to track polio eradication.

We didn't have a group of epidemiologists ready to go, who would have gone, seen what the disease was, seen how far it had spread.

The case reports came in on paper.

We didn't have a way of preparing people.

Now, Médecins Sans Frontières did a great job orchestrating volunteers.

But even so, we were far slower than we should have been getting the thousands of workers into these countries.

No one to look at the diagnostics.

No one to figure out what tools should be used.

As an example, we could have taken the blood of survivors, processed it, and put that plasma back in people to protect them.

But that was never tried. 

There's a group of handsome epidemiologists ready to go, they move in, they save the day, but that's just pure Hollywood. 

The first is that there was a lot of heroic work by the health workers.

They found the people and they prevented more infections.

The second is the nature of the virus.

Ebola does not spread through the air.

And that was just luck.

If it had gotten into a lot more urban areas, the case numbers would have been much larger. 

So next time, we might not be so lucky.

You can have a virus where people feel well enough while they're infectious that they get on a plane or they go to a market.

And you can see over 30 million people died from that epidemic.

So this is a serious problem.

We should be concerned. 

But in fact, we can build a really good response system.

And we need preparedness. 

So those are the kinds of things we need to deal with an epidemic. 

What are the key pieces?

The last time a germ game was done in the United States was back in 2001, and it didn't go so well.

There are some big breakthroughs, like the Adeno-associated virus, that could work very, very quickly. 

The World Bank estimates that if we have a worldwide flu epidemic, global wealth will go down by over three trillion dollars and we'd have millions and millions of deaths.

These investments offer significant benefits beyond just being ready for the epidemic.

The primary healthcare, the R&amp;D, those things would reduce global health equity and make the world more just as well as more safe. 

But we need to get going, because time is not on our side. 

If we start now, we can be ready for the next epidemic. 

Thank you. 

