Tonight, I want to talk about a tale of two cities.

One of those cities is called Washington, and the other is called Beijing.

You start looking at the numbers, they start to confront you in a big way.

It's projected that China will become, by whichever measure -- PPP, market exchange rates -- the largest economy in the world over the course of the decade ahead.

They're already the largest trading nation, already the largest exporting nation, already the largest manufacturing nation, and they're also the biggest emitters of carbon in the world.

America comes second. 

So in short, the question we have tonight is, how do we understand this mega-change, which I believe to be the biggest change for the first half of the 21st century?

It's happening in some senses under the radar, as we are all preoccupied with what's going in Ukraine, what's going on in the Middle East, what's going on with ISIS, what's going on with ISIL, what's happening with the future of our economies.

This is a slow and quiet revolution.

Whether these two great civilizations, these two great countries, can in fact carve out a common future for themselves and for the world?

People ask me, why is it that a kid growing up in rural Australia got interested in learning Chinese?

That's Betsy the cow.

So very early on, I discovered that in fact, working in a farm was not designed for me, and China was a very safe remove from any career in Australian farm life. 

Here's the second reason.

That's my mom.

Anyone here ever listen to what their mom told them to do?

Everyone ever do what their mom told them to do?

And that change is China entering the United Nations.

It's a major lift from being called Kevin to be called Conqueror of the Classics.

(Laughter) I've been called Kevin all my life.

Have you been called Kevin all your life?

Would you prefer to be called Conqueror of the Classics? 

So there I am in the embassy in Beijing, off to the Great Hall of the People with our ambassador, who had asked me to interpret for his first meeting in the Great Hall of the People.

And so there was I.

If you've been to a Chinese meeting, it's a giant horseshoe.

And so the ambassador began with this inelegant phrase.

He said, "China and Australia are currently enjoying a relationship of unprecedented closeness."

There was a big pause on the other side of the room.

You could see the giant pooh-bahs at the head of the horseshoe, the blood visibly draining from their faces, and the junior woodchucks at the other end of the horseshoe engaged in peals of unrestrained laughter.

That was the last time I was asked to interpret.

But in that little story, there's a wisdom, which is, as soon as you think you know something about this extraordinary civilization of 5,000 years of continuing history, there's always something new to learn. 

History is against us when it comes to the U.S. and China forging a common future together.

This guy up here?

He wrote the history of the Peloponnesian Wars.

It's a core question.

And what Graham has done is explore 15 cases in history since the 1500s to establish what the precedents are.

And in 11 out of 15 of them, let me tell you, they've ended in catastrophic war. 

You may say, "But Kevin -- or Conqueror of the Classics -- that was the past.

So if we are engaged in this great question of how China thinks, feels, and positions itself towards the United States, and the reverse, how do we get to the baseline of how these two countries and civilizations can possibly work together? 

Let me first go to, in fact, China's views of the U.S. and the rest of the West.

Number one: China feels as if it's been humiliated at the hands of the West through a hundred years of history, beginning with the Opium Wars.

When after that, the Western powers carved China up into little pieces, so that by the time it got to the '20s and '30s, signs like this one appeared on the streets of Shanghai.

They were, in fact, given to Japan.

When Japan then invaded China in the 1930s the world looked away and was indifferent to what would happen to China.

China also believes that it is being contained by U.S. allies and by those with strategic partnerships with the U.S. right around its periphery.

And beyond all that, the Chinese have this feeling in their heart of hearts and in their gut of guts that those of us in the collective West are just too damned arrogant.

That is, we don't recognize the problems in our own system, in our politics and our economics, and are very quick to point the finger elsewhere, and believe that, in fact, we in the collective West are guilty of a great bunch of hypocrisy. 

Of course, in international relations, it's not just the sound of one hand clapping.

There's another country too, and that's called the U.S.

On the question of is the U.S. containing China, they say, "No, look at the history of the Soviet Union.

Instead, what we have done in the U.S. and the West is welcome China into the global economy, and on top of that, welcome them into the World Trade Organization.

The U.S. and the West say China cheats on the question of intellectual property rights, and through cyberattacks on U.S. and global firms.

Furthermore, the United States says that the Chinese political system is fundamentally wrong because it's at such fundamental variance to the human rights, democracy, and rule of law that we enjoy in the U.S. and the collective West.

The challenge, though, is given those deep-rooted feelings, those deep-rooted emotions and thought patterns, what the Chinese call "Sīwéi," ways of thinking, how can we craft a basis for a common future between these two? 

What do I mean by that?

Be realistic about the things that we disagree on, and a management approach that doesn't enable any one of those differences to break into war or conflict until we've acquired the diplomatic skills to solve them.

Be constructive in areas of the bilateral, regional and global engagement between the two, which will make a difference for all of humankind.

Build a regional institution capable of cooperation in Asia, an Asia-Pacific community.

Of course, all that happens if you've got a common mechanism and political will to achieve the above.

These things are deliverable.

But the question is, are they deliverable alone?

This is what our head tells us we need to do, but what about our heart? 

And that's when I apologized to Australia's indigenous peoples.

This was a day of reckoning in the Australian government, the Australian parliament, and for the Australian people.

After 200 years of unbridled abuse towards the first Australians, it was high time that we white folks said we were sorry. 

The important thing that I remember is staring in the faces of all those from Aboriginal Australia as they came to listen to this apology.

That's a terrible story. 

I think you know what I'm talking about.

But the day after the apology, what happened?

Everyone in that cafe, every one of the white folks, stood up and applauded.

Something had happened in the hearts of these people in Australia.

So where does that conclude in terms of the great question that we've been asked to address this evening, which is the future of U.S.-China relations?

The head says there's a way forward.

The head says there is a policy framework, there's a common narrative, there's a mechanism through regular summitry to do these things and to make them better.

But the heart must also find a way to reimagine the possibilities of the America-China relationship, and the possibilities of China's future engagement in the world.

In China, they now talk about the Chinese Dream.

In America, we're all familiar with the term "the American Dream."

Because if we do that, we might just change the way that we think about each other. 

I thank you. 

I thank you. 

It feels like you yourself have a role to play in this bridging.

You, in a way, are uniquely placed to speak to both sides. 

Those of us up the middle, we can make a small contribution. 

