(Clicking) I was born with bilateral retinoblastoma, retinal cancer.

It's impressions about blindness that are far more threatening to blind people than the blindness itself.

Think for a moment about your own impressions of blindness.

Think about your reactions when I first came onto the stage, or the prospect of your own blindness, or a loved one going blind.

The terror is incomprehensible to most of us, because blindness is thought to epitomize ignorance and unawareness, hapless exposure to the ravages of the dark unknown.

How poetic. 

Fortunately for me, my parents were not poetic.

They were pragmatic.

They understood that ignorance and fear were but matters of the mind, and the mind is adaptable.

They believed that I should grow up to enjoy the same freedoms and responsibilities as everyone else.

They knew that blindness would pose a significant challenge.

I was not raised with fear.

They put my freedom first before all else, because that is what love does. 

Now, moving forward, how do I manage today?

The world is a much larger nursery.

Fortunately, I have my trusty long cane, longer than the canes used by most blind people.

I call it my freedom staff.

It will keep me, for example, from making an undignified departure from the stage.

(Laughter) I do see that cliff edge.

They warned us earlier that every imaginable mishap has occurred to speakers up here on the stage.

I don't care to set a new precedent. 

And my brain, thanks to my parents, has been activated to form images in my visual cortex, which we now call the imaging system, from those patterns of information, much as your brain does.

I call this process flash sonar.

Is that so remarkable?

I do not use my eyes, I use my brain. 

Everyone out there who faces or who has ever faced a challenge, raise your hands.

Lots of hands going up, a moment, let me do a head count.

(Clicking) This will take a while.

(Clicking) (Laughter) Okay, lots of hands in the air.

(Clicking) (Laughter) Okay, lots of hands in the air.

Those of you who use your brains to navigate these challenges, put your hands down.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So we all face challenges, and we all face the dark unknown, which is endemic to most challenges, which is what most of us fear, okay?

But we all have brains that allow us, that activate to allow us to navigate the journey through these challenges.

Case in point: I came up here and -- (Clicking) -- they wouldn't tell me where the lectern was.

So you can't trust those TED folks.

"Find it yourself," they said.

So -- (Laughter) And the feedback for the P.A.

So now I present to you a challenge.

So if you'd all close your eyes for just a moment, okay?

And you're going to learn a bit of flash sonar.

I'm going to make a sound.

I'm going to hold this panel in front of me, but I'm not going to move it.

Just listen to the sound for a moment.

(Laughter) I couldn't resist. 

(Laughter) I couldn't resist. 

For your challenge, you tell me, just say "now" when you hear the panel start to move.

(Laughter) Let's have a look at what can happen when this activation process is given some time and attention. 

(Laughter) Let's have a look at what can happen when this activation process is given some time and attention. 

(Video) Juan Ruiz: It's like you guys can see with your eyes and we can see with our ears. 

SM: And then it's gradually coming back down again. 

J. Louchart: I love being blind.

If I had the opportunity, honestly, I wouldn't go back to being sighted. 

DK: Now, do these people look terrified?

Not so much.

I wish you all a most activating journey. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you for an extraordinary talk.

Just one more question about your world, your inner world that you construct.

What do you have that we don't have? 

DK: Three hundred and sixty-degree view, so my sonar works about as well behind me as it does in front of me.

It works around corners.

It works through surfaces.

Generally, it's kind of a fuzzy three-dimensional geometry.

He said it was something like having x-ray vision. 

CA: What do you picture that you're in right now?

How do you picture this theater? 

I hear every little movement that every single person makes.

CA: Well, Daniel, you have done a spectacular job of helping us all see the world in a different way.

