When I wrote my memoir, the publishers were really confused.

Was it about me as a child refugee, or as a woman who set up a high-tech software company back in the 1960s, one that went public and eventually employed over 8,500 people?

Well, it turns out, I'm all of these.

So let me tell you my story. 

"What is England and why am I going there?"

I'm only alive because so long ago, I was helped by generous strangers.

I was lucky, and doubly lucky to be later reunited with my birth parents.

But, sadly, I never bonded with them again.

But I've done more in the seven decades since that miserable day when my mother put me on the train than I would ever have dreamed possible.

And I love England, my adopted country, with a passion that perhaps only someone who has lost their human rights can feel.

I decided to make mine a life that was worth saving.

Let me take you back to the early 1960s.

To get past the gender issues of the time, I set up my own software house at one of the first such startups in Britain.

But it was also a company of women, a company for women, an early social business.

And people laughed at the very idea because software, at that time, was given away free with hardware.

Nobody would buy software, certainly not from a woman.

Although women were then coming out of the universities with decent degrees, there was a glass ceiling to our progress.

And I'd hit that glass ceiling too often, and I wanted opportunities for women. 

I recruited professionally qualified women who'd left the industry on marriage, or when their first child was expected and structured them into a home-working organization.

We pioneered the concept of women going back into the workforce after a career break.

For years, I was the first woman this, or the only woman that.

And in those days, I couldn't work on the stock exchange, I couldn't drive a bus or fly an airplane.

Indeed, I couldn't open a bank account without my husband's permission.

My generation of women fought the battles for the right to work and the right for equal pay. 

And eventually, the work came in.

We disguised the domestic and part-time nature of the staff by offering fixed prices, one of the very first to do so.

All we used was a simple "trust the staff" approach and a simple telephone.

We even used to ask job applicants, "Do you have access to a telephone?"

An early project was to develop software standards on management control protocols.

And software was and still is a maddeningly hard-to-control activity, so that was enormously valuable.

We used the standards ourselves, we were even paid to update them over the years, and eventually, they were adopted by NATO.

All this, before it ever got near a computer.

That was programming in the early 1960s. 

In 1975, 13 years from startup, equal opportunity legislation came in in Britain and that made it illegal to have our pro-female policies.

When I started my company of women, the men said, "How interesting, because it only works because it's small."

If success were easy, we'd all be millionaires.

But in my case, it came in the midst of family trauma and indeed, crisis.

Our late son, Giles, was an only child, a beautiful, contented baby.

And then, at two and a half, like a changeling in a fairy story, he lost the little speech that he had and turned into a wild, unmanageable toddler.

Not the terrible twos; he was profoundly autistic and he never spoke again.

And so that some of my wealth does go back to the industry from which it stems, I've also founded the Oxford Internet Institute and other IT ventures.

The Oxford Internet Institute focuses not on the technology, but on the social, economic, legal and ethical issues of the Internet. 

Giles died unexpectedly 17 years ago now.

And I have learned to live without him, and I have learned to live without his need of me.

Philanthropy is all that I do now.

So it's just as well that I'm a workaholic.

I believe in the beauty of work when we do it properly and in humility.

Work is not just something I do when I'd rather be doing something else. 

We live our lives forward.

So what has all that taught me?

I learned that tomorrow's never going to be like today, and certainly nothing like yesterday.

Thank you very much. 

