With the help of a young archivist named Michael Shirker, we tracked down all of the people we could find who had been at the Stonewall Inn that night.

(Applause) 

You come to this booth and you're met by a facilitator who brings you inside.

People treated the experience with incredible respect, and amazing conversations happened inside. 

Josh has Asperger's syndrome.

As you may know, kids with Asperger's are incredibly smart but have a tough time socially.

(Applause) 

David Isay: After this story ran on public radio, Josh received hundreds of letters telling him what an amazing kid he was.

His mom, Sarah, bound them together in a book, and when Josh got picked on at school, they would read the letters together.

(Applause) 

You know, a lot of people talk about crying when they hear StoryCorps stories, and it's not because they're sad.

Most of them aren't.

It's kind of the anti-reality TV.

It's simply an act of generosity and love.

So this experiment in Grand Central worked, 

and we expanded across the country.

Today, more than 100,000 people in all 50 states in thousands of cities and towns across America have recorded StoryCorps interviews.

(Applause) 

We've hired and trained hundreds of facilitators to help guide people through the experience.

Most serve a year or two with StoryCorps traveling the country, gathering the wisdom of humanity.

I've also learned so much from these interviews.

What else have I learned?

I've learned about the almost unimaginable capacity for the human spirit to forgive.

I've learned about resilience and I've learned about strength. 

Like an interview with Oshea Israel and Mary Johnson.

When Oshea was a teenager, he murdered Mary's only son, Laramiun Byrd, in a gang fight.

This is just a short excerpt of a conversation they had soon after Oshea was freed. 

(Applause) 

DI: And I've been reminded countless times of the courage and goodness of people, and how the arc of history truly does bend towards justice. 

Like the story of Alexis Martinez, who was born Arthur Martinez in the Harold Ickes projects in Chicago.

In the interview, she talks with her daughter Lesley about joining a gang as a young man, and later in life transitioning into the woman she was always meant to be.

This is Alexis and her daughter Lesley. 

I'm going to tell you a secret about StoryCorps.

It takes some courage to have these conversations.

StoryCorps speaks to our mortality.

Participants know this recording will be heard long after they're gone.

Those are the key ingredients. 

So the first part of the wish is already underway.

That's the easy part, the technology.

(Applause) 

This is the picture of us at that interview.

Help us create this gift to our children, this testament to who we are as human beings.

I hope you'll help us make this wish come true.

Maybe these conversations will remind us what's really important.

And maybe, just maybe, it will help us recognize that simple truth that every life, every single life, matters equally and infinitely.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

(Applause) 

