You're looking at a woman who was publicly silent for a decade.

But the night of my speech, a surprising thing happened.

You know what his unsuccessful pickup line was?

He could make me feel 22 again.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Unlike me, though, your boss probably wasn't the president of the United States of America.

Of course, life is full of surprises. 

That was it.

But that wasn't my fate.

Instead, this scandal was brought to you by the digital revolution.

What that meant for me personally was that overnight I went from being a completely private figure to a publicly humiliated one worldwide.

I was patient zero of losing a personal reputation on a global scale almost instantaneously. 

Do you recall a particular image of me, say, wearing a beret? 

But the attention and judgment that I received, not the story, but that I personally received, was unprecedented.

I was seen by many but actually known by few.

When this happened to me 17 years ago, there was no name for it.

Now we call it cyberbullying and online harassment.

Let me paint a picture for you.

It is September of 1998.

For the past eight months, the mysterious content of these tapes has hung like the Sword of Damocles over my head.

I mean, who can remember what they said a year ago?

A few days later, the Starr Report is released to Congress, and all of those tapes and transcripts, those stolen words, form a part of it.

That people can read the transcripts is horrific enough, but a few weeks later, the audio tapes are aired on TV, and significant portions made available online.

The public humiliation was excruciating.

Life was almost unbearable. 

The consequences for some have become dire, very dire. 

Sweet, sensitive, creative Tyler was secretly webcammed by his roommate while being intimate with another man.

When the online world learned of this incident, the ridicule and cyberbullying ignited.

Today, too many parents haven't had the chance to step in and rescue their loved ones.

Too many have learned of their child's suffering and humiliation after it was too late.

Tyler's tragic, senseless death was a turning point for me.

It served to recontextualize my experiences, and I then began to look at the world of humiliation and bullying around me and see something different.

In 1998, we had no way of knowing where this brave new technology called the Internet would take us.

And you know what shocked me, although it shouldn't have, was other research last year that determined humiliation was a more intensely felt emotion than either happiness or even anger. 

One gossip website had over five million hits for this one story.

But in this culture of humiliation, there is another kind of price tag attached to public shaming.

The price does not measure the cost to the victim, which Tyler and too many others, notably women, minorities, and members of the LGBTQ community have paid, but the price measures the profit of those who prey on them.

This invasion of others is a raw material, efficiently and ruthlessly mined, packaged and sold at a profit.

A marketplace has emerged where public humiliation is a commodity and shame is an industry.

How is the money made?

Clicks.

The more shame, the more clicks.

The more clicks, the more advertising dollars.

We're in a dangerous cycle.

The more we click on this kind of gossip, the more numb we get to the human lives behind it, and the more numb we get, the more we click.

With every click, we make a choice.

This behavior is a symptom of the culture we've created.

Just think about it. 

Changing behavior begins with evolving beliefs.

We've seen that to be true with racism, homophobia, and plenty of other biases, today and in the past.

So as far as our culture of humiliation goes, what we need is a cultural revolution.

The shift begins with something simple, but it's not easy.

We need to return to a long-held value of compassion -- compassion and empathy.

Online, we've got a compassion deficit, an empathy crisis. 

I've seen some very dark days in my life, and it was the compassion and empathy from my family, friends, professionals, and sometimes even strangers that saved me.

Even empathy from one person can make a difference.

The theory of minority influence, proposed by social psychologist Serge Moscovici, says that even in small numbers, when there's consistency over time, change can happen.

In the online world, we can foster minority influence by becoming upstanders.

We need to communicate online with compassion, consume news with compassion, and click with compassion.

It's also not just about saving myself.

