How many people here have heard of PMS?

I'm here to give you the good news about PMS. 

But first, let's take a look at how firmly the idea of PMS is entrenched in American culture.

However, after five decades of research, there's no strong consensus on the definition, the cause, the treatment, or even the existence of PMS.

But here's where it gets tricky.

Now, I want to be clear here.

I'm not saying women don't get some of these symptoms.

Some said three.

And finally, many different types of questionnaires were used to diagnose PMS, focusing on different symptoms, symptom duration and severity.

So scientifically speaking, this is an improvement.

Research tells us that the more a woman believes that everyone gets PMS, the more likely she is to erroneously report that she has it.

Let me tell you what I mean by "erroneously."

You might ask her, "Do you have PMS?"

Another reason for the persistence of the PMS myth has to do with the narrow boundaries of the feminine role.

Feminist psychologists like Joan Chrisler have suggested that taking on the label of PMS allows women to express emotions that would otherwise be considered unladylike.

The near universal definition of a good woman is one who is happy, loving, caring for others, and taking great satisfaction from that role.

When people respond to a woman's anger with the thought, "Oh, it's just that time of the month," her ability to be taken seriously or effect change is severely limited. 

So who else benefits from the myth of PMS?

Well, I can tell you that treating PMS has become a profitable, thriving industry.

Reputable Internet sources of medical information like WebMD or the Mayo Clinic list PMS as a known disorder.

It's not a known disorder, but they list it.

Interestingly, though, both websites say that the success of medication in treating PMS symptoms vary from woman to woman.

Well, that doesn't make sense.

If you've got a distinct disorder with a distinct cause, which PMS is supposed to be, then the treatment should bring improvement for a great number of women.

So we have not had that at all with these so-called treatments.

However, the financial gain of perpetuating the myth that PMS is a common mental disorder and is treatable is quite substantial.

Now, far be it from me to argue with the magical powers of caffeine, but I don't think reducing tension is one of them.

Since 2002, Midol has marketed a Teen Midol to adolescents.

So while perpetuating the myth of PMS has been lucrative for some, it comes with some serious adverse consequences for women.

First, it contributes to the medicalization of women's reproductive health.

Second, the PMS myth also contributes to the stereotype of women as irrational and overemotional.

When the menstrual cycle is described as a hormonal roller coaster that turns women into angry beasts, it becomes easy to question the competence of all women.

Psychologists know that the moods of men and women are more similar than different.

And finally, the PMS myth keeps women from dealing with the actual issues causing them emotional upset.

Individual issues like quality of relationship or work conditions or societal issues like racism or sexism or the daily grind of poverty are all strongly related to daily mood.

They go to work or school, take care of their families, and function at a normal level.

Thank you. 

