For many, their existence, their humanity, has been reduced to statistics, coldly recorded as "security incidents."

They were nurses, logisticians, shelter experts, paralegals, interpreters.

No one was ever sentenced for these crimes. 

But they are also haunting the dark street of my mind. 

Why were they there?

What motivated them?

How did we become so indifferent to these crimes?

This is why I am here today with you.

We also need to demand justice. 

Five colleagues had been killed, three had been seriously injured, seven had already been taken hostage.

So we were careful.

Then a process of dehumanization started that day.

I was no more than just a commodity. 

I was chained by a metal cable to my bed.

I could do only four small steps.

Can you imagine that mock execution can be a pastime for guards when they are sadistic or when they are just bored or drunk?

We are breaking my nerves very slowly. 

Isolation and darkness are particularly difficult to describe.

How do you describe nothing?

There are no words for the depths of loneliness I reached in that very thin border between sanity and madness.

In the darkness, sometimes I played imaginary games of checkers.

I was tormented by the thoughts of my family and my colleague, the guard, Edik.

The day after he came back with the same demand.

And we talked about education, we talked about families.

He talked to me about his children.

I talked to him about my daughters.

And then he'd talk about guns, about cars, about women, and I had to talk about guns, about cars, about women.

And we talked until the last song on the tape.

Ruslan was the most brutal man I ever met.

Until then, I had assumed that they know why we are there and what we are doing.

One cannot assume this.

Yet we do this because one life matters.

It's a pity, because there are so many ways people can help.

We can't do otherwise.

It's what makes us feel, I don't know, simply human. 

That's a picture of me the day of my release.

I think helping people in danger is responsible.

We have a responsibility to try.

You've heard about that concept: Responsibility to Protect.

Outcomes may depend on various parameters.

We may even fail, but there is worse than failing -- it's not even trying when we can. 

They are thrown into situations where they are witness, but they are powerless to bring any change.

They have to learn to accept it and gradually turn this into positive energy.

It's difficult.

You can see the difference you make every day. 

Do you know that since the millennium, the number of attacks on humanitarian aid workers has tripled?

This has changed.

Gone are the days when a U.N. blue flag or a Red Cross would automatically protect us. 

Criminal groups and some political groups have cross-fertilized over the last 20 years, and they've created these sort of hybrids with whom we have no way of communicating.

Humanitarian principles are tested, questioned, and often ignored, but perhaps more importantly, we have abandoned the search for justice.

There seems to be no consequence whatsoever for attacks against humanitarian aid workers.

After my release, I was told not to seek any form of justice.

It won't do you any good, that's what I was told.

This is unacceptable.

This is inexcusable.

Attacks on humanitarian aid workers are war crimes in international law.

Those crimes should not go unpunished.

We must end this cycle of impunity.

We must consider that those attacks against humanitarian aid workers are attacks against humanity itself.

That makes me furious. 

I don't know what it is to have seen my whole town destroyed.

I don't know what it is to have seen my relatives shot in front of me.

I don't know what it is to lose the protection of my country.

I also know that I'm very lucky compared to other hostages.

Why them?

Why am I here today?

No easy answer. 

I was received with a lot of support that I got from my relatives, from colleagues, from friends, from people I didn't know.

How many of my colleagues went through a difficult divorce after a traumatic experience because they could not explain anything anymore to their spouse?

I've lost that count.

There is a price for this type of life. 

I do not forget my lost colleagues.

I cannot forget anything.

