I have a confession to make.

I'm a business professor whose ambition has been to help people learn to lead.

I use the methods of anthropology to understand the questions in which I'm interested.

So along with three co-conspirators, I spent nearly a decade observing up close and personal exceptional leaders of innovation.

We studied 16 men and women, located in seven countries across the globe, working in 12 different industries.

In total, we spent hundreds of hours on the ground, on-site, watching these leaders in action.

We ended up with pages and pages and pages of field notes that we analyzed and looked for patterns in what our leaders did.

The bottom line?

If we want to build organizations that can innovate time and again, we must unlearn our conventional notions of leadership. 

Leading innovation is not about creating a vision, and inspiring others to execute it.

But what do we mean by innovation?

An innovation is anything that is both new and useful.

It can be a product or service.

It can be a process or a way of organizing.

It can be incremental, or it can be breakthrough.

We have a pretty inclusive definition. 

How many of you recognize this man?

Put your hands up.

I was recently at Pixar, and I'm here to tell you that number 15 is sure to be a winner. 

When many of us think about innovation, though, we think about an Einstein having an 'Aha!'

But we all know that's a myth.

On the contrary, it takes about 250 people four to five years, to make one of those movies. 

Even with all those arrows, he thought it failed to really tell you just how iterative, interrelated and, frankly, messy their process was. 

It depends on how vexing the challenges are that they come up with when they are working on a particular scene.

So if you think about that scene in "Up" where the boy hands the piece of chocolate to the bird, that 10 seconds took one animator almost six months to perfect. 

Partway through one production, an animator drew a character with an arched eyebrow that suggested a mischievous side.

What we know is, at the heart of innovation is a paradox.

You have to unleash the talents and passions of many people and you have to harness them into a work that is actually useful.

Innovation is a journey.

It's a type of collaborative problem solving, usually among people who have different expertise and different points of view. 

Innovations rarely get created full-blown.

Lots of false starts, missteps and mistakes.

For sure, history and certainly Hollywood, is full of star-studded teams that have failed.

Most of those failures are attributed to too many stars or too many cooks, if you will, in the kitchen.

So why is it that Pixar, with all of its cooks, is able to be so successful time and time again?

When we studied an Islamic Bank in Dubai, or a luxury brand in Korea, or a social enterprise in Africa, we found that innovative organizations are communities that have three capabilities: creative abrasion, creative agility and creative resolution.

Creative abrasion is not about brainstorming, where people suspend their judgment.

No, they know how to have very heated but constructive arguments to create a portfolio of alternatives. 

Individuals in innovative organizations learn how to inquire, they learn how to actively listen, but guess what?

They also learn how to advocate for their point of view.

It's about design thinking where you have that interesting combination of the scientific method and the artistic process.

It's about running a series of experiments, and not a series of pilots. 

When you get a negative outcome, you're still really learning something that you need to know.

Pilots are often about being right.

When they don't work, someone or something is to blame.

The final capability is creative resolution.

This is about doing decision making in a way that you can actually combine even opposing ideas to reconfigure them in new combinations to produce a solution that is new and useful.

When you look at innovative organizations, they never go along to get along.

They don't compromise.

These three capabilities are why we see that Pixar is able to do what it does. 

Let me give you another example, and that example is the infrastructure group of Google.

The infrastructure group of Google is the group that has to keep the website up and running 24/7.

As the need for a solution became more urgent and as the data, or the evidence, began to come in, it became pretty clear that the Big Table solution was the right one for the moment.

So they selected that one. 

But to make sure that they did not lose the learning of the Build it From Scratch team, Bill asked two members of that team to join a new team that was emerging to work on the next-generation system.

This whole process took nearly two years, but I was told that they were all working at breakneck speed. 

Why is it that Pixar and Google are able to innovate time and again?

It's because they've mastered the capabilities required for that.

They know how to do collaborative problem solving, they know how to do discovery-driven learning and they know how to do integrated decision making. 

Leadership is the secret sauce.

But it's a different kind of leadership, not the kind many of us think about when we think about great leadership.

But if we want to build organizations that can innovate time and again, we must recast our understanding of what leadership is about.

Leading innovation is about creating the space where people are willing and able to do the hard work of innovative problem solving. 

A world where you're living at the frontier.

What do they focus their time on?

Not on creating a vision.

How did Bill think about what his role was?

Hire people who argue with you.

And, guess what?

Sometimes it's best to be deliberately fuzzy and vague. 

We've studied many organizations that were really not organizations you'd think of as ones where a lot of innovation happens. 

We studied the head of marketing at a German automaker where, fundamentally, they believed that it was the design engineers, not the marketeers, who were allowed to be innovative.

So they began to work on that. 

For sure, Vineet and all the other leaders that we studied were in fact visionaries.

For sure, they understood that that was not their role.

So I don't think it is accidental that many of you did not recognize Ed.

Because Ed, like Vineet, understands that our role as leaders is to set the stage, not perform on it.

Thank you. 

