Traditional prescriptions for growth in Africa are not working very well.

After one trillion dollars in African development-related aid in the last 60 years, real per capita income today is lower than it was in the 1970s.

Aid is not doing too well. 

In response, the Bretton Woods institutions -- the IMF and the World Bank -- pushed for free trade not aid, yet the historical record shows little empirical evidence that free trade leads to economic growth. 

The newly prescribed silver bullet is microcredit.

We seem to be fixated on this romanticized idea that every poor peasant in Africa is an entrepreneur.

(Laughter) Yet my work and travel in 40-plus countries across Africa have taught me that most people want jobs instead. 

Let's invest in building pan-African titans like Sudanese businessman Mo Ibrahim.

Perhaps we are not at a stage in Africa where many actors and small enterprises leads to growth through competition. 

Consider these two alternative scenarios.

One: You loan 200 dollars to each of 500 banana farmers allowing them to dry their surplus bananas and fetch 15 percent more revenue at the local market.

We hope to help solve food security, empower farmers, create jobs, develop the local economy, and we hope to become rich in the process.

While it's not the sexiest approach, and maybe it doesn't achieve the same feel-good as giving a woman 100 dollars to buy a goat on kiva.org, perhaps supporting fewer, higher-impact entrepreneurs to build massive businesses that scale pan-Africa can help change this. 

We hope to aid this fight for economic freedom by building world-class businesses, creating indigenous wealth, providing jobs that we so desperately need, and hopefully helping achieve this. 

Africa shall rise. 

Thank you. 

You're making 100 percent contrast between microcredit and regular investment and growing regular investment.

Do you think there is a role for microcredit at all? 

Sangu Delle: I think there is a role.

Microcredit has been a great, innovative way to expand financial access to the bottom of the pyramid.

But for the problems we face in Africa, when we are looking at the Marshall Plan to revitalize war-torn Europe, it was not full of donations of sheep.

We need more than just microcredit.

We need more than just give 200 dollars.

We need to build big businesses, and we need jobs. 

