About 12 years ago, I gave up my career in banking to try to make the world a safer place.

This involved a journey into national and global advocacy and meeting some of the most extraordinary people in the world.

In the process, I became a civil society diplomat. 

And if you want to change the world, we need more of them. 

They are in issues that I'm passionate about: gun control and drug policy.

And these are issues that matter here.

Latin America is ground zero for both of them. 

One in every 10 people killed around the world is a Brazilian.

And it's not just Brazil that is affected by the twin problems of guns and drugs.

Virtually every country and city across Central and South America is in trouble.

Latin America has nine percent of the world's population, but 25 percent of its global violent deaths. 

These are not problems we can run away from.

I certainly could not.

So the first campaign I got involved with started here in 2003 to change Brazil's gun law and to create a program to buy back weapons.

In just a few years, we not only changed national legislation that made it much more difficult for civilians to buy a gun, but we collected and destroyed almost half a million weapons.

We lost a referendum to ban gun sales to civilians in 2005. 

The second initiative was also home-grown, but is today a global movement to reform the international drug control regime.

Since we started in 2008, the taboo on drugs is broken.

Across the Americas, from the US and Mexico to Colombia and Uruguay, change is in the air. 

So the first lesson is: Change and control the narrative.

It may seem obvious, but a key ingredient to civil society diplomacy is first changing and then controlling the narrative.

This is something that veteran politicians understand, but that civil society groups generally do not do very well.

In the case of drug policy, our biggest success has been to change the discussion away from prosecuting a War on Drugs to putting people's health and safety first.

In a cutting-edge report we just launched in New York, we also showed that the groups benefiting most from this $320 billion market are criminal gangs and cartels.

So in order to undermine the power and profit of these groups, we need to change the conversation.

We need to make illegal drugs legal.

But before I get you too excited, I don't mean drugs should be a free-for-all.

As for gun control, we were successful in changing, but not so much in controlling, the narrative.

And this brings me to my next lesson: Never underestimate your opponents.

If you want to succeed in changing the world, you need to know who you're up against.

You need to learn their motivations and points of view.

We had support from 80 percent of Brazilians, and thought that this could help us win the referendum to ban gun sales to civilians.

But we were dead wrong.

During a televised 20-day public debate, our opponent used our own arguments against us.

We ended up losing the popular vote.

It was really terrible.

They simply threw everything at us.

They won by playing with people's fears.

In fact, guns were almost completely ignored in their campaign.

Their focus was on individual rights.

If you asked most people 10 years ago if an end to the War on Drugs was possible, they would have laughed.

Governments and civil societies are experimenting with new approaches.

This high level group agreed to honestly discuss the merits and flaws of drug policies.

It was this reasoned, informed and strategic discussion that revealed the sad truth about the War on Drugs.

The War on Drugs has simply failed across every metric.

But even worse, it also generated massive negative unintended consequences.

Third lesson: Use data to drive your argument.

Amazingly, it was a local soap opera called "Mulheres Apaixonadas" -- or "Women in Love" -- that kicked off Brazil's national gun control campaign.

In one highly viewed episode, a soap opera lead actress was killed by a stray bullet.

And in the case of drugs, in order to undermine this fear and prejudice that surrounds the issue, we managed to gather and present data that shows that today's drug policies cause much more harm than drug use per se, and people are starting to get it. 

If you want to change the world, it helps to have a good cross-section of society on your side.

In both the case of guns and drugs, we brought together a wonderful mix of people.

We mobilized the elite and got huge support from the media.

We gathered the victims, human rights champions, cultural icons.

They may not agree on everything; in fact, they disagree on almost everything.

But the legitimacy of the campaign is based on their diverse points of view. 

But I took a chance.

I changed course, and on the way, I helped to create social movements that I believe have made some parts of the world safer.

Each and every one of us has the power to change the world.

No matter what the issue, and no matter how hard the fight, civil society is central to the blueprint for change. 

Thank you. 

