Twenty-five years ago, scientists at CERN created the World Wide Web.

Since then, the Internet has transformed the way we communicate, the way we do business, and even the way we live.

But if you consider a year's worth of emails, or maybe even a lifetime of email, collectively, this tells a lot.

It tells where we have been, who we have met, and in many ways, even what we're thinking about.

What has happened is that we've largely lost control over our data and also our privacy. 

We have to really think.

If you think about it, most of us here today probably remember what life was like before the Internet, but today, there's a new generation that is being taught from a very young age to share everything online, and this is a generation that is not going to remember when data was private.

So we keep going down this road, 20 years from now, the word 'privacy' is going to have a completely different meaning from what it means to you and I. 

And I believe there is. 

Let's take a look at one of the most widely used forms of communication in the world today: email.

First, you encrypt the connection between your computer and the email server.

Then, you also encrypt the data as it sits on the server itself.

This seems like common sense, right?

So the question that comes up is, why hasn't this been done yet? 

Well, if we really think about it, we see that the business model of the Internet today really isn't compatible with privacy.

Just take a look at some of the biggest names on the web, and you see that advertising plays a huge role.

In fact, this year alone, advertising is 137 billion dollars, and to optimize the ads that are shown to us, companies have to know everything about us.

They need to know where we live, how old we are, what we like, what we don't like, and anything else they can get their hands on.

And if you think about it, the best way to get this information is really just to invade our privacy.

So these companies aren't going to give us our privacy.

If we want to have privacy online, what we have to do is we've got to go out and get it ourselves. 

For many years, when it came to email, the only solution was something known as PGP, which was quite complicated and only accessible to the tech-savvy.

Here's a diagram that basically shows the process for encrypting and decrypting messages.

And this is a problem that we need to solve.

So if we want to have privacy online, the only way we can succeed is if we get the whole world on board, and this is only possible if we bring down the barrier to entry.

I think this is actually the key challenge that lies in the tech community.

What we really have to do is work and make privacy more accessible. 

So last summer, when the Edward Snowden story came out, several colleagues and I decided to see if we could make this happen.

We started out at the CERN cafeteria, which actually is great, because look, you have all the food and water you could ever want.

So to do this, we actually need a combination of technology and also design. 

Well, it's probably a good idea not to put the keys on the server.

So let's have a look and see how this works when multiple people communicate.

So here we have Bob and Alice, who want to communicate privately.

So the key challenge is to take Bob's message and to get it to Alice in such a way that the server cannot read that message.

So what we have to do is we have to encrypt it before it even leaves Bob's computer, and one of the tricks is, we encrypt it using the public key from Alice.

So we've now accomplished the objective, which is to get the message from Bob to Alice without the server being able to read what's going on. 

The reality is much more complex and it requires a lot of software that looks a bit like this.

I think with ProtonMail, we have gotten pretty close to doing this. 

So let's see how it works in practice.

Here, we've got Bob and Alice again, who also want to communicate securely.

Once his account is created, he just clicks "compose," and now he can write his email like he does today.

What we have here is really just the first step, but it shows that with improving technology, privacy doesn't have to be difficult, it doesn't have to be disruptive.

If we change the goal from maximizing ad revenue to protecting data, we can actually make it accessible.

So this is just an example of what can happen when you bring the community together towards a common goal.

It's something that we really have to pay attention to going forward. 

So what do we have to do to solve this problem?

We actually need to build a new Internet where our privacy and our ability to control our data is first and foremost.

But even more importantly, we have to build an Internet where privacy is no longer just an option but is also the default. 

We have done the first step with ProtonMail, but this is really just the first step in a very, very long journey.

The good news I can share with you guys today, the exciting news, is that we're not traveling alone.

It's actually a lot more than that.

It's our lives, our personal stories, our friends, our families, and in many ways, also our hopes and our aspirations.

Thank you. 

