(Laughter) 

It's a short introductory part. 

(Laughter) 

This is called "59."

(Laughter) 

So, "59."

He can’t help but look in the mirror and be subtly impressed 

With perfectly trimmed cuticles, dressed in something suitable. 

59 wanted to tell her that he knew her favorite flower. 

He thought of her every second, every minute, every hour. 

(Laughter) 

One of his favorite films was "101 Dalmatians."

He romanticized the idea they were star-crossed lovers. 

Sure enough after two months of moping around, 

(Laughter) 

So he plucked up the courage and asked for her digits. 

She agreed to this unofficial first date. 

But it didn’t matter because she arrived one minute late. 

How that did not matter, distinctiveness made them better, 

(Laughter) 

Was so glad to have this one-of-a-kind girl in his life. 

He told her the very definition of being prime 

And she was the one he wanted to give his heart to, 

She said she felt the same and now she knew the films were half true. 

Because that wasn't real love, that love was just a sample, 

And I became a prime number-themed poetry competition winner, or as I like to call it, a prime minister.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It was people from all around the world speaking in their native languages to be judged by five French strangers.

(Laughter) So... (Applause) According to five French strangers. 

So this is "Paper People."

with a proper pop-up purple people paperclip, 

but I’d pre-prepare appropriate adhesives as alternatives, 

a cheeky pack of Blu Tack just in case the paper slipped. 

Because I could build a pop-up metropolis. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) Paper. 

and then we’d all live in fear of killer Jack the Paper-Ripper, 

papers printing pictures of the photogenic terrorists. 

And in a pop-up population people’s problems pop up too. 

And in a pop-up population people’s problems pop up too. 

and who ignored the people's protests about all the paper cuts, 

others live in poverty and ain’t acknowledged properly. 

because in the end it all comes down to people. 

and on paper, it’s hard to see how we all cope. 

People like my grandparents. 

People like my aunt who puts on plays with prisoners. 

we don’t need to succumb to that system. 

And a paper population is no different. 

but even if the whole world fell apart then we’d still make it through. 

Because we’re people. 

Thank you. 

Thank you very much.

For me, poetry has been the ultimate way of ideas without frontiers.

So it's amazing to be here in front of you today.

(Laughter) And this is more fun. 

So this last one is called "The Sunshine Kid."

Thank you very much for listening. 

Old man sunshine was proud of his sun, 

It hadn’t always been like this. 

Because he had a flair about him, 

But all he went near seemed to turn a little bronze, 

Such as the Shadow People. 

Now the Shadow People didn’t like the Sunshine Kid, 

Because he showed up the dark things the Shadow People did, 

So the Shadow People had an evil plan to get rid of him, 

Shooting his dreams from the sky, their words were gunshots, 

And he didn’t fit in with any popular kids at school. 

Only degrees he’d ever show would be the first degree burns 

And as his heart hardened, his spark darkened, 

But they were busy telling lightning she had terrible aim, 

He couldn’t quite get to grips with what they said, 

He fell into a Lone Star State like Texas, 

And felt like he’d been punched in his solar plexus. 

But that’s when Little Miss Sunshine came along 

because we are all stars at heart. 

Little Miss Sunshine was hot stuff, 

The kind of girl when you looked at her 

The minute he saw her her image burned in his retina, 

Something about this girl meant he knew whenever she was next to him, 

Shadows were nowhere to be seen; when she was there he beamed, 

They gave each other nicknames, they were "cool star" and "fun sun," 

She was one in a septillion, and she was brilliant, 

And let the sun shine through the hurting. 

In a universe of adversity these stars stuck together, 

And though days became nights the memories would last forever, 

Whether the weatherman said it or not, it would be fine, 

'Cause even behind the clouds the kid could still shine. 

Fueled by the fire inspired across galaxies 

By the girl who showed him belief. 

Thank you very much. 

