This part, for example.

And imagine if, through new scientific advances, we were just beginning to understand its importance to how we think of ourselves.

Wouldn't you want to know more about it? 

Microbes all over our body turn out to be really critical to a whole range of differences that make different people who we are.

So for example, have you ever noticed how some people get bitten by mosquitos way more often than others? 

It turns out that everyone's anecdotal experience out camping is actually true.

Now, microbes are also really important in the field of medicine.

So, for example, what microbes you have in your gut determine whether particular painkillers are toxic to your liver.

They also determine whether or not other drugs will work for your heart condition.

And, if you're a fruit fly, at least, your microbes determine who you want to have sex with.

So microbes are performing a huge range of functions.

So what would a map of all these microbial communities look like?

Well, it wouldn't look exactly like this, but it's a helpful guide for understanding biodiversity.

See, I told you they basically all look the same.

So what we're looking at is each point represents one microbial community from one body site of one healthy volunteer.

And so you can see that there's different parts of the map in different colors, almost like separate continents.

So this is incredible when you think about it.

What it means is that a few feet of difference in the human body makes more of a difference to your microbial ecology than hundreds of miles on Earth. 

And this is not to say that two people look basically the same in the same body habitat, either.

So that's as different as the bacteria on this prairie and the bacteria in this forest. 

Well, it depends on what you think of as our bodies.

Is it our cells?

So they outnumber us 10 to one.

So whichever way we look at it, we're vastly outnumbered by our microbial symbionts.

So where do our microbes come from in the first place?

So just like we can match you to your computer equipment by the microbes you share, we can also match you up to your dog.

But it turns out that in adults, microbial communities are relatively stable, so even if you live together with someone, you'll maintain your separate microbial identity over a period of weeks, months, even years. 

It turns out that our first microbial communities depend a lot on how we're born.

When my own daughter was born a couple of years ago by emergency C-section, we took matters into our own hands and made sure she was coated with those vaginal microbes that she would have gotten naturally.

And what's more, we're starting to do clinical trials with more children to figure out whether this has a protective effect generally. 

So how we're born has a tremendous effect on what microbes we have initially, but where do we go after that?

And you've seen children develop physically.

You've seen them develop mentally.

Now, for the first time, you're going to see one of my colleague's children develop microbially.

And you can see he's starting to approach the adult fecal community.

So this is really interesting because it raises fundamental questions about what happens when we intervene at different ages in a child's life.

When we take the microbes from an obese mouse and transplant them into a genetically normal mouse that's been raised in a bubble with no microbes of its own, it becomes fatter than if it got them from a regular mouse.

Why this happens is absolutely amazing, though.

So this is really remarkable, right?

The implication is that microbes can affect mammalian behavior.

We can also do this for malnutrition.

What happens is, they send in their samples, we sequence the DNA of their microbes and then release the results back to them.

We also release them, de-identified, to scientists, to educators, to interested members of the general public, and so forth, so anyone can have access to the data.

So why might we want to do this?

Well, it turns out that microbes are not just important for finding out where we are in terms of our health, but they can actually cure disease.

This is one of the newest things we've been able to visualize with colleagues at the University of Minnesota.

Thank you. 

