I immediately went to the personnel office, and talking with the guys in personnel, they said, "Hey, no problem finding an apartment in Mountain Home, Idaho.

The lady answered on the other end and I told her what I wanted.

Nor did I get any responses from the other people that they gave me on the list where I could get apartments. 

So as a result of that, and feeling rejected, I went back to the base, and I talked to the squadron commander.

His name was McDow, Major McDow.

Needless to say, that didn't resonate for me.

And as a result, the kind of comments that they made to me, in addition to saying that they didn't have any slots open, one person said, "Jim, the reason why we can't rent to you, we already have a Negro family in the trailer park."

(Laughs) And that's what I did, too.

Even though that was discouraging, it didn't stop me.

I kept looking, and I looked at the far end of the town in Mountain Home, and there was a small trailer park.

I mean, a really small trailer park.

It didn't have any paved roads in it, it didn't have the concrete slabs, it didn't have fencing to portion off your trailer slot from other trailer slots.

It didn't have a laundry facility.

And of course, eventually things settled down. 

That wasn't a problem because we had just purchased a brand-new automobile.

So she came out, her and Alice put a lot of food together for the trip. 

Somewhere around 6:30, 7 o'clock, we got a little bit tired, and we said, "Why don't we get a motel so that we can rest and then have an early start in the morning?"

So we were looking at a number of the motels as we drove down the road, and we saw one, it was a great big, bright flashing light that said, "Vacancies, Vacancies, Vacanies."

So we stopped in.

They were in the parking lot, I went inside.

And so I walked to the counter, and she said, "How can I help you?"

I said, "I would like to get a motel for the evening for my family."

She looked at me and I looked at her.

The light came back on.

It wasn't our preference, but it was secure and it was clean.

And so we had a great sleep that night. 

So we're just trying to get him to stay in school.

So with that being the backdrop, I was sitting in my TV room watching TV, and they were talking about Ferguson and all the hullabaloo that was going on.

The second thing I do is this: I want to appeal to Americans.

I want to appeal to their humanity, to their dignity, to their civic pride and ownership to be able to not react to these heinous crimes in an adverse manner.

The only way I think we can do that is through a collective.

We need to have black and white and Asian and Hispanic just to step forward and say, "We are not going to accept that kind of behavior anymore."

