As an Arab female photographer, I have always found ample inspiration for my projects in personal experiences.

The passion I developed for knowledge, which allowed me to break barriers towards a better life was the motivation for my project I Read I Write. 

Pushed by my own experience, as I was not allowed initially to pursue my higher education, I decided to explore and document stories of other women who changed their lives through education, while exposing and questioning the barriers they face.

Only after explaining to them how their stories might influence other women's lives, how they would become role models for their own community, did some agree.

One of my first subjects was Umm El-Saad from Egypt.

When we first met, she was barely able to write her name.

She was attending a nine-month literacy program run by a local NGO in the Cairo suburbs.

Months later, she was joking that her husband had threatened to pull her out of the classes, as he found out that his now literate wife was going through his phone text messages.

(Laughter) Naughty Umm El-Saad.

Of course, that's not why Umm El-Saad joined the program.

In Tunisia, I met Asma, one of the four activist women I interviewed.

The secular bioengineering student is quite active on social media.

Fayza was forced to drop out of school at the age of eight when she was married.

That marriage lasted for a year.

At 14, she became the third wife of a 60-year-old man, and by the time she was 18, she was a divorced mother of three.

Despite her poverty, despite her social status as a divorcée in an ultra-conservative society, and despite the opposition of her parents to her going back to school, Fayza knew that her only way to control her life was through education.

She is now 26.

She received a grant from a local NGO to fund her business studies at the university.

Her goal is to find a job, rent a place to live in, and bring her kids back with her. 

Just like the women I photographed, I had to overcome many barriers to becoming the photographer I am today, many people along the way telling me what I can and cannot do.

And here I would like to end with a quote by Yasmine, one of the four activist women I interviewed in Tunisia.

Thank you. 

