Now, one thing about being a twin is that it makes you an expert at spotting favoritism.

If his cookie was even slightly bigger than my cookie, I had questions.

When I became a psychologist, I began to notice favoritism of a different kind, and that is how much more we value the body than we do the mind.

He was standing on a stool by the sink brushing his teeth, when he slipped, and scratched his leg on the stool when he fell.

He cried for a minute, but then he got back up, got back on the stool, and reached out for a box of Band-Aids to put one on his cut.

We all know how to maintain our physical health and how to practice dental hygiene, right?

We've known it since we were five years old.

But what do we know about maintaining our psychological health?

Well, nothing.

Why is it that our physical health is so much more important to us than our psychological health? 

And they can also get worse if we ignore them, and they can impact our lives in dramatic ways.

And yet, even though there are scientifically proven techniques we could use to treat these kinds of psychological injuries, we don't.

It's time we made them more equal, more like twins. 

In fact, the hardest thing I've ever done in my life is move across the Atlantic to New York City to get my doctorate in psychology.

We were apart then for the first time in our lives, and the separation was brutal for both of us.

When our birthday rolled around, it was the first we wouldn't be spending together.

We decide to splurge, and that week we would talk for 10 minutes.

I didn't have an answer then, but I do today, and it's a simple one: loneliness. 

Loneliness won't just make you miserable, it will kill you.

I'm not kidding.

You had to slide the red button, and a cute doggie would pop out.

One little girl tried pulling the purple button, then pushing it, and then she just sat back and looked at the box, with her lower lip trembling.

The little boy next to her watched this happen, then turned to his box and and burst into tears without even touching it.

Meanwhile, another little girl tried everything she could think of until she slid the red button, the cute doggie popped out, and she squealed with delight.

So three toddlers with identical plastic toys, but with very different reactions to failure.

The first two toddlers were perfectly capable of sliding a red button.

The only thing that prevented them from succeeding was that their mind tricked them into believing they could not.

Now, adults get tricked this way as well, all the time.

In fact, we all have a default set of feelings and beliefs that gets triggered whenever we encounter frustrations and setbacks. 

You need to be.

Because if your mind tries to convince you you're incapable of something and you believe it, then like those two toddlers, you'll begin to feel helpless and you'll stop trying too soon, or you won't even try at all.

And then you'll be even more convinced you can't succeed.

You see, that's why so many people function below their actual potential.

Because somewhere along the way, sometimes a single failure convinced them that they couldn't succeed, and they believed it. 

I learned that lesson the hard way when I was a teenager with my brother.

Our mind is hard to change once we become convinced.

You have to fight feelings of helplessness.

So she was very excited, she bought a new dress, and they met at an upscale New York City bar for a drink.

Ten minutes into the date, the man stands up and says, "I'm not interested," and walks out.

Because we don't prioritize our psychological health.

We know from dozens of studies that when your self-esteem is lower, you are more vulnerable to stress and to anxiety, that failures and rejections hurt more and it takes longer to recover from them.

One of unhealthiest and most common is called rumination.

To ruminate means to chew over.

It's when your boss yells at you, or your professor makes you feel stupid in class, or you have big fight with a friend and you just can't stop replaying the scene in your head for days, sometimes for weeks on end.

Because by spending so much time focused on upsetting and negative thoughts, you are actually putting yourself at significant risk for developing clinical depression, alcoholism, eating disorders, and even cardiovascular disease. 

You see, my twin brother was diagnosed with stage III non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

And he had to start a harsh course of chemotherapy.

And I couldn't stop thinking about what he was going through.

And so each time I had a worrying, upsetting, negative thought, I forced myself to concentrate on something else until the urge passed.

All the tumors were gone.

I believe our quality of life could rise just as dramatically if we all began practicing emotional hygiene. 

And if you just become informed and change a few simple habits, well, that's the world we can all live in. 

