Today I want to talk to you about the mathematics of love.

Now, I think that we can all agree that mathematicians are famously excellent at finding love.

But it's not just because of our dashing personalities, superior conversational skills and excellent pencil cases.

It's also because we've actually done an awful lot of work into the maths of how to find the perfect partner. 

Now, in my favorite paper on the subject, which is entitled, "Why I Don't Have a Girlfriend" -- (Laughter) -- Peter Backus tries to rate his chances of finding love.

Now, Peter's not a very greedy man.

Of all of the available women in the U.K., all Peter's looking for is somebody who lives near him, somebody in the right age range, somebody with a university degree, somebody he's likely to get on well with, somebody who's likely to be attractive, somebody who's likely to find him attractive.

And it also gives Peter a 1 in 285,000 chance of bumping into any one of these special ladies on a given night out.

I'd like to think that's why mathematicians don't really bother going on nights out anymore. 

The thing is that I personally don't subscribe to such a pessimistic view.

Because I know, just as well as all of you do, that love doesn't really work like that.

Patterns from predicting the weather to the fluctuations in the stock market, to the movement of the planets or the growth of cities.

And if we're being honest, none of those things are exactly neatly ordered and easily predictable, either.

Because I believe that mathematics is so powerful that it has the potential to offer us a new way of looking at almost anything.

Now, because they're mathematicians, they have been collecting data on everybody who uses their site for almost a decade.

And they've been trying to search for patterns in the way that we talk about ourselves and the way that we interact with each other on an online dating website.

And they've come up with some seriously interesting findings.

But my particular favorite is that it turns out that on an online dating website, how attractive you are does not dictate how popular you are, and actually, having people think that you're ugly can work to your advantage.

Now, if we compare this score, the average score, to how many messages a selection of people receive, you can begin to get a sense of how attractiveness links to popularity on an online dating website. 

This is the graph that the OkCupid guys have come up with.

And the important thing to notice is that it's not totally true that the more attractive you are, the more messages you get.

And the reason why is that it's not just straightforward looks that are important.

So let me try to illustrate their findings with an example.

So if you take someone like Portia de Rossi, for example, everybody agrees that Portia de Rossi is a very beautiful woman.

Nobody thinks that she's ugly, but she's not a supermodel, either.

If you compare Portia de Rossi to someone like Sarah Jessica Parker, now, a lot of people, myself included, I should say, think that Sarah Jessica Parker is seriously fabulous and possibly one of the most beautiful creatures to have ever have walked on the face of the Earth.

But some other people, i.e., most of the Internet, seem to think that she looks a bit like a horse.

(Laughter) Now, I think that if you ask people how attractive they thought Sarah Jessica Parker or Portia de Rossi were, and you ask them to give them a score between 1 and 5, I reckon that they'd average out to have roughly the same score.

But the way that people would vote would be very different.

There'd be a huge spread in her scores.

And actually it's this spread that counts.

So let's say that you think somebody's attractive, but you suspect that other people won't necessarily be that interested.

That means there's less competition for you and it's an extra incentive for you to get in touch.

Whereas compare that to if you think somebody is attractive but you suspect that everybody is going to think they're attractive.

Well, why would you bother humiliating yourself, let's be honest?

Here's where the really interesting part comes.

Because when people choose the pictures that they use on an online dating website, they often try to minimize the things that they think some people will find unattractive.

The classic example is people who are, perhaps, a little bit overweight deliberately choosing a very cropped photo, or bald men, for example, deliberately choosing pictures where they're wearing hats.

Because the people who fancy you are just going to fancy you anyway, and the unimportant losers who don't, well, they only play up to your advantage. 

But the question arises of how do you then convert that success into longer-term happiness and in particular, how do you decide when is the right time to settle down?

Now generally, it's not advisable to just cash in and marry the first person who comes along and shows you any interest at all.

(Laughter) Thanks a lot, Jane.

(Laughter) Thanks a lot, Jane.

(Laughter) Thanks a lot, Jane.

So the question is then, how do you know when is the right time to settle down given all the people that you can date in your lifetime?

Thankfully, there's a rather delicious bit of mathematics that we can use to help us out here, called optimal stopping theory.

In my experience at least, I find that typically people don't much like being recalled years after being passed up for somebody else, or that's just me. 

So the math says then that what you should do in the first 37 percent of your dating window, you should just reject everybody as serious marriage potential.

(Laughter) And then, you should pick the next person that comes along that is better than everybody that you've seen before.

For instance, imagine if your perfect partner appeared during your first 37 percent.

Now, unfortunately, you'd have to reject them.

(Laughter) Probably surrounded by cats nibbling at your remains. 

(Laughter) Probably surrounded by cats nibbling at your remains. 

(Laughter) Probably surrounded by cats nibbling at your remains. 

Okay, another risk is, let's imagine, instead, that the first people that you dated in your first 37 percent are just incredibly dull, boring, terrible people.

Now, if you are following the maths, I'm afraid you have to marry them and end up in a relationship which is, frankly, suboptimal.

And actually, in the wild, there are certain types of fish which follow and employ this exact strategy.

We give ourselves a little bit of time to play the field, get a feel for the marketplace or whatever when we're young.

Okay, so that was Top Tip #2.

Now, Top Tip #3: How to avoid divorce.

Okay, so let's imagine then that you picked your perfect partner and you're settling into a lifelong relationship with them.

Now, you can be forgiven, perhaps for thinking that the arguments that precede a marital breakup are not an ideal candidate for mathematical investigation.

For one thing, it's very hard to know what you should be measuring or what you should be quantifying.

But this didn't stop a psychologist, John Gottman, who did exactly that.

Gottman observed hundreds of couples having a conversation and recorded, well, everything you can think of.

But what Gottman and his team found was that one of the most important predictors for whether or not a couple is going to get divorced was how positive or negative each partner was being in the conversation. 

Now, couples that were very low-risk scored a lot more positive points on Gottman's scale than negative.

Whereas bad relationships, by which I mean, probably going to get divorced, they found themselves getting into a spiral of negativity.

Now just by using these very simple ideas, Gottman and his group were able to predict whether a given couple was going to get divorced with a 90 percent accuracy.

But it wasn't until he teamed up with a mathematician, James Murray, that they really started to understand what causes these negativity spirals and how they occur.

And the results that they found I think are just incredibly impressively simple and interesting.

Now, I think it's important to point out at this stage, that these exact equations have also been shown to be perfectly able at describing what happens between two countries in an arms race.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

But the really important term in this equation is the influence that people have on one another, and in particular, something called the negativity threshold.

So I would have thought that perhaps the most successful relationships were ones where there was a really high negativity threshold.

Where couples let things go and only brought things up if they really were a big deal.

But actually, the mathematics and subsequent findings by the team have shown the exact opposite is true.

The best couples, or the most successful couples, are the ones with a really low negativity threshold.

These are the couples that don't let anything go unnoticed and allow each other some room to complain.

Couples that don't let things go and couples that don't let trivial things end up being a really big deal. 

Now of course, it takes bit more than just a low negativity threshold and not compromising to have a successful relationship.

But I think that it's quite interesting to know that there is really mathematical evidence to say that you should never let the sun go down on your anger. 

So those are my top three tips of how maths can help you with love and relationships.

But I hope that aside from their use as tips, they also give you a little bit of insight into the power of mathematics.

So I hope that perhaps, for just a couple of you, a little bit of insight into the mathematics of love can persuade you to have a little bit more love for mathematics.

