Over the past 12 years, his condition got worse and worse, and his wandering in particular caused my family a lot of stress.

Then, one night about two years ago, I was looking after my grandfather and I saw him stepping out of the bed.

The moment his foot landed on the floor, I thought, why don't I put a pressure sensor on the heel of his foot?

Once he stepped onto the floor and out of the bed, the pressure sensor would detect an increase in pressure caused by body weight and then wirelessly send an audible alert to the caregiver's smartphone.

That way, my aunt could sleep much better at night without having to worry about my grandfather's wandering. 

So now I'd like to perform a demonstration of this sock.

Could I please have my sock model on the stage?

Great.

So once the patient steps onto the floor -- (Ringing) -- an alert is sent to the caregiver's smartphone. 

Thank you, sock model. 

So this is a drawing of my preliminary design. 

My desire to create a sensor-based technology perhaps stemmed from my lifelong love for sensors and technology.

When I was six years old, an elderly family friend fell down in the bathroom and suffered severe injuries.

I became concerned about my own grandparents and decided to invent a smart bathroom system.

Motion sensors would be installed inside the tiles of bathroom floors to detect the falls of elderly patients whenever they fell down in the bathroom.

I really believe that sensors can improve the quality of life of the elderly. 

First, I had to create a wearable sensor that was thin and flexible enough to be worn comfortably on the bottom of the patient's foot.

Therefore, I could design a circuit that would measure pressure by measuring electrical resistance. 

This prevented the system from dying in the middle of the night. 

Lastly, I had to code a smartphone app that would essentially transform the care-giver's smartphone into a remote monitor.

For this, I had to expand upon my knowledge of coding with Java and XCode and I also had to learn about how to code for Bluetooth low energy devices by watching YouTube tutorials and reading various textbooks. 

Testing the device on a number of patients made me realize that I needed to invent solutions for people who didn't want to wear socks to sleep at night. 

One thing I'll never forget is when my device first caught my grandfather's wandering out of bed at night.

