Infectious diseases are still the main cause of human suffering and death around the world.

Every year, millions of people die of diseases such as T.B., malaria, HIV, around the world and even in the United States.

Every year, thousands of Americans die of seasonal flu. 

We have come up with ways to protect ourselves against these diseases.

We have drugs and vaccines.

And we're conscious -- we learn from our experiences and come up with creative solutions.

We used to think we're alone in this, but now we know we're not.

We're not the only medical doctors.

And even more interesting than that is that recent discoveries are telling us that insects and other little animals with smaller brains can use medication too. 

And I think what they do can tell us a lot about drugs that we can develop for humans. 

And this is really detrimental to the monarch.

Very detrimental parasite. 

They only eat milkweed as larvae.

These are chemicals that are toxic.

They're toxic to most animals, but not to monarchs.

In fact, monarchs can take up the chemicals, put it in their own bodies, and it makes them toxic against their predators, such as birds.

What if they can use these plants as their own form of medicine?

What if they can act as medical doctors? 

In the first types of experiments, we had caterpillars, and gave them a choice: medicinal milkweed versus non-medicinal milkweed.

And then we measured how much they ate of each species over their lifetime.

These caterpillars didn't do anything for their own welfare. 

Can the mothers lay their eggs on medicinal milkweed that will make their future offspring less sick?

And what we find when we do that is always the same.

What we find is that the monarchs strongly prefer the medicinal milkweed.

In other words, what these females are doing is they're laying 68 percent of their eggs in the medicinal milkweed.

Intriguingly, what they do is they actually transmit the parasites when they're laying the eggs.

But what these experiments tell us is that these monarchs, these mothers, can lay their eggs on medicinal milkweed that will make their future offspring less sick. 

In this way, elephants have told us how to treat stomach upset, and porcupines have told people how to treat bloody diarrhea.

Thank you so much. 

