They draw a loaf of bread, which is sliced, then put into a toaster.

The toast is then deposited for some time.

And then there are some that are, well, not so good.

They really suck, actually, because you don't know what they're trying to say.

Under close inspection, some reveal some aspects of toast-making while hiding others.

(Laughter) And then there are others that are about people.

It's about visualizing the experience that people have.

So it's crazy stuff.

But I think it's obvious that even though these drawings are really wildly different, they share a common quality, and I'm wondering if you can see it.

Most drawings have nodes and links.

So nodes represent the tangible objects like the toaster and people, and links represent the connections between the nodes.

So for example, Americans make toast with a toaster.

That seems obvious.

It's too complex.

So the sweet spot is between 5 and 13.

So if you want to communicate something visually, have between five and 13 nodes in your diagram.

So what happens then?

Well, with cards, most people tend to draw clear, more detailed, and more logical nodes.

Now, though this might seem trivial, it's actually really important.

This rapid iteration of expressing and then reflecting and analyzing is really the only way in which we get clarity.

It's the essence of the design process.

And systems theorists do tell us that the ease with which we can change a representation correlates to our willingness to improve the model.

So sticky note systems are not only more fluid, they generally produce way more nodes than static drawings.

Well, here's what happens.

Now, what's also really interesting, that the groups spontaneously mix and add additional layers of organization to it.

To deal with contradictions, for example, they add branching patterns and parallel patterns.

Oh, and by the way, if they do it in complete silence, they do it much better and much more quickly.

So here's some key lessons that can emerge from this.

First, drawing helps us understand the situations as systems with nodes and their relationships.

Movable cards produce better systems models, because we iterate much more fluidly.

So that's interesting.

And the practice is really pretty simple.

So this simple act of visualizing and doing over and over again produces some really remarkable outcomes.

What's really important to know is that it's the conversations that are the important aspects, not just the models themselves.

And these visual frames of reference can grow to several hundreds or even thousands of nodes.

They lost a bunch of money one year, and their executive team for three days visualized their entire practice.

So I'm now on a mission to help organizations solve their wicked problems by using collaborative visualization, and on a site that I've produced called drawtoast.com, I've collected a bunch of best practices.

Thank you. 

