You've probably heard it said that when it comes to their psychology, it's almost as if men are from Mars and women are from Venus.

But how different are men and women really?

To find out, let's start by looking at something on which men and women really do differ and plotting some psychological gender differences on the same scale.

One thing men and women do really differ on is how far they can throw a ball.

So if we look at the data for men here, we see what is called a normal distribution curve.

A few men can throw a ball really far, and a few men not far at all, but most a kind of average distance.

And women share the same distribution as well, but actually there's quite a big difference.

In fact, the average man can throw a ball further than about 98 percent of all women.

So now let's look at what some psychological gender differences look like on the same standardized scale.

It's worth bearing in mind that this difference and the next one I'll show you are pretty much the biggest psychological gender differences ever discovered in psychology.

So it's not really a case of Mars and Venus.

It's more a case of, if anything, Mars and Snickers: basically the same, but one's maybe slightly nuttier than the other.

But what do you think they're doing?

Okay, so if you think they're saying hello or high-fiving, then that means you're a friendly person.

If you think they're fighting, you're a bit more of a nasty, aggressive person.

Are you a lover or a fighter, basically.

What about this one?

That was very worrying.

Except, of course, it doesn't mean that at all.

Rorschach inkblot tests have basically no validity when it comes to diagnosing people's personality and are not used by modern-day psychologists.

So let's do another quick quiz to find out.

When making a cake, do you prefer to -- so hands up for each one again -- do you prefer to use a recipe book with pictures?

Yeah, a few people.

And if you think about it for just a second, it's just obvious that this has to be true.

It's obvious that the best presentation format depends not on you, but on what you're trying to learn.

Could you learn to drive a car, for example, just by listening to someone telling you what to do with no kinesthetic experience?

Could you solve simultaneous equations by talking them through in your head and without writing them down?

Could you revise for your architecture exams using interpretive dance if you're a kinesthetic learner?

I know many of you are A-level students that will have recently gotten your GCSE results.

So by comparing how similar GCSE results are in identical twins versus non-identical twins, and doing some clever math, we can an idea of how much variation and performance is due to the environment and how much is due to genes.

And it turns out that it's about 58 percent due to genes.

So this isn't to undermine the hard work that you and your teachers here put in.

So the myth here is that the left brain is logical, it's good with equations like this, and the right brain is more creative, so the right brain is better at music.

A related myth that you've probably heard of is that we only use 10 percent of our brains.

This is, again, a complete myth.

That said, it is of course true that most of us don't use our brainpower quite as well as we could.

So what could we do to boost our brainpower?

Maybe we could listen to a nice bit of Mozart.

Have you heard of the idea of the Mozart effect?

Now again, what's interesting about this myth is that although it's basically a myth, there is a grain of truth to it.

So the original study found that participants who were played Mozart music for a few minutes did better on a subsequent I.Q.

But a follow-up study recruited some people who liked Mozart music and then another group of people who were fans of the horror stories of Stephen King.

Another version of the Mozart myth is that listening to Mozart can make you not only cleverer but healthier, too.

But in fact, the data don't back this up.

And in every single culture across the globe, men placed more value on physical attractiveness in a partner than did women, and in every single culture, too, women placed more importance than did men on ambition and high earning power.

The myth here is that sportsmen go through hot-hand streaks, Americans call them, or purple patches, we sometimes say in England, where they just can't miss, like this guy here.

But in fact, what happens is that if you analyze the pattern of hits and misses statistically, it turns out that it's nearly always at random.

Your brain creates patterns from the randomness.

But this story is a myth for three reasons.

Firstly and most crucially, the lab coat wasn't white, it was in fact grey.

Secondly, the participants were told before the study and reminded any time they raised a concern, that although the shocks were painful, they were not fatal and indeed caused no permanent damage whatsoever.

And thirdly, participants didn't give the shocks just because someone in the coat told them to.

Interestingly, there is one exception: TV appeals for missing relatives.

It's quite easy to predict when the relatives are missing and when the appealers have in fact murdered the relatives themselves.

So hoax appealers are more likely to shake their heads, to look away, and to make errors in their speech, whereas genuine appealers are more likely to express hope that the person will return safely and to avoid brutal language.

Speaking of which, it's about time I killed this talk, but before I do, I just want to give you in 30 seconds the overarching myth of psychology.

So the myth is that psychology is just a collection of interesting theories, all of which say something useful and all of which have something to offer.

What I hope to have shown you in the past few minutes is that this isn't true.

Thank you. 

