And the lessons apply in multiple domains. 

It wasn't all high tech.

Editors sat in their newsrooms and waited for the government to tell them what to do.

One frustrated journalist could not take this anymore.

He purchased his own plane ticket, and went to the village where this had occurred.

And voila, that picture went viral and broke the censorship and forced mass media to cover it. 

So when, a year later, Turkey's Gezi protests happened, it started as a protest about a park being razed, but became an anti-authoritarian protest.

It wasn't surprising that media also censored it, but it got a little ridiculous at times.

An angry viewer put his two screens together and snapped that picture, and that one too went viral, and since then, people call Turkish media the penguin media.

But this time, people knew what to do.

They just took out their phones and looked for actual news.

Better, they knew to go to the park and take pictures and participate and share it more on social media.

Digital connectivity was used for everything from food to donations.

Everything was organized partially with the help of these new technologies. 

And using Internet to mobilize and publicize protests actually goes back a long way.

Remember the Zapatistas, the peasant uprising in the southern Chiapas region of Mexico led by the masked, pipe-smoking, charismatic Subcomandante Marcos?

That was probably the first movement that got global attention thanks to the Internet.

And think of more recent initiatives, like the #BringBackOurGirls hashtags.

Amazing. 

The hopes they rightfully raised are not really matched by what they were able to have as a result in the end.

In embracing digital platforms for activism and politics, are we overlooking some of the benefits of doing things the hard way?

Now, I believe so.

I believe that the rule of thumb is: Easier to mobilize does not always mean easier to achieve gains. 

Now, to be clear, technology does empower in multiple ways.

It's very powerful.

In Turkey, I watched four young college students organize a countrywide citizen journalism network called 140Journos that became the central hub for uncensored news in the country.

In Egypt, I saw another four young people use digital connectivity to organize the supplies and logistics for 10 field hospitals, very large operations, during massive clashes near Tahrir Square in 2011.

And he had no training or background in logistics.

Or think of the Occupy movement which rocked the world in 2011.

It started with a single email from a magazine, Adbusters, to 90,000 subscribers in its list.

About two months after that first email, there were in the United States 600 ongoing occupations and protests.

Less than one month after the first physical occupation in Zuccotti Park, a global protest was held in about 82 countries, 950 cities.

It was one of the largest global protests ever organized. 

Now, compare that to what the Civil Rights Movement had to do in 1955 Alabama to protest the racially segregated bus system, which they wanted to boycott.

And the logistical tasks were daunting, because these were poor people.

They had to get to work, boycott or no, so a massive carpool was organized, again by meeting.

No texting, no Twitter, no Facebook.

They had to meet almost all the time to keep this carpool going. 

Today, it would be so much easier.

We could create a database, available rides and what rides you need, have the database coordinate, and use texting.

We wouldn't have to meet all that much.

But again, consider this: the Civil Rights Movement in the United States navigated a minefield of political dangers, faced repression and overcame, won major policy concessions, navigated and innovated through risks.

In contrast, three years after Occupy sparked that global conversation about inequality, the policies that fueled it are still in place.

In embracing these technologies, are we overlooking some of the benefits of slow and sustained?

To understand this, I went back to Turkey about a year after the Gezi protests and I interviewed a range of people, from activists to politicians, from both the ruling party and the opposition party and movements.

I found that the Gezi protesters were despairing.

They were frustrated, and they had achieved much less than what they had hoped for.

This echoed what I'd been hearing around the world from many other protesters that I'm in touch with.

What we're doing is taking the fast routes and not replacing the benefits of the slower work.

Because, you see, the kind of work that went into organizing all those daunting, tedious logistical tasks did not just take care of those tasks, they also created the kind of organization that could think together collectively and make hard decisions together, create consensus and innovate, and maybe even more crucially, keep going together through differences.

And if you're in power, you realize you have to take the capacity signaled by that march, not just the march, but the capacity signaled by that march, seriously.

In contrast, when you look at Occupy's global marches that were organized in two weeks, you see a lot of discontent, but you don't necessarily see teeth that can bite over the long term.

And crucially, the Civil Rights Movement innovated tactically from boycotts to lunch counter sit-ins to pickets to marches to freedom rides.

Today's movements scale up very quickly without the organizational base that can see them through the challenges.

To understand all this, I interviewed a top official from the ruling party in Turkey, and I ask him, "How do you do it?"

They too use digital technology extensively, so that's not it.

So what's the secret?

Well, he told me.

He said the key is he never took sugar with his tea.

I said, what has that got to do with anything?

We had met in the afternoon, and he was already way over-caffeinated.

But his party won two major elections within a year of the Gezi protests with comfortable margins.

To be sure, governments have different resources to bring to the table.

It's not the same game, but the differences are instructive.

And like all such stories, this is not a story just of technology.

It's what technology allows us to do converging with what we want to do.

Today's social movements want to operate informally.

They do not want institutional leadership.

They want to stay out of politics because they fear corruption and cooptation.

They have a point.

Modern representative democracies are being strangled in many countries by powerful interests.

Authoritarianism is choking many countries.

We need movements to be more effective. 

From Gezi to Tahrir to elsewhere, I've seen people put their lives and livelihoods on the line.

It's also not true, as Malcolm Gladwell claimed, that today's protesters form weaker virtual ties.

When I got tear-gassed in Gezi, people I didn't know helped me and one another instead of running away.

In Tahrir, I saw people, protesters, working really hard to keep each other safe and protected.

And there are many efforts.

In New Zealand, a group of young people are developing a platform called Loomio for participatory decision making at scale.

In Turkey, 140Journos are holding hack-a-thons so that they support communities as well as citizen journalism.

In Argentina, an open-source platform called DemocracyOS is bringing participation to parliaments and political parties.

