I didn't follow along with the crowd.

I wasn't afraid to try weird clothing trends or hairstyles.

I was outspoken and extremely social.

I stayed in my room instead of socializing.

I stopped engaging in clubs and leadership activities.

I didn't want to stand out in the crowd anymore.

I had always assumed I was immune to needing acceptance.

After all, I was a bit unconventional.

But I realize now that the moment I realized something was different about me was the exact same moment that I began conforming and hiding. 

Hiding is a progressive habit, and once you start hiding, it becomes harder and harder to step forward and speak out.

What have I been hiding for 16 years?

I am a lesbian. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

For those of you from large metropolitan areas, this may not seem like a big deal to you.

A 2013 Deloitte study found that a surprisingly large number of people hide aspects of their identity.

And while I was surprised that so many people just like me waste so much energy trying to hide themselves, I was scared when I discovered that my silence has life-or-death consequences and long-term social repercussions. 

The study found that gays in anti-gay communities had higher rates of heart disease, violence and suicide.

My choice to hide and not share who I really am may have inadvertently contributed to this exact same environment and atmosphere of discrimination. 

A former coworker and friend of mine has a father who serves in the Kansas House of Representatives.

He voted in favor of the bill, in favor of a law that would allow businesses to not serve me. 

How does my friend feel about lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning people?

And that shakes me to the core.

What if I had told her my story years ago?

Could she have told her father my experience?

Could I have ultimately helped change his vote?

Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity, I did nothing. 

What I didn't realize until all these years later is that the biggest obstacles I will ever have to overcome are my own fears and insecurities.

