My students and I work on very tiny robots.

We've all seen a group of ants, or some version of that, carting off your potato chip at a picnic, for example. 

But what are the real challenges of engineering these ants?

Well, first of all, how do we get the capabilities of an ant in a robot at the same size scale?

Well, first we need to figure out how to make them move when they're so small.

And finally, to make these things really functional, we want a lot of them working together in order to do bigger things. 

So I'll start with mobility.

Insects move around amazingly well.

This video is from UC Berkeley.

Jumping is another really interesting way to get around when you're very small.

So these insects store energy in a spring and release that really quickly to get the high power they need to jump out of water, for example. 

So one of the big contributions from my lab has been to combine rigid and soft materials in very, very small mechanisms.

And the basic idea is that we're going to compress this, store energy in the springs, and then release it to jump.

So there's no motors on board this right now, no power.

But in order to look at mobility and locomotion at this size scale to start, we're cheating and using magnets.

So this leads to the robot that I showed you earlier.

The really interesting thing that this robot can help us figure out is how insects move at this scale.

We have a really good model for how everything from a cockroach up to an elephant moves.

We all move in this kind of bouncy way when we run.

So this guy doesn't work quite yet, but we do have slightly larger versions that do run around.

But ultimately we want to add everything onboard the robot.

So this robot's about the size of a Tic Tac.

And in this case, instead of magnets or muscles to move this around, we use rockets.

So you have this 300-milligram robot jumping about eight centimeters in the air.

It's only four by four by seven millimeters in size.

So there was that big flash, and you can see the robot jumping up through the air.

Or they could operate without having to cut you open in the first place.

So I think I've given you some of the possibilities of what we can do with these small robots.

Thanks very much. 

