So now we indeed are facing many challenges in our times.

Those could be personal challenges.

Our own mind can be our best friend or our worst enemy.

And then there are the new challenges, which we don't expect.

Ten thousand years ago, there were about five million human beings on Earth.

Whatever they could do, the Earth's resilience would soon heal human activities.

After the Industrial and Technological Revolutions, that's not the same anymore.

We are now the major agent of impact on our Earth.

And within those boundaries, they can carry a number of factors.

We can still prosper, humanity can still prosper for 150,000 years if we keep the same stability of climate as in the Holocene for the last 10,000 years.

But this depends on choosing a voluntary simplicity, growing qualitatively, not quantitatively. 

So in 1900, as you can see, we were well within the limits of safety.

Now we have vastly overrun some of the planetary boundaries.

He was told about the rise of the ocean, and he said, "I find it absurd to change my behavior today for something that will happen in a hundred years."

So if you don't care for future generations, just go for it. 

When the environmentalists speak with economists, it's like a schizophrenic dialogue, completely incoherent.

They don't speak the same language.

Now, for the last 10 years, I went around the world meeting economists, scientists, neuroscientists, environmentalists, philosophers, thinkers in the Himalayas, all over the place.

It seems to me, there's only one concept that can reconcile those three time scales.

It is simply having more consideration for others.

You will not play at the casino with the resources that people have entrusted you with.

If you have more consideration for others, you will make sure that you remedy inequality, that you bring some kind of well-being within society, in education, at the workplace.

And if you have more consideration for others, you are not going to ransack that planet that we have and at the current rate, we don't have three planets to continue that way. 

That's good news, isn't it?

Many philosophers, like Hobbes, have said so.

But not everyone looks like a rascal.

Or is man a wolf for man?

But this guy doesn't seem too bad.

He's one of my friends in Tibet.

He's very kind.

And then not only humans.

Then, of course, there's the struggle for life, the survival of the fittest, social Darwinism.

But in evolution, cooperation -- though competition exists, of course -- cooperation has to be much more creative to go to increased levels of complexity.

So now, on top of that, the quality of human relationships.

The OECD did a survey among 10 factors, including income, everything.

The first one that people said, that's the main thing for my happiness, is quality of social relationships.

Not only in humans.

And look at those great-grandmothers.

So now, this idea that if we go deep within, we are irredeemably selfish, this is armchair science.

There is not a single sociological study, psychological study, that's ever shown that.

Rather, the opposite.

My friend, Daniel Batson, spent a whole life putting people in the lab in very complex situations.

And of course we are sometimes selfish, and some people more than others.

So we tested all that, and in the end, he said, clearly people can be altruistic.

So that's good news.

And even further, we should look at the banality of goodness.

Now look at here.

When we come out, we aren't going to say, "That's so nice.

If there was a fistfight, we would speak of that for months.

Now, look at this.

(Laughter) But that's not the end of it.

No choice?

There are people who had choice, like Pastor André Trocmé and his wife, and the whole village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in France.

So what is altruism?

It is the wish: May others be happy and find the cause of happiness.

Now, empathy is the affective resonance or cognitive resonance that tells you, this person is joyful, this person suffers.

But empathy alone is not sufficient.

With Tania Singer at the Max Planck Institute of Leipzig, we showed that the brain networks for empathy and loving-kindness are different.

So is individual change possible?

Two thousand years of contemplative study said yes, it is.

So I spent 120 hours in an MRI machine.

This is the first time I went after two and a half hours.

And then the result has been published in many scientific papers.

It shows without ambiguity that there is structural change and functional change in the brain when you train the altruistic love.

They have not been trained. 

Four weeks, 20 minutes a day, of caring, mindfulness meditation already brings a structural change in the brain compared to a control group.

That's only 20 minutes a day for four weeks. 

An eight-week program: gratitude, loving- kindness, cooperation, mindful breathing.

You would say, "Oh, they're just preschoolers."

And then comes the ultimate scientific test, the stickers test.

Before, you determine for each child who is their best friend in the class, their least favorite child, an unknown child, and the sick child, and they have to give stickers away.

So before the intervention, they give most of it to their best friend.

Four, five years old, 20 minutes three times a week.

That's something we should do in all the schools in the world. 

Now where do we go from there? 

Individual change is possible.

Fortunately, there is the evolution of culture.

Cultures, as specialists have shown, change faster than genes.

That's the good news.

Look, attitude towards war has dramatically changed over the years.

So where do we go from there?

Myself, I will go back to the East.

Now we treat 100,000 patients a year in our projects.

But on the more global level, what can we do?

We need three things.

Not sustainable growth anymore.

Sustainable harmony means now we will reduce inequality.

We need caring economics.

If you say economics should be compassionate, they say, "That's not our job."

But if you say they don't care, that looks bad.

We need local commitment, global responsibility.

We need to extend altruism to the other 1.6 million species.

Sentient beings are co-citizens in this world.

Thank you. 

