It's said that to be a poet you have to go to hell and back. 

The first time I visited the prison, I was not surprised by the noise of the padlocks, or the closing doors, or the cell bars, or by any of the things I had imagined. 

Maybe because the prison is in a quite open space.

You can see the sky.

Seagulls fly overhead, and you feel like you're next to the sea, that you're really close to the beach.

But in fact, the gulls are looking for food in the dump near the prison. 

I went farther inside and I suddenly saw inmates moving across the corridors.

If I had another story, another context, different luck.

Because nobody - nobody - can choose where they're born. 

The prison service ceded some land at the end of the prison, which is where they constructed the University Center building. 

They also suggested to me that the workshop should be not just for the inmates taking university classes, but for all the inmates.

And so I said that to start this workshop, I needed to find a tool that we all had in common.

That tool was language. 

But what I hadn't considered was that inequality exists in prison, too.

They didn't write fluently, either.

So we started looking for short poems.

Very short, but very powerful. 

And we started to read, and we'd read one author, then another author, and by reading such short poems, they all began to realize that what the poetic language did was to break a certain logic, and create another system.

Breaking the logic of language also breaks the logic of the system under which they've learned to respond.

It's said that to be a poet you have to go to hell and back.

And in that seventh circle of hell, our very own, beloved circle, they learned that they could make the walls invisible, that they could make the windows yell, and that we could hide inside the shadows.

We called family, friends, the university authorities.

That was our simple party.

There are words that are virtually forbidden, like the word "time," the word "future," the word "wish".

But we dared to dream, and to dream a lot.

We decided that they were going to write a book.

Not only did they write a book, but they also bound it themselves.

That was at the end of 2010.

How words are empowering them with a dignity they had never known, that they couldn't even imagine.

They had no idea such dignity could come from them. 

All of us; all of us equally.

I remember a verse by a tremendous poet, a great poet, from our Unit 48 workshop, Nicolás Dorado: "I will need an infinite thread to sew up this huge wound."

They recognize themselves, they look at themselves in the poem and write from who they are, and are from what they write. 

In order to write, they need to appropriate the moment of writing which is a moment of extraordinary freedom.

I told you a lot about the prison, a lot about what I experience every week, and how I enjoy it and transform myself with the inmates.

It fights; it hangs on. 

The heart cracks under sad gazes, rides on storms that spread fire, lifts chests lowered by shame, knows that it's not just reading and going on, it also wishes to see the infinite blue. 

The heart sits down to think about things, fights to avoid being ordinary, tries to love without hurting, breathes the sun, giving courage to itself, surrenders, travels toward reason. 

And for me, poetry and literature have changed my life. 

Thank you very much! 

Cristina Domenech: Thank you! 

