You don't believe me?

You see, I've been thinking about this a lot.

For the last 20 years, I've been working in countries and cities ripped apart by conflict, violence, terrorism, or some insidious combination of all.

I've tracked gun smugglers from Russia to Somalia, I've worked with warlords in Afghanistan and the Congo, I've counted cadavers in Colombia, in Haiti, in Sri Lanka, in Papua New Guinea.

You don't need to be on the front line, though, to get a sense that our planet is spinning out of control, right?

There's this feeling that international instability is the new normal.

And maybe this is to be expected, right?

After all, most people today, they live in cities, not the countryside.

Just 600 cities, including 30 megacities, account for two thirds of global GDP.

Now, some diplomats and development experts and specialists, they talk about 40 to 50 fragile states that will shape security in the 21st century.

I think it's fragile cities which will define the future of order and disorder.

That's because warfare and humanitarian action are going to be concentrated in our cities, and the fight for development, whether you define that as eradicating poverty, universal healthcare, beating back climate change, will be won or lost in the shantytowns, slums and favelas of our cities.

So let me start with some good news.

Fact is, we're living in the most peaceful moment in human history.

Steven Pinker and others have shown how the intensity and frequency of conflict is actually at an all-time low.

Now, Gaza, Syria, Sudan, Ukraine, as ghastly as these conflicts are, and they are horrific, they represent a relatively small blip upwards in a 50-year-long secular decline.

What's more, we're seeing a dramatic reduction in homicide.

Most Northern cities today are 100 times safer than they were just 100 years ago. 

These two facts -- the decline in armed conflict and the decline in murder -- are amongst the most extraordinary, if unheralded, accomplishments of human history, and we should be really excited, right?

Well, yeah, we should.

There's just one problem: These two scourges are still with us.

You see, 525,000 people -- men, women, boys and girls -- die violently every single year.

Research I've been doing with Keith Krause and others has shown that between 50,000 and 60,000 people are dying in war zones violently.

The rest, almost 500,000 people, are dying outside of conflict zones.

In other words, 10 times more people are dying outside of war than inside war.

That's 23 times the global average. 

The dominance of the city as the primary mode of urban living is one of the most extraordinary demographic reversals in history, and it all happened so fast.

You all know the figures, right?

There's 7.3 billion people in the world today; there will be 9.6 billion by 2050.

But consider this one fact: In the 1800s, one in 30 people lived in cities, today it's one in two, and tomorrow virtually everyone is going to be there.

And this expansion in urbanization is going to be neither even nor equitable.

The vast majority, 90 percent, will be happening in the South, in cities of the South. 

I call this turbo-urbanization, and it's one of the key drivers of fragility. 

When you think about the incredible expansion of these cities, and you think about turbo-urbanization, think about Karachi.

Karachi was about 500,000 people in 1947, a hustling, bustling city.

Dhaka, Lagos, Kinshasa, these cities are now 40 times larger than they were in the 1950s. 

The Big Apple, it took 150 years to get to eight million people.

São Paulo, Mexico City, took 15 to reach that same interval. 

What is their profile?

Well, for one thing, they're young.

What we're seeing in many of them is the rise of the youth bulge.

Now, this is actually a good news story.

It's a function of reductions in child mortality rates.

But the youth bulge is something we've got to watch.

What it basically means is the proportion of young people living in our fragile cities is much larger than those living in our healthier and wealthier ones.

In some fragile cities, 75 percent of the population is under the age of 30.

Think about that: Three in four people are under 30.

It's like Palo Alto on steroids.

Now, if you look at Mogadishu for example, in Mogadishu the mean age is 16 years old.

Same for most Western European cities.

Now, it's not just youth that necessarily predicts violence.

That's one factor among many, but youthfulness combined with unemployment, lack of education, and -- this is the kicker -- being male, is a deadly proposition.

They're statistically correlated, all those risk factors, with youth, and they tend to relate to increases in violence. 

Now, take away the parents, take away the education, limit the education possibilities, sprinkle in a little bit of drugs, alcohol and guns, and sit back and watch the fireworks.

The implications are disconcerting.

Right here in Brazil, the life expectancy is 73.6 years.

If you live in Rio, I'm sorry, shave off two right there.

But if you're young, you're uneducated, you lack employment, you're black, and you're male, your life expectancy drops to less than 60 years old.

There's a reason why youthfulness and violence are the number one killers in this country. 

Okay, so it's not all doom and gloom in our cities.

After all, cities are hubs of innovation, dynamism, prosperity, excitement, connectivity.

They're where the smart people gather.

And those young people I just mentioned, they're more digitally savvy and tech-aware than ever before.

And this explosion, the Internet, and mobile technology, means that the digital divide separating the North and the South between countries and within them, is shrinking.

But as we've heard so many times, these new technologies are dual-edged, right?

Take the case of law enforcement.

Police around the world are starting to use remote sensing and big data to anticipate crime.

Some cops are able to predict criminal violence before it even happens.

We have to manage the issues of the public safety against rights to individual privacy. 

But it's not just the cops who are innovating.

In Ciudad Juárez in Mexico, where I've been working, groups like the Zetas and the Sinaloa cartel are hijacking social media.

They're using it to recruit, to sell their products, to coerce, to intimidate and to kill.

Violence is going virtual. 

So this is just a partial sketch of a fast-moving and dynamic and complex situation.

If we're going to change course, we need to start a conversation.

We've got to bring those fragile cities into the conversation. 

One way to do this might be to start twinning our fragile cities with our healthier and wealthier ones, kickstarting a process of learning and collaboration and sharing of practices, of what works and what doesn't.

We can also focus on hot cities, but also hot spots.

Place and location matter fundamentally in shaping violence in our cities.

We also got to focus on those hot people.

It's tragic, but being young, unemployed, uneducated, male, increases the risks of being killed and killing.

We've also got to make our cities safer, more inclusive, and livable for all.

The fact is, social cohesion matters.

Mobility matters in our cities.

We've got to get away from this model of segregation, exclusion, and cities with walls.

My favorite example of how to do this comes from Medellín.

And finally, there's technology.

Technology has enormous promise but also peril.

Even my own group is involved in developing applications to provide more accountability over police and increase safety among citizens.

But we need to be careful. 

Folks, we have the opportunity of a lifetime to drop homicidal violence in half within our lifetime.

So I have just one question: What are we waiting for? 

