Let's go south.

They are the ice melt of the South and North Poles.

Antarctica is such a hopeful place.

It is protected by the Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959.

Can they not join the dots and think, "Why is the ice actually melting?"

(Laughter) And at the age of 11, I was inspired by the real explorers to want to try to be the first to walk to both Poles.

That was a bit more inspiring.

And after years, seven years of fundraising, seven years of being told no, seven years of being told by my family to seek counseling and psychiatric help, eventually three of us found ourselves marching to the South Geographic Pole on the longest unassisted march ever made anywhere on Earth in history.

We have no radio communications, no backup.

Beneath our feet, 90 percent of all the world's ice, 70 percent of all the world's fresh water.

We're standing on it.

This is the power of Antarctica. 

(Laughter) And after 70 desperate days, we arrive at the South Pole.

We had done it.

But something happened to me on that 70-day journey in 1986 that brought me here, and it hurt.

It was desperately cold again.

Here's me coming in from washing naked at -60 Celsius.

(Applause) 

And 1,000 kilometers away from the safety of land, disaster strikes.

The ice is crashing around us, grinding, and I'm thinking, "Are we going to die?"

But something clicked in my head on this day, as I realized we, as a world, are in a survival situation, and that feeling has never gone away for 25 long years.

Back then, we had to march or die.

And we're not some TV survivor program.

And sadly, on return home, it was not all fun.

I became very low.

To succeed at something is often harder than actually making it happen.

I was empty, lonely, financially destroyed.

I have been inspired ever since I could walk to recycle by my mum.

Here she is, and my mum -- (Applause) -- my mum is still recycling, and as she is in her 100th year, isn't that fantastic?

These are game-changing nations, and will be hugely important in the decision about the preservation of the Antarctic.

Fantastic people, so inspired.

It is such a privilege to go to Antarctica, I can't tell you.

Let's go back to where we began: the ice melt of the North and South Poles.

And it's not good news.

NASA informed us six months ago that the Western Antarctic Ice Shelf is now disintegrating.

And there is a very simple solution.

If we are using more renewable energy in the real world, if we are being more efficient with the energy here, running our energy mix in a cleaner way, there will be no financial reason to go and exploit Antarctica.

It's a big challenge, and what is our response to it?

We will walk across those icecaps, which far down below are melting, hopefully inspiring some solutions on that issue. 

This is my son, Barney.

He is coming with me.

He is committed to walking side by side with his father, and what he will do is to translate these messages and inspire these messages to the minds of future young leaders.

I'm extremely proud of him.

Good on him, Barney. 

A survivor sees a problem and deals with that problem before it becomes a threat.

We have 27 years to preserve the Antarctic.

The fact that nobody owns it maybe means that we can succeed.

I know it's possible.

We are going to do it.

Good luck to you all. 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

