When you grow up in a developing country like India, as I did, you instantly learn to get more value from limited resources and find creative ways to reuse what you already have.

He can keep fruits and vegetables fresh for many days.

That's a cool invention, literally.

In Africa, if you run out of your cell phone battery, don't panic.

You will find some resourceful entrepreneurs who can recharge your cell phone using bicycles.

The Peruvians are amazing.

They can literally create water out of thin air. 

For the past seven years, I have met and studied hundreds of entrepreneurs in India, China, Africa and South America, and they keep amazing me.

Many of them did not go to school.

Because they don't have the kind of basic resources we take for granted, like capital and energy, and basic services like healthcare and education are also scarce in those regions.

In India, we call it Jugaad.

Jugaad is a Hindi word that means an improvised fix, a clever solution born in adversity.

Jugaad solutions are not sophisticated or perfect, but they create more value at lower cost.

For me, the entrepreneurs who will create Jugaad solutions are like alchemists.

They can magically transform adversity into opportunity, and turn something of less value into something of high value.

In other words, they mastered the art of doing more with less, which is the essence of frugal innovation. 

Frugal innovation is the ability to create more economic and social value using fewer resources.

Frugal innovation is not about making do; it's about making things better.

This solution is based on simple-to-use medical devices that less qualified health workers like nurses can use in rural clinics.

The whole kit, though, costs 200 dollars, which is too expensive for most Kenyans, and this is where mobile telephony can make the solution more affordable.

Once you've made 365 micro-payments, the system is unlocked, and you own the product and you start receiving clean, free electricity.

This shows that with frugal innovation what matters is that you take what is most abundant, mobile connectivity, to deal with what is scarce, which is energy. 

With frugal innovation, the global South is actually catching up and in some cases even leap-frogging the North.

Frugal innovation is diametrically opposed to the way we innovate in the North.

I live in Silicon Valley, where we keep chasing the next big technology thing.

Think of the iPhone 5, 6, then 7, 8.

So the conventional business model in the West is more for more.

Second, we are running out of natural water and oil.

In California, where I live, water scarcity is becoming a big problem.

The prolonged economic crisis in the West is making people think that they are about to lose the high standard of living and face deprivation.

I believe that the only way we can sustain growth and prosperity in the West is if we learn to do more with less. 

The good news is, that's starting to happen.

Several Western companies are now adopting frugal innovation to create affordable products for Western consumers.

Let me give you two examples. 

When I first saw this building, I told myself it's some kind of postmodern house.

Actually, it's a small manufacturing plant set up by Grameen Danone, a joint venture between Grameen Bank of Muhammad Yunus and the food multinational Danone to make high-quality yogurt in Bangladesh.

This factory is 10 percent the size of existing Danone factories and cost much less to build.

I guess you can call it a low-fat factory.

Now this factory, unlike Western factories that are highly automated, relies a lot on manual processes in order to generate jobs for local communities.

Danone was so inspired by this model that combines economic efficiency and social sustainability, they are planning to roll it out in other parts of the world as well. 

Now, when you see this example, you might be thinking, "Well, frugal innovation is low tech."

Actually, no.

Frugal innovation is also about making high tech more affordable and more accessible to more people.

Let me give you an example. 

In China, the R&amp;D engineers of Siemens Healthcare have designed a C.T.

But the frugal innovation revolution in the West is actually led by creative entrepreneurs who are coming up with amazing solutions to address basic needs in the U.S. and Europe.

Let me quickly give you three examples of startups that personally inspire me.

The first one happens to be launched by my neighbor in Silicon Valley.

It's called gThrive.

It pays for itself within one year. 

How do they do that?

They simply use SMS, a basic technology, but that happens to be the most reliable and most widely available around the world.

Three billion people today with cell phones can't access the Internet.

This solution can connect them to the Internet in a frugal way. 

And in France, there is a startup calle Compte Nickel, which is revolutionizing the banking sector.

They charge a flat annual maintenance fee of just 20 Euros.

That means you can do all banking transactions -- send and receive money, pay with your debit card -- all with no additional charge.

This is what I call low-cost banking without the bank.

Amazingly, 75 percent of the customers using this service are the middle-class French who can't afford high banking fees. 

Now, I talked about frugal innovation, initially pioneered in the South, now being adopted in the North.

Ultimately, we would like to see developed countries and developing countries come together and co-create frugal solutions that benefit the entire humanity.

The exciting news is that's starting to happen.

Let's go to Nairobi to find that out. 

Nairobi has horrendous traffic jams.

When I first saw them, I thought, "Holy cow."

Literally, because you have to dodge cows as well when you drive in Nairobi.

It also tries to bring together innovators from North and South to cocreate affordable healthcare solutions for all of humanity. 

The first principle is: Keep it simple.

Second principle: Do not reinvent the wheel.

Third principle is: Think and act horizontally.

The South pioneered frugal innovation out of sheer necessity.

The North is now learning to do more and better with less as it faces resource constraints.

As an Indian-born French national who lives in the United States, my hope is that we transcend this artificial North-South divide so that we can harness the collective ingenuity of innovators from around the world to cocreate frugal solutions that will improve the quality of life of everyone in the world, while preserving our precious planet. 

Thank you very much. 

