And among all this biodiversity that they had never seen before, they found one species that caught their attention very quickly.

This species, when you cut the bark, you find a very dark red resin that was very good to paint and dye fabric to make clothes.

Forest products are all around us.

If we had to boil water to get the same effect as evapotranspiration, we would need six months of the entire power generation capacity of the world.

So it's a hell of a service for all of us. 

That was when we shifted from deforestation of temperate forests to deforestation of tropical forests. 

That's the speed of the destruction that we are having. 

We have the second largest forest in the world, just after Russia.

You can see that you could fit many of the European countries there.

We still have 80 percent of the forest cover.

That's the good news.

But we lost 15 percent in just 30 years.

So if you go with that speed, very soon, we will loose this powerful pump that we have in the Amazon that regulates our climate. 

(Chainsaw sound) (Sound of falling tree) Twenty-seven thousand square kilometers in one year.

This is 2.7 million hectares.

It's almost like half of Costa Rica every year. 

And together with other teammates in the National Forest Department, we were assigned a task to join a team and find out the causes of deforestation, and make a plan to combat that at a national level, involving the local governments, the civil society, business, local communities, in an effort that could tackle those causes. 

So we came up with this plan with 144 actions in different areas.

Now I will go through all of them one by one -- no, just giving some examples of what we had done in the next few years.

This allows us, among other things, to apprehend 1.4 million cubic meters of logs that were illegally taken.

So making all these connections to help to push the problem down.

Fifty million hectares of protected areas were created, which is an area the size of Spain.

And of those, eight million were indigenous lands. 

Now we start to see results.

So in the last 10 years, deforestation came down in Brazil 75 percent. 

But more importantly, it avoided the emission of three billion tons of CO2 in the atmosphere.

But it's interesting to know that it's quite the opposite.

In fact, in the period when we have the deepest decline of deforestation, the economy grew, on average, double from the previous decade, when deforestation was actually going up.

So it's a good lesson for us.

Now this is all good news, and it's quite an achievement, and we obviously should be very proud about that.

But it's not even close to sufficient.

If we sum up the deforestation we have in the other biomes in Brazil, we are talking about still the largest deforestation rate in the world.

So the next step, I think, is to fight to have zero loss of forest cover in Brazil and to have that as a goal for 2020.

That's our next step. 

Now I've always been interested in the relationship between climate change and forests.

