Guatemala is recovering from a 36-year armed conflict.

A conflict that was fought during the Cold War.

We call them the Desaparecidos. 

But the most important thing here is that the very people who are supposed to defend us, the police, the military, are the ones that committed most of the crimes. 

Now the families, they want information.

They want to know what happened.

They want the bodies of their loved ones.

We left Guatemala and we came here.

But it wasn't till 1995 that I decided to do something about it.

So I went back.

The way we work is that we give people information.

We talk to the family members and we let them choose.

And even more important, we let them choose to give us a piece of themselves.

A piece, an essence, of who they are.

And that DNA is what we're going to compare to the DNA that comes from the skeletons. 

When we find the grave, we take out the dirt and eventually clean the body, document it, and exhume it.

We literally bring the skeleton out of the ground. 

So here you see a gunshot wound to the back of the head or a machete wound, for example.

The other thing we want to understand is who they are.

We'll take that DNA and then we'll compare it with the DNA of the families, of course. 

The best way to explain this to you is by showing you two cases.

The first is the case of the military diary.

Now this is a document that was smuggled out of somewhere in 1999.

And one of the things that they wrote down is when they executed them.

Inside that yellow rectangle, you see a code, it's a secret code: 300.

And then you see a date.

The 300 means "executed" and the date means when they were executed.

Grave 9, though, matched the family of Sergio Saul Linares.

Now Sergio was a professor at the university.

He graduted from Iowa State University and went back to Guatemala to change his country.

And he was captured on February 23, 1984.

The DNA of that body also matched the DNA of that family.

And then we noticed that he was also in the diary.

And we identified those six bodies and gave them back to the families. 

The other case I want to tell you about is that of a military base called CREOMPAZ.

It actually means, "to believe in peace," but the acronym really means Regional Command Center for Peacekeeping Operations.

It's very ironic. 

But the bodies -- face down, most of them, hands tied behind their backs, blindfolded, all types of trauma -- these were people who were defenseless who were being executed.

People that 533 families are looking for.

So we're going to focus on Grave 15.

Both of them disappeared in that case, and now we could prove it.

We have physical evidence that proves that this happened and that those people were taken to this base.

Now, Manuel Chen was three years old.

His mother went to the river to wash clothes, and she left him with a neighbor.

That's when the army came and that's when he was taken away in a helicopter and never seen again until we found him in Grave 15. 

So now with science, with archaeology, with anthropology, with genetics, what we're doing is, we're giving a voice to the voiceless.

But we're doing more than that.

We have to now come together and decide that we're not going to have any more missing.

So no more missing, guys.

Thank you. 

