I have a confession to make.

As a scientist and engineer, I've focused on efficiency for many years.

But efficiency can be a cult, and today I'd like to tell you about a journey that moved me out of the cult and back to a far richer reality. 

A few years ago, after finishing my Ph.D. in London, I moved to Boston.

I lived in Boston and worked in Cambridge.

I bought a racing bicycle that summer, and I bicycled every day to work.

But after a month that I was cycling every day on the car-packed Mass.

I'm not entirely sure why I took a different route that day, a detour.

But after the feeling of surprise, I felt shame.

How could I have been so blind?

And why?

Because I was saving a minute out of my commute. 

How many of you have never used a mapping app for finding directions?

You take your phone out and you know immediately where to go.

However, the app also assumes there are only a handful of directions to the destination.

It has the power to make those handful of directions the definitive direction to that destination. 

After that experience, I changed.

I changed my research from traditional data-mining to understanding how people experience the city.

I used computer science tools to replicate social science experiments at scale, at web scale.

I became captivated by the beauty and genius of traditional social science experiments done by Jane Jacobs, Stanley Milgram, Kevin Lynch.

The result of that research has been the creation of new maps, maps where you don't only find the shortest path, the blue one, but also the most enjoyable path, the red one.

How was that possible? 

At the University of Cambridge, with colleagues, we thought about this simple experiment.

If I were to show you these two urban scenes, and I were to ask you which one is more beautiful, which one would you say?

Players are shown pairs of urban scenes, and they're asked to choose which one is more beautiful, quiet and happy.

Based on thousands of user votes, then we are able to see where consensus emerges.

We are able to see which are the urban scenes that make people happy. 

On this cartography, you're not only able to see and connect from point A to point B the shortest segments, but you're also able to see the happy segment, the beautiful path, the quiet path.

In tests, participants found the happy, the beautiful, the quiet path far more enjoyable than the shortest one, and that just by adding a few minutes to travel time.

Participants also love to attach memories to places.

It's that simple. 

It's a media satire in which a real person doesn't know he's living in a fabricated world.

Perhaps we live in a world fabricated for efficiency.

Thank you. 

