They are a tremendous contribution to science and technology.

And it lets us look at our world in a completely new way. 

So what do I mean by color changes?

Our skin, for example, changes its color very slightly when the blood flows under it.

We can actually see a human pulse.

We can see how fast Steve's heart is beating, but we can also see the actual way that the blood flows in his face.

And we can do that not just to visualize the pulse, but also to actually recover our heart rates, and measure our heart rates.

And we can do it with regular cameras and without touching the patients.

So how do we do all that?

We make them bigger so that we can see them.

So this is my daughter when she was about two months old.

It's a video I recorded about three years ago.

So I too got one of those baby monitors so that I could see my daughter when she was asleep.

And this is pretty much what you'll see with a standard baby monitor.

You can see the baby's sleeping, but there's not too much information there.

There's not too much we can see.

And it turns out, there's a lot of phenomena we can reveal and magnify with our new motion microscope.

Maybe we could use those motions to tell us something about our thoughts or our emotions.

And ever since we discovered this new technology, we made our code available online so that others could use and experiment with it.

It's very simple to use.

It can work on your own videos.

And I'd like to show you just a couple of examples of what others have done with it. 

So this video was made by a YouTube user called Tamez85.

I don't know who that user is, but he, or she, used our code to magnify small belly movements during pregnancy.

You can also do some art with it.

So this video was sent to me by a design student at Yale.

She wanted to see if there's any difference in the way her classmates move.

She made them all stand still, and then magnified their motions.

It's like seeing still pictures come to life.

And the nice thing with all those examples is that we had nothing to do with them.

We just provided this new tool, a new way to look at the world, and then people find other interesting, new and creative ways of using it. 

But we didn't stop there.

This tool not only allows us to look at the world in a new way, it also redefines what we can do and pushes the limits of what we can do with our cameras.

And one such phenomenon that we focused on recently is sound.

Sound, as we all know, is basically changes in air pressure that travel through the air.

Those pressure waves hit objects and they create small vibrations in them, which is how we hear and how we record sound.

But it turns out that sound also produces visual motions.

So here are two examples.

That signal is there in that video. 

We also know that singers can break a wine glass if they hit the correct note.

Once we play that note and magnify the motions 250 times, we can very clearly see how the glass vibrates and resonates in response to the sound.

It's not something you're used to seeing every day.

In this way, we can turn everyday objects into microphones. 

So that's exactly what we did.

So here's the sound that we played in the room. 

We actually extract audio signals from video signals.

And just to give you a sense of the scale of the motions here, a pretty loud sound will cause that bag of chips to move less than a micrometer.

That's one thousandth of a millimeter.

We can recover sounds from other objects, like plants. 

So here's a person speaking in a room. 

MR: We used "Mary Had a Little Lamb" because those are said to be the first words that Thomas Edison spoke into his phonograph in 1877.

It was one of the first sound recording devices in history.

Here's a demonstration of recording and replaying sound with Edison's phonograph. 

So this is the sound that we were able to recover in that case. 

We've only just begun exploring other possible uses for this new technology.

It lets us see physical processes that we know are there but that we've never been able to see with our own eyes until now. 

Thank you. 

