Everybody who speaks English decides together what's a word and what's not a word.

Every language is just a group of people who agree to understand each other.

Now, sometimes when people are trying to decide whether a word is good or bad, they don't really have a good reason.

But the word "grammar," actually, there are two kinds of grammar.

And this is what you learn when you learn a language as a child.

So we've been talking about this for a long time. 

Now, these kinds of natural rules that exist in your brain, they're not like traffic laws, they're more like laws of nature.

And nobody has to remind you to obey a law of nature, right?

Now, there are other rules that are more about manners than they are about nature.

So you can think of a word as like a hat.

Once you know how hats work, nobody has to tell you, "Don't wear hats on your feet."

Those are more of the second kind of grammar, which linguists often call usage, as opposed to grammar. 

Now, sometimes people use this kind of rules-based grammar to discourage people from making up words.

And I think that is, well, stupid.

The first way is the simplest way.

Basically, steal them from other languages.

We usually take words for things that we like, like delicious food.

We took "kumquat" from Chinese, we took "caramel" from French.

We also take words for cool things like "ninja," right?

So another way that you can make words in English is by squishing two other English words together.

This is called compounding.

Words in English are like Lego: If you use enough force, you can put any two of them together.

(Laughter) We do this all the time in English: Words like "heartbroken," "bookworm," "sandcastle" all are compounds.

"Motel" is a blend of "motor" and "hotel."

Who here knew that "motel" was a blend word?

Yeah, that word is so old in English that lots of people don't know that there are parts missing.

"Edutainment" is a blend of "education" and "entertainment."

You can also make words by changing how they operate.

This is called functional shift.

"Friend" used to be noun and then we verbed it.

Almost any word in English can be verbed.

You can also take adjectives and make them into nouns.

"Commercial" used to be an adjective and now it's a noun.

And of course, you can "green" things. 

Another way to make words in English is back-formation.

You can take a word and you can kind of squish it down a little bit.

So for example, in English we had the word "editor" before we had the word "edit."

"Edit" was formed from "editor."

Another way to make words in English is to take the first letters of something and squish them together.

So it doesn't matter how silly the words are.

They can be really good words of English.

"Absquatulate" is a perfectly good word of English.

"Mugwump" is a perfectly good word of English.

So the words don't have have to sound normal, they can sound really silly. 

Why should you make words?

You should make words because every word is a chance to express your idea and get your meaning across.

And new words grab people's attention.

They get people to focus on what you're saying and that gives you a better chance to get your meaning across.

English has no age limit.

Go ahead, start making words today, send them to me, and I will put them in my online dictionary, Wordnik.

