One, it can really burn your eyes, and two, it can also help you to open them. 

Tear gas definitely helped to open mine to something that I want to share with you this afternoon: that livestreaming the power of independent broadcasts through the web can be a game-changer in journalism, in activism, and as I see it, in the political discourse as well. 

That idea started to dawn on me in early 2011 when I was covering a protest in São Paulo.

It was the marijuana march, a gathering of people asking for the legalization of cannabis.

When that group started to move, the riot police came from the back with rubber bullets, bombs, and then the gas.

But to make a long story short, I had entered that protest as the editor-in-chief of a well-established printed magazine where I'd worked for 11 years, and thanks to this unsolicited effects of tear gas, I left it as a journalist that was now committed to new ways of sharing the raw experience of what it's like to be there, actually. 

So in the following week, I was back in the streets, but that time, I wasn't a member of any media outlet anymore.

I was there as an independent livestreamer, and all I had with me was basically borrowed equipment.

I had a very simple camera and a backpack with 3G modems.

And I learned something else, that that was actually the first time that somebody had ever done a livestreaming in a street protest in the country.

And that sounded revolutionary in my mind. 

NINJA is an acronym that stands for Narrativas Independentes Jornalismo e Ação, or in English, independent narratives, journalism, and action.

It was a media group that had little media plan.

We didn't have any financial structure.

This is a bus.

It's written there, "Theft."

But those kind of manifestations started to grow, and they kept happening.

So the police violence against them started to grow as well.

But it wasn't about the bus fare hike anymore.

It was about everything.

If you could read it, you would understand me.

We are using smartphones.

So in a matter of a week or two, as the protests kept happening, we were hundreds of young people connected in this network throughout the country.

We were covering more than 50 cities at the same time.

That's something that no TV channel could ever do.

That was responsible for turning us suddenly, actually, into kind of the mainstream media of social media.

So we had a couple of thousands of followers on our Facebook page, and soon we had a quarter of a million followers.

Our posts and our videos were being seen by more than 11 million timelines a week.

It was way more than any newspaper or any magazine could ever do. 

