I heard about a high school in Chicago where students had to pass a certain number of courses to graduate, and if they didn't pass a course, they got the grade "Not Yet."

It gives you a path into the future. 

"Not Yet" also gave me insight into a critical event early in my career, a real turning point.

They had what I call a growth mindset.

But other students felt it was tragic, catastrophic.

From their more fixed mindset perspective, their intelligence had been up for judgment and they failed.

Instead of luxuriating in the power of yet, they were gripped in the tyranny of now. 

So what do they do next?

I'll tell you what they do next.

In one study, they told us they would probably cheat the next time instead of studying more if they failed a test.

In another study, after a failure, they looked for someone who did worse than they did so they could feel really good about themselves.

And in study after study, they have run from difficulty.

Scientists measured the electrical activity from the brain as students confronted an error.

On the left, you see the fixed mindset students.

There's hardly any activity.

They run from the error.

They don't engage with it.

They engage deeply.

They learn from it and they correct it. 

How are we raising our children?

Are we raising them for now instead of yet?

Are we raising kids who are obsessed with getting A's?

Are we raising kids who don't know how to dream big dreams?

Their biggest goal is getting the next A or the next test score?

So what can we do?

How can we build that bridge to yet? 

Don't do that anymore.

But praising the process that kids engage in: their effort, their strategies, their focus, their perseverance, their improvement.

This process praise creates kids who are hardy and resilient. 

There are other ways to reward yet.

We recently teamed up with game scientists from the University of Washington to create a new online math game that rewarded yet.

In this game, students were rewarded for effort, strategy and progress.

The usual math game rewards you for getting answers right right now, but this game rewarded process.

And we got more effort, more strategies, more engagement over longer periods of time, and more perseverance when they hit really, really hard problems. 

Just the words "yet" or "not yet," we're finding, give kids greater confidence, give them a path into the future that creates greater persistence.

And we can actually change students' mindsets.

In one study, we taught them that every time they push out of their comfort zone to learn something new and difficult, the neurons in their brain can form new, stronger connections, and over time they can get smarter. 

So let's talk about equality.

And they've done so poorly for so long that many people think it's inevitable.

But when educators create growth mindset classrooms steeped in yet, equality happens.

Many of those kids could not hold a pencil when they arrived at school.

In one year, fourth grade students in the South Bronx, way behind, became the number one fourth grade class in the state of New York on the state math test.

So the native kids outdid the Microsoft kids. 

That's when they're getting smarter. 

Thank you. 

