I was on a long road trip this summer, and I was having a wonderful time listening to the amazing Isabel Wilkerson's "The Warmth of Other Suns."

It could have been Amadou Diallo.

It could have been Sean Bell.

It could have been Oscar Grant.

It could have been Trayvon Martin. 

This violence, this brutality, is really something that's part of our national psyche.

It's part of our collective history.

What are we going to do about it?

You know that part of us that still crosses the street, locks the doors, clutches the purses, when we see young black men?

That part. 

We've been schooled in them as well.

So I have a call to action for you.

Can you imagine that?

Can you imagine our country embracing young black men, seeing them as part of our future, giving them that kind of openness, that kind of grace we give to people we love?

Let me just start with number one.

We gotta get out of denial.

Stop trying to be good people.

We need real people.

The pilot is good.

Now, here's the problem.

If you ask me explicitly, I would say, "Female pilot: awesome."

But it appears that when things get funky and a little troublesome, a little risky, I lean on a bias that I didn't even know that I had.

You know, fast-moving planes in the sky, I want a guy.

That's my default.

Men are my default.

Who is your default?

Who do you trust?

Who are you afraid of?

Who do you implicitly feel connected to?

Who do you run away from? 

I'm going to tell you what we have learned.

The implicit association test, which measures unconscious bias, you can go online and take it.

When we see a black face, it is easier for us to connect black with negative than it is white with negative.

Seventy percent of white people taking that test prefer white.

What do we do about the fact that our brain automatically associates?

It's a false ideal.

Why do you think I'm showing you these beautiful black men behind me?

So here's the thing.

And we were outside, it was late at night, and we were sort of wondering where we were going, we were lost.

And I saw this person across the street, and I was thinking, "Oh great, black guy."

I was going toward him without even thinking about it.

And she was like, "Oh, that's interesting."

The guy across the street, he was a black guy.

I think black guys generally know where they're going.

I don't know why exactly I think that, but that's what I think.

So I'm going to tell you to walk toward your discomfort.

And I'm not asking you to take any crazy risks.

I'm saying, just do an inventory, expand your social and professional circles.

Who's in your circle?

Who's missing?

How many authentic relationships do you have with young black people, folks, men, women?

So go away from your comfort into a bigger, brighter thing, because that is how we will stop another Ferguson from happening.

That's how we create a community where everybody, especially young black men, can thrive. 

You know, it's holidays and it's going to be a time when we're sitting around the table and having a good time.

The children are at the table.

And we wonder why these biases don't die, and move from generation to generation?

They are incredible scientists and artists and writers.

They are dynamic comedians.

They are doting grandpas, caring sons.

They are strong fathers, and they are young men with dreams of their own. 

Thank you. 

