The shocking police crackdown on protestors in Ferguson, Missouri, in the wake of the police shooting of Michael Brown, underscored the extent to which advanced military weapons and equipment, designed for the battlefield, are making their way to small-town police departments across the United States.

Although much tougher to observe, this same thing is happening with surveillance equipment. 

NSA-style mass surveillance is enabling local police departments to gather vast quantities of sensitive information about each and every one of us in a way that was never previously possible. 

Location information can be very sensitive.

This information used to be private.

Thanks to modern technology, the government knows far too much about what happens behind closed doors.

And local police departments make decisions about who they think you are based on this information. 

One of the key technologies driving mass location tracking is the innocuous-sounding Automatic License Plate Reader.

Did you know this was happening? 

The second photo from the top is a picture of Mike and his two daughters getting out of their car in their own driveway.

The government has hundreds of photos like this about Mike going about his daily life.

And if you drive a car in the United States, I would bet money that they have photographs like this of you going about your daily life. 

Mike hasn't done anything wrong.

Why is it okay that the government is keeping all of this information?

The reason it's happening is because, as the cost of storing this data has plummeted, the police departments simply hang on to it, just in case it could be useful someday.

The issue is not just that one police department is gathering this information in isolation or even that multiple police departments are doing it.

At the same time, the federal government is collecting all of these individual pots of data, and pooling them together into one vast database with hundreds of millions of hits, showing where Americans have traveled.

This document from the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration, which is one of the agencies primarily interested in this, is one of several that reveal the existence of this database.

Meanwhile, in New York City, the NYPD has driven police cars equipped with license plate readers past mosques in order to figure out who is attending. 

The uses and abuses of this technology aren't limited to the United States.

License plate readers aren't the only mass location tracking technology available to law enforcement agents today.

Also, using a device known as a StingRay, law enforcement agents can send tracking signals inside people's houses to identify the cell phones located there.

And if they don't know which house to target, they've been known to drive this technology around through whole neighborhoods. 

Just as the police in Ferguson possess high-tech military weapons and equipment, so too do police departments across the United States possess high-tech surveillance gear.

Just because you don't see it, doesn't mean it's not there. 

The question is, what should we do about this?

I think this poses a serious civil liberties threat.

Fortunately, there are steps we can take.

