So, I thought a lot about the first word I'd say today, and I decided to say "Colombia."

And the reason, I don't know how many of you have visited Colombia, but Colombia is just north of the border with Brazil.

It's got water; it's got everything to be the perfect place. 

But we have a few problems.

You may have heard of some of them.

We have the oldest standing guerrilla in the world.

It's been around for over 50 years, which means that in my lifetime, I have never lived one day of peace in my country.

And if you look at the human cost of this war over 50 years, we have had more than 5.7 million displaced population.

It's one of the biggest displaced populations in the world, and this conflict has cost over 220,000 lives.

So it's a little bit like the Bolívar wars again.

It's a lot of people who have died unnecessarily. 

So how do we know these trees worked?

So let me take you back four years before the trees.

Four years before the trees, we were approached by the government to help them come up with a communications strategy to get as many guerrillas as we could out of the jungle.

But we didn't know very much about it.

And we talked to about 60 of them before we felt we fully understood the problem.

I want to tell you one of these stories.

This person you see here is Giovanni Andres.

Giovanni Andres is 25 when we took that picture.

He had been seven years in the guerrilla, and he had demobilized very recently.

Their conversations were about what their family was going to be like, what their kids' names would be, how their life would be when they left the guerrilla.

But it turns out that love is very strictly forbidden in the lower ranks of the guerrilla, so their romance was discovered and they were separated.

He was sent very far away, and she was left behind.

The only thing that was in his mind was to see her.

The story was, they did meet.

I know you're wondering if they did meet.

They did meet.

She had been recruited when she was 15, and she left when she was 17, so there were a lot of other complications, but they did eventually meet.

The problem is that it was working in the lower ranks of the guerrilla.

So we thought, well, we'll use the same strategy.

We needed to step away from talking from government to army, from army to army, and we needed to talk about the universal values, and we needed to talk about humanity.

And that was when the Christmas tree happened.

He gave us all the support to put up the first Christmas trees. 

So we went to these river villages, and we asked the people, and probably some of them were direct acquaintances of the guerrillas.

Some of them were notes saying, get out.

And we sent thousands of these down the rivers, and then picked them up later if they weren't.

But lots of them were picked up.

This generated, on average, a demobilization every six hours, so this was incredible and it was about: Come home at Christmas. 

Then came the peace process, and when the peace process started, the whole mindset of the guerrilla changed.

When I get out of this, am I going to be rejected?"

(Applause) Thank you. 

And then we decided to work with society.

So we did mothers around Christmastime.

Now let's talk about the rest of the people.

Ex-football players, radio announcers, everybody was saving a place for the guerrilla. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

If that is true, advertising is still one of the most powerful tools of change that we have available.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

