Ten years ago, I got a phone call that changed my life.

At the time, I was cardiologist at UCLA, specializing in cardiac imaging techniques.

The call came from a veterinarian at the Los Angeles Zoo.

An elderly female chimpanzee had woken up with a facial droop and the veterinarians were worried that she'd had a stroke.

They asked if I'd come to the zoo and image the animal's heart to look for a possible cardiac cause. 

And here's what started coming into very clear focus for me.

Physicians and veterinarians were essentially taking care of the same disorders in their animal and human patients: congestive heart failure, brain tumors, leukemia, diabetes, arthritis, ALS, breast cancer, even psychiatric syndromes like depression, anxiety, compulsions, eating disorders and self-injury. 

Even though I studied comparative physiology and evolutionary biology as an undergrad -- I had even written my senior thesis on Darwinian theory -- learning about the significant overlap between the disorders of animals and humans, it came as a much needed wake-up call for me.

So I started wondering, with all of these overlaps, how was it that I had never thought to ask a veterinarian, or consult the veterinary literature, for insights into one of my human patients?

Why had I never, nor had any of my physician friends and colleagues whom I asked, ever attended a veterinary conference?

For that matter, why was any of this a surprise?

I mean, look, every single physician accepts some biological connection between animals and humans.

Every medication that we prescribe or that we've taken ourselves or we've given to our families has first been tested on an animal. 

But there's something very different about giving an animal a medication or a human disease and the animal developing congestive heart failure or diabetes or breast cancer on their own.

Now, maybe some of the surprise comes from the increasing separation in our world between the urban and the nonurban.

You know, we hear about these city kids who think that wool grows on trees or that cheese comes from a plant.

Well, today's human hospitals, increasingly, are turning into these gleaming cathedrals of technology.

And this creates a psychological distance between the human patients who are being treated there and animal patients who are living in oceans and farms and jungles. 

Physicians and scientists, we accept intellectually that our species, Homo sapiens, is merely one species, no more unique or special than any other.

But in our hearts, we don't completely believe that.

I feel it myself when I'm listening to Mozart or looking at pictures of the Mars Rover on my MacBook.

Here are a few examples of the kind of exciting connections that this kind of thinking has led me to.

Fear-induced heart failure.

Veterinarians had been diagnosing, treating and even preventing emotionally induced symptoms in animals ranging from monkeys to flamingos, from to deer to rabbits, since the 1970s.

Some pluck out patches of hair, others actually cut themselves.

Some animal patients also harm themselves.

There are birds that pluck out feathers.

There are stallions that repetitively bite their flanks until they bleed.

But veterinarians have very specific and very effective ways of treating and even preventing self-injury in their self-injuring animals.

Shouldn't this veterinary knowledge be put into the hands of psychotherapists and parents and patients struggling with self-injury? 

Shouldn't this information be put into the hands of ob/gyn's and family doctors and patients who are struggling with postpartum depression and psychosis? 

To explain it, I'm afraid I'm going to have to air some dirty laundry.

Some physicians can be real snobs about doctors who are not M.D.'s.

So I don't blame the vets for feeling annoyed by my profession's condescension and ignorance.

But here's one from the vets: What do you call a veterinarian who can only take care of one species?

And through Zoobiquity conferences, where we bring medical schools together with veterinary schools for collabortive discussions of the shared diseases and disorders of animal and human patients.

At Zoobiquity conferences, participants learn how treating breast cancer in a tiger can help us better treat breast cancer in a kindergarten teacher; how understanding polycystic overies in a Holstein cow can help us better take care of a dance instructor with painful periods; and how better understanding the treatment of separation anxiety in a high-strung Sheltie can help an anxious young child struggling with his first days of school. 

And one of the best ways we can take care of the human patient is by paying close attention to how all the other patients on the planet live, grow, get sick and heal. 

Thank you. 

