That means I was born in 1964 in a small town in Germany. 

It was a gray November day, and I was overdue.

Last year, we just hit over 600,000, so half of my number. 

What you can see here is the German age pyramid, and there, the small black point at the top, that's me.

By the way, I don't need any forecasts of birth rates for predicting this red area.

And if you compare this red area in 2030 with the red area in 2014, it is much, much smaller. 

So before I show you the rest of the world, what does this mean for Germany?

So what we know from this picture is that the labor supply, so people who provide labor, will go down in Germany, and will go down significantly.

Now, what about labor demand?

That's where it gets tricky.

As you might know, the consultant's favorite answer to any question is, "It depends."

So I would say it depends.

We didn't want to forecast the future.

Highly speculative.

We did something else.

And this is the green line: labor demand.

So Germany will run into a major talent shortage very quickly.

China, with its former one-child policy, will be hit, as well as Brazil and Russia. 

Now, to tell the truth, in reality, the situation will be even more challenging.

What you can see here are average numbers.

Now, the next thing we looked into was robots, automation, technology.

Will technology change this picture and boost productivity?

Now, the short answer would be that our numbers already include a significant growth in productivity driven by technology.

A long answer would go like this.

Let's take Germany again.

Technology will replace a lot of jobs, regular jobs.

So the key question is not if technology replaces some of these jobs, but when, how fast, and to what extent?

Or in other words, will technology help us to solve this global workforce crisis?

Yes and no.

In 1980, less than 10 percent of the production cost of a car was caused by electronic parts.

Today, this number is more than 30 percent and it will grow to more than 50 percent by 2030.

So what does this mean?

And this kind of de-averaging reveals the crucial challenge for governments and businesses. 

So people, high-skilled people, talents, will be the big thing in the next decade.

If they are the scarce resource, we have to understand them much better.

Are they actually willing to work abroad?

What are their job preferences? 

More than 60 percent of these 200,000 job seekers are willing to work abroad.

For me, a surprisingly high number.

If you look at the employees aged 21 to 30, this number is even higher.

If you split this number up by country, yes, the world is mobile, but only partly.

Now, what are the job preferences of these 200,000 people?

So, what are they looking for?

Out of a list of 26 topics, salary is only number eight.

The top four topics are all around culture.

Number four, having a great relationship with the boss; three, enjoying a great work-life balance; two, having a great relationship with colleagues; and the top priority worldwide is being appreciated for your work.

So, do I get a thank you?

Not only once a year with the annual bonus payment, but every day.

And now, our global workforce crisis becomes very personal.

People are looking for recognition.

Aren't we all looking for recognition in our jobs? 

Now, let me connect the dots.

And this global workforce crisis is approaching very fast.

Right now, we are just at the turning point.

So what can we, what can governments, what can companies do?

Number one, a plan for how to forecast supply and demand for different jobs and different skills.

Workforce planning will become more important than financial planning.

Two, a plan for how to attract great people: generation Y, women, but also retirees.

Three, a plan for how to educate and upskill them.

There's a huge upskilling challenge ahead of us.

However, one crucial underlying factor is to change our attitudes.

Employees are resources, are assets, not costs, not head counts, not machines, not even the Germans. 

Thank you. 

