So in the oasis of intelligentsia that is TED, I stand here before you this evening as an expert in dragging heavy stuff around cold places.

I've been leading polar expeditions for most of my adult life, and last month, my teammate Tarka L'Herpiniere and I finished the most ambitious expedition I've ever attempted.

In fact, it feels like I've been transported straight here from four months in the middle of nowhere, mostly grunting and swearing, straight to the TED stage.

So you can imagine that's a transition that hasn't been entirely seamless.

One of the interesting side effects seems to be that my short-term memory is entirely shot.

So I've had to write some notes to avoid too much grunting and swearing in the next 17 minutes.

This is the first talk I've given about this expedition, and while we weren't sequencing genomes or building space telescopes, this is a story about giving everything we had to achieve something that hadn't been done before.

So I hope in that you might find some food for thought. 

It's twice the size of Australia, a continent that is the same size as China and India put together. 

Our journey was, in fact, 69 marathons back to back in 105 days, an 1,800-mile round trip on foot from the coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again.

In the process, we broke the record for the longest human-powered polar journey in history by more than 400 miles.

(Applause) For those of you from the Bay Area, it was the same as walking from here to San Francisco, then turning around and walking back again.

Chris Hadfield talked so eloquently about fear and about the odds of success, and indeed the odds of survival.

Of the nine people in history that had attempted this journey before us, none had made it to the pole and back, and five had died in the process. 

This is Captain Robert Falcon Scott.

He led the last team to attempt this expedition.

Antarctica was, for the most part, a century ago, uncharted. 

Some of you may know the story.

Scott's last expedition, the Terra Nova Expedition in 1910, started as a giant siege-style approach.

He had a big team using ponies, using dogs, using petrol-driven tractors, dropping multiple, pre-positioned depots of food and fuel through which Scott's final team of five would travel to the Pole, where they would turn around and ski back to the coast again on foot.

Scott's team ended up on foot.

And for more than a century this journey has remained unfinished.

Scott's team of five died on the return journey.

And for the last decade, I've been asking myself why that is.

How come this has remained the high-water mark?

Scott's team covered 1,600 miles on foot.

No one's come close to that ever since.

It was as if the marathon record has remained unbroken since 1912.

And of course some strange and predictable combination of curiosity, stubbornness, and probably hubris led me to thinking I might be the man to try to finish the job. 

When I say it was like walking from here to San Francisco and back, I actually mean it was like dragging something that weighs a shade more than the heaviest ever NFL player.

Our sledges weighed 200 kilos, or 440 pounds each at the start, the same weights that the weakest of Scott's ponies pulled.

Early on, we averaged 0.5 miles per hour.

Perhaps the reason no one had attempted this journey until now, in more than a century, was that no one had been quite stupid enough to try.

And while I can't claim we were exploring in the genuine Edwardian sense of the word — we weren't naming any mountains or mapping any uncharted valleys — I think we were stepping into uncharted territory in a human sense.

You've heard that the average American spends 90 percent of their time indoors.

We didn't go indoors for nearly four months.

We didn't see a sunset either.

It was 24-hour daylight.

Living conditions were quite spartan.

Though we did have some technology that Scott could never have imagined.

And the writing was important to me.

As a kid, I was inspired by the literature of adventure and exploration, and I think we've all seen here this week the importance and the power of storytelling. 

The lowest wind chill we experienced was in the -70s, and we had zero visibility, what's called white-out, for much of our journey.

We traveled up and down one of the largest and most dangerous glaciers in the world, the Beardmore glacier.

It's 110 miles long; most of its surface is what's called blue ice.

You can see it's a beautiful, shimmering steel-hard blue surface covered with thousands and thousands of crevasses, these deep cracks in the glacial ice up to 200 feet deep.

Planes can't land here, so we were at the most risk, technically, when we had the slimmest chance of being rescued. 

We got to the South Pole after 61 days on foot, with one day off for bad weather, and I'm sad to say, it was something of an anticlimax.

There's a permanent American base, the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station at the South Pole.

They have an airstrip, they have a canteen, they have hot showers, they have a post office, a tourist shop, a basketball court that doubles as a movie theater.

I think it's a marvelous thing that humans can exist 365 days of the year with hamburgers and hot showers and movie theaters, but it does seem to produce a lot of empty cardboard boxes.

You can see on the left of this photograph, several square acres of junk waiting to be flown out from the South Pole.

But there is also a pole at the South Pole, and we got there on foot, unassisted, unsupported, by the hardest route, 900 miles in record time, dragging more weight than anyone in history.

If you have the right team around you, the right tools, the right technology, and if you have enough self-belief and enough determination, then anything is possible. 

But then we turned around, and this is where things get interesting.

High on the Antarctic plateau, over 10,000 feet, it's very windy, very cold, very dry, we were exhausted.

And it is an exquisite form of torture to exhaust yourself to the point of starvation day after day while dragging a sledge full of food. 

For years, I'd been writing glib lines in sponsorship proposals about pushing the limits of human endurance, but in reality, that was a very frightening place to be indeed.

We had, before we'd got to the Pole, two weeks of almost permanent headwind, which slowed us down.

As a result, we'd had several days of eating half rations.

We had a finite amount of food in the sledges to make this journey, so we were trying to string that out by reducing our intake to half the calories we should have been eating.

As a result, we both became increasingly hypoglycemic — we had low blood sugar levels day after day — and increasingly susceptible to the extreme cold.

Tarka took this photo of me one evening after I'd nearly passed out with hypothermia.

We both had repeated bouts of hypothermia, something I hadn't experienced before, and it was very humbling indeed.

You become utterly incapacitated.

It's like being a drunk toddler.

You become pathetic.

I remember just wanting to lie down and quit.

It was a peculiar, peculiar feeling, and a real surprise to me to be debilitated to that degree. 

They took 12 hours to reach us from the other side of Antarctica. 

Calling for that plane was one of the toughest decisions of my life.

And I sound like a bit of a fraud standing here now with a sort of belly.

I've put on 30 pounds in the last three weeks.

Being that hungry has left an interesting mental scar, which is that I've been hoovering up every hotel buffet that I can find.

(Laughter) But we were genuinely quite hungry, and in quite a bad way.

But getting external assistance like that was never part of the plan, and it's something my ego is still struggling with.

This was the biggest dream I've ever had, and it was so nearly perfect. 

They needed repairing almost every hour.

To give you an idea of scale, this is looking down towards the mouth of the Beardmore Glacier.

You could fit the entirety of Manhattan in the gap on the horizon.

That's 20 miles between Mount Hope and Mount Kiffin.

I've never felt as small as I did in Antarctica.

When we got down to the mouth of the glacier, we found fresh snow had obscured the dozens of deep crevasses.

One of Shackleton's men described crossing this sort of terrain as like walking over the glass roof of a railway station.

We fell through more times than I can remember, usually just putting a ski or a boot through the snow.

Occasionally we went in all the way up to our armpits, but thankfully never deeper than that. 

You can see the ice in the foreground and the sort of rubbly rock behind that.

Behind us lay an unbroken ski trail of nearly 1,800 miles.

We'd made the longest ever polar journey on foot, something I'd been dreaming of doing for a decade. 

As I said, there are very few superficial signs that I've been away.

I've put on 30 pounds.

I've got some very faint, probably covered in makeup now, frostbite scars.

I've got one on my nose, one on each cheek, from where the goggles are, but inside I am a very different person indeed.

I'm still struggling to piece together my thoughts.

But I'm also standing here saying, you know what, that cliche about the journey being more important than the destination?

There's something in that.

The closer I got to my finish line, that rubbly, rocky coast of Ross Island, the more I started to realize that the biggest lesson that this very long, very hard walk might be teaching me is that happiness is not a finish line, that for us humans, the perfection that so many of us seem to dream of might not ever be truly attainable, and that if we can't feel content here, today, now, on our journeys amidst the mess and the striving that we all inhabit, the open loops, the half-finished to-do lists, the could-do-better-next-times, then we might never feel it. 

A lot of people have asked me, what next?

Right now, I am very happy just recovering and in front of hotel buffets.

Thank you. 

