I would like to start with the story of Mary, a woman from an African village.

Her first memories are of her family fleeing violent riots orchestrated by the ruling political party.

Her brother was murdered by the state-sponsored militia, and she was raped more than once just because she belonged to the wrong party. 

One morning, a month before the election, Mary's village was called to another intimidation meeting.

She feels different.

Nobody is allowed to film in these meetings.

You risk your life if you do.

Mary knows that, but she also knows that the only way to stop them and to protect herself and her community is to expose their intimidation, to make sure they understand somebody is following them, to break the impunity they feel.

Mary and her friends were filming for months, undercover, the intimidation of the ruling political party. 

Man: We are now going to speak about the upcoming elections.

Nothing can stop us from doing what we want.

If we hear you are with [The Opposition] we will not forgive you. 

[The Party] can torture you at any time.

The youth can beat you. 

For those who lie, saying they are back with [The Party], your time is running out. 

Some have died because they rebelled.

Some have lost their homes.

If you don't work together with [The Party], you will lead a very bad life. 

The perpetrators saw them too.

Mary and her friends forced the ruling political party not to use violence during the election, and saved hundreds of lives.

Mary is just one of hundreds of people that my organization had helped to document human rights violations using cameras. 

My background should have led me to a different direction.

It was a bit — (Applause) — It was not that bad, I have to say.

In jail, I kept thinking that I need people to know.

I need people to understand what the reality in the West Bank looks like.

I would like to share with you two clips from this project.

Both of them were broadcast in Israel, and it created a massive debate.

And I have to warn you, some of you might find them quite explicit.

The masked men you will see in the first clips are Jewish settlers.

Minutes before the camera was turned on, they approached a Palestinian family that was working their land and told them that they have to leave the land, because this land belongs to the Jewish settlers.

The Palestinians refused.

Let's see what happened.

The masked men that are approaching are Jewish settlers.

They are approaching the Palestinian family.

This is a demonstration in the West Bank.

In a few seconds, he regrets he came to this demonstration.

He's been shot in the foot with a rubber bullet.

He is okay. 

Not all the settlers and the soldiers are acting this way.

We're talking about a tiny minority, but they have to be brought to justice.

These clips, and others like them, forced the army and the police to start investigations.

They've been shown in Israel, of course, and the Israeli public was exposed to them also.

This project redefined the struggle for human rights in the occupied territories, and we managed to reduce the number of violent attacks in the West Bank. 

We understood we were thinking along the same lines, and we decided to establish Videre, our organization, together.

There were four things that I learned.

The first thing is that we have to engage with communities that are living in rural areas, where violations are happening far from the public eye.

We need to partner with them, and we need to understand which images are not making it out there and help them to document them. 

The second thing I learned is that we have to enable them to film in a safe way.

Security has to be the priority.

You can buy them off the shelf.

Now, filming securities go beyond using hidden cameras.

Being secure starts way before the activist is turning the camera on.

The third thing I learned is the importance of verification.

You can have an amazing shot of atrocity, but if you can't verify it, it's worth nothing.

Recently, like in the ongoing war in Syria or the war in Gaza, we've seen images that are staged or brought from a different conflict.

This misinformation destroyed the credibility of the source, and it's harmed the credibility of other reliable and trustworthy sources.

We use a variety of ways to make sure we can verify the information and we can trust the material.

It starts with vetting the partners, understanding who they are, and working with them very intensively.

How do you film a location?

Now, the fourth and the most important thing I learned is how you use images to create a positive change.

To have an effect, the key thing is how you use the material. 

Today, we're working with hundreds of activists filming undercover.

We work with them both to understand the situation on the ground and which images are missing to describe it, who are the ones that are influencing the situation, and when to release the material to advance the struggle.

Sometimes, it's about putting it in the media, mostly local ones, to create awareness.

Sometimes it's working with decision makers, to change laws.

Sometimes, it's working with lawyers to use as evidence in court.

But more than often, the most effective way to create a social change is to work within the community. 

I want to give you one example.

Fatuma is part of a network of women that are fighting abuses in Kenya.

Women in her community have been harassed constantly on their way to school and on their way to work.

They are trying to change the behavior of the community from inside.

In the next clip, Fatuma is taking us with her on her journey to work.

Her voice is superimposed on images that she filmed herself using hidden cameras. 

(Video) Fatuma Chiusiku: My name is Fatuma Chiusiku.

I'm 32 years old, a mother, And Ziwa La Ng'Ombe is my home.

But instead of a peaceful journey to work, each day begins with fear.

Come with me now and use my eyes to feel what I feel.

Grabbed?

Violated by this conductor again?

OY: Today, there is a new front in the fight for human rights.

This is a much more powerful and much, much more effective weapon.

But we have to use its power wisely.

By putting the right images in the right hands at the right time, we can truly create an impact. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

