I'm a lifelong traveler.

And of course the more I flew the more I came to love to fly, so the very week after I graduated from high school, I got a job mopping tables so that I could spend every season of my 18th year on a different continent.

And then, almost inevitably, I became a travel writer so my job and my joy could become one.

And I really began to feel that if you were lucky enough to walk around the candlelit temples of Tibet or to wander along the seafronts in Havana with music passing all around you, you could bring those sounds and the high cobalt skies and the flash of the blue ocean back to your friends at home, and really bring some magic and clarity to your own life.

Except, as you all know, one of the first things you learn when you travel is that nowhere is magical unless you can bring the right eyes to it.

You take an angry man to the Himalayas, he just starts complaining about the food.

And I found that the best way that I could develop more attentive and more appreciative eyes was, oddly, by going nowhere, just by sitting still.

And of course sitting still is how many of us get what we most crave and need in our accelerated lives, a break.

But it was also the only way that I could find to sift through the slideshow of my experience and make sense of the future and the past.

And so, to my great surprise, I found that going nowhere was at least as exciting as going to Tibet or to Cuba.

And of course, this is what wise beings through the centuries from every tradition have been telling us.

It's an old idea.

Imagine a hurricane suddenly sweeps through your town and reduces every last thing to rubble.

One man is traumatized for life.

But another, maybe even his brother, almost feels liberated, and decides this is a great chance to start his life anew.

It's exactly the same event, but radically different responses.

There is nothing either good or bad, as Shakespeare told us in "Hamlet," but thinking makes it so.

And this has certainly been my experience as a traveler.

Twenty-four years ago I took the most mind-bending trip across North Korea.

But the trip lasted a few days.

The trip, in other words, gave me some amazing sights, but it's only sitting still that allows me to turn those into lasting insights.

(Laughter) The Stoics, as far as I know, were not on Facebook.

We all know that in our on-demand lives, one of the things that's most on demand is ourselves.

Wherever we are, any time of night or day, our bosses, junk-mailers, our parents can get to us.

Sociologists have actually found that in recent years Americans are working fewer hours than 50 years ago, but we feel as if we're working more.

We have more and more time-saving devices, but sometimes, it seems, less and less time.

In other words, precisely those beings who have created the technologies that override so many of the limits of old, are the ones wisest about the need for limits, even when it comes to technology.

And Kevin wrote his last book on fresh technologies without a smartphone or a laptop or a TV in his home.

The one thing perhaps that technology hasn't always given us is a sense of how to make the wisest use of technology.

I pick up the Jewish holy book of the Torah -- its longest chapter, it's on the Sabbath.

And we all know that it's really one of our greatest luxuries, the empty space.

In many a piece of music, it's the pause or the rest that gives the piece its beauty and its shape.

And I know I as a writer will often try to include a lot of empty space on the page so that the reader can complete my thoughts and sentences and so that her imagination has room to breathe. 

Now, in the physical domain, of course, many people, if they have the resources, will try to get a place in the country, a second home.

I sometimes think I'd rather give up meat or sex or wine than the chance to check on my emails.

(Laughter) And every season I do try to take three days off on retreat but a part of me still feels guilty to be leaving my poor wife behind and to be ignoring all those seemingly urgent emails from my bosses and maybe to be missing a friend's birthday party.

But as soon as I get to a place of real quiet, I realize that it's only by going there that I'll have anything fresh or creative or joyful to share with my wife or bosses or friends.

And my life then, as it happened, was pretty much the one I might have dreamed of as a little boy.

I had really interesting friends and colleagues, I had a nice apartment on Park Avenue and 20th Street.

Even as a child I would just look at a painting of Kyoto and feel I recognized it; I knew it before I ever laid eyes on it.

I have never once had to use a cell phone there.

I almost never have to look at the time, and every morning when I wake up, really the day stretches in front of me like an open meadow.

Some people I know, just before they go to sleep, instead of scrolling through their messages or checking out YouTube, just turn out the lights and listen to some music, and notice that they sleep much better and wake up much refreshed.

Something in us, I think, is crying out for the sense of intimacy and depth that we get from people like that.

And it's only by stepping back, and then further back, and holding still, that we can begin to see what the canvas means and to catch the larger picture.

And a few people do that for us by going nowhere. 

So, in an age of acceleration, nothing can be more exhilarating than going slow.

And in an age of distraction, nothing is so luxurious as paying attention.

And in an age of constant movement, nothing is so urgent as sitting still.

So you can go on your next vacation to Paris or Hawaii, or New Orleans; I bet you'll have a wonderful time.

But, if you want to come back home alive and full of fresh hope, in love with the world, I think you might want to try considering going nowhere.

