But also, these cultures, these indigenous cultures, are disappearing much faster than the forests themselves.

And the greatest and most endangered species in the Amazon Rainforest is not the jaguar, it's not the harpy eagle, it's the isolated and uncontacted tribes. 

It didn't work.

The pain disappeared for seven months.

When it came back, I went to see the shaman again.

He gave me the same treatment, and I've been cured for three years now.

Who would you rather be treated by?

Where's the cure for breast cancer?

Where's the cure for schizophrenia?

Where's the cure for acid reflux?

Where's the cure for insomnia?

Western treatment are injections of antimony.

This man cures it with three plants from the Amazon Rainforest. 

This is the magic frog.

My colleague, the late great Loren McIntyre, discoverer of the source lake of the Amazon, Laguna McIntyre in the Peruvian Andes, was lost on the Peru-Brazil border about 30 years ago.

He was rescued by a group of isolated Indians called the Matsés.

They beckoned for him to follow them into the forest, which he did.

It turns out, they're highly hallucinogenic.

McIntyre wrote about this and it was read by the editor of High Times magazine.

You see that ethnobotanists have friends in all sorts of strange cultures.

I took him to Los Angeles to meet a foundation officer looking for support for monies to protect their culture.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

But all is not rosy in learning from nature about new medicines.

This is a frontline treatment for hypertension.

Hypertension causes over 10 percent of all deaths on the planet every day.

This is not an acceptable way of doing business. 

The rainforest has been called the greatest expression of life on Earth.

Here in Brazil, in the Amazon, around the world.

I took this picture from a small plane flying over the eastern border of the Xingu indigenous reserve in the state of Mato Grosso to the northwest of here.

The top half of the picture, you see where the Indians live.

Here you see the face of my friend Pohnay.

When I was a teenager rocking out to the Rolling Stones in my hometown of New Orleans, Pohnay was a forest nomad roaming the jungles of the northeast Amazon in a small band, looking for game, looking for medicinal plants, looking for a wife, in other small nomadic bands.

But it's people like these that know things that we don't, and they have lots of lessons to teach us. 

These cultures that once danced, made love, sang to the gods, worshipped the forest, all that's left is an imprint in stone, as you see here. 

Why are these people isolated?

They know we exist, they know there's an outside world.

This is a form of resistance.

The demand for natural rubber, which came from the Amazon, set off the botanical equivalent of a gold rush.

And remember, these are preliterate societies.

The elders are the libraries.

Every time a shaman dies, it's as if a library has burned down.

These are, in fact, different tribes.

But the world is changing.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

This is a picture of actual contact.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

But let me conclude by saying, this work can be spiritually rewarding, but it's difficult and it can be dangerous.

Thanks again. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

