I want you guys to imagine that you're a soldier running through the battlefield.

Now, you're shot in the leg with a bullet, which severs your femoral artery.

Now, this bleed is extremely traumatic and can kill you in less than three minutes.

Unfortunately, by the time that a medic actually gets to you, what the medic has on his or her belt can take five minutes or more, with the application of pressure, to stop that type of bleed. 

So now, before we do this, we have to take a much closer look at actually how does the body work.

So now, everybody here knows that the body is made up of cells.

So the cell is the most basic unit of life.

But not many people know what else.

But it actually turns out that your cells sit in this mesh of complicated fibers, proteins and sugars known as the extracellular matrix.

So now, the ECM is actually this mesh that holds the cells in place, provides structure for your tissues, but it also gives the cells a home.

It allows them to feel what they're doing, where they are, and tells them how to act and how to behave. 

And it actually turns out that the extracellular matrix is different from every single part of the body.

So now, for example, think of the rainforest.

You have the canopy, you have the understory, and you have the forest floor.

Now, all of these parts of the forest are made up of different plants, and different animals call them home.

So just like that, the extracellular matrix is incredibly diverse in three dimensions.

So now, behind me is an animation of the extracellular matrix.

So as you see, your cells sit in this complicated mesh and as you move throughout the tissue, the extracellular matrix changes.

So when I was a freshman at NYU, what I discovered was you could actually take small pieces of plant-derived polymers and reassemble them onto the wound.

So that means if you put it onto liver, it turns into something that looks like liver, and if you put it onto skin, it turns into something that looks just like skin.

So when you put the gel on, it actually reassembles into this local tissue.

So now, this type of bleed is incredibly traumatic, and like I said before, would actually take five minutes or more with pressure to be able to stop.

So now this technology, by January, will be in the hands of veterinarians, and we're working very diligently to try to get it into the hands of doctors, hopefully within the next year. 

But really, once again, I want you guys to imagine that you are a soldier running through a battlefield.

Now, you get hit in the leg with a bullet, and instead of bleeding out in three minutes, you pull a small pack of gel out of your belt, and with the press of a button, you're able to stop your own bleed and you're on your way to recovery. 

Thank you very much. 

