But in the vast majority of these cultures, only about five or ten percent of men actually do have several wives.

Having several partners can be a toothache.

In fact, co-wives can fight with each other, sometimes they can even poison each other's children.

And you've got to have a lot of cows, a lot of goats, a lot of money, a lot of land, in order to build a harem. 

We are a pair-bonding species.

Ninety-seven percent of mammals do not pair up to rear their young; human beings do.

I'm not suggesting that we're not -- that we're necessarily sexually faithful to our partners.

How is technology changing love?

I'm going to say almost not at all.

And together, these three brain systems -- with many other parts of the brain -- orchestrate our sexual, our romantic and our family lives. 

They lie in the most primitive parts of the brain, linked with energy, focus, craving, motivation, wanting and drive.

In this case, the drive to win life's greatest prize: a mating partner.

They evolved over 4.4 million years ago among our first ancestors, and they're not going to change if you swipe left or right on Tinder. 

But, you know -- is this actually dramatically changing love?

What about the late 1940s, when the automobile became very popular and we suddenly had rolling bedrooms? 

How about the introduction of the birth control pill?

Unchained from the great threat of pregnancy and social ruin, women could finally express their primitive and primal sexuality. 

Even dating sites are not changing love.

I'm Chief Scientific Advisor to Match.com, I've been it for 11 years.

Technology is not going to change that. 

Technology is also not going to change who you choose to love.

I then put that questionnaire on various dating sites in 40 countries.

Fourteen million or more people have now taken the questionnaire, and I've been able to watch who's naturally drawn to whom. 

Curious, creative people need people like themselves.

In that way, similarity attracts.

In the other two cases, opposites attract.

It's associated with the concept of paradox of choice.

For millions of years, we lived in little hunting and gathering groups.

You didn't have the opportunity to choose between 1,000 people on a dating site.

I arrived at this during my work with Match.com.

Every year for the last six years, we've done a study called "Singles in America."

We don't poll the Match population, we poll the American population.

We use 5,000-plus people, a representative sample of Americans based on the US census. 

Americans think that this is reckless.

And I stumbled, then, on a statistic that really came home to me.

They're terrified of the social, legal, emotional, economic consequences of divorce.

And actually, what's happening is, what we're seeing is a real expansion of the precommitment stage before you tie the knot.

And even in cultures around the world where they're not marrying as often, they are settling down eventually with a long-term partner. 

Women commuted to work to gather their fruits and vegetables.

They came home with 60 to 80 percent of the evening meal.

The double-income family was the rule.

And women were regarded as just as economically, socially and sexually powerful as men. 

These are gone.

They are going, and in many places, they are gone. 

We are right now in a marriage revolution.

We all have problems.

But in fact, I think the poet Randall Jarrell really sums it up best.

He said, "The dark, uneasy world of family life -- where the greatest can fail, and the humblest succeed."

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Kelly Stoetzel: Thank you so much for that, Helen.

As you know, there's another speaker here with us that works in your same field.

She comes at it from a different perspective.

Esther Perel is a psychotherapist who works with couples.

You study data, Esther studies the stories the couples tell her when they come to her for help.

So Esther, when you were watching Helen's talk, was there any part of it that resonated with you through the lens of your own work that you'd like to comment on? 

So Esther, when you were watching Helen's talk, was there any part of it that resonated with you through the lens of your own work that you'd like to comment on? 

And we have shifted it to a model of free choice and individual rights, and self-fulfillment and happiness.

So we've created what I call this thing of "stable ambiguity."

Stable ambiguity is when you are too afraid to be alone but also not really willing to engage in intimacy-building.

It's a set of tactics that kind of prolong the uncertainty of a relationship but also the uncertainty of the breakup.

So, here on the internet you have three major ones.

Yeah? 

And then comes ghosting.

Yeah? 

Well, I've got three points here, right?

That's not what people used to say -- 

HF: That's exactly right. 

We went from a production economy to a service economy. 

We did it in the larger culture, and we're doing it in marriage. 

HF: Right, no question about it.

You see all of these nuances. 

Basically, what I've been talking about is your temperament.

And that temperament is certainly going to change with changing times and changing beliefs. 

And in terms of the paradox of choice, there's no question about it that this is a pickle.

HF: I do want to say one more thing.

The bottom line is, in hunting and gathering societies, they tended to have two or three partners during the course of their lives.

They weren't square!

What are the opportunities here?

How do I handle this there?

And so I think we're seeing another play-out of that now. 

KS: Well, thank you both so much.

I think you're going to have a million dinner partners for tonight! 

