The Earth needs no introduction.

It needs no introduction in part because the Apollo 17 astronauts, when they were hurtling around the moon in 1972, took this iconic image.

It galvanized a whole generation of human beings to realize that we're on Spaceship Earth, fragile and finite as it is, and that we need to take care of it.

But while this picture is beautiful, it's static, and the Earth is constantly changing.

It's changing on days' time scales with human activity.

And the satellite imagery we have of it today is old.

Typically, years old.

And that's important because you can't fix what you can't see.

What we'd ideally want is images of the whole planet every day.

So, what's standing in our way? 

What's the problem?

This one weighs three tons.

It's six meters tall, four meters wide.

It took up the entire fairing of a rocket just to launch it.

One satellite, one rocket.

It cost 855 million dollars.

Satellites like these have done an amazing job at helping us to understand our planet.

But if we want to understand it much more regularly, we need lots of satellites, and this model isn't scalable. 

So me and my friends, we started Planet Labs to make satellites ultra-compact and small and highly capable.

This is not a scale model, this is the real size.

But ours have a humanitarian mission, so we wanted to call them Doves.

And not just one, but many. 

It all started in our garage.

Yes, we built our first satellite prototype in our garage.

Now, this is pretty normal for a Silicon Valley company that we are, but we believe it's the first time for a space company.

We use "release early, release often" on our software.

And we take a different risk approach.

We take them outside and test them.

Now, what has bonded our team over the years is the idea of democratizing access to satellite information.

Our entire team is passionate about using satellites to help humanity.

You could say we're space geeks, but not only do we care about what's up there, we care about what's down here, too. 

I'm going to show you a video from just four weeks ago of two of our satellites being launched from the International Space Station.

This is not an animation, this is a video taken by the astronaut looking out of the window.

It gives you a bit of a sense of scale of our two satellites.

It's like some of the smallest satellites ever are being launched from the biggest satellite ever.

So we didn't just launch two of them like this, we launched 28 of them.

But that's just the beginning.

You see, we're going to launch more than 100 of these satellites like these over the course of the next year.

It's going to be the largest constellation of satellites in human history.

They're all cameras pointed down, and they slowly scan across as the Earth rotates underneath.

The Earth rotates every 24 hours, so we scan every point on the planet every 24 hours.

It's a line scanner for the planet.

We don't take a picture of anywhere on the planet every day, we take a picture of every single place on the planet every day.

This is the very first picture taken by our satellite.

It happened to be over UC-Davis' campus in California when we turned the camera on.

But what's even cooler is when we compare it to the previous latest image of that area, which was taken many months ago.

And the image on the left is from our satellite, and we see buildings are being built.

The general point is that we will be able to track urban growth as it happens around the whole world in all cities, every day. 

Water as well. 

Thank you.

Thank you.

We'll be able to see the extent of all water bodies around the whole world every day and help water security.

From water security to food security.

This is a beautiful image that was taken just a few hours ago when the satellite was flying over Argentina.

And we have decided, therefore, that the best thing that we could do with our data is to ensure universal access to it.

We want to ensure everyone can see it.

Thank you.

Thank you.

(Applause) We want to empower NGOs and companies and scientists and journalists to be able to answer the questions that they have about the planet.

We want to enable the developer community to run their apps on our data.

In short, we want to democratize access to information about our planet. 

And we believe that together, we can help to take care of our Spaceship Earth.

What problems would you solve?

What exploration would you do?

Well, I invite you to come and explore with us. 

Thank you very much. 

