Vincent Moon: How can we use computers, cameras, microphones to represent the world in an alternative way, as much as possible?

How, maybe, is it possible to use the Internet to create a new form of cinema?

And actually, why do we record? 

He had a website, La Blogothèque, dedicated to independent music.

We are going to see a few extracts now. 

We wanted to create another type of intimacy using all those new technologies.

After a while, I got a bit — I wanted to go somewhere else.

In Peru, they drink pisco sour.

Well, when I arrived in Peru, actually, I had no idea about what I would do there.

And I just had one phone number, actually, of one person.

By living in such a way, by working without any structure, I was able to react to the moment and to decide, oh, this is important to make now.

This is important to record that whole person.

This is important to create this exchange.

I was researching on music, trying to pull, trying to get closer to a certain origin of it.

It's research on the new spiritualities all around the country.

Why do we record?

I was still there.

I really believe cinema teaches us to see.

I think we are recording to regain a certain complexity.

To reinvent life today, we have to make new forms of images.

And it's very simple. 

Muito obrigado. 

VM: I think you break it with your body, more than with your knowledge.

The respect is stepping forward, not stepping backward, and I really think that by engaging your body in the moment, in the ceremony, in the places, people welcome you and understand your energy. 

BG: You told me that most of the videos you have made are actually one single shot.

You don't do much editing.

I mean, you edited the ones for us at the beginning of the sessions because of the length, etc.

Otherwise, you just go in and capture whatever happens in front of your eyes without much planning, and so is that the case?

It's correct? 

Tell us a couple of things. 

BG: The man who is going to appear onstage momentarily, and Vincent's going to introduce him, is one of the subjects of one of his past videos.

When did you do a video with him? 

VM: I guess four years ago, four years in my first travel. 

BG: So it was one of your first ones in Brazil.

VM: It was amongst the first ones in Brazil, yeah.

I shot the film in Recife, in the place where he is from. 

VM: I'll just make it very short.

Naná Vasconcelos: Let's go to the jungle. 

