What has the War on Drugs done to the world?

It's my country's history with alcohol prohibition and Al Capone, times 50. 

Which is why it's particularly galling to me as an American that we've been the driving force behind this global drug war.

Ask why so many countries criminalize drugs they'd never heard of, why the U.N. drug treaties emphasize criminalization over health, even why most of the money worldwide for dealing with drug abuse goes not to helping agencies but those that punish, and you'll find the good old U.S. of A. 

Why did we do this?

But by and large, that's not it.

We don't want gangsters and guerrillas funded with illegal drug money terrorizing and taking over other nations.

No, the fact is, America really is crazy when it comes to drugs.

I mean, don't forget, we're the ones who thought that we could prohibit alcohol.

But here's the good news.

Now it's the Russians leading the Drug War and not us.

That's what Colorado and Washington are doing, and Uruguay, and others are sure to follow. 

So that's what I do: work to end the Drug War.

I think it all started growing up in a fairly religious, moral family, eldest son of a rabbi, going off to university where I smoked some marijuana and I liked it.

I talked my way into the State Department.

I got a security clearance.

And that disparity struck me as this incredible intellectual and moral puzzle. 

There's probably never been a drug-free society.

Virtually every society has ingested psychoactive substances to deal with pain, increase our energy, socialize, even commune with God.

Our desire to alter our consciousness may be as fundamental as our desires for food, companionship and sex.

So our true challenge is to learn how to live with drugs so they cause the least possible harm and in some cases the greatest possible benefit. 

I'll tell you something else I learned, that the reason some drugs are legal and others not has almost nothing to do with science or health or the relative risk of drugs, and almost everything to do with who uses and who is perceived to use particular drugs.

In the late 19th century, when most of the drugs that are now illegal were legal, the principal consumers of opiates in my country and others were middle-aged white women, using them to alleviate aches and pains when few other analgesics were available.

And the first marijuana prohibition laws, all about fears of Mexican migrants in the West and the Southwest.

And what was true in my country, is true in so many others as well, with both the origins of these laws and their implementation.

I used to be a professor teaching about this.

So is legalization the answer?

I mean, look, the markets in marijuana, cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine are global commodities markets just like the global markets in alcohol, tobacco, coffee, sugar, and so many other things.

Where there is a demand, there will be a supply.

Knock out one source and another inevitably emerges.

People tend to think of prohibition as the ultimate form of regulation when in fact it represents the abdication of regulation with criminals filling the void.

Which is why putting criminal laws and police front and center in trying to control a dynamic global commodities market is a recipe for disaster.

And what we really need to do is to bring the underground drug markets as much as possible aboveground and regulate them as intelligently as we can to minimize both the harms of drugs and the harms of prohibitionist policies. 

Now, with marijuana, that obviously means legally regulating and taxing it like alcohol.

The benefits of doing so are enormous, the risks minimal.

Will more people use marijuana?

I think it's going to be older people.

As for the other drugs, look at Portugal, where nobody goes to jail for possessing drugs, and the government's made a serious commitment to treating addiction as a health issue.

Look at New Zealand, which recently enacted a law allowing certain recreational drugs to be sold legally provided their safety had been established.

Look here in Brazil, and some other countries, where a remarkable psychoactive substance, ayahuasca, can be legally bought and consumed provided it's done so within a religious context.

Look in Bolivia and Peru, where all sorts of products made from the coca leaf, the source of cocaine, are sold legally over the counter with no apparent harm to people's public health.

When researchers ask heroin addicts what's the toughest drug to quit, most say cigarettes.

Yet in my country and many others, half of all the people who were ever addicted to cigarettes have quit without anyone being arrested or put in jail or sent to a "treatment program" by a prosecutor or a judge.

But just imagine the drug war nightmare that would result. 

So the challenges we face today are twofold.

But the second challenge is tougher, because it's about us.

The obstacles to reform lie not just out there in the power of the prison industrial complex or other vested interests that want to keep things the way they are, but within each and every one of us.

It's our fears and our lack of knowledge and imagination that stands in the way of real reform.

So here's what I say to teenagers.

That's my drug education mantra: Safety first. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

That was a powerful talk.

Not quite a complete standing O, though, and I'm guessing that some people here and maybe a few watching online, maybe someone knows a teenager or a friend or whatever who got sick, maybe died from some drug overdose.

I'm sure you've had these people approach you before.

What do you say to them? 

And what they've come to understand is that the Drug War did nothing to protect their kids.

If anything, it made it more likely that those kids were put at risk.

And so they're now becoming part of this drug policy reform movement.

So everybody's understanding, the Drug War's not protecting anybody. 

CA: Certainly in the U.S., you've got political gridlock on most issues.

Is there any realistic chance of anything actually shifting on this issue in the next five years? 

