He was that most unlikely of heroes, an economist.

Now, you might think this is a rather dry and dull report.

And you're absolutely right.

It's dry as a bone.

But this report is the foundation of how, today, we judge the success of countries: what we know best as Gross Domestic Product, GDP. 

But first, we have to understand how GDP came to dominate our lives.

Kuznets' report was delivered at a moment of crisis.

It's not a measure of our well-being.

And it shouldn't be a guide to all decision making. 

But we have ignored Kuznets' warning.

We live in a world where GDP is the benchmark of success in a global economy.

Our politicians boast when GDP goes up.

Our societies have become engines to create more GDP. 

But we know that GDP is flawed.

It ignores the environment.

It counts bombs and prisons as progress.

It can't count happiness or community.

And it has nothing to say about fairness or justice.

Do I have enough to eat?

Can I read and write?

Am I safe?

Do I have rights?

Do I live in a society where I'm not discriminated against?

Is my future and the future of my children prevented from environmental destruction?

These are questions that GDP does not and cannot answer. 

Today, I'd like to introduce you to the Social Progress Index.

It's a measure of the well-being of society, completely separate from GDP.

It's a whole new way of looking at the world.

Together, these 12 components form the Social Progress framework.

And for each of these 12 components, we have indicators to measure how countries are performing.

Not indicators of effort or intention, but real achievement.

We don't measure whether governments pass laws against discrimination, we measure whether people experience discrimination. 

Higher is better.

And then, just for comparison, just for fun, on the horizontal axis is GDP per capita.

But let me show you two other countries.

Go, Brazil!

Beating South Africa, then Russia, then China and then India.

Just above Brazil is a social progress superpower — that's Costa Rica.

So let me take away these countries, and then pop in the regression line.

So this shows the average relationship between GDP and social progress.

The first thing to notice, is that there's lots of noise around the trend line.

And what this shows, what this empirically demonstrates, is that GDP is not destiny.

The second thing to notice is that for poor countries, the curve is really steep.

I'll show you an example of Brazil. 

But where does Brazil go next?

Let's say that Brazil adopts a bold economic plan to double GDP in the next decade.

But that is only half a plan.

And it's not just about countries. 

Earlier this year, with our friends from the Imazon nonprofit here in Brazil, we launched the first subnational Social Progress Index.

We did it for the Amazon region.

It's an area the size of Europe, 24 million people, one of the most deprived parts of the country.

This is a tool for anyone to come and use. 

Imagine if we could measure what nonprofits, charities, volunteers, civil society organizations really contribute to our society.

Imagine if businesses competed not just on the basis of their economic contribution, but on their contribution to social progress.

