If there's any power in design, that's the power of synthesis.

The more complex the problem, the more the need for simplicity.

So allow me to share three cases where we tried to apply design's power of synthesis. 

Let's start with the global challenge of urbanization.

Evidence shows that people are better off in cities.

By 2030, out of the five billion people that will be living in cities, two billion are going to be under the line of poverty.

That means that we will have to build a one million-person city per week with 10,000 dollars per family during the next 15 years.

A one million-person city per week with 10,000 dollars per family.

A clue could be in this question we were asked 10 years ago.

And by the way, they said, the cost of the land, because it's in the center of the city, is three times more than what social housing can normally afford.

We had to innovate. 

So what did we do?

Well, a middle-class family lives reasonably well in around 80 square meters, but when there's no money, what the market does is to reduce the size of the house to 40 square meters.

What we said was, what if, instead of thinking of 40 square meters as a small house, why don't we consider it half of a good one?

When you rephrase the problem as half of a good house instead of a small one, the key question is, which half do we do?

Our design was something in between a building and a house.

As a building, it could pay for expensive, well-located land, and as a house, it could expand.

If, in the process of not being expelled to the periphery while getting a house, families kept their network and their jobs, we knew that the expansion would begin right away.

So we went from this initial social housing to a middle-class unit achieved by families themselves within a couple of weeks. 

This was our first project in Iquique 10 years ago.

This is our last project in Chile.

So, with the right design, slums and favelas may not be the problem but actually the only possible solution.

The second case is how design can contribute to sustainability.

But for us, the question of the right environment was a very literal question.

We wanted to have a working space with the right light, with the right temperature, with the right air.

Well, how does that building look, typically?

It's a collection of floors, one on top of each other, with a core in the center with elevators, stairs, pipes, wires, everything, and then a glass skin on the outside that, due to direct sun radiation, creates a huge greenhouse effect inside.

In addition to that, let's say a guy working on the seventh floor goes every single day through the third floor, but has no idea what the guy on that floor is working on.

So we thought, well, maybe we have to turn this scheme inside out.

And what we did was, let's have an open atrium, a hollowed core, the same collection of floors, but have the walls and the mass in the perimeter, so that when the sun hits, it's not impacting directly glass, but a wall.

You may also open those windows and get cross-ventilation.

We just made those openings of such a scale that they could work as elevated squares, outdoor spaces throughout the entire height of the building.

None of this is rocket science.

You don't require sophisticated programming.

It's not about technology.

This is just archaic, primitive common sense, and by using common sense, we went from 120 kilowatts per square meter per year, which is the typical energy consumption for cooling a glass tower, to 40 kilowatts per square meter per year.

So with the right design, sustainability is nothing but the rigorous use of common sense.

Last case I would like to share is how design can provide more comprehensive answers against natural disasters.

This was new in Chilean urban design, and there were in the air a couple of alternatives.

First one: Forbid installation on ground zero.

Thirty million dollars spent mainly in land expropriation.

But Japan proved that trying to resist the force of nature is useless.

So this alternative was irresponsible.

As in the housing process, we had to include the community in the way of finding a solution for this, and we started a participatory design process. 

(Video) [In Spanish] Loudspeaker: What kind of city do you want?

Vote for Constitución.

Fisherman: I am a fisherman.

Twenty-five fishermen work for me.

Man: So why can't we have a concrete defense?

Done well, of course. 

Man 2: I am the history of Constitución.

And you come here to tell me that I cannot keep on living here?

and my grandchildren and everyone else will.

In danger zone I am not authorized to build.

He himself is saying that. 

It is actually — (Applause) It is actually not even with the families trying to find the right answer.

It is mainly trying to identify with precision what is the right question.

There is nothing worse than answering well the wrong question. 

But every single year, we have problems of flooding due to rain.

In addition, we are in the middle of the forest region of the country, and our public space sucks.

It's poor and it's scarce.

What if, in between the city and the sea we have a forest, a forest that doesn't try to resist the energy of nature, but dissipates it by introducing friction?

A forest that may be able to laminate the water and prevent the flooding?

That may pay the historical debt of public space, and that may provide, finally, democratic access to the river.

The sum of them: 52 million dollars.

It is life itself.

Design's power of synthesis is just an attempt to put at the innermost core of architecture the force of life. 

Thank you so much. 

