I grew up diagnosed as phobically shy, and, like at least 20 other people in a room of this size, I was a stutterer.

Do you dare raise your hand? 

And as I started to look at people, which is mostly all I did, I noticed that some people really wanted attention and recognition.

Remember, I was young then.

And yet there are other people I observed who had what I called a mutuality mindset.

In each situation, they found a way to talk about us and create that "us" idea. 

So my idea to reimagine the world is to see it one where we all become greater opportunity-makers with and for others.

There's no greater opportunity or call for action for us now than to become opportunity-makers who use best talents together more often for the greater good and accomplish things we couldn't have done on our own.

And I want to talk to you about that, because even more than giving, even more than giving, is the capacity for us to do something smarter together for the greater good that lifts us both up and that can scale.

That's why I'm sitting here.

And she had the fervent belief that every new building in Los Angeles should have public art in it.

He had workout regime he did every day.

(Laughter) I think she was following me at that point.

I think they'd make good allies.

They spoke in front of the Los Angeles City Council.

And the council members not only passed the regulation, half of them came down and asked to pose with them afterwards.

They were startling, compelling and credible.

You can't buy that. 

And third, I had to write the story in a way stepping into the reader's shoes, so they could see how these trends could affect their lives.

That's what opportunity-makers do. 

This world is calling out for us to have a collective mindset, and I believe in doing that.

It's especially important now.

Why is it important now?

But here's the icing on the cake: It's not just the first opportunity that you do with somebody else that's probably your greatest, as an institution or an individual.

It's after you've had that experience and you trust each other.

They're frequent travelers.

Not only that, years later he was also teaching racquetball.

Years after that, he was teaching the racquetball teachers.

So what I'm asking you is, the world is hungry.

Thank you very much.

