And today I will tell you about five of them and their particular features and why these plants are so unique. 

Take a look at this plant.

I call it benjoin in the local vernacular, and the botanical name is Terminalia bentzoe, subspecies bentzoe.

This subspecies is endemic to Mauritius, and its particular feature is its heterophylly.

What do I mean by heterophylly?

It's that the same plant has got leaves that are different shapes and sizes.

Now, these plants have evolved very far away from the mainland, and within specific ecosystems.

Often, these particular features have evolved as a response to the threat presented by the local fauna, in this case, grazing tortoises.

Tortoises are known to have poor eyesight, and as such, they tend to avoid the plants they don't recognize.

So this evolutionary foil safeguards the plant against these rather cute animals, and protects it and of course ensures its survival. 

The reason for that is that we tend to overlook the diversity and the variety of the natural world.

These particular habitats are unique and they are host to a whole lot of plants.

We don't realize how valuable and how precious these resources are, and yet, through our insouciance, we keep on destroying them.

We know plants have a fundamental role to play.

And as you can see, the island of Mauritius where I work and where I live, belongs to one such biodiversity hotspot, and I study the unique plants on the island for their biomedical applications. 

Now, the local people, they used a decoction of the leaves against infectious diseases.

Now, could this plant be the answer to antibiotic resistance?

You know, antibiotic resistance is proving to be a big challenge globally.

While we may not be sure, one thing is certain: we will not want this plant to disappear.

But the harsh reality is that this particular plant is in fact considered to be vulnerable in its natural habitat. 

Now this plant here, the baobab, could be part of the answer.

It's an underutilized, neglected food plant.

And if you look at this tree again within the African context, in West Africa, it's known as the palaver tree, because it performs great social functions.

From the scientific point of view, there are eight species of baobab in the world.

There's one from Africa, one from Australia, and six are endemic to the island of Madagascar.

The one I have showed you is the one from Africa, Adansonia digitata.

The monkeys are not stupid animals.

They know what's good for them.

And this is one of the reasons why the nutrition companies of this world, they are looking for this fruit to provide what we know as reinforced food.

And if you look at the trunk, the trunk, of course, safeguards water, which is often harvested by a thirsty traveler, and the leaves are used in traditional medicine against infectious disease.

Now, you can see now why the Africans consider it to be the tree of life.

What I have showed you here is only the species from Africa, Adansonia digitata.

Now here you'll find that even Jesus has competition.

Now, us human beings, we're always on the lookout for the elixir of youth.

We don't want to get old, and rightly so.

Why should we, especially if you can afford it?

And this gives you an indication of what the plant looks like before.

Now, if you are an inexperienced gardener, the first thing you'll do when you visit the garden is to uproot this plant because it's dead.

But if you water it, this is what you get.

Absolutely amazing.

And this plant, in fact, is giving the cosmetic chemists very important ingredients that are actually finding ways to slow down the aging process and at the same time reinforce the cells against the onslaught of environmental toxins. 

Let me finish with just one last example.

We call it a weed.

And the cosmetic companies are already using it to make regenerating cream. 

Now, there is an ancient saying that for every disease known to mankind, there is a plant to cure it.

But you know, there is no such thing as a weed.

It's a plant.

Thank you. 

