It was for a law firm recruitment dinner, and I remember beforehand the waitress walked around and asked whether we wanted some wine, so I said, "Sure, I'll take some white wine."

And she immediately said, "Would you like sauvignon blanc or chardonnay?"

I didn't come from the elites.

I didn't come from the Northeast or from San Francisco.

I came from a southern Ohio steel town, and it's a town that's really struggling in a lot of ways, ways that are indicative of the broader struggles of America's working class.

Heroin has moved in, killing a lot of people, people I know.

Family violence, domestic violence, and divorce have torn apart families.

And there's a very unique sense of pessimism that's moved in.

Think about rising mortality rates in these communities and recognize that for a lot of these folks, the problems that they're seeing are actually causing rising death rates in their own communities, so there's a very real sense of struggle. 

I had a very front-row seat to that struggle.

My family has been part of that struggle for a very long time.

I come from a family that doesn't have a whole lot of money.

The addiction that plagued my community also plagued my family, and even, sadly, my own mom.

And one of the things we've learned, unfortunately, is that upward mobility isn't as high as we'd like it to be in this country, and interestingly, it's very geographically distributed.

The American Dream in those parts of the country is in a very real sense just a dream. 

So why is that happening?

So one reason is obviously economic or structural.

So you think of these areas.

They're beset by these terrible economic trends, built around industries like coal and steel that make it harder for folks to get ahead.

That's certainly one problem.

There's also the problem of brain drain, where the really talented people, because they can't find high-skilled work at home, end up moving elsewhere, so they don't build a business or non-profit where they're from, they end up going elsewhere and taking their talents with them.

There are failing schools in a lot of these communities, failing to give kids the educational leg up that really makes it possible for kids to have opportunities later in life.

These things are all important.

I don't mean to discount these structural barriers.

But when I look back at my life and my community, something else was going on, something else mattered.

It's difficult to quantify, but it was no less real. 

There was a sense that kids had that their choices didn't matter.

No matter what happened, no matter how hard they worked, no matter how hard they tried to get ahead, nothing good would happen.

So that's a tough feeling to grow up around.

That's a tough mindset to penetrate, and it leads sometimes to very conspiratorial places.

So depending on your politics, you might think that affirmative action is either a wise or an unwise way to promote diversity in the workplace or the classroom.

But if you grow up in an area like this, you see affirmative action as a tool to hold people like you back.

That's especially true if you're a member of the white working class.

You see it as something that isn't just about good or bad policy.

You see it as something that's actively conspiring, where people with political and financial power are working against you.

So if you think about what do you do when you grow up in that world, you can respond in a couple of ways.

Seriously.

It's a very significant problem. 

I didn't know, for example, that you had to go to law school to be a lawyer.

I remember I learned this when I got the financial aid letter from Yale for myself, tens of thousands of dollars in need-based aid, which is a term I had never heard before.

But I turned to my aunt when I got that letter and said, "You know, I think this just means that for the first time in my life, being poor has paid really well."

So I didn't have access to that information because the social networks around me didn't have access to that information.

I learned from my community how to shoot a gun, how to shoot it well.

I learned how to make a damn good biscuit recipe.

The trick, by the way, is frozen butter, not warm butter.

But I didn't learn how to get ahead.

Economists call the value that we gain from our informal networks, from our friends and colleagues and family "social capital."

The social capital that I had wasn't built for 21st century America, and it showed. 

Importantly, they're not just commonplace in my family right now.

They're also multigenerational.

But what ended up happening is that they exposed their kids to a lot of the childhood trauma that had gone back many generations.

My mom was 12 when she saw my grandma set my grandfather on fire.

Think about the way that that affects a child's mind. 

And think about what that really means.

If you're a low-income kid, almost half of you face multiple instances of childhood trauma.

This is not an isolated problem.

This is a very significant issue. 

We know what happens to the kids who experience that life.

But something unexpected happened.

I did beat the odds.

Things turned up for me.

So what happened? 

They provided me a stable home, a stable family.

They made sure that when my parents weren't able to do the things that kids need, they stepped in and filled that role.

My grandma especially did two things that really matter.

One, she provided that peaceful home that allowed me to focus on homework and the things that kids should be focused on.

And yet she recognized that life wasn't fair.

But mamaw was able to strike that balance. 

These are things my community didn't teach me.

But without the Marine Corps, I would have never had access to that knowledge.

I would have had a financial calamity, frankly. 

The last thing I want to say is that I had a lot of good fortune in the mentors and people who have played an important role in my life.

From the Marines, from Ohio State, from Yale, from other places, people have really stepped in and ensured that they filled that social capital gap that it was pretty obvious, apparently, that I had.

We need to ask questions about how we're going to give low-income kids who come from a broken home access to a loving home.

We need to think about how we teach working class children about not just hard skills, like reading, mathematics, but also soft skills, like conflict resolution and financial management. 

Now, I don't have all of the answers.

They just want somebody to show it to them.

I don't have all the answers, but I know that unless our society starts asking better questions about why I was so lucky and about how to get that luck to more of our communities and our country's children, we're going to continue to have a very significant problem. 

Thank you. 

