Well, the reason of course is that they're trying to avoid charges associated with making calls and sending texts. 

Thirty-five million.

So this is one of the largest coordinated actions in human history.

It's remarkable.

It's a really striking story. 

So this is me when I was 12 years old.

I hope you see the resemblance.

And the fax was the tool of my activism.

And at that time, it was the best way to get a message to a lot of people all at once.

I'll give you one example of a fax campaign that I ran.

Well, unsurprisingly, that campaign was wholly unsuccessful.

And so, I went on to discover some better tools.

So what's the moral of this story?

Well, I would argue that there's actually more to it than that.

I'd argue that in the last 20 years, something more fundamental has changed than just new tech.

I would argue that there has been a fundamental shift in the balance of power in the world. 

You ask any activist how to understand the world, and they'll say, "Look at where the power is, who has it, how it's shifting."

And I think we all sense that something big is happening. 

So Henry Timms and I — Henry's a fellow movement builder — got talking one day and we started to think, how can we make sense of this new world?

How can we describe it and give it a framework that makes it more useful?

Because we realized that many of the lessons that we were discovering in movements actually applied all over the world in many sectors of our society.

And I want to talk to you about what new power is today.

And we see new power all around us. 

Now, we're familiar with all of these models.

But what's striking is the commonalities, the structural features of these new models and how they differ from old power. 

Let's look a little bit at this.

Old power is held like a currency.

New power works like a current.

Old power is held by a few.

New power isn't held by a few, it's made by many.

Old power is all about download, and new power uploads.

So we've talked a little bit about what new power is.

Let's, for a second, talk about what new power isn't.

New power is not your Facebook page.

I assure you that having a social media strategy can enable you to do just as much download as you used to do when you had the radio.

Just ask Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad, I assure you that his Facebook page has not embraced the power of participation.

New power is not inherently positive.

More participation, more peer coordination, sometimes distorts outcomes and there are some things, like things, for example, in the medical profession that we want new power to get nowhere near.

And thirdly, new power is not the inevitable victor.

In fact, unsurprisingly, as many of these new power models get to scale, what you see is this massive pushback from the forces of old power.

And so, it's not at all clear that new power will be the inevitable victor. 

That said, keep one thing in mind: We're at the beginning of a very steep curve.

So you think about some of these new power models, right?

And so, what's interesting about new power, is the way it feeds on itself.

Once you have an experience of new power, you tend to expect and want more of it.

And what this gives rise to is a set of values.

New power values prize transparency above all else.

New power values of informal, networked governance.

New power folks would never have invented the U.N. today, for better or worse.

New power values participation, and new power is all about do-it-yourself.

In fact, what's interesting about new power is that it eschews some of the professionalization and specialization that was all the rage in the 20th century. 

So what's interesting about these new power values and these new power models is what they mean for organizations.

So the first is Apple.

In this framework, we actually described Apple as an old power company.

It's absolutely about that beautiful, perfect thing descending upon us in perfection.

And it does not value, as a company, transparency.

In fact, it's very secretive.

Now, Apple is one of the most succesful companies in the world.

So this shows that you can still pursue a successful old power strategy.

But one can argue that there's real vulnerabilites in that model.

I think another interesting comparison is that of the Obama campaign versus the Obama presidency.

And he used crowdfunding to power a campaign.

But when he got into office, he governed like more or less all the other presidents did.

So this is a framework you should look at and think about where your own organization sits on it.

But if you are old power, the most important thing you can do is to occupy yourself before others occupy you, before you are occupied.

Imagine that a group of your biggest skeptics are camped in the heart of your organization asking the toughest questions and they can see everything inside of your organization.

And ask them, would they like what they see and should our model change?

What about if you're new power?

Is new power kind of just riding the wave to glory?

I would argue no.

I would argue that there are some very real challenges to new power in this nascent phase.

Let's stick with the Occupy Wall Street example for a moment.

Occupy was this incredible example of new power, the purest example of new power.

And yet, it failed to consolidate.

So the energy that it created was great for the meme phase, but they were so committed to participation, that they never got anything done.

And in fact that model means that the challenge for new power is: how do you use institutional power without being institutionalized? 

One the other end of the spectra is Uber.

That network is getting denser and denser by the day.

But what's really interesting about Uber is it hasn't really adopted new power values.

By whether the drivers and the consumers who use the service actually believe in it.

Because they're not an exercise of top-down perfectionism, they are about the network.

It's extraordinary.

Uber's drivers are turning on Uber.

They've raised more than a billion dollars in the capital markets.

So will new power elites just become old power and squeeze?

Or will that new power base bite back?

Will the next big Uber be co-owned by Uber drivers?

And I think this going to be a very interesting structural question. 

We have major structural problems in the world today that could benefit enormously from the kinds of mass participation and peer coordination that these new power players know so well how to generate.

And we badly need them to turn their energies and their power to big, what economists might call public goods problems, that are often beyond markets where investors can easily be found.

And I think if we can do that, we might be able to fundamentally change not only human beings' sense of their own agency and power — because I think that's the most wonderful thing about new power, is that people feel more powerful — but we might also be able to change the way we relate to each other and the way we relate to authority and institutions.

And to me, that's absolutely worth trying for.

