Ever notice how we tend to identify ourselves by our wounds?

And where I have seen this survivor identity have the most consequences is in the cancer community.

And I've been around this community for a long time, because I've been a hospice and a hospital chaplain for almost 30 years.

And in 2005, I was working at a big cancer center when I received the news that my mother had breast cancer.

And then five days later, I received the news that I had breast cancer.

And in fact, I thought, well, if you have to have cancer, it's pretty convenient to be working at a place that treats it. 

But this is what I heard from a lot of outraged people.

What?

You're the chaplain.

So now you know. 

Most of it is about feelings and faith and losing and finding your identity and discovering strength and flexibility you never even knew you had.

Now, don't, please, misunderstand me.

We can now talk about cancer without whispering.

We can talk about cancer and we can support one another.

But sometimes, it feels like people go a little overboard and they start telling us how we're going to feel. 

So about a week after my surgery, we had a houseguest.

That was probably our first mistake.

The only reason I did not kill him with my bare hands was because I could not lift my right arm.

We have to decide what it means.

And it doesn't have to be some gigantic, extroverted meaning.

We don't all have to start a foundation or an organization or write a book or make a documentary.

Meaning can be quiet and introverted.

Maybe we make one small decision about our lives that can bring about big change. 

We all loved him, and people were going in and out of his room all the time.

He decided that the meaning of his experience was to know the joy of friendship, and then learn to make friends. 

So what about you?

How are you going to find meaning in your crappy experience?

It could be a recent one, or it could be one that you've been carrying around for a really long time.

What it means today may not be what it means a year from now, or 10 years from now.

It's never too late to become someone other than simply a survivor.

Hear how static that word sounds?

But of course, sometimes it's not outside pressures that cause us to take on that identity of survivor.

Sometimes we just like the perks.

Sometimes there's a payoff.

But then we get stuck.

Now, we all pretty much love the comforting and the clarifying.

The confronting, not so much. 

But now, it was having the opposite effect.

It was pushing people away.

People kept leaving to get coffee.

I didn't want to let that crucified self die.

The Christian story, Jesus was dead a whole day in the tomb before he was resurrected.

Maybe it would be the end of being trapped in our wounds and the beginning of amazing self-exploration and discovery and growth.

Maybe it would be the start of defining ourselves by who we have become and who we are becoming. 

So perhaps survivor was not one of the three things that you would tell me.

No matter.

