I came here to show you the Fotokite.

It's a tethered, flying camera.

But before I do that, I want to tell you a bit about where it came from, what motivated it. 

Just completely independent entity, completely random occurrence, and the image, when I saw it, it really struck me.

Here's one of the panoramas.

You just can't consider this insignificant.

All in a single image, which was really cool to me. 

And I think, in the future, journalism and many other professions, there are flying cameras already quite commonly out there, but I think, you wait a few months, a few years, and for many professions, it's really going to be a requirement. 

Nothing really communicates this scale, for example, in context, in a way that this does.

One is piloting.

So for this image, they flew a camera, a five kilogram device with an SLR under it.

It's quite heavy, lots of spinning, sharp things.

It's a bit uncomfortable to fly, probably also for the operator.

So in the protests, maybe you noticed, they flew over the river so it was quite safe.

For many good reasons, it's just difficult to come up with common sense laws to regulate flying cameras.

There are more and more of them.

You hear about people with Google Glass being attacked.

Here's some personal input I didn't expect.

Just yesterday, I was attacked by a guy who claimed that I was filming him.

But I think there are better solutions.

I think we have to defuse the situation.

We have to come up with responsible solutions that address the privacy issues and the safety, accountability issues but still give us that perspective. 

And this is one potential solution.

And the neat thing about it is, to fly it, there's no joysticks, nothing like this.

You just turn it on and you point in the direction that you want to fly.

You give it a little twist.

That's kind of the way you communicate.

And there it goes. 

(Applause) 

So the interaction is super simple.

It's like a personal flying pet.

It just always maintains a certain angle to you, and if I move around with it, it'll actually follow me naturally.

And of course, we can build on top of this.

So this leash has some additional electronics.

You can turn it on.

So I just shifted its position. 

And it's really safe.

I don't know about you guys in the front row — (Laughter) — but at least in principle, you have to agree that you feel safer because there is a physical connection.

Live demos are hard, right?

Things go wrong all the time.

But no matter what, this thing will actually prevent this thing from going into you.

What's more, it tells you immediately that I am the one responsible for this device.

You don't have to look for someone controlling it. 

Now, I can tell you that it's easy a lot, but I think a really good way to prove that is to grab a second one and launch it.

And if I can do this on stage live, then I can show each and every one of you in five minutes how to operate one of these devices. 

What would you use it for?

What would you use such a camera for in your life? 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

