Let me tell you a story about a little girl named Naghma.

Naghma lived in a refugee camp with her parents and her eight brothers and sisters.

The winter was very harsh, and unfortunately, Naghma's brother died and her mother became very ill.

In desperation, her father went to a neighbor to borrow 2,500 dollars.

After several months of waiting, the neighbor became very impatient, and he demanded that he be paid back.

So simply put, a jirga is a form of mediation that's used in Afghanistan's informal justice system.

At the jirga, the men sat together and they decided that the best way to satisfy the debt would be if Naghma married the neighbor's 21-year-old son.

She was six. 

And if you watched Afghanistan on the news, you may have this view that it's a failed state.

In that nine months, I went around the country and I talked to hundreds of people that were locked up, and I talked to many businesses that were also operating in Afghanistan.

The role of laws is to protect.

And so I started representing people like Naghma pro bono also. 

Now, since I've been in Afghanistan and since I've been an attorney for over 10 years, I've represented from CEOs of Fortune 500 companies to ambassadors to little girls like Naghma, and with much success.

I find that achieving justness in places like Afghanistan is difficult, and there's three reasons.

And the third problem with achieving justness is that even with good, existing laws on the books, there aren't people or lawyers that are willing to fight for those laws.

And that's what I do: I use existing laws, often unused laws, and I work those to the benefits of my clients.

Now let's get back to Naghma.

Several people heard about this story, and so they contacted me because they wanted to pay the $2,500 debt.

That's not how it works in Afghanistan.

And so in order for that to happen, we needed to get the village elders together, we needed to get the tribal leaders together, the religious leaders.

Naghma's father needed to agree, the neighbor needed to agree, and also his son needed to agree.

And I thought, if I'm going to get involved in this thing, then they also need to agree that I preside over it. 

Most — (Applause) Thanks.

And most importantly, the engagement was terminated and Naghma was free.

Protecting Naghma and her right to be free protects us. 

Now, with my job, there's above-average amount of risks that are involved.

I've had a grenade thrown at my office.

It didn't go off, though.

Law as a point of leverage is crucial in protecting all of us.

Journalists are very vital in making sure that that information is given to the public.

Too often, we receive information from journalists but we forget how that information was given.

This picture is a picture of the British press corps in Afghanistan.

It was taken a couple of years ago by my friend David Gill.

According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, since 2010, there have been thousands of journalists who have been threatened, injured, killed, detained.

Too often, when we get this information, we forget who it affects or how that information is given to us.

Matt Rosenberg is a journalist in Afghanistan.

He works for The New York Times, and unfortunately, a few months ago he wrote an article that displeased people in the government.

As a result, he was temporarily detained and he was illegally exiled out of the country.

And I'm happy to say that as of a few days ago, the Afghan government formally invited him back into the country and they reversed their exile order of him. 

If you censor one journalist, then it intimidates others, and soon nations are silenced.

Protecting journalists and our right to receive information protects us. 

We live in a different world.

We live in a world where my eight-year-old daughter only knows a black president.

According to UNICEF, there are currently over 280 million boys and girls who are married under the age of 15.

Two hundred and eighty million.

Child marriages prolong the vicious cycle of poverty, poor health, lack of education. 

At the age of 12, Sahar was married.

She was forced into this marriage and sold by her brother.

When she went to her in-laws' house, they forced her into prostitution.

They used pliers to take out her fingernails.

When I met first Sahar, thankfully, Women for Afghan Women gave her a safe haven to go to.

And so we decided to take this case to the Supreme Court.

Now, this is extremely significant, because this is the first time that a victim of domestic violence in Afghanistan was being represented by a lawyer, a law that's been on the books for years and years, but until Sahar, had never been used.

She stood up, she found her voice, and my girl told them that she wanted justice, and she got it.

What Sahar has shown us is that we can attack existing bad practices by using the laws in the ways that they're intended to be used, and by protecting Sahar, we are protecting ourselves. 

(Laughter) But in all actuality, what I do looks like this.

Now, we can all do something.

Businesses also need to get with the program.

And by working together with a concerted mindset, through the people, public and private sector, we can create a global human rights economy and all become global investors in human rights.

And by doing this, we can achieve justness together. 

Thank you. 

