Their brain does not slosh around like ours does.

The man had cut his finger, he worked processing chickens, and then he started to smell really, really bad.

So bad that when he got in a room with the doctors and the nurses, they couldn't stand being in the room with him.

It was intolerable.

They tried every drug, every other treatment they could think of.

Three years, four years, still smelled putrid.

After five years, it went away on its own.

In New Zealand, Dr. Lianne Parkin and her team tested an old tradition in her city.

It's that you've done something that makes people laugh and then think.

What you've done makes people laugh and then think.

Every year, we get in the neighborhood of 9,000 new nominations for the Ig Nobel prize.

Of those, consistently between 10 percent and 20 percent of those nominations are people who nominate themselves.

Those self-nominees almost never win.

It's very difficult, numerically, to win a prize if you want to.

Well, you get several things.

These are always handmade from extremely cheap materials.

We don't have any money, so we can't give them.

In fact, the winners have to pay their own way to come to the Ig Nobel ceremony, which most of them do.

Last year, though, we did manage to scrape up some money.

It fits 1,100 people, it's jammed to the gills, and up on the stage, waiting to shake your hand, waiting to hand you your Ig Nobel prize, are a bunch of Nobel prize winners.

That's the heart of the ceremony.

Keep in mind, we've given 230 prizes.

When he got there, he went to work in a hospital, and he was curious what kinds of things happen to people that bring them to the hospital.

He looked through the records, and he discovered that a surprisingly large number of people in that hospital were there because of injuries due to falling coconuts.

A team of doctors in Europe published a series of papers about colonoscopies.

Dr. Bodnar came to the ceremony and she explained that she grew up in Ukraine.

And that's where the idea came from.

