I have a confession to make.

My teachers thought there was something wrong with me because I wasn't paying attention in class.

They didn't find anything specifically wrong with me, other than being slightly dyslexic because I'm a lefty.

But they didn't test for curiosity.

Curiosity, to me, is about our connection with the world, with the universe.

It's about seeing what's around that next coral head or what's around that next tree, and learning more not only about our environment but about ourselves. 

As a matter of fact, if you take our planet as the oasis in space that it is and dissect it into a living space, the ocean represents over 3.4 billion cubic kilometers of volume, within which we've explored less than five percent.

But if we're going to explore the final frontier on this planet, we need to live there.

We need to build a log cabin, if you will, at the bottom of the sea. 

And so there was a great curiosity in my soul when I went to go visit a TED [Prize winner] by the name of Dr. Sylvia Earle.

Maybe you've heard of her.

Two years ago, she was staked out at the last undersea marine laboratory to try and save it, to try and petition for us not to scrap it and bring it back on land.

We've only had about a dozen or so scientific labs at the bottom of the sea.

In other ways, it's a legacy.

And so with that visit, I realized that my time is short if I wanted to experience what it was like to become an aquanaut. 

When we swam towards this after many moons of torture and two years of preparation, this habitat waiting to invite us was like a new home.

And the point of going down to and living at this habitat was not to stay inside.

We had megafauna come and visit us.

This spotted eagle ray is a fairly common sight in the oceans.

This particular animal actually circled for 31 full days during our mission.

So mission 31 wasn't so much about breaking records.

It was about that human-ocean connection. 

Because of the luxury of time, we were able to study animals such as sharks and grouper in aggregations that we've never seen before.

It's like seeing dogs and cats behaving well together.

Even being able to commune with animals that are much larger than us, such as this endangered goliath grouper who only still resides in the Florida Keys.

For us, it's just telling us to go back into the habitat and leave them alone. 

Now, this wasn't just about adventure.

There was actually a serious note to it.

In this particular case, we were using a PAM, or, let me just see if I can get this straight, a Pulse Amplitude Modulated Fluorometer.

And our scientists from FIU, MIT, and from Northeastern were able to get a gauge for what coral reefs do when we're not around.

And this gives us a much better gauge of what's happening underwater with regard to climate change-related issues, and how the dynamics of that affect us here on land.

And finally, we looked at predator-prey behavior.

What we realized is not only do they stop taking care of the reef, darting in, grabbing a little bit of algae and going back into their homes, they start spreading out and disappearing from those particular coral reefs.

Well, within that 31 days, we were able to generate over 10 scientific papers on each one of these topics. 

It's available to every one of us.

And that particular camera gives us an insight into what fairly common animals do but we can't even see it in the blink of an eye.

Let me show you a quick video of what this camera does.

You can see the silky bubble come out of our hard hats.

Now, using a cutting-edge piece of technology that's not really meant for the oceans is not always easy.

We sometimes had to put the camera upside down, cordon it back to the lab, and actually man the trigger from the lab itself.

That punch is as strong as a .22 caliber bullet, and if you ever try to catch a bullet in mid-flight with your eye, impossible.

This is an actual sailfin goby, and if you look at it in real time, it actually doesn't even show its fanning motion because it's so quick. 

Quite literally right there I am Skyping in the classroom with one of the six continents and some of the 70,000 students that we connected every single day to some of these experiences.

As a matter of fact, I'm showing a picture that I took with my smartphone from underwater of a goliath grouper laying on the bottom.

We had never seen that before. 

And I've thought about this my whole life.

Nothing is impossible.

And whether it's about climate change or eradicating poverty or giving back to future generations what we've taken for granted, it's about adventure.

Thank you very much. 

