Because to a veteran aid worker, the idea of putting cold, hard cash into the hands of the poorest people on Earth doesn't sound crazy, it sounds really satisfying. 

It's a pretty simple idea, right? 

Well, why did I spend a decade doing other stuff for the poor?

I held two assumptions: One, that poor people are poor in part because they're uneducated and don't make good choices; two is that we then need people like me to figure out what they need and get it to them.

It turns out, the evidence says otherwise.

In recent years, researchers have been studying what happens when we give poor people cash.

Dozens of studies show across the board that people use cash transfers to improve their own lives.

Pregnant women in Uruguay buy better food and give birth to healthier babies.

Sri Lankan men invest in their businesses.

None of these studies found that people spend more on drinking or smoking or that people work less.

In fact, they work more. 

Now, these are all material needs.

In Vietnam, elderly recipients used their cash transfers to pay for coffins.

As someone who wonders if Maslow got it wrong, I find this choice to prioritize spiritual needs deeply humbling.

Are we worth the cost?

The real irony is, for every 100 dollars worth of assets this program gave someone, they spent another 99 dollars to do it.

What if, instead, we use technology to put cash, whether from aid agencies or from any one of us directly into a poor person's hands.

Today, three in four Kenyans use mobile money, which is basically a bank account that can run on any cell phone.

Like the technologies that are disrupting industries in our own lives, payments technology in poor countries could disrupt aid.

It's spreading so quickly that it's possible to imagine reaching billions of the world's poor this way. 

That's what we've started to do at GiveDirectly.

We're the first organization dedicated to providing cash transfers to the poor.

So let's say that's your family.

We show up at your door with an Android phone.

We'll get your name, take your photo and a photo of your hut and grab the GPS coordinates.

Something that five years ago would have seemed impossible we can now do efficiently and free of corruption. 

Today, the logic behind aid is too often, well, we do at least some good.

I believe in aid.

I believe most aid is better than just throwing money out of a plane.

I hope that one day, it will be. 

Thank you. 

