I experienced my first coup d'état at the age of four.

Because of the coup d'état, my family had to leave my native home of Ghana and move to the Gambia.

As luck would have it, six months after we arrived, they too had a military coup.

For a week, we slept under our beds because we were worried that bullets might fly through the window. 

Then, at the age of eight, we moved to Botswana.

This time, it was different.

Then at the age of 12, my family sent me to high school in Zimbabwe.

I graduated from high school in Zimbabwe and I went off to college. 

It had shattered into pieces.

How could a country go so bad so fast?

Now, all these experiences of living in different parts of Africa growing up did two things to me.

The first is it made me fall in love with Africa.

Everywhere I went, I experienced the wonderful beauty of our continent and saw the resilience and the spirit of our people, and at the time, I realized that I wanted to dedicate the rest of my life to making this continent great.

But I also realized that making Africa great would require addressing this issue of leadership.

It made me realize that Africa would rise or fall because of the quality of our leaders. 

Now, one might think, of course, leadership matters everywhere.

It's because in Africa, we have weak institutions, like the judiciary, the constitution, civil society and so forth.

This is the power that African leaders have, and this is why they make the most difference on the continent. 

We've had three generations of leaders, in my mind.

Generation one are those who appeared in the '50s and '60s.

These are people like Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and Julius Nyerere of Tanzania.

They were followed by generation two.

Now these leaders are by no means perfect, but the one thing they have done is that they have cleaned up much of the mess of generation two.

They've stopped the fighting, and I call them the stabilizer generation.

Another example is Erick Rajaonary.

Erick comes from the island of Madagascar.

Now, Erick realized that agriculture would be the key to creating jobs in the rural areas of Madagascar, but he also realized that fertilizer was a very expensive input for most farmers in Madagascar.

Madagascar has these very special bats that produce these droppings that are very high in nutrients.

In 2006, Erick quit his job as a chartered accountant and started a company to manufacture fertilizer from the bat droppings.

Today, Erick has built a business that generates several million dollars of revenue, and he employs 70 people full time and another 800 people during the season when the bats drop their droppings the most.

Now, what I like about this story is that it shows that opportunities to create prosperity can be found almost anywhere.

Erick is known as the Batman.

They need to build these institutions such that we are never held to ransom again by a few individuals like Robert Mugabe. 

Now, all of this sounds great, but where are we going to get this generation four from?

Do we just sit and hope that they emerge by chance, or that God gives them to us?

No, I don't think so.

It's too important an issue for us to leave it to chance.

I believe that we need to create African institutions, home-grown, that will identify and develop these leaders in a systematic, practical way.

But one thing has been troubling me.

Over the next 50 years, this institution will create three million transformative leaders for the continent. 

My hope is that half of them will become the entrepreneurs that we need, who will create these jobs that we need, and the other half will go into government and the nonprofit sector, and they will build the institutions that we need.

But they won't just learn academics.

Thank you. 

