I know a man who soars above the city every night.

In his dreams, he twirls and swirls with his toes kissing the Earth.

This man is my father. 

Paralysis had closed over his body slowly, beginning in his toes, then legs, torso, fingers and arms.

He never lost consciousness.

In that ICU room, I walked up to my father's body, 

and with a quivering voice and through tears, I began reciting the alphabet.

A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K. At K, he blinked his eyes.

I began again.

Just 72 hours after his stroke, he had already embraced the totality of his condition.

Locked-in syndrome is many people's worst nightmare.

As a rabbi and spiritual man dangling between mind and body, life and death, the paralysis opened up a new awareness for him.

He realized he no longer needed to look beyond the corporeal world in order to find the divine.

My mother, sisters, brother and I, we surrounded him in a cocoon of healing.

We became his mouthpiece, spending hours each day reciting the alphabet as he whispered back sermons and poetry with blinks of his eye.

His room, it became our temple of healing.

When we weren't his voice, we were his legs and arms.

I'd ask him again and again to visualize the motion, to watch from within as the finger curled and extended, and to move along with it in his mind. 

The following week, he began ever so slightly to show muscle resistance.

As a documentary photographer, I felt the need to photograph each of his first movements like a mother with her newborn.

I photographed the care and the love that surrounded him. 

In my mind, and in my dreams every night I Chagall-man float over the city twirl and swirl with my toes kissing the floor.

I know nothing about the statement of man without motion.

Everything has motion.

The mouth moves.

We never stagnate.

Life triumphs up and down. 

Instead, he invites me into his space of co-healing to give the very best of myself, and for him to give the very best of himself to me.

Paralysis was an opening for him.

Today, my father is no longer locked in.

But the work will never be finished.

As he says, "I'm living in a broken world, and there is holy work to do."

Thank you. 

