So when I meet refugees, I always ask them questions.

Who bombed your house?

Who killed your son?

Did the rest of your family make it out alive?

How are you coping in your life in exile?

But there's one question that always seems to me to be most revealing, and that is: What did you take?

What was that most important thing that you had to take with you when the bombs were exploding in your town, and the armed gangs were approaching your house? 

But one day, the family got terrible news.

It was time to flee. 

But they would begin a life of grueling hardship and monotony.

There's not a town, a city or a village that is not host to Syrian refugees.

This is generosity and humanity that is remarkable.

Over and well over three million people have crossed the borders and have found sanctuary in the neighboring countries, and only a small proportion, as you see, have moved on to Europe.

What I find most worrying is that half of all Syrian refugees are children.

I took this picture of this little girl.

It was just two hours after she had arrived after a long trek from Syria into Jordan. 

And most troubling of all is that only 20 percent of Syrian refugee children are in school in Lebanon.

It allows them to think of hope rather than hatred. 

This will need to be rebuilt by architects, by engineers, by electricians.

Communities will need teachers and lawyers and politicians interested in reconciliation and not revenge.

Shouldn't this be rebuilt by the people with the largest stake, the societies in exile, the refugees? 

Refugees have a lot of time to prepare for their return.

With wars going on and on, the average time a refugee will spend in exile is 17 years.

We also spent some nice moments of laughter and fun with his beloved brother Ashraf.

Hany is one of 50 million people uprooted in this world today.

Never since World War II have so many people been forcibly displaced.

And there are more and more victims.

They flee across borders like this one.

We captured this on the Syrian border to Jordan, and this is a typical day.

Or they flee on unseaworthy and overcrowded boats, risking their lives in this case just to reach safety in Europe.

So wealthy countries in the world should recognize the humanity and the generosity of the countries that are hosting so many refugees.

And all countries should make sure that no one fleeing war and persecution arrives at a closed border. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

But there is something more that we can do than just simply helping refugees survive.

We can help them thrive.

And imagine living in this camp.

I visited this camp.

It's in Djibouti, neighboring Somalia, and it was so remote that we had to take a helicopter to fly there.

It was dusty and it was terribly hot.

And we went to visit a school and started talking to the children, and then I saw this girl across the room who looked to me to be the same age as my own daughter, and I went up and talked to her.

She should be and she is the future of Somalia. 

A boy named Jacob Atem had a different chance, but not before he experienced terribly tragedy.

He watched — this is in Sudan — as his village — he was only seven years old — burned to the ground, and he learned that his mother and his father and his entire family were killed that day.

So I want to take you back to Hany.

When I told him I was going to have the chance to speak to you here on the TED stage, he allowed me to read you a poem that he sent in an email to me. 

I believe how we treat the uprooted will shape the future of our world.

Hany is at a tipping point.

University is a luxury.

But leave him to languish in this muddy field, and he will become a member of a lost generation.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

