That's the number of kids that never make it to their fifth birthday.

6.6 million children never make it to their fifth birthday. 

It's one of the world's oldest inventions: a bar of soap.

Washing hands with soap, a habit we all take for granted, can reduce diarrhea by half, can reduce respiratory infections by one third.

It can save over 600,000 children every year.

That's the equivalent of stopping 10 jumbo jets full of babies and children from crashing every single day.

Why don't you just shake their hands.

Please shake their hands.

All right, get to know each other.

They look really pretty.

All right.

(Laughter) They don't look so pretty anymore, right?

Pretty yucky, you would agree with me. 

Actually, soap is available.

Even in countries where soap is the lowest, like Ethiopia, we are at 50 percent. 

So why is it?

Why aren't people washing their hands?

Why is it that Mayank, this young boy that I met in India, isn't washing his hands?

They'll keep it away from him so he doesn't waste it.

What's the result of that?

Think about where you learned to wash your hands.

Did you learn to wash your hands at home?

Did you learn to wash your hands in school?

Every second in Asia and Africa, 111 mothers will buy this bar to protect their family.

Many women in India will tell you they learned all about hygiene, diseases, from this bar of soap from Lifebuoy brand.

Iconic brands like this one have a responsibility to do good in the places where they sell their products.

Big businesses and brands can change and shift those social norms and make a difference for those habits that are so stubborn.

Think about it: Marketeers spend all their time making us switch from one brand to the other.

And actually, they know how to transform science and facts into compelling messages.

Government is doing what they can, especially in terms of the pandemics and epidemics such as cholera, or Ebola at the moment, but with competing priorities.

The budget is not always there.

We have friends like USAID, the Global Public-Private Partnership for Handwashing with Soap, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Plan, WaterAid, that all believe for a win-win-win partnership.

And most importantly, win for the most vulnerable.

On October 15, we will celebrate Global Handwashing Day.

Schools, communities, our friends in the public sector and our friends in the private sector — yes, on that day even our competitors, we all join hands to celebrate the world's most important public health intervention.

We've had over 30 million views.

Most of these discussions are still happening online.

I urge you to take five minutes and look at those films. 

I grew up in a family where every dinner conversation was around social justice.

We've reached over 183 million people in 16 countries.

My team and I have the ambition to reach one billion by 2020.

Without it, and without talking about it, we cannot achieve the change that we need. 

Her son, Myo, is her second one.

And next time you think of a gift for a new mom and her family, don't look far: buy her soap.

It's the most beautiful invention in public health. 

