The sense of shame and humiliation in their face is palpable.

It's the sense of, "This is something I'm willing to do only if no one else is watching."

Bad people are those who plot terrorist attacks or who engage in violent criminality and therefore have reasons to want to hide what they're doing, have reasons to care about their privacy.

But by contrast, good people are people who go to work, come home, raise their children, watch television.

The people who are actually saying that are engaged in a very extreme act of self-deprecation.

It's a very desolate place.

But equally essential to what it means to be a free and fulfilled human being is to have a place that we can go and be free of the judgmental eyes of other people.

There's a reason why we seek that out, and our reason is that all of us — not just terrorists and criminals, all of us — have things to hide.

There are all sorts of things that we do and think that we're willing to tell our physician or our lawyer or our psychologist or our spouse or our best friend that we would be mortified for the rest of the world to learn.

People can very easily in words claim that they don't value their privacy, but their actions negate the authenticity of that belief. 

Now, there's a reason why privacy is so craved universally and instinctively.

It isn't just a reflexive movement like breathing air or drinking water.

The reason is that when we're in a state where we can be monitored, where we can be watched, our behavior changes dramatically.

The range of behavioral options that we consider when we think we're being watched severely reduce.

This is just a fact of human nature that has been recognized in social science and in literature and in religion and in virtually every field of discipline.

There are dozens of psychological studies that prove that when somebody knows that they might be watched, the behavior they engage in is vastly more conformist and compliant.

And crucial to this design was that the inmates could not actually see into the panopticon, into the tower, and so they never knew if they were being watched or even when.

The most iconic work of literature about surveillance and privacy is the George Orwell novel "1984," which we all learn in school, and therefore it's almost become a cliche.

The warning that he was issuing was about a surveillance state not that monitored everybody at all times, but where people were aware that they could be monitored at any given moment.

What all of these seemingly disparate works recognize, the conclusion that they all reach, is that a society in which people can be monitored at all times is a society that breeds conformity and obedience and submission, which is why every tyrant, the most overt to the most subtle, craves that system.

Conversely, even more importantly, it is a realm of privacy, the ability to go somewhere where we can think and reason and interact and speak without the judgmental eyes of others being cast upon us, in which creativity and exploration and dissent exclusively reside, and that is the reason why, when we allow a society to exist in which we're subject to constant monitoring, we allow the essence of human freedom to be severely crippled. 

For them, "doing bad things" typically means doing something that poses meaningful challenges to the exercise of our own power. 

It's only those who are dissidents, who challenge power, who have something to worry about.

There are all kinds of reasons why we should want to avoid that lesson as well.

You may be a person who, right now, doesn't want to engage in that behavior, but at some point in the future you might.

Equally critical is that the measure of how free a society is is not how it treats its good, obedient, compliant citizens, but how it treats its dissidents and those who resist orthodoxy.

But the most important reason is that a system of mass surveillance suppresses our own freedom in all sorts of ways.

It renders off-limits all kinds of behavioral choices without our even knowing that it's happened.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Bruno Giussani: Glenn, thank you.

The first one is personal to you.

We have all read about the arrest of your partner, David Miranda in London, and other difficulties, but I assume that in terms of personal engagement and risk, that the pressure on you is not that easy to take on the biggest sovereign organizations in the world.

Tell us a little bit about that. 

Moderator: So his revelations, your analysis, the work of other journalists, have really developed the debate, and many governments, for example, have reacted, including in Brazil, with projects and programs to reshape a little bit the design of the Internet, etc.

There are a lot of things going on in that sense.

But I'm wondering, for you personally, what is the endgame?

At what point will you think, well, actually, we've succeeded in moving the dial? 

GG: Well, I mean, the endgame for me as a journalist is very simple, which is to make sure that every single document that's newsworthy and that ought to be disclosed ends up being disclosed, and that secrets that should never have been kept in the first place end up uncovered.

To me, that's the essence of journalism and that's what I'm committed to doing.

To me, that's the way that privacy can be rejuvenated. 

BG: So Snowden is very, as we've seen at TED, is very articulate in presenting and portraying himself as a defender of democratic values and democratic principles.

But then, many people really find it difficult to believe that those are his only motivations.

And I'm sure many people in the room are wondering the same question.

Do you consider it possible there is that part of Snowden we've not seen yet? 

GG: No, I consider that absurd and idiotic.

