I live in Washington, D.C., but I grew up in Sindhekela, a village in Orissa, in India.

So I wanted to be a poet when I grew up.

But I almost didn't go to college until an aunt offered financial help. 

I had dreams of going to the United States for higher studies.

When the opportunity came, I crossed two oceans, with borrowed money for airfare and only a $20 bill in my pocket.

In the U.S., I worked in a research center, part-time, while taking graduate classes in economics.

And with the little I earned, I would finance myself and then I would send money home to my brother and my father. 

My story is not unique.

There are 232 million international migrants in the world.

These are people who live in a country other than their country of birth.

If there was a country made up of only international migrants, that would be larger, in population, than Brazil.

That would be larger, in its size of the economy, than France.

Some 180 million of them, from poor countries, send money home regularly. 

Those sums of money are called remittances.

Migrants from developing countries, money sent to developing countries — 413 billion dollars.

True, people send 200 dollars per month, on average.

In Egypt remittances are three times the size of revenues from the Suez Canal.

In Tajikistan, remittances are 42 percent of GDP.

And in poorer countries, smaller countries, fragile countries, conflict-afflicted countries, remittances are a lifeline, as in Somalia or in Haiti. 

They actually act like an insurance.

Migrants send more money then.

That decline in poverty, most of it, about half of it, is believed to be because of remittances from India, another poor country.

In El Salvador, the school dropout rate among children is lower in families that receive remittances.

In Mexico and Sri Lanka, the birth weight of children is higher among families that receive remittances. 

Remittances are dollars wrapped with care.

Migrants send money home for food, for buying necessities, for building houses, for funding education, for funding healthcare for the elderly, for business investments for friends and family.

Much as these flows do all that good, there are barriers to these flows of remittances, these 400 billion dollars of remittances.

Foremost among them is the exorbitant cost of sending money home.

Money transfer companies structure their fees to milk the poor.

The global average cost of sending money is eight percent.

Of course, nobody sends money to Venezuela through the official channel.

It all goes in suitcases.

Whereever costs are high, money goes underground. 

And what is worse, many developing countries actually have a blanket ban on sending money out of the country.

Many rich nations also have a blanket ban on sending money to specific countries.

There are.

Many international banks now are wary of hosting bank accounts of money service businesses, especially those serving Somalia. 

Somalia, a country where the per capita income is only 250 dollars per year.

Monthly remittances, on average, to Somalia is larger than that amount.

Remittances are the lifeblood of Somalia.

And yet, this is an example of the right hand giving a lot of aid, while the left hand is cutting the lifeblood to that economy, through regulations.

Then there is the case of poor people from villages, like me.

In the villages, the only place where you can get money is through the post office.

Most of the governments in the world have allowed their post offices to have exclusive partnerships with money transfer companies.

I cannot go to a cheaper option.

This has to go. 

So, what can international organizations and social entrepreneurs do to reduce the cost of sending money home?

Second, governments should abolish exclusive partnerships between their post office and the money transfer company.

For that matter, between the post office and any national banking system that has a large network that serves the poor.

You have seen what has happened there.

Third, large nonprofit philanthropic organizations should create a remittance platform on a nonprofit basis.

They should create a nonprofit remittance platform to serve the money transfer companies so that they can send money at a low cost, while complying with all the complex regulations all over the world. 

The development community should set a goal of reducing remittance costs to one percent from the current eight percent.

If we reduce costs to one percent, that would release a saving of 30 billion dollars per year.

Thirty billion dollars, that's larger than the entire bilateral aid budget going to Africa per year.

It was 8 in the evening, dark, hot, humid.

And in my mind, I could picture the wife waiting for the monthly remittance.

This has to stop. 

It is not only construction workers from Bangladesh, it is all the workers.

A construction worker from Bangladesh, on an average, pays about 4,000 dollars in recruitment fees for a job that gives him only 2,000 dollars per year in income.

That means that for the two years or three years of his life, he is basically sending money to pay for the recruitment fees.

The family doesn't get to see any of it. 

One of the most exciting and newest thing happening in the area of remittances is how to mobilize, through innovation, diaspora saving and diaspora giving.

Most of that money is parked in bank deposits that give you zero percent interest rate.

We must do all we can to make remittances and recruitment safer and cheaper.

And it can be done. 

As for myself, I have been away from India for two decades now.

My wife is a Venezuelan.

My children are Americans.

Increasingly, I feel like a global citizen.

And yet, I am growing nostalgic about my country of birth.

I want to be in India and in the U.S. at the same time.

There is no real urgency for me to send money home.

