I have the feeling that we can all agree that we're moving towards a new model of the state and society.

in our day and age.

Let's have a look at some of the characteristics of this system.

First of all, it's designed for an information technology that's over 500 years old.

And the best possible system that could be designed for it is one where the few make daily decisions in the name of the many.

And the many get to vote once every couple of years.

In the second place, the costs of participating in this system are incredibly high.

You either have to have a fair bit of money and influence, or you have to devote your entire life to politics.

You have to become a party member and slowly start working up the ranks until maybe, one day, you'll get to sit at a table where a decision is being made.

and no one else can understand.

So, it's a system where we can choose our authorities, but we are completely left out on how those authorities reach their decisions.

of a monologue.

Silence, in terms of citizens not engaging, simply not wanting to participate.

Their citizens have access to the ballot boxes.

they need to take to the streets in order to be heard.

To me, it seems like the 18th-century slogan that was the basis for the formation of our modern democracies, "No taxation without representation," can now be updated to "No representation without a conversation."

We want our seat at the table. 

And rightly so.

But in order to be part of this conversation, we need to know what we want to do next, because political action is being able to move from agitation to construction.

My generation has been incredibly good at using new networks and technologies to organize protests, protests that were able to successfully impose agendas, roll back extremely pernicious legislation, and even overthrow authoritarian governments.

that generally lie on the extremes.

for the 21st-century society?

But I truly believe we can't afford to ignore this question anymore.

So, I'd like to share our experience and what we've learned so far and hopefully contribute two cents 

to this conversation.

Two years ago, with a group of friends from Argentina, we started thinking, "how can we get our representatives, our elected representatives, to represent us?"

So the question that motivated us was, can we try and solve some of today's problems with the tools that we use every single day of our lives?

to make it easier for us to participate from our everyday lives.

So first of all, you can get informed so every new project that gets introduced in Congress gets immediately translated and explained in plain language on this platform.

should be, once again, one of its fundamental values.

So DemocracyOS is about persuading and being persuaded.

It's about reaching a consensus as much as finding a proper way of channeling our disagreement.

And finally, you can vote how you would like your elected representative to vote.

And if you do not feel comfortable voting on a certain issue, you can always delegate your vote to someone else, allowing 

for a dynamic and emerging social leadership.

It suddenly became very easy for us to simply compare these results with how our representatives were voting in Congress.

But, it also became very evident that technology was not going to do the trick.

What we needed to do to was to find actors that were able to grab this distributed knowledge in society and use it to make better and more fair decisions.

So we reached out to traditional political parties and we offered them DemocracyOS.

We said, "Look, here you have a platform that you can use to build a two-way conversation with your constituencies."

And yes, we failed.

We failed big time.

We were sent to play outside like little kids.

Amongst other things, we were called naive.

And I must be honest: I think, in hindsight, we were.

Because the challenges that we face, they're not technological, they're cultural.

Political parties were never willing to change the way they make their decisions.

So it suddenly became a bit obvious that if we wanted to move forward with this idea, 

we needed to do it ourselves.

Every single project that got introduced in Congress, we were going vote according to what citizens decided on an online platform.

It was our way of hacking the political system.

We understood that if we wanted to become part of the conversation, to have a seat at the table, we needed to become valid stakeholders, 

and the only way of doing it is to play by the system rules.

affecting directly by those decisions.

It was a very, very bold move for a two-month-old party in the city of Buenos Aires.

But it got attention.

one on the use of public space.

to the 21st century.

I'm not saying it's easy.

But in our experience, we actually stand a chance of making it work.

