This is my niece, Stella.

She's just turned one and started to walk.

It is absolutely gorgeous.

And one of her favorite things to do at the moment is to stare at herself in the mirror.

She absolutely loves her reflection.

She giggles and squeals, and gives herself these big, wet kisses.

It is beautiful.

And like any teenager, she just wants to be liked and to fit in.

Some of them are so nasty, they don't bear thinking about.

This is an average, healthy-looking teenage girl receiving this feedback at one of the most emotionally vulnerable times in her life.

Well, today's teenagers are rarely alone.

Never before have we been so connected, so continuously, so instantaneously, so young.

And as one mom told me, it's like there's a party in their bedroom every night.

There's simply no privacy.

And the social pressures that go along with that are relentless.

This always-on environment is training our kids to value themselves based on the number of likes they get and the types of comments that they receive.

There's no separation between online and offline life.

What's real or what isn't is really hard to tell the difference between.

And where are they looking to for inspiration?

Well, you can see the kinds of images that are covering the newsfeeds of girls today.

Size zero models still dominate our catwalks.

Airbrushing is now routine.

And trends like #thinspiration, #thighgap, #bikinibridge and #proana.

For those who don't know, #proana means pro-anorexia.

But, what's the problem with all of this?

Well, surely we want our kids to grow up as healthy, well balanced individuals.

But in an image-obsessed culture, we are training our kids to spend more time and mental effort on their appearance at the expense of all of the other aspects of their identities.

So, things like their relationships, the development of their physical abilities, and their studies and so on begin to suffer.

Six out of 10 girls are now choosing not to do something because they don't think they look good enough.

These are not trivial activities.

These are fundamental activities to their development as humans and as contributors to society and to the workforce.

One in five are not showing up to class at all on days when they don't feel good about it.

And when it comes to exams, if you don't think you look good enough, specifically if you don't think you are thin enough, you will score a lower grade point average than your peers who are not concerned with this.

And this is consistent across Finland, the U.S. and China, and is true regardless of how much you actually weigh.

But it's also damaging health.

Teenagers with low body confidence do less physical activity, eat less fruits and vegetables, partake in more unhealthy weight control practices that can lead to eating disorders.

They have lower self-esteem.

They're more easily influenced by people around them and they're at greater risk of depression.

And we don't grow out of it.

Have a think about what this is doing to our economy.

But how do we do that?

Well, talking, on its own, only gets you so far.

It's not enough by itself.

If you actually want to make a difference, you have to do something.

We have to help our teenagers develop strategies to overcome image-related pressures and build their self-esteem.

Now, the good news is that there are many programs out there available to do this.

The bad news is that most of them don't work.

The second is media and celebrity culture, then how to handle teasing and bullying, the way we compete and compare with one another based on looks, talking about appearance — some people call this "body talk" or "fat talk" — and finally, the foundations of respecting and looking after yourself.

These six things are crucial starting points for anyone serious about delivering body-confidence education that works.

And let me ask you, when was the last time that you kissed a mirror?

We need to put the people that are making a real difference on our pedestals, making a difference in the real world.

Who have you got in mind?

Is it your wife?

Your sister?

Right now, our culture's obsession with image is holding us all back.

But let's show our kids the truth.

Let's show them that the way you look is just one part of your identity and that the truth is we love them for who they are and what they do and how they make us feel.

And let's work together as communities, from grassroots to governments, so that the happy little one-year-olds of today become the confident changemakers of tomorrow.

