Not infinite concentration of wealth, but the higher the gap between r and g, the higher the level of inequality of wealth towards which society tends to converge. 

Also there is a lot of data that still needs to be collected.

And so I'm going to focus today on this simple force, but that doesn't mean that other important forces do not exist. 

So most of the data I'm going to present comes from this database that's available online: the World Top Incomes Database.

So this is the largest existing historical database on inequality, and this comes from the effort of over 30 scholars from several dozen countries.

So let me just show you a very simple indicator about the income inequality part.

So this is the share of total income going to the top 10 percent.

So let me show you two graphs illustrating fact number two and fact number three.

So first, if you look at the level of wealth inequality, this is the share of total wealth going to the top 10 percent of wealth holders, so you can see the same kind of reversal between the U.S. and Europe that we had before for income inequality.

So wealth concentration was higher in Europe than in the U.S. a century ago, and now it is the opposite.

So remember, for income inequality, the share going to the top 10 percent was between 30 and 50 percent of total income, whereas for wealth, the share is always between 60 and 90 percent.

Okay, so that's fact number one, and that's very important for what follows.

Wealth concentration is always a lot higher than income concentration. 

Fact number two is that the rise in wealth inequality in recent decades is still not enough to get us back to 1910.

So there are really two different parts of the story here.

So what we really want to focus on is the long-run evolution of wealth inequality, and what's going to happen in the future.

How can we account for the fact that until World War I, wealth inequality was so high and, if anything, was rising to even higher levels, and how can we think about the future? 

So let me come to some of the explanations and speculations about the future.

Let me first say that probably the best model to explain why wealth is so much more concentrated than income is a dynamic, dynastic model where individuals have a long horizon and accumulate wealth for all sorts of reasons.

If people were accumulating wealth only for life cycle reasons, you know, to be able to consume when they are old, then the level of wealth inequality should be more or less in line with the level of income inequality.

But it will be very difficult to explain why you have so much more wealth inequality than income inequality with a pure life cycle model, so you need a story where people also care about wealth accumulation for other reasons.

So typically, they want to transmit wealth to the next generation, to their children, or sometimes they want to accumulate wealth because of the prestige, the power that goes with wealth.

So there must be other reasons for accumulating wealth than just life cycle to explain what we see in the data.

Now, in a large class of dynamic models of wealth accumulation with such dynastic motive for accumulating wealth, you will have all sorts of random, multiplicative shocks.

So for instance, some families have a very large number of children, so the wealth will be divided.

Some families have fewer children.

You also have shocks to rates of return.

Some families make huge capital gains.

Some made bad investments.

So you will always have some mobility in the wealth process.

Some people will move up, some people will move down.

So of course some families will consume more than that, some will consume less, so there will be some mobility in the distribution, but on average, they only need to reinvest one fifth, so this allows high wealth inequalities to be sustained. 

Growth was maybe 0.1, 0.2, 0.3 percent, but very slow growth of population and output per capita, whereas the rate of return on capital of course was not zero percent.

It was, for land assets, which was the traditional form of assets in preindustrial societies, it was typically five percent.

Any reader of Jane Austen would know that.

If you want an annual income of 1,000 pounds, you should have a capital value of 20,000 pounds so that five percent of 20,000 is 1,000.

And in a way, this was the very foundation of society, because r bigger than g was what allowed holders of wealth and assets to live off their capital income and to do something else in life than just to care about their own survival. 

Now, one important conclusion of my historical research is that modern industrial growth did not change this basic fact as much as one might have expected.

Of course, the growth rate following the Industrial Revolution rose, typically from zero to one to two percent, but at the same time, the rate of return to capital also rose so that the gap between the two did not really change.

So during the 20th century, you had a very unique combination of events.

First, a very low rate of return due to the 1914 and 1945 war shocks, destruction of wealth, inflation, bankruptcy during the Great Depression, and all of this reduced the private rate of return to wealth to unusually low levels between 1914 and 1945.

And then, in the postwar period, you had unusually high growth rate, partly due to the reconstruction.

You know, in Germany, in France, in Japan, you had five percent growth rate between 1950 and 1980 largely due to reconstruction, and also due to very large demographic growth, the Baby Boom Cohort effect.

Now, apparently that's not going to last for very long, or at least the population growth is supposed to decline in the future, and the best projections we have is that the long-run growth is going to be closer to one to two percent rather than four to five percent.

Here I use the United Nations population projections, so of course they are uncertain.

It could be that we all start having a lot of children in the future, and the growth rates are going to be higher, but from now on, these are the best projections we have, and this will make global growth decline and the gap between the rate of return go up. 

Now, the other unusual event during the 20th century was, as I said, destruction, taxation of capital, so this is the pre-tax rate of return.

This is the after-tax rate of return, and after destruction, and this is what brought the average rate of return after tax, after destruction, below the growth rate during a long time period.

But without the destruction, without the taxation, this would not have happened.

Well, we are very far from this, and from now, what's going on in the real estate sector, the energy sector, is much more important for the total capital stock and capital share. 

Just to give you one example, this comes from the Forbes billionaire rankings over the 1987-2013 period, and you can see the very top wealth holders have been going up at six, seven percent per year in real terms above inflation, whereas average income in the world, average wealth in the world, have increased at only two percent per year.

Now, what could be done?

The first thing is that I think we need more financial transparency.

We know too little about global wealth dynamics, so we need international transmission of bank information.

And to some extent, the fight against tax havens and automatic transmission of information is pushing us in this direction.

Now, there are other ways to redistribute wealth, which it can be tempting to use.

This is a problem.

Expropriation is very tempting.

Just when you feel some people get too wealthy, you just expropriate them.

But this is not a very efficient way to organize a regulation of wealth dynamics.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

In the current political context, how realistic are those?

How likely do you think that it is that they will be implemented? 

So I am not terribly impressed by those who know in advance what will or will not happen.

I think one century ago, many people would have said that progressive income taxation would never happen and then it happened.

So I think it's not that difficult to better coordinate politically.

We are going to have a treaty with half of the world GDP around the table with the U.S. and the European Union, so if half of the world GDP is not enough to make progress on financial transparency and minimal tax for multinational corporate profits, what does it take?

So I think these are not technical difficulties.

I think we can make progress if we have a more pragmatic approach to these questions and we have the proper sanctions on those who benefit from financial opacity. 

BG: One of the arguments against your point of view is that economic inequality is not only a feature of capitalism but is actually one of its engines.

So we take measures to lower inequality, and at the same time we lower growth, potentially.

What do you answer to that? 

TP: Yeah, I think inequality is not a problem per se.

I think inequality up to a point can actually be useful for innovation and growth.

The problem is, it's a question of degree.

And for instance, the kind of wealth concentrations that we had in the 19th century and pretty much until World War I in every European country was, I think, not useful for growth.

This was destroyed by a combination of tragic events and policy changes, and this did not prevent growth from happening.

So we don't want to return to that kind of extreme, pre-World War I inequality.

Having a decent share of the national wealth for the middle class is not bad for growth.

It is actually useful both for equity and efficiency reasons. 

BG: I said at the beginning that your book has been criticized.

Some of your data has been criticized.

Some of your choice of data sets has been criticized.

What do you answer to that? 

TP: Well, I answer that I am very happy that this book is stimulating debate.

So I have responded point by point to every concern.

There is a recent study by Saez and Zucman showing, with new data which I didn't have at the time of the book, that wealth concentration in the U.S. has risen even more than what I report.

And there will be other data in the future.

So taxation is a source of knowledge, and that's what we need the most right now. 

BG: Thomas Piketty, merci beaucoup. 

