Do you need new glasses?

Are you losing your mind?

You run through a quick mental checklist.

No, you seem to be thinking clearly, and your vision is perfectly sharp.

This sudden loss of the ability to recognize faces actually happens to people.

It's called prosopagnosia, and it results from damage to a particular part of the brain.

The striking thing about it is that only face recognition is impaired; everything else is just fine. 

Prosopagnosia is one of many surprisingly specific mental deficits that can happen after brain damage.

These syndromes collectively have suggested for a long time that the mind is divvied up into distinct components, but the effort to discover those components has jumped to warp speed with the invention of brain imaging technology, especially MRI.

Here we go. 

In fact, it's my brain.

We're going through slices through my head like that.

That's my nose over on the right, and now we're going over here, right there. 

The really cool advance with functional imaging happened when scientists figured out how to make pictures that show not just anatomy but activity, that is, where neurons are firing.

So here's how this works.

Brains are like muscles.

So functional MRI picks up on that blood flow increase, producing a higher MRI response where neural activity goes up. 

So to give you a concrete feel for how a functional MRI experiment goes and what you can learn from it and what you can't, let me describe one of the first studies I ever did.

So I was the first subject.

Now this image looks just awful by today's standards, but at the time I thought it was beautiful.

And what that part of my brain is doing is producing a higher MRI response, that is, higher neural activity, when I was looking at faces than when I was looking at objects.

So that's pretty cool, but how do we know this isn't a fluke?

Well, the easiest way is to just do the experiment again.

So the next question was, what does this thing really do?

Is it really specialized just for face recognition?

Well, maybe not, right?

The only way to be really sure that that region is specialized for face recognition is to rule out all of those hypotheses.

So have we finally nailed the case that this region is necessary for face recognition?

No, we haven't.

Brain imaging can never tell you if a region is necessary for anything.

All you can do with brain imaging is watch regions turn on and off as people think different thoughts.

To tell if a part of the brain is necessary for a mental function, you need to mess with it and see what happens, and normally we don't get to do that.

So it turned out by total chance that two of the electrodes happened to be right on top of his face area.

So with the patient's consent, the doctors asked him what happened when they electrically stimulated that part of his brain.

Now, the patient doesn't know where those electrodes are, and he's never heard of the face area.

So let's watch what happens.

It's going to start with a control condition that will say "Sham" nearly invisibly in red in the lower left, when no current is delivered, and you'll hear the neurologist speaking to the patient first.

(Video) Neurologist: Okay, just look at my face and tell me what happens when I do this.

All right? 

Patient: Okay. 

I'm going to do it one more time.

Patient: You just turned into somebody else.

Your face metamorphosed.

Your nose got saggy, it went to the left.

You almost looked like somebody I'd seen before, but somebody different.

Nancy Kanwisher: So this experiment — (Applause) — this experiment finally nails the case that this region of the brain is not only selectively responsive to faces but causally involved in face perception.

So I went through all of these details about the face region to show you what it takes to really establish that a part of the brain is selectively involved in a specific mental process.

Next, I'll go through much more quickly some of the other specialized regions of the brain that we and others have found.

So to do this, I've spent a lot of time in the scanner over the last month so I can show you these things in my brain. 

Imagine taking the skull off and looking at the surface of the brain like that.

We want to see the whole thing, so let's inflate it so we can see the whole thing.

Next, let's find that face area I've been talking about that responds to images like these.

There's another one out on the outside surface again where there's a couple more face regions as well.

Now all these regions I've shown you so far are involved in specific aspects of visual perception.

Yes, we do.

So here in pink are my language regions.

So it's been known for a very long time that that general vicinity of the brain is involved in processing language, but we showed very recently that these pink regions respond extremely selectively.

So that may seem crazy, but actually, we humans do this all the time.

Well, I'm wondering about that too, and we're running a bunch of experiments in my lab right now to try to find a number of other possible specializations in the brain for other very specific mental functions.

And further, he found a similar response in more or less the same location in 10 out of 12 subjects.

So he was pretty stoked, and he was running around the lab telling everyone that he was going to go on "Oprah" with his big discovery.

And his region responded the same to both sets of images.

So it wasn't a food area, it was just a region that liked colors and shapes.

So much for "Oprah."

But then the question, of course, is, how do we process all this other stuff that we don't have specialized brain regions for?

Well, I think the answer is that in addition to these highly specialized components that I've been describing, we also have a lot of very general- purpose machinery in our heads that enables us to tackle whatever problem comes along.

So each of the brain regions that I've described to you today is present in approximately the same location in every normal subject.

What's important to me about this work is not the particular locations of these brain regions, but the simple fact that we have selective, specific components of mind and brain in the first place.

I mean, it could have been otherwise.

The brain could have been a single, general-purpose processor, more like a kitchen knife than a Swiss Army knife.

Instead, what brain imaging has delivered is this rich and interesting picture of the human mind.

So we have this picture of very general-purpose machinery in our heads in addition to this surprising array of very specialized components. 

It's early days in this enterprise.

We've painted only the first brushstrokes in our neural portrait of the human mind.

The most fundamental questions remain unanswered.

So for example, what does each of these regions do exactly?

Why do we need three face areas and three place areas, and what's the division of labor between them?

Second, how are all these things connected in the brain?

To address questions like that, scientists are now scanning other species of animals, and they're also scanning human infants. 

Many people justify the high cost of neuroscience research by pointing out that it may help us someday to treat brain disorders like Alzheimer's and autism.

That's a hugely important goal, and I'd be thrilled if any of my work contributed to it, but fixing things that are broken in the world is not the only thing that's worth doing.

The effort to understand the human mind and brain is worthwhile even if it never led to the treatment of a single disease.

What could be more thrilling than to understand the fundamental mechanisms that underlie human experience, to understand, in essence, who we are?

This is, I think, the greatest scientific quest of all time. 

