Its students defy all norms.

They're the school's biggest risk and also its best bet.

What would happen when these Cuban doctors left?

As a journalist in Havana, I watched the first 97 Nicaraguans arrive in March 1999, settling into dorms barely refurbished and helping their professors not only sweep out the classrooms but move in the desks and the chairs and the microscopes.

More than half the students are young women.

They come from 100 ethnic groups, speak 50 different languages.

WHO Director Margaret Chan said, "For once, if you are poor, female, or from an indigenous population, you have a distinct advantage, an ethic that makes this medical school unique."

Luther Castillo comes from San Pedro de Tocamacho on the Atlantic coast of Honduras.

The nearest healthcare was fatal miles away.

Luther had to walk three hours every day to middle school.

Only 17 made that trip.

Just two Garífuna doctors had preceded them in all of Honduran history.

Now there are 69, thanks to ELAM. 

So Spanish became part of the pre-pre-med curriculum.

Religions ranged from indigenous beliefs to Yoruba, Muslim and Christian evangelical.

Embracing diversity became a way of life. 

Why have so many countries asked for these scholarships?

Here in the United States, where we have healthcare reform, we don't have the professionals we need.

By 2020, we will be short 45,000 primary care physicians.

And we're also part of the problem.

The United States is the number one importer of doctors from developing countries. 

The second reasons students flock to Cuba is the island's own health report card, relying on strong primary care.

A commission from The Lancet rates Cuba among the best performing middle-income countries in health.

Save the Children ranks Cuba the best country in Latin America to become a mother.

Academically, ELAM is tough, but 80 percent of its students graduate.

The subjects are familiar — basic and clinical sciences — but there are major differences.

Fourth, they are taught that a good patient interview and a thorough clinical exam provide most of the clues for diagnosis, saving costly technology for confirmation.

ELAM's graduates: Are they proving this audacious experiment right?

Dozens of projects give us an inkling of what they're capable of doing.

Take the Garífuna grads.

They not only went to work back home, but they organized their communities to build Honduras' first indigenous hospital.

With an architect's help, residents literally raised it from the ground up.

The first patients walked through the doors in December 2007, and since then, the hospital has received nearly one million patient visits.

And government is paying attention, upholding the hospital as a model of rural public health for Honduras. 

ELAM's graduates are smart, strong and also dedicated.

Overwhelming.

Today, with aid of organizations and governments from Norway to Cuba to Brazil, dozens of new health centers have been built, staffed, and in 35 cases, headed by ELAM graduates. 

Yet the Haitian story also illustrates some of the bigger problems faced in many countries.

It's not a question of competencies.

They've done the heavy lifting.

They need the chance to be the doctors their patients need. 

These aren't such new ideas of what medicine should be.

