Women represent 50 percent of middle management and professional positions, but the percentages of women at the top of organizations represent not even a third of that number.

So some of you might be some of those women who are in middle management and seeking to move up in your organization.

Well, Tonya is a great example of one of these women.

I met her two years ago.

In order to move up in organizations, you have to be known for your leadership skills, and this would apply to any of you, women or men.

It means that you have to be recognized for using the greatness in you to achieve and sustain extraordinary outcomes by engaging the greatness in others.

In seeking and identifying employees with high potential, the potential to go to the top of organizations, the skills and competencies that relate to that green box are rated twice as heavily as those in the other two elements of leadership.

These skills and competencies can be summarized as business, strategic, and financial acumen.

In other words, this skill set has to do with understanding where the organization is going, what its strategy is, what financial targets it has in place, and understanding your role in moving the organization forward.

So think about the three elements of leadership as I summarize for you what they told me. 

They said, "We look for people who are smart and hard working and committed and trustworthy and resilient."

So which element of leadership does that relate to?

Personal greatness. 

They said, "We look for employees who are great with our customers, who empower their teams, who negotiate effectively, who are able to manage conflict well, and are overall great communicators."

And then they pretty much stopped.

But how can it be?

Well, there are primarily three reasons that there's this missing 33 percent in the career success advice given to women?

When organizations direct women toward resources that focus on the conventional advice that we've been hearing for over 40 years, there's a notable absence of advice that relates to business, strategic and financial acumen.

This doesn't mean that this advice is unimportant.

What it means is that this is advice that's absolutely essential for breaking through from career start to middle management, but it's not the advice that gets women to break through from the middle, where we're 50 percent, to senior and executive positions.

And this is why conventional advice to women in 40 years hasn't closed the gender gap at the top and won't close it. 

Well, there are primarily two ways.

One is because of the positions they're guided into, and the other is because of informal mentoring and sponsorship. 

So what's women's experience as it relates to mentoring?

Well, this comment from an executive that I worked with recently illustrates that experience.

And he said, "I helped the woman build confidence, I helped the man learn the business, and I didn't realize that I was treating them any differently."

And he was sincere about that. 

So how do we take this idea of the missing 33 percent and turn it into action?

That's what enables that breakthrough from middle management to leadership at the top.

But you don't have to be a middle manager to do this.

One young scientist that works in a biotech firm used her insight about the missing 33 percent to weave financial impact data into a project update she did and got tremendous positive feedback from the managers in the room. 

In other words, the term we use in business is, we have to have strategic alignment.

And executives know this very well, and yet only 37 percent, according to a recent Conference Board report, believe that they have that strategic alignment in place.

So for 63 percent of organizations, achieving their strategic financial goals is questionable.

So let me close with the latest chapter in Tonya's story.

Thank you. 

