And over the years, I have developed an unhealthy obsession with toilets, and I've been known to sneak into toilets and take my camera phone all over the world. 

But along the way, I've learned that it's not just the technical side, but there's also this thing called the culture of crap.

And if you're a wiper, then you use toilet paper or, in some regions of the world where it's not available, newspaper or rags or corncobs. 

And this is not just a piece of trivia, but it's really important to understand and solve the sanitation problem.

And it is a big problem: There are 2.5 billion people in the world who don't have access to adequate sanitation.

For them, there's no modern toilet.

And if you're living in fecal material and it's surrounding you, you're going to get sick.

It's going to get into your drinking water, into your food, into your immediate surroundings.

So the United Nations estimates that every year, there are 1.5 million child deaths because of inadequate sanitation.

That's one preventable death every 20 seconds, 171 every hour, 4,100 every day.

And so, to avoid open defecation, municipalities and cities build infrastructure, for example, like pit latrines, in peri-urban and rural areas.

It's a dirty and dangerous business.

And is this really the solution?

Because essentially, what you're doing is you're using clean water and you're using it to flush your toilet, convey it to a wastewater treatment plant which then discharges to a river, and that river, again, is a drinking water source. 

Or, for example, in some of our research, you can reuse the water by treating it in on-site sanitation systems like planter boxes or constructed wetlands.

So we can open up all these possibilities if we take away the old paradigm of flush toilets and treatment plants. 

NGOs and donor organizations, they can do their best, but it's not going to be enough.

Let's go back to the problem of pit emptying.

It is our moral, it is our social and our environmental obligation. 

Thank you. 

