I've been a critical care EMT for the past seven years in Suffolk County, New York.

I've been a first responder in a number of incidents ranging from car accidents to Hurricane Sandy. 

If you are like most people, death might be one of your greatest fears.

Some of us will see it coming.

Some of us won't.

Early in my career, I faced this dilemma by simply lying.

I was afraid.

I was afraid if I told them the truth, that they would die in terror, in fear, just grasping for those last moments of life. 

That all changed with one incident.

I decided to tell him the truth.

I decided to tell him that he was going to die and that there was nothing I could do for him.

His reaction shocked me to this day.

He simply laid back and had a look of acceptance on his face.

He was not met with that terror or fear that I thought he would be.

He simply laid there, and as I looked into his eyes, I saw inner peace and acceptance.

From that moment forward, I decided it was not my place to comfort the dying with my lies.

The first pattern always kind of shocked me.

Regardless of religious belief or cultural background, there's a need for forgiveness.

Whether they call it sin or they simply say they have a regret, their guilt is universal.

He already knew by my tone of voice and body language.

The second pattern I observe is the need for remembrance.

Whether it was to be remembered in my thoughts or their loved ones', they needed to feel that they would be living on.

There's a need for immortality within the hearts and thoughts of their loved ones, myself, my crew, or anyone around.

Countless times, I have had a patient look me in the eyes and say, "Will you remember me?"

The final pattern I observe always touched me the deepest, to the soul.

The dying need to know that their life had meaning.

They need to know that they did not waste their life on meaningless tasks. 

This came to me very, very early in my career.

I had responded to a call.

There was a female in her late 50s severely pinned within a vehicle.

She had been t-boned at a high rate of speed, critical, critical condition.

As the fire department worked to remove her from the car, I climbed in to begin to render care.

As we talked further, it would turn out that she was a mother of two adopted children who were both on their way to medical school.

Because of her, two children had a chance they never would have had otherwise and would go on to save lives in the medical field as medical doctors.

It would end up taking 45 minutes to free her from the vehicle.

However, she perished prior to freeing her. 

Thank you. 

