How do we know it?

Because of data.

You look at supermarket sales.

The majority of the sales are apple.

Okay, think about it.

You can get your first choice.

In fact, you're probably sick of hearing the term big data.

What we find is that when we have a large body of data, we can fundamentally do things that we couldn't do when we only had smaller amounts.

Well, to answer that question, let's think about what information looked like, physically looked like in the past.

In 1908, on the island of Crete, archaeologists discovered a clay disc.

Now, society hasn't advanced all that much.

And what we can do is we can reuse this information for uses that we never even imagined when we first collected the data.

In this respect, the data has gone from a stock to a flow, from something that is stationary and static to something that is fluid and dynamic.

There is, if you will, a liquidity to information.

The disc that was discovered off of Crete that's 4,000 years old, is heavy, it doesn't store a lot of information, and that information is unchangeable.

Now, one reason why we have so much data in the world today is we are collecting things that we've always collected information on, but another reason why is we're taking things that have always been informational but have never been rendered into a data format and we are putting it into data.

Think, for example, the question of location.

Take, for example, Martin Luther.

In this respect, location has been datafied. 

So what could we do with this?

What could we do then?

These are the sorts of things we can do when we datafy more aspects of our lives. 

So what is the value of big data?

Well, think about it.

One of the most impressive areas where this concept is taking place is in the area of machine learning.

Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence, which itself is a branch of computer science.

The general idea is that instead of instructing a computer what do do, we are going to simply throw data at the problem and tell the computer to figure it out for itself.

And it will help you understand it by seeing its origins.

Arthur Samuel knew strategy.

And this idea of machine learning is going everywhere.

How do you think we have self-driving cars?

All of those things matter, but that's not why.

The problem: The medical literature only knew nine of them.

Three of the traits were ones that people didn't need to look for, but that the machine spotted. 

Why don't we use data about the person's high school transcript?

We may have algorithms that are likely to predict what we are about to do, and we may be held accountable before we've actually acted.

Privacy was the central challenge in a small data era.

In the big data age, the challenge will be safeguarding free will, moral choice, human volition, human agency. 

The Industrial Revolution wasn't very good if you were a horse.

So we're going to need to be careful and take big data and adjust it for our needs, our very human needs.

We have to be the master of this technology, not its servant.

We are just at the outset of the big data era, and honestly, we are not very good at handling all the data that we can now collect.

It's not just a problem for the National Security Agency.

It's a little bit like the challenge that was faced by primitive man and fire.

This is a tool, but this is a tool that, unless we're careful, will burn us. 

Big data is going to transform how we live, how we work and how we think.

