We are at a remarkable moment in time.

We face over the next two decades two fundamental transformations that will determine whether the next 100 years is the best of centuries or the worst of centuries. 

Let me illustrate with an example.

I first visited Beijing 25 years ago to teach at the People's University of China.

Like most other people, I moved around Beijing by bicycle.

Apart from dodging the occasional vehicle, it was a safe and easy way to get around.

Cycling in Beijing now is a completely different prospect.

How did this come about?

It came from the way in which Beijing has grown as a city.

It's doubled over those 25 years, more than doubled, from 10 million to 20 million.

It's become a sprawling urban area dependent on dirty fuel, dirty energy, particularly coal.

China burns half the world's coal each year, and that's why, it is a key reason why, it is the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases.

At the same time, we have to recognize that in that period China has grown remarkably.

It has become the world's second largest economy.

Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty.

That's really important.

They've analyzed, diagnosed that this is an unsustainable path of growth and development.

China's planning to scale back coal.

It's looking to build its cities in different ways. 

Just 25 years ago, the developing countries, the poorer countries of the world, were, notwithstanding being the vast majority of the people, they accounted for only about a third of the world's output.

That's a remarkable change.

It means that most countries around the world, rich or poor, are going to be facing the two fundamental transformations that I want to talk about and highlight. 

Now, the first of these transformations is the basic structural change of the economies and societies that I've already begun to illustrate through the description of Beijing.

This is profound structural change.

If we manage it in a negligent or a shortsighted way, we will create waste, pollution, congestion, destruction of land and forests.

If we think of those three areas that I have illustrated with my numbers — cities, energy, land — if we manage all that badly, then the outlook for the lives and livelihoods of the people around the world would be poor and damaged.

Concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are already higher than they've been for millions of years.

That would transform the relationship between human beings and the planet.

And we couldn't just turn it off.

You can't make a peace treaty with the planet.

We have to decide whether to do it well or badly, the economic, or structural, transformation.

But the second of the transformations, the climate transformations, we have to decide to do.

Those two transformations face us in the next two decades.

The next two decades are decisive for what we have to do.

Now, the more I've thought about this, the two transformations coming together, the more I've come to realize that this is an enormous opportunity.

It's an opportunity which we can use or it's an opportunity which we can lose.

And let me explain through those three key areas that I've identified: cities, energy and land.

And let me start with cities.

I've already described the problems of Beijing: pollution, congestion, waste and so on.

Surely we recognize that in many of our cities around the world. 

Now, with cities, like life but particularly cities, you have to think ahead.

We've got examples building around the world of the kinds of ways in which we can do that.

Now, some things in cities do take time.

Some things in cities can happen much more quickly.

Take my hometown, London.

In 1952, smog in London killed 4,000 people and badly damaged the lives of many, many more.

And it happened all the time.

For those of you live outside London in the U.K. will remember it used to be called The Smoke.

That's the way London was.

By regulating coal, within a few years the problems of smog were rapidly reduced.

I remember the smogs well.

When the visibility dropped to [less] than a few meters, they stopped the buses and I had to walk.

This was the 1950s.

I had to walk home three miles from school.

Let me turn to energy.

Now, energy over the last 25 years has increased by about 50 percent.

Eighty percent of that comes from fossil fuels.

Over the next 20 years, perhaps it will increase by another 40 percent or so.

We can see how to do that.

Take the example of California.

It would be in the top 10 countries in the world if it was independent.

I don't want to start any — (Laughter) California's a big place.

That's a striking achievement.

It shows what can be done.

Not just California — the incoming government of India is planning to get solar technology to light up the homes of 400 million people who don't have electricity in India.

They've set themselves a target of five years.

I think they've got a good chance of doing that.

We'll see, but what you're seeing now is people moving much more quickly.

Again, you can see good decisions can bring quick results, and those two transformations, the economy and the structure and the climate and the low carbon, are intimately intertwined.

Do the first one well, the structural, the second one on the climate becomes much easier. 

Forests are the hosts to valuable plant and animal species.

They hold water in the soil and they take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, fundamental to the tackling of climate change.

But we're losing our forests.

But we're already seeing that we can do so much about that.

We can recognize the problem, but we can also understand how to tackle it.

In Brazil, the rate of deforestation has been reduced by 70 percent over the last 10 years.

And it's not just stopping deforestation.

That's of course of first and fundamental importance, but it's also regrading degraded land, regenerating, rehabilitating degraded land.

Over the last few years, actually more than a few, Ethiopia has been growing much more rapidly.

It has ambitions to be a middle-income country 15 years from now and to be carbon neutral.

Again, I think it's a strong ambition but it is a plausible one.

Ethiopia is investing in clean energy.

It's working in the rehabilitation of land.

In Humbo, in southwest Ethiopia, a wonderful project to plant trees on degraded land and work with local communities on sustainable forest management has led to big increases in living standards. 

We do understand how to manage those well.

And technology is changing very rapidly.

You can see that we can manage remotely now our household appliances on our mobile phones when we're away.

You can see better insulation.

And there's much more coming. 

But, and it's a big but, the world as a whole is moving far too slowly.

We're not cutting emissions in the way we should.

We're not managing those structural transformations as we can.

The depth of understanding of the immense risks of climate change are not there yet.

The depth of understanding of the attractiveness of what we can do is not there yet.

We need political pressure to build.

We need leaders to step up.

We can have better growth, better climate, a better world.

We can make, by managing those two transformations well, the next 100 years the best of centuries.

If we make a mess of it, we, you and me, if we make a mess of it, if we don't manage those transformations properly, it will be, the next 100 years will be the worst of centuries.

We know that we can do this. 

Now, two weeks ago, I became a grandfather for the fourth time.

(Applause) Two weeks old.

Are we going to look our grandchildren in the eye and tell them that we understood the issues, that we recognized the dangers and the opportunities, and still we failed to act?

