I'll try to use an approach that's slightly materialistic, but it also attempts to convey that, in nature, there is extraordinary philosophy and harmony.

There'll be no music in my presentation, but I hope you'll all notice the music of the reality I'm going to show you.

This is an image of rain in motion.

The equatorial region, in general, and the Amazon specifically, is extremely important for the world's climate.

It's a powerful engine.

What phenomenon is this?

It could be a geyser.

A geyser is underground water heated by magma, exploding into the atmosphere and transferring this water into the atmosphere.

There are no geysers in the Amazon, unless I am wrong.

That is done with an extraordinary sophistication.

They don't need the heat of magma.

They use sunlight to do this process.

The Amazon River, the largest river on Earth, one fifth of all the fresh water that leaves the continents of the whole world and ends up in the oceans, dumps 17 billion metric tons of water a day in the Atlantic Ocean.

This river of vapor that comes up from the forest and goes into the atmosphere is greater than the Amazon River.

A gigantic kettle, right?

50 thousand Itaipus.

Itaipu is still the largest hydroelectric plant in the world.

Where are the arteries?

Any guess?

What takes -- How does water get to irrigate the tissues of nature and bring everything back through rivers?

All our economy, that quadrangle, 70 percent of South America's GDP comes from that area.

It depends on this river.

This river flows invisibly above us.

We are floating here on this floating hotel, on one of the largest rivers on Earth, the Negro River.

This river has a pulse.

Here it is, pulsing.

That's why we also talk about the heart.

Now we have a dry season.

We, scientists -- You see that I'm struggling here to move my head from one side to the other.

Scientists study how it works, why, etc.

and these studies are generating a series of discoveries, which are absolutely fabulous, to raise our awareness of the wealth, the complexity, and the wonder that we have, the symphony we have in this process.

One of them is: How is rain formed?

Above the Amazon, there is clean air, as there is clean air above the ocean.

The green ocean has the same clean air, but forms a lot of rain.

Then, clouds are formed and there is torrential rain.

When humid air, high humidity and radiation are combined with these organic compounds, which I call exogenous vitamin C, generous vitamin C in the form of gas, the plants release antioxidants which react with pollutants.

The dust in the air that we breathe is cleaned by our airways.

This keeps the excess of dust from affecting the rainfall.

When there are fires in the Amazon, the smoke stops the rain, it stops raining, the forest dries up and catches fire.

There is another fractal analogy.

Like in the veins and arteries, the rain water is a feedback.

It returns to the atmosphere.

If you have the opposite situation, a forest, the evaporation, as we showed, is much greater, because of the trees, and this relation is reversed.

The air above the sea is sucked into the continent and humidity is imported.

This satellite image was taken one month ago — that's Manaus down there, we're down there — and it shows this process.

It's not a common little river that flows into a canal.

It's a mighty river that irrigates South America, among other things.

This image shows those paths, all the hurricanes that have been recorded.

You can see that, in the red square, there hardly are any hurricanes.

That is no accident.

I have several colleagues who worked in the development of these theories.

They think, and so do I, that we can save planet Earth.

I'm not talking only about the Amazon.

The Amazon teaches us a lesson on how pristine nature works.

We didn't understand these processes before because the rest of the world is messed up.

We could understand it here, though.

She does a wonderful job rebuilding ecosystems.

We need to do this.

A critical point is the Yanomami have never deforested.

How could they know the rain would end?

This bugged me and I was befuddled.

If we don't see, we don't register the information.

So, I propose the following -- of course, the astronomer wouldn't like the idea -- but let's turn the Hubble telescope upside down.

And let's make it look down here, rather than to the far reaches of the universe.

We're trampling on this wonderful cosmos that shelters us and houses us.

Talk to any astrophysicist.

The Earth is a statistical improbability.

Davi Kopenawa doesn't need this.

He has something already that I think I missed.

I was educated by television.

He is not a doubting Thomas.

He believes, with veneration and reverence, in what his ancestors and the spirits taught him.

We can't do it, so let's look into the forest.

Even with Hubble up there -- this is a bird's-eye view, right?

Even when this happens, we also see something that we don't know.

The Spanish called it the green inferno.

But go and look at what is in there.

It is a live carpet.

Each color you see is a tree species.

Each tree, each tree top, has up to 10,000 species of insects in it, let alone the millions of species of fungi, bacteria, etc.

All invisible.

When we see the morpho butterfly in the forest, we feel like someone's left open the door to heaven, and this creature escaped from there, because it's so beautiful.

However, I cannot finish without showing you a tech side.

We are tech-arrogant.

Let's zoom in on it.

Besides its beauty and functioning, there is another side to it.

