My grandfather was a cobbler.

Back in the day, he made custom-made shoes.

I never got to meet him.

He perished in the Holocaust.

You see, while the Industrial Revolution did a great deal to improve humanity, it eradicated the very skill that my grandfather loved, and it atrophied craftsmanship as we know it. 

It's a little older than TED.

It was printed in 1983 by Chuck Hull, who invented 3D printing.

So think about useful things.

You all know your shoe size.

How many of you know the size of the bridge of your nose or the distance between your temples?

Anybody?

But the implications of 3D printing go well beyond the tips of our noses. 

It was a beautiful robotic suit made by Ekso Bionics, but it wasn't inspired by her body.

It wasn't made to measure.

The incredible part about what I learned from Amanda is a lot of us are looking at 3D printing and we say to ourselves, it's going to replace traditional methods.

She now wants to walk in high heels. 

It doesn't stop there.

3D printing is changing personalized medical devices as we know them, from new, beautiful, conformal, ventilated scoliosis braces to millions of dental restorations and to beautiful bracings for amputees, another opportunity to emotionally reconnect with your symmetry.

And as we sit here today, you can go wireless on your braces with clear aligners, or your dental restorations.

Millions of in-the-ear hearing aids are already 3D printed today.

Millions of people are served today from these devices.

Good for G.E., right?

And their customers and the environment.

But, you know, the even better news is that this technology is no longer reserved for deep-pocketed corporations.

Planetary Resources, a startup for space explorations is going to put out its first space probe later this year.

Google is taking on this very audacious project of making the block phone, the Ara.

It's only possible because of the development of high-speed 3D printing that for the first time will make functional, usable modules that will go into it.

A real moonshot, powered by 3D printing. 

How about food?

And that gets me to one of the biggest deals about 3D printing.

With 3D printing, complexity is free.

Many people think that 3D printing will be the end of manufacturing as we know it.

That will take new tools.

I think it's the wrong question to ask.

Or, in other words, what room in my house will 3D printing fit in? 

Now, these are not my grandfather's shoes.

These are shoes that represent the continuation of his passion for hyper-local manufacturing.

He passed away three years ago.

Thank you. 

