So I thought, you know what, it's what I'm here to talk to you today about, though, truth and lies, fiction and reality.

But that's actually not very helpful either.

The thing that made me understand that quote and really kind of what art, at least the art of fiction, was, was working with kids.

I used to be a summer camp counselor.

I would do it on my summers off from college, and I loved it.

It was a sports summer camp for four- to six-year-olds.

I would tell them about how, on the weekends, I would go home and I would spy for the Queen of England.

And I realized that the stories that I was telling were real in this way that was familiar to me and really exciting.

And Riley carried that melon around with her all day, and she was so proud. 

She was right in that place in the middle, that place which you could call art or fiction.

I'm going to call it wonder.

It's not just kids who can get there.

Adults can too, and we get there when we read.

I think kids are the best audience for serious literary fiction.

After college, my first job was working behind one of these secret doors.

This is a place called 826 Valencia.

There's drawers you can pull out and get citrus so you don't get scurvy.

It's a secret door that you can walk through. 

So we have The Echo Park Time Travel Mart.

Our friendly staff is ready to help you.

There's our Employees of the Month, including Genghis Khan, Charles Dickens.

Some great people have come up through our ranks.

This is our kind of pharmacy section.

Our architect was covered in red syrup.

It was going to be the highlight of our store.

And it's a very special space, because it's this weird space in the front.

The joke isn't a joke.

I see it as kind of a book in three dimensions. 

It's almost as old as storytelling itself.

It's when an actor will turn to the audience and say, "I am an actor, these are just rafters."

For me, I kind of prefer the opposite.

If I'm going to break down the fourth wall, I want fiction to escape and come into the real world.

I want a book to be a secret door that opens and lets the stories out into reality. 

And so I try to do this in my books.

And here's just one example.

This is the first book that I ever made.

It's called "Billy Twitters and his Blue Whale Problem."

And it's about a kid who gets a blue whale as a pet but it's a punishment and it ruins his life.

He lives in San Francisco — very tough city to own a blue whale in.

A lot of hills, real estate is at a premium.

This market's crazy, everybody.

But underneath the jacket is this case, and that's the cover underneath the book, the jacket, and there's an ad that offers a free 30-day risk-free trial for a blue whale.

And you can just send in a self-addressed stamped envelope and we'll send you a whale.

And kids do write in. 

He's got a phone number, and you can call and leave him a message.

And they get a picture of their whale too.

This is the first message I ever got from Nico. 

MB: So he did, he called back that day again.

He's left over 25 messages for Randolph over four years.

This is the Christmas message from Nico. 

But Nico's the best reader I could hope for.

I would want anyone I was writing for to be in that place emotionally with the things that I create.

Thank you very much. 

