So in 1781, an English composer, technologist and astronomer called William Herschel noticed an object on the sky that didn't quite move the way the rest of the stars did.

So what is the next window into our universe?

What is the next chapter for astronomy?

Well, I'm going to show you some of the tools and the technologies that we're going to develop over the next decade, and how these technologies, together with the smart use of data, may once again transform astronomy by opening up a window into our universe, the window of time. 

The origins of our solar system, how our solar system came into being, is it unusual or special in any way?

About the evolution of our universe.

Why our universe is continuing to expand, and what is this mysterious dark energy that drives that expansion? 

But first, I want to show you how technology is going to change the way we view the sky.

But the universe is anything but static.

It constantly changes on timescales of seconds to billions of years.

Galaxies merge, they collide at hundreds of thousands of miles per hour.

Stars are born, they die, they explode in these extravagant displays.

Ten supernova per second explode somewhere in our universe.

If we could hear it, it would be popping like a bag of popcorn.

Now, if we fade out the supernovae, it's not just brightness that changes.

Our sky is in constant motion.

This swarm of objects you see streaming across the sky are asteroids as they orbit our sun, and it's these changes and the motion and it's the dynamics of the system that allow us to build our models for our universe, to predict its future and to explain its past. 

But the telescopes we've used over the last decade are not designed to capture the data at this scale.

We expect it to start taking data by the end of this decade.

Well, how do you capture an image at this scale?

So if you wanted to look at an image in its full resolution, just a single LSST image, it would take about 1,500 high-definition TV screens.

Over the mission lifetime of this telescope, it will detect 40 billion stars and galaxies, and that will be for the first time we'll have detected more objects in our universe than people on the Earth.

So what does this tell us?

Well, if you look at the little yellow asteroids flitting across the screen, these are the asteroids that are moving fastest, because they're closest to us, closest to Earth.

So studying the forensics of our solar system doesn't just tell us about the past, it can also predict the future, including our future. 

So every point in this visualization that you can see is a real asteroid.

Its orbit has been calculated from its motion across the sky.

Because the LSST will be able to go faint and not just wide, we will be able to see these asteroids far beyond the inner part of our solar system, to asteroids beyond the orbits of Neptune and Mars, to comets and asteroids that may exist almost a light year from our sun.

The first time was in 1929, when an astronomer called Edwin Hubble showed that the universe was expanding, leading to the ideas of the Big Bang.

And the observations were simple: just 24 galaxies and a hand-drawn picture.

But just the idea that the more distant a galaxy, the faster it was receding, was enough to give rise to modern cosmology. 

And they showed this by measuring the brightness of supernovae, and how the brightness of the supernovae got fainter with distance.

And these observations were more complex.

Three years to find 42 supernovae by searching through tens of thousands of galaxies.

And once they'd collected their data, this is what they found.

Now, this may not look impressive, but this is what a revolution in physics looks like: a line predicting the brightness of a supernova 11 billion light years away, and a handful of points that don't quite fit that line. 

Small changes give rise to big consequences.

Small changes turn our understanding of the universe on its head.

So what is the next revolution likely to be?

Well, what is dark energy and why does it exist?

They all are consistent with the 42 points, but the ideas behind these lines are dramatically different.

Some people think about a dark energy that changes with time, or whether the properties of the dark energy are different depending on where you look on the sky.

Others make differences and changes to the physics at the sub-atomic level.

So how can we hope to make sense of this over the next decade?

It took three years to find just 42 supernovae because the telescopes that we built could only survey a small part of the sky.

With the LSST, we get a completely new view of the skies above Chile every three nights.

In its first night of operation, it will find 10 times the number of supernovae used in the discovery of dark energy.

We may not know the answers, but we at least know how to ask the questions.

But if looking through tens of thousands of galaxies revealed 42 supernovae that turned our understanding of the universe on its head, when we're working with billions of galaxies, how many more times are we going to find 42 points that don't quite match what we expect?

Like the planet found by Herschel or dark energy or quantum mechanics or general relativity, all ideas that came because the data didn't quite match what we expected.

What's so exciting about the next decade of data in astronomy is, we don't even know how many answers are out there waiting, answers about our origins and our evolution.

How many answers are out there that we don't even know the questions that we want to ask? 

