For over a decade as a doctor, I've cared for homeless veterans, for working-class families.

We simply need a healthcare system that moves beyond just looking at the symptoms that bring people into clinics, but instead actually is able to look and improve health where it begins.

So what does this different approach to healthcare look like, an approach that can improve health where it begins?

To illustrate this, I'll tell you about Veronica.

Veronica was the 17th patient out of my 26-patient day at that clinic in South Central Los Angeles.

She came into our clinic with a chronic headache.

This headache had been going on for a number of years, and this particular episode was very, very troubling.

In fact, three weeks before she came to visit us for the first time, she went to an emergency room in Los Angeles.

She went back not just once, but twice more.

In the three weeks before Veronica met us, she went to the emergency room three times.

She went back and forth, in and out of hospitals and clinics, just like she had done in years past, trying to seek relief but still coming up short.

Veronica came to our clinic, and despite all these encounters with healthcare professionals, Veronica was still sick. 

When she came to our clinic, though, we tried a different approach.

Our approach started with our medical assistant, someone who had a GED-level training but knew the community.

Our medical assistant asked some routine questions.

Her head, clearly throbbing, was resting in her hands.

Veronica came back in a few months later.

She agreed to all of those treatment plans.

She told us that her symptoms had improved by 90 percent.

She was spending more time at work and with her family and less time shuttling back and forth between the emergency rooms of Los Angeles.

Veronica had improved remarkably.

Her sons, one of whom had asthma, were no longer as sick as they used to be.

She had gotten better, and not coincidentally, Veronica's home was better too. 

What was it about this different approach we tried that led to better care, fewer visits to the E.R., better health?

It's a term many of you are familiar with.

It comes from a parable that's very common in the public health community.

This is a parable of three friends.

So you do hopefully what everybody would do.

You jump right in along with your friends.

More people slip through, and they finally look up and they see that their third friend is nowhere to be seen.

But while that's also vital and very necessary, what we're missing is that third friend.

We don't have enough of that upstreamist.

Let me give you an example of what this feels like.

We're also learning that zip code is actually shaping our genetic code.

So it's clear that these factors, these upstream issues, do matter.

They matter to our health, and therefore our healthcare professionals should do something about it.

The honest answer is that in healthcare, we often treat symptoms without addressing the conditions that make you sick in the first place.

And there are many reasons for that, but the big three are first, we don't pay for that.

In healthcare, we often pay for volume and not value.

It's not that doctors don't know these are important issues.

There's this gap between knowing that patients' lives, the context of where they live and work, matters, and the ability to do something about it in the systems in which we work. 

And that brings me to that third point, that third answer to Veronica's compelling question.

Part of the reason that we have this conundrum is because there are not nearly enough upstreamists in the healthcare system.

They can be nurses, other clinicians, care managers, social workers.

It's not so important what specific degree upstreamists have at the end of their name.

That process is a quite simple process.

It's one, two and three.

It's a pretty simplistic approach to root cause analyses.

It turns out, it doesn't really work when we just limit ourselves that worldview.

The root cause analysis that an upstreamist brings to the table is to say, let's look at the living and the working conditions in your life.

Perhaps, for children with asthma, it's what's happening in their home, or perhaps they live close to a freeway with major air pollution that triggers their asthma.

It's clear to me that there are so many stories of upstreamists who are doing remarkable things.

The problem is that there's just not nearly enough of them out there.

By some estimates, we need one upstreamist for every 20 to 30 clinicians in the healthcare system.

And there are a lot of measures that we use for our success, but the main thing that we're interested in is making sure that we're changing the sense of confidence, that "don't ask, don't tell" metric among clinicians.

We're trying to make sure that clinicians, and therefore their systems that they work in have the ability, the confidence to address the problems in the living and working conditions in our lives.

We're seeing nearly a tripling of that confidence in our work. 

What is most compelling is that every day, every week, I hear stories just like Veronica's.

If we're all able to do this work, doctors and healthcare systems, payers, and all of us together, we'll realize something about health.

Health is not just a personal responsibility or phenomenon.

Health is a common good.

We can improve health where it begins. 

Thank you. 

