The first question is, how did the number of deaths per year from natural disaster, how did that change during the last century?

Oh, very, very good. 

And we go to the next question.

In the last 20 years, how did the percentage of people in the world who live in extreme poverty change?

Extreme poverty — not having enough food for the day.

Now, answers.

You see, deaths from natural disasters in the world, you can see it from this graph here, from 1900 to 2000.

And then, how did that change? 

Gapminder asked the public in Sweden.

This is how they answered.

The Swedish public answered like this: Fifty percent thought it had doubled, 38 percent said it's more or less the same, 12 said it had halved.

This is the best data from the disaster researchers, and it goes up and down, and it goes to the Second World War, and after that it starts to fall and it keeps falling and it's down to much less than half.

The world has been much, much more capable as the decades go by to protect people from this, you know.

So only 12 percent of the Swedes know this. 

So I went to the zoo and I asked the chimps.

Now how did you do?

That's you.

You were beaten by the chimps.

(Laughter) But it was close.

You shouldn't compare yourself to Swedes.

You must have higher ambitions in the world. 

How long did women go to school?

The right answer is probably the one the fewest Swedes picked, isn't it?

Yes, yes, yes, women have almost caught up.

But in the majority of the world, where most people in the world live, most countries, girls today go to school as long as boys, more or less.

They still are confined to terrible, terrible limitations, but schooling is there in the world today.

Now, we miss the majority.

What about poverty?

And you?

Ah, you almost made it to the chimps.

And many in the rich countries, they think that oh, we can never end extreme poverty.

The first thing to think about the future is to know about the present. 

So already the pilots reveal this, that so many in the public score worse than random, so we have to think about preconceived ideas, and one of the main preconceived ideas is about world income distribution. 

The world was two groups.

It was a camel world, like a camel with two humps, the poor ones and the rich ones, and there were fewer in between. 

The lower humps merged with the upper hump, and the camel dies and we have a dromedary world with one hump only.

The percent in poverty has decreased.

Still it's appalling that so many remain in extreme poverty.

We still have this group, almost a billion, over there, but that can be ended now. 

Now, this is what the U.S. public and the Swedish answered.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

And then, lately, from the European Union media.

(Laughter) You see, the problem is not that people don't read and listen to the media.

The problem is that the media doesn't know themselves. 

What shall we do about this, Ola?

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Ola Rosling: Yes, I have an idea, but first, I'm so sorry that you were beaten by the chimps.

Fortunately, I will be able to comfort you by showing why it was not your fault, actually.

Then, I will equip you with some tricks for beating the chimps in the future.

That's basically what I will do. 

It's a neighborhood where I grew up, and it's a neighborhood with a large problem.

It gave me a very biased view of how life is on this planet.

So this is the first piece of the ignorance puzzle.

We have a personal bias. 

We have all different experiences from communities and people we meet, and on top of this, we start school, and we add the next problem.

And there is really no practice to keep the teaching material up to date.

So that's what we are focusing on.

So we have these outdated facts added on top of our personal bias. 

What happens next is news, okay?

Unusual events are more interesting, no?

And they are exaggerated, and especially things we're afraid of.

A shark attack on a Swedish person will get headlines for weeks in Sweden. 

So these three skewed sources of information were really hard to get away from.

It was good in evolution.

It helped us generalize and jump to conclusions very, very fast.

Everybody answered that question, "Yeah, I drive cars better."

Okay, this was good evolutionarily, but now when it comes to the worldview, it is the exact reason why it's upside down.

So how do we solve such problems?

First, we need to measure it, and then we need to cure it.

So by measuring it we can understand what is the pattern of ignorance.

All different sectors have facts, and there are organizations trying to spread awareness about these facts.

So I've started actually contacting some of them, like WWF and Amnesty International and UNICEF, and asking them, what are your favorite facts which you think the public doesn't know? 

Okay, I gather those facts.

Imagine a long list with, say, 250 facts.

And then we poll the public and see where they score worst.

Okay, this little shortlist, what are we going to do with it?

Basically meaning, we don't hire people who score like chimpanzees.

Of course you shouldn't.

So maybe 10 years from now, if this project succeeds, you will be sitting in an interview having to fill out this crazy global knowledge. 

So now we come to the practical tricks.

How are you going to succeed?

There is, of course, one way, which is to sit down late nights and learn all the facts by heart by reading all these reports.

That will never happen, actually.

Not even Hans thinks that's going to happen.

We need to turn our intuition into strength again.

We need to be able to generalize.

So now I'm going to show you some tricks where the misconceptions are turned around into rules of thumb. 

Let's start with the first misconception.

This is very widespread.

The other way to think is, most things improve.

That will help you score better on our tests.

(Applause) That was the first one. 

(Applause) That was the first one. 

There are rich and poor and the gap is increasing.

It's a terrible inequality.

That's going to help you get the answer right. 

Look: that huge hump in the middle already have girls in school.

They're only rules of thumb, so of course they don't apply to everything, but this is how you can generalize. 

Let's look at the last one.

I actually, I'm very afraid of sharks.

So as soon as I see a question about things I'm afraid of, which might be earthquakes, other religions, maybe I'm afraid of terrorists or sharks, anything that makes me feel, assume you're going to exaggerate the problem.

That's a rule of thumb.

Of course there are dangerous things that are also great.

They cannot generalize these kinds of rules.

(Applause) That's a systematic approach. 

(Applause) That's a systematic approach. 

Now the question, is this important?

Yeah, it's important to understand poverty, extreme poverty and how to fight it, and how to bring girls in school.

When we realize that actually it's succeeding, we can understand it.

But is it important for everyone else who cares about the rich end of this scale?

I would say yes, extremely important, for the same reason.

If you have a fact-based worldview of today, you might have a chance to understand what's coming next in the future. 

We're going back to these two humps in 1975.

That's when I was born, and I selected the West.

That's the current EU countries and North America.

Let's now see how the rest and the West compares in terms of how rich you are.

These are the people who can afford to fly abroad with an airplane for a vacation.

So first, let's look at the change up till today, 2014.

Today it's 50/50.

They have a forecast for the next five years of GDP per capita.

I did that, but I went even further.

Let's move into the future.

In 2020, it's 57 percent in the rest.

These are just projections of GDP per capita into the future.

Seventy-three percent of the rich consumers are going to live outside North America and Europe.

So yes, I think it's a good idea for a company to use this certificate to make sure to make fact- based decisions in the future. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

