My dream is to build the world's first underground park in New York City.

Now, why would someone want to build an underground park, and why in New York City? 

These three tough little buggers are, on the left, my grandmother, age five, and then her sister and brother, ages 11 and nine.

This photo was taken just before they left from Italy to immigrate to the United States, just about a century ago.

What was amazing about their generation was that they were not only building new lives in this new, unfamiliar area, but they were also literally building the city.

I've always been fascinated by those decades and by that history, and I would often beg my grandmother to tell me as many stories as possible about the old New York.

But she would often just shrug it off, tell me to eat more meatballs, more pasta, and so I very rarely got any of the history that I wanted to hear about. 

The New York City that I encountered felt pretty built up.

I always knew as a kid that I wanted to make a difference, and to somehow make the world more beautiful, more interesting and more just.

I just didn't really know how.

At first, I thought I wanted to go work abroad, so I took a job with UNICEF in Kenya.

But it felt weird to me that I knew more about local Kenyan politics than the politics of my own hometown.

I took a job with the City of New York, but very quickly felt frustrated with the slowness of government bureaucracy.

It was in 2009 that my friend and now business partner James Ramsey alerted me to the location of a pretty spectacular site, which is this.

And we learned also that the site was entirely abandoned in 1948.

Fascinated by this discovery, we begged the authorities to draw us into the space, and we finally got a tour, and this is what we saw.

Now, this photo doesn't really do it justice.

It's kind of hard to imagine the unbelievably magical feeling that you have when you get in this space.

It's really pretty remarkable. 

With this approach, you could take a site that looks like this today and transform it into something that looks like this. 

So, like a crazy person, I decided to quit my job and focus entirely on this project.

Here is us with our team putting together a technology demonstration in a warehouse.

Here's the underbelly of this solar canopy which we built to show the technology.

You can see the six solar collectors at the center there.

And here's the full exhibit all put together in this warehouse.

You can see the solar canopy overhead, the light streaming in, and this entirely live green space below.

So in the course of just a few weeks, tens of thousands of people came to see our exhibit, and since that time, we've grown our numbers of supporters both locally and among design enthusiasts all over the world. 

Here's a rendering of the neighborhood just immediately above the Line's site, and a rendering of how it will look after major redevelopment that is coming over the course of the next 10 years.

And right now, we're focusing very closely on how we engage with the City of New York on really transforming the overall ecosystem in an integrated way. 

Here's our rendering of how we would actually invite people into the space itself.

So here you see this iconic entrance in which we would literally peel up the street and reveal the historical layers of the city, and invite people into this warm underground space.

In the middle of winter, when it's absolutely freezing outside, the last place you'd want to go would be an outdoor space or outdoor park.

The Lowline would really be a four-season space and a respite for the city.

So I like to think that the Lowline actually brings my own family's story full circle.

If my grandparents and my parents were really focused on building the city up and out, I think my generation is focused on reclaiming the spaces that we already have, rediscovering our shared history, and reimagining how we can make our communities more interesting, more beautiful and more just. 

Thanks. 

