This is a photograph of a man whom for many years I plotted to kill. 

This is my father, Clinton George "Bageye" Grant.

He's called Bageye because he has permanent bags under his eyes.

As a 10-year-old, along with my siblings, I dreamt of scraping off the poison from fly-killer paper into his coffee, grounded down glass and sprinkling it over his breakfast, loosening the carpet on the stairs so he would trip and break his neck.

But come the day, he would always skip that loose step, he would always bow out of the house without so much as a swig of coffee or a bite to eat.

Up until our mother asked him to leave and not come back, Bageye had been a terrifying ogre.

He worked nights at Vauxhall Motors in Luton and demanded total silence throughout the house, so that when we came home from school at 3:30 in the afternoon, we would huddle beside the TV, and rather like safe-crackers, we would twiddle with the volume control knob on the TV so it was almost inaudible.

So for three decades, I never laid eyes on my father, nor he on me.

We never spoke to each other for three decades, and then a couple of years ago, I decided to turn the spotlight on him. 

Time and time again he would say this to us.

And this was the 1970s, it was Luton, where he worked at Vauxhall Motors, and he was a Jamaican.

And what he meant was, you as a child of a Jamaican immigrant are being watched to see which way you turn, to see whether you conform to the host nation's stereotype of you, of being feckless, work-shy, destined for a life of crime.

If you have seen some of the images of the Caribbean people arriving in the '40s and '50s, you might have noticed that a lot of the men wear trilbies.

Now, there was no tradition of wearing trilbies in Jamaica.

They invented that tradition for their arrival here.

They wanted to project themselves in a way that they wanted to be perceived, so that the way they looked and the names that they gave themselves defined them.

So Bageye is bald and has baggy eyes.

Tidy Boots is very fussy about his footwear.

Anxious is always anxious.

Clock has one arm longer than the other.

(Laughter) And my all-time favorite was the guy they called Summerwear.

You did not just represent yourself.

You represented the group, and it was a terrifying thing to come to terms with, in a way, that maybe you were going to be perceived in the same light.

So that was what needed to be challenged.

Our father and many of his colleagues exhibited a kind of transmission but not receiving.

They were built to transmit but not receive.

We were to keep quiet.

When our father did speak to us, it was from the pulpit of his mind.

They clung to certainty in the belief that doubt would undermine them.

But they do care, actually.

They cross over.

Somehow they find their way to you.

And that was clearer to me in the course of looking at his life and understanding, as they say, the Native Americans say, "Do not criticize the man until you can walk in his moccasins."

With age comes the veneer of respectability and a veneer of uncomfortable truths. 

But what was true was that my parents, my mother, and my father went along with it, did not trust the state to educate me.

So listen to how I sound.

They determined that they would send me to a private school, but my father worked at Vauxhall Motors.

It's quite difficult to fund a private school education and feed his army of children.

He thought, "I know how to drive; why do I need the state's validation?"

They were timid, and somewhere along the line, the natural order was reversed.

The children became the parents to the parent. 

Although there's still the kind of temporariness that our parents felt about being here, but we children knew that the game was up.

I think there was a feeling that they would not be able to continue with the ideals of the life that they expected.

The reality was very much different.

And also, that was true of the reality of trying to educate me.

Having started the process, my father did not continue.

Now I also had a 10-year-old son, and turned my attention to Bageye and I went in search of him.

I was very disconcerted by that.

If there was a pulse, it was very weak or hardly at all.

And I almost felt in the course of that reunion that I was auditioning to be my father's son. 

It was a tradition that you didn't chat about your business in public.

But I welcomed that title, and I thought actually, yes, there is a possibility that this will open up conversations that we'd never had before.

This will close the generation gap, perhaps.

This could be an instrument of repair.

And I even began to feel that this book may be perceived by my father as an act of filial devotion. 

I was no son of his.

He recognized in his mind that his colors had been dragged through the mud, and he couldn't allow that.

And if it meant that we would now return to 30 years of silence, my father would say, "If it's so, then it's so."

Jamaicans will tell you that there's no such thing as facts, there are only versions.

We all tell ourselves the versions of the story that we can best live with.

I lost my hatred of my father.

And I wonder whether that freedness could be transferred to him. 

In the original photograph, I'm being held up by my father, Bageye, but when my parents separated, my mother excised him from all aspects of our lives.

She took a pair of scissors and cut him out of every photograph, and for years, I told myself the truth of this photograph was that you are alone, you are unsupported.

This is a photograph that has the potential for a reunion, a potential to be reunited with my father, and in my yearning to be held up by my father, I held him up to the light. 

In that first reunion, it was very awkward and tense moments, and to lessen the tension, we decided to go for a walk.

I was almost a foot taller than my father.

He was still the big man, and I tried to match his step.

He walked like a man on the losing side of the F.A.

There was dignity in defeat. 

Thank you. 

