I mean, this is the super ultimate "why" question? 

(Laughter) So this has been called the most sublime and awesome mystery, the deepest and most far-reaching question man can pose.

It's obsessed great thinkers.

Ludwig Wittgenstein, perhaps the greatest philosopher of the 20th century, was astonished that there should be a world at all.

And I've no doubt there are five Einsteins in the audience tonight.

It was towards the end of the 17th century, the philosopher Leibniz who asked it, a very smart guy, Leibniz, who invented the calculus independently of Isaac Newton, at about the same time, but for Leibniz, who asked why is there something rather than nothing, this was not a great mystery.

And God created, indeed, out of nothing at all.

That's how powerful God is.

He doesn't need any preexisting materials to fashion a world out of.

He can make it out of sheer nothingness, creation ex nihilo.

And by the way, this is what most Americans today believe.

There is no mystery of existence for them.

God made it. 

So let's put this in an equation.

And so maybe you don't believe in God.

Maybe you're a scientific atheist or an unscientific atheist, and you don't believe in God, and you're not happy with it.

(Laughter) Whence then am I?

God speaks in a more formal English.

(Laughter) And so one theory is that God was so bored with pondering the puzzle of His own existence that He created the world just to distract himself.

And to a Buddhist, the world is just a whole lot of nothing.

It's just a big cosmic vacuity.

And we think there's a lot of something out there but that's because we're enslaved by our desires.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So that's the Buddhist thinking.

Well, how about science?

Science is our best guide to the nature of reality, and the most fundamental science is physics.

The laws of quantum field theory, the state-of-the-art physics, can show how out of sheer nothingness, no space, no time, no matter, nothing, a little nugget of false vacuum can fluctuate into existence, and then, by the miracle of inflation, blow up into this huge and variegated cosmos we see around us. 

Now, Lawrence thinks he's an atheist, but he's still in thrall to a religious worldview.

He sees physical laws as being like divine commands.

The laws of quantum field theory for him are like fiat lux, "Let there be light."

The laws have some sort of ontological power or clout that they can form the abyss, that it's pregnant with being.

They can call a world into existence out of nothing.

We know that physical laws are actually generalized descriptions of patterns and regularities in the world.

They don't exist outside the world.

That's a very primitive view of what a scientific law is.

He said, this model is just equations.

What breathes fire into the equations and creates a world for them to describe?

He was puzzled by this, so equations themselves can't do the magic, can't resolve the puzzle of existence.

And besides, even if the laws could do that, why this set of laws?

Why quantum field theory that describes a universe with a certain number of forces and particles and so forth?

Why not a completely different set of laws?

There are many, many mathematically consistent sets of laws.

We just see a little tiny part of reality that's described by the laws of quantum field theory, but there are many, many other worlds, parts of reality that are described by vastly different theories that are different from ours in ways we can't imagine, that are inconceivably exotic.

Steven Weinberg, the father of the standard model of particle physics, has actually flirted with this idea himself, that all possible realities actually exist.

Now, in taking this metaphysical way out, these physicists and also philosophers are actually reaching back to a very old idea that goes back to Plato.

It's the principle of plenitude or fecundity, or the great chain of being, that reality is actually as full as possible.

It's as far removed from nothingness as it could possibly be. 

Now what's in between these two extremes?

There are all kinds of intermediate realities that include some things and leave out others.

I think that Brian Greene is in the audience, and he has written a book called "The Elegant Universe."

(Laughter) It's a pious hope, I wish it were true, but I think the other day he admitted to me it's really an ugly universe.

(Laughter) And then there's the best of all possible worlds in an ethical sense.

This is an ethical conception.

Then there's the most elegant possible reality.

That's special.

The fullest possible reality, that's special. 

But what are we leaving out here?

There's also just the crummy, generic realities that aren't special in any way, that are sort of random.

They're infinitely removed from nothingness, but they fall infinitely short of complete fullness.

They're a mixture of chaos and order, of mathematical elegance and ugliness.

So I would describe these realities as an infinite, mediocre, incomplete mess, a generic reality, a kind of cosmic junk shot.

The deity isn't all-good and all-powerful.

(Laughter) So I would like to propose that the resolution to the mystery of existence is that the reality we exist in is one of these generic realities.

Reality has to turn out some way.

It can either turn out to be nothing or everything or something in between.

So if it has some special feature, like being really elegant or really full or really simple, like nothingness, that would require an explanation.

But if it's just one of these random, generic realities, there's no further explanation for it.

And indeed, I would say that's the reality we live in.

That's what science is telling us.

So anyway, I think there's some evidence that this really is the reality that we're stuck with. 

That's between a googol and a googolplex.

And the number of the actual humans that have existed is 100 billion, maybe 50 billion, an infinitesimal fraction, so all of us, we've won this amazing cosmic lottery.

So what kind of reality do we want to live in?

Do we want to live in a special reality?

What if we were living in the most elegant possible reality?

Or, what if we were living in the fullest possible reality?

So my choices are meaningless.

So we don't want to live in that special reality.

And as for the special reality of nothingness, we wouldn't be having this conversation.

And I know you feel it.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

So anyway, you may say, this puzzle, the mystery of existence, it's just silly mystery-mongering.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

