So recently, some white guys and some black women swapped Twitter avatars, or pictures online.

But the rest of us know that the Internet can be a really ugly place.

I'm talking about nasty personal attacks.

Maybe it's happened to you, but it's at least twice as likely to happen, and be worse, if you're a woman, a person of color, or gay, or more than one at the same time.

In fact, just as I was writing this talk, I found a Twitter account called @SallyKohnSucks.

The bio says that I'm a "man-hater and a bull dyke and the only thing I've ever accomplished with my career is spreading my perverse sexuality."

Which, incidentally, is only a third correct.

But seriously, we all say we hate this crap.

The question is whether you're willing to make a personal sacrifice to change it.

I don't mean giving up the Internet.

It's no longer the case that a few powerful elites control all the media and the rest of us are just passive receivers.

Increasingly, we're all the media.

I used to think, oh, okay, I get dressed up, I put on a lot of makeup, I go on television, I talk about the news.

That is a public act of making media.

Wrong.

Everything we blog, everything we Tweet, and everything we click is a public act of making media.

We are the new editors.

We decide what gets attention based on what we give our attention to.

That's how the media works now.

In an increasingly noisy media landscape, the incentive is to make more noise to be heard, and that tyranny of the loud encourages the tyranny of the nasty. 

It does not have to be that way.

It does not.

We can change the incentive.

For starters, there are two things we can all do.

First, don't just stand by the sidelines when you see someone getting hurt.

Drown out the negative with the positive.

And second, we've got to stop clicking on the lowest-common-denominator, bottom-feeding linkbait.

(Applause) You too, apparently.

Clicking on a train wreck just pours gasoline on it.

It makes it worse, the fire spreads.

Our whole culture gets burned. 

