So I want to begin with an everyday story.

What is it really like to be a young woman in India? 

When I was seven, a private tutor who used to come home to teach me mathematics molested me.

At 17, a boy from my high school circulated an email detailing all the sexually aggressive things he could do to me because I didn't pay attention to him.

At 19, I helped a friend whose parents had forcefully married her to an older man escape an abusive marriage.

At 21, when my friend and I were walking down the road one afternoon, a man pulled down his pants and masturbated in front of us.

We called people for help, and nobody came.

So throughout my life, I've seen women — family, friends, colleagues — live through these experiences, and they seldom talk about it.

So in simple words, life in India is not easy.

So, what happened one night in December 2012 changed my life.

So a young girl, a 23-year-old student, boarded a bus in Delhi with her male friend.

This girl was raped repeatedly, forcefully penetrated with a blunt rod, beaten, bitten, and left to die.

Her friend was gagged, attacked, and knocked unconscious.

She died on the 29th of December.

And at a time when most of us here were preparing to welcome the new year, India plunged into darkness.

For the first time in our history, men and women in Indian cities woke up to the horrific truth about the true state of women in the country.

Now, as a woman watching this day after day, I was tired.

I logged on to a citizen journalism platform called iReport, and I recorded a video talking about what the scene was like in Bangalore.

I talked about how I felt, I talked about the ground realities, and I talked about the frustrations of living in India.

In a few hours, the blog was shared widely, and comments and thoughts poured in from across the world.

In that moment, a few things occurred to me.

Two, like me, most young women hardly use it to express their views.

Three, I realized for the first time that my voice mattered. 

So in the months that followed, I covered a trail of events in Bangalore which had no space in the mainstream news.

In Cubbon Park, which is a big park in Bangalore, I gathered with over 100 others when groups of young men came forward to wear skirts to prove that clothing does not invite rape.

Everyone was discussing it.

The media was caught in this vicious cycle of opinion and outburst and no outcome whatsoever.

So that night, as I sat wondering how I should respond, I found myself filled with doubt.

You see, no one ever tells you that true empowerment comes from giving yourself the permission to think and act.

Empowerment is often made to sound as if it's an ideal, it's a wonderful outcome.

Since this report came to light, more young people than ever were discussing sexual harassment on the campus, and the university that Michaela belonged to gave her the assistance she needed.

You see, if there's anything that I've learned as an active citizen journalist over the past few years, it is our dire lack as a society to actively find avenues where our voices can be heard.

We don't realize that when we are standing up, we are not just standing up as individuals, we are standing up for our communities, our friends, our peers.

Most of us say that women are denied their rights, but the truth is, oftentimes, women deny themselves these rights.

In rural areas in India, if anything is to go by the recent gang rapes in Badaun and acid attacks in Odisha and Aligarh are supposed to go by, we need to act really soon. 

Today, more women than ever are standing up and questioning the government in India, and this is a result of that courage.

Let us fight the shame and talk about it.

It could be a platform, a community, your loved one, whoever or whatever you choose, but let us speak up.

The truth is, the end to this problem begins with us. 

Thank you. 

