Oliver was an extremely dashing, handsome, charming and largely unstable male that I completely lost my heart to. 

(Laughter) 

He had such paralyzing separation anxiety that we couldn't leave him alone.

He hunted flies that didn't exist.

He suffered from hallucinations.

He was diagnosed with a canine compulsive disorder and that's really just the tip of the iceberg. 

(Laughter) And most of us do not take the person we're dating back to the bar where we met them or give them back to the friend that introduced us, or sign them back up on Match.com.

It cracked open my world.

And I spent the last seven years, actually, looking into this topic of mental illness in other animals.

So let's talk about diagnosis for a minute.

It's actually a pretty recent phenomenon that we feel that we have to talk to someone to understand their emotional distress.

Before the early 20th century, physicians often diagnosed emotional distress in their patients just by observation.

It also turns out that thinking about mental illness in other animals isn't actually that much of a stretch.

Most mental disorders in the United States are fear and anxiety disorders, and when you think about it, fear and anxiety are actually really extremely helpful animal emotions.

Usually we feel fear and anxiety in situations that are dangerous, and once we feel them, we then are motivated to move away from whatever is dangerous.

The problem is when we begin to feel fear and anxiety in situations that don't call for it.

So for humans, we have the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual," which is basically an atlas of the currently agreed-upon mental disorders.

In other animals, we have YouTube.

You will be shocked by what you see.

I'm going to show you just a couple examples.

The issue, though, is that dogs can develop compulsions like this that they then engage in all day.

They'll develop fixations like chasing their tails compulsively. 

Here's an example of a cat named Gizmo.

He looks like he's on a stakeout but he does this for many, many, many hours a day.

He just sits there and he will paw and paw and paw at the screen.

This is a sun bear at the Oakland Zoo named Ting Ting.

Many animals develop mood disorders.

Lots of creatures — this horse is just one example — develop self-destructive behaviors.

Lab rats pluck themselves too.

In them, it's called barbering.

They can be too scared to approach men with beards or to hop into cars. 

We are all different.

We also all have very different susceptibilities.

And it turns out we're actually so much more complicated than that. 

And recently, I did a reading in California, and a woman raised her hand after the talk and she said, "Dr. Braitman, I think my cat has PTSD."

For many months, up to I think two years after that incident, she was so scared she couldn't be in the house when anyone was cleaning.

She was quite literally a scaredy cat.

She would hide in the closet.

She was un-self-confident and shaky, but with the loving support of her family, a lot of a time, and their patience, now, three years later, she's actually a happy, confident cat. 

Another story of trauma and recovery that I came across was actually a few years ago.

I was in Thailand to do some research.

They called in a veterinarian, who treated his wounds.

He was extremely happy to be with this rabbit.

(Laughter) My official opinion is that he does not look depressed.

(Laughter) 

So one thing that I would really like people to feel is that you really should feel empowered to make some assumptions about the creatures that you know well.

This is extremely anthropomorphic, or the assignation of human characteristics onto non-human animals or things.

I don't think, though, that that's a problem.

I don't think that we can not anthropomorphize.

It's not as if you can take your human brain out of your head and put it in a jar and then use it to think about another animal thinking.

And anthropomorphizing poorly is all too common.

(Laughter) It may include dressing your corgis up and throwing them a wedding, or getting too close to exotic wildlife because you believe that you had a spiritual connection.

There's all manner of things.

It turns out that we owe this entire psychopharmaceutical arsenal to other animals.

These drugs were tested in non-human animals first, and not just for toxicity but for behavioral effects.

The very popular antipsychotic Thorazine first relaxed rats before it relaxed people.

The antianxiety medication Librium was given to cats selected for their meanness in the 1950s and made them into peaceable felines.

And even antidepressants were first tested in rabbits. 

SeaWorld gives mother orcas antianxiety medications when their calves are taken away.

Many zoo gorillas have been given antipsychotics and antianxiety medications.

But dogs like my own Oliver are given antidepressants and some antianxiety medications to keep them from jumping out of buildings or jumping into traffic.

Just recently, actually, a study came out in "Science" that showed that even crawdads responded to antianxiety medication.

It made them braver, less skittish, and more likely to explore their environment. 

Some animals are on these drugs indefinitely.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

More than psychopharmaceuticals, though, there are many, many, many other therapeutic interventions that help other creatures.

They want to talk to you about what sorts of therapies, largely behavior therapies, you've tried with that animal.

The thing, though, I believe, that helps the most, particularly with social animals, is time with other social animals.

I have a friend who really showed me that mental health is in fact a two-way street.

His name is Lonnie Hodge, and he's a veteran of Vietnam.

When he returned, he started working with survivors of genocide and a lot of people who had gone through war trauma.

And he had PTSD and also a fear of heights, because in Vietnam, he had been rappelling backwards out of helicopters over the skids, and he was givena service dog named Gander, a labradoodle, to help him with PTSD and his fear of heights.

I no longer look at animals at the species level.

Thankfully, we can often find them again, but only with each other's help. 

Thank you. 

