My hometown of Fez, Morocco, boasts one of the largest walled medieval cities in the world, called the medina, nestled in a river valley.

The entire city is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Since the 1950s, as the population of the medina grew, basic urban infrastructure such as green open spaces and sewage quickly changed and got highly stressed.

One of the biggest casualties of the situation was the Fez River, which bisects the medina in its middle and has been considered for many centuries as the city's very soul.

In fact, one can witness the presence of the river's extensive water network all throughout the city, in places such as private and public fountains. 

Unfortunately, because of the pollution of the river, it has been covered little by little by concrete slabs since 1952.

This process of erasure was coupled with the destruction of many houses along the river banks to be able to make machineries enter the narrow pedestrian network of the medina.

Those urban voids quickly became illegal parking or trash yards.

Actually, the state of the river before entering the medina is pretty healthy.

Then pollution takes its toll, mainly due to untreated sewage and chemical dumping from crafts such as tanning.

With clean water, suddenly the uncovering of the river became possible, and with luck and actually a lot of pushing, my partner Takako Tajima and I were commissioned by the city to work with a team of engineers to uncover the river.

I will show you briefly now two of these public spaces. 

The playground is constructed using recycled tires and also is coupled with a constructed wetland that not only cleans the water of the river but also retains it when floods occur. 

As the project progressed and received several design awards, new stakeholders intervened and changed the project goals and design.

The only way for us to be able to bring the main goals of the project ahead was for us to do something very unusual that usually architects don't do.

It's still under construction, but actually it is heavily used by the local population.

And finally, this is how the Rcif Plaza will look like when the project is completed.

This is the river, covered, used as a trash yard.

Then after many years of work, the river with clean water, uncovered.

And finally, you can see here the river when the project will be completed. 

Thank you very much. 

