And I believe the way we make civics sexy again is to make explicitly about the teaching of power.

The way we do that, I believe, is at the level of the city. 

So let me start with some definitions.

By civics, I simply mean the art of being a pro-social, problem-solving contributor in a self-governing community.

It sounds Machiavellian inherently.

It seems inherently evil.

It just is.

This is why it is so fundamental for us right now to grab hold of this idea of power and to democratize it.

How does a bias become a policy?

The thing is, though, most people aren't looking for and don't want to see these realities.

So much of this ignorance, this civic illiteracy, is willful.

They'd rather just opt out and engage in volunteerism.

There are some techies out there who believe that the cure-all for any power imbalance or power abuse is simply more data, more transparency.

We become demotivated to learn more about how things work.

We begin to opt out. 

Think about a problem in the common life of your city.

These are questions that play out in every single place on the planet.

Every day, there are thousands more like them.

Indeed, power in our time is flowing ever faster to the city.

Here in the United States, the national government has tied itself up in partisan knots.

This is emergent.

The localism of our time is networked powerfully.

In Seattle, where I'm from, we've become part of a great global array of cities that are now working together bypassing government altogether, national government altogether, in order to try to meet the carbon reduction goals of the Kyoto Protocol.

And our task now is to accelerate this work.

Our task now is to bring more and more people into the fold of this work.

And this curriculum starts with this triad that I described earlier of values, systems and skills.

What you'll be doing when you write that narrative is you'll be discovering how to read power, and in the process, how to write power.

I invite you to literally share the narratives that you create on our Facebook page for Citizen University.

If we do that, then together we can make civics sexy again.

Together, we can create a great network of city that will be the most powerful collective laboratory for self-government this planet has ever seen.

We have the power to do that. 

Thank you very much. 

