We're seen as the organization that is the bucket for failed social policy.

I can't define who comes to us or how long they stay.

We get the people for whom nothing else has worked, people who have fallen through all of the other social safety nets.

They can't contain them, so we must.

Today we incarcerate more people per capita than any other country in the world.

We have more black men in prison today than were under slavery in 1850.

When we lock someone up, that is no small thing.

And yet, we are called the Department of Corrections.

Today I want to talk about changing the way we think about corrections.

I've spent my entire career in corrections, over 30 years.

I followed my dad into this field.

He was strong, steady, disciplined.

I was not so much any of those things, and I'm sure that worried him about me.

Eventually I decided, if I was going to end up in prison, I'd better end up on the right side of the bars, so I thought I'd check it out, take a tour of the place my dad worked, the McNeil Island Penitentiary. 

Now this was the early '80s, and prisons weren't quite what you see on TV or in the movies.

In many ways, it was worse.

there were 550 men in that living unit.

And just in case you wondered, they shared one toilet in those small confines.

An officer put a key in a lockbox, and hundreds of men streamed out of their cells.

Hundreds of men streamed out of their cells.

I walked away as fast as I could. 

Eventually I went back and I started as an officer there.

My job was to run one of those cell blocks and to control those hundreds of men.

Take hundreds of volatile people and lock them up, and what you get is chaos.

Contain and control — that was our job. 

We put inmates in cells behind solid steel doors with cuff ports so we could restrain them and feed them.

Guess what?

It got quieter.

But isolation isn't good.

Even in prison, it's no small thing to lock someone up. 

My next assignment was to one of the state's deep-end prisons where some of our more violent or disruptive inmates are housed.

By then, the industry had advanced a lot, and we had different tools and techniques to manage disruptive behavior.

We had beanbag guns and pepper spray and plexiglass shields, flash bangs, emergency response teams.

We met violence with force and chaos with chaos.

We were pretty good at putting out fires. 

While I was there, I met two experienced correctional workers who were also researchers, an anthropologist and a sociologist.

I was patient with them, explaining our brute force approach to making prisons safer.

They were patient with me.

Out of those conversations grew some new ideas and we started some small experiments.

Then we experimented with an apprenticeship model where we paired new staff with veteran staff.

They both got better at the work.

Second, we added verbal de-escalation skills into the training continuum and made it part of the use of force continuum.

It was the non-force use of force.

And then we did something even more radical.

We trained the inmates on those same skills.

We changed the skill set, reducing violence, not just responding to it. 

Third, when we expanded our facility, we tried a new type of design.

Now that might not sound significant to you here today, but at the time, it was huge.

No one had ever heard of a cell without a toilet.

We all thought it was dangerous and crazy.

Even eight men to a cell had a toilet.

That small detail changed the way we worked.

Inmates and staff started interacting more often and openly and developing a rapport.

It was easier to detect conflict and intervene before it escalated.

The unit was cleaner, quieter, safer and more humane.

This was more effective at keeping the peace than any intimidation technique I'd seen to that point.

We changed the environment and we changed the behavior. 

It's no small thing to change a prison system.

So what I did do is I reflected on my earlier experiences and I remembered that when we interacted with offenders, the heat went down.

When we changed the environment, the behavior changed.

So next, I got reassigned as superintendent of a small prison.

And at the same time, I was working on my degree at the Evergreen State College.

The way we think about our work changes our work.

Let me be clear on what's going on here, though.

Inmates are highly adaptive.

They have to be.

Oftentimes, they know more about our own systems than the people who run them.

And they're here for a reason.

So I took that question back to the deep end, where some of our most violent offenders are housed.

That was how we thought.

In fact, they needed intensive programming.

Instead of using the chair for punishment, we put it in classrooms.

We changed our thinking, and we changed what was possible, and this gives me hope. 

Reducing recidivism may be our ultimate goal, but it's not our only goal.

To be honest with you, preventing crime takes so much more from so many more people and institutions.

If we rely on just prisons to reduce crime, I'm afraid we'll never get there.

But prisons can do some things we never thought they could do.

Inmates can be scientists and beekeepers, dog rescuers.

Prisons can be the source of meaningful work and opportunity for staff and the inmates who live there.

We can contain and control and provide humane environments.

These are not opposing qualities. 

We can't wait 10 to 20 years to find out if this is worth doing.

We need more opportunities to participate in and contribute to our communities, your communities.

Prisons need to be secure, yes, safe, yes.

We can do that.

That's why I'm hopeful.

And when we do that thoughtfully and with humanity, prisons can be more than the bucket for failed social policy.

Maybe finally, we will earn our title: a department of corrections. 

Thank you. 

