Every weekend for as long as I can remember, my father would get up on a Saturday, put on a worn sweatshirt and he'd scrape away at the squeaky old wheel of a house that we lived in.

Scraping and re-scraping, painting and repainting: the work of an old house is never meant to be done. 

The day my father turned 52, I got a phone call.

When that looming three-week deadline came and then went, he was still alive.

And at three months, he joined me.

We gutted and repainted the interior.

At six months, the old windows were refinished, and at 18 months, the rotted porch was finally replaced. 

So the following year, I decided to go to architecture school. 

But there, I learned something different about buildings.

And I think this is supposed to be a snail. 

Something about this bothered me.

Why was it that the best architects, the greatest architecture -- all beautiful and visionary and innovative -- is also so rare, and seems to serve so very few?

And more to the point: With all of this creative talent, what more could we do? 

I was surprised to hear a doctor talking about architecture.

In this hospital in South Africa, patients that came in with, say, a broken leg, to wait in this unventilated hallway, walked out with a multidrug-resistant strand of tuberculosis.

Simple designs for infection control had not been thought about, and people had died because of it. 

I was there to design and build a new type of hospital with Dr. Farmer and his team.

If hallways are making patients sicker, what if we could design a hospital that flips the hallways on the outside, and makes people walk in the exterior?

If mechanical systems rarely work, what if we could design a hospital that could breathe through natural ventilation, and meanwhile reduce its environmental footprint? 

And what about the patients' experience?

Designing it is one thing; getting it built, we learned, is quite another. 

Hundreds of people came with shovels and hoes, and we excavated that hill in half the time and half the cost of that bulldozer.

Instead of importing furniture, Bruce started a guild, and he brought in master carpenters to train others in how to make furniture by hand.

And on this job site, 15 years after the Rwandan genocide, Bruce insisted that we bring on labor from all backgrounds, and that half of them be women. 

Think of it like the local food movement, but for architecture.

Using the lo-fab way of building, even aesthetic decisions can be designed to impact people's lives.

In Butaro, we chose to use a local volcanic stone found in abundance within the area, but often considered a nuisance by farmers, and piled on the side of the road.

We worked with these masons to cut these stones and form them into the walls of the hospital.

And when they began on this corner and wrapped around the entire hospital, they were so good at putting these stones together, they asked us if they could take down the original wall and rebuild it.

And you see what is possible.

It's beautiful.

And the beauty, to me, comes from the fact that I know that hands cut these stones, and they formed them into this thick wall, made only in this place with rocks from this soil. 

We started a new practice based around these questions, and we tested it around the world.

Like in Haiti, where we asked if a new hospital could help end the epidemic of cholera.

Or Malawi: we asked if a birthing center could radically reduce maternal and infant mortality.

Or in the Congo, where we asked if an educational center could also be used to protect endangered wildlife.

Poaching for ivory and bushmeat is leading to global epidemic, disease transfer and war.

In one of the hardest-to-reach places in the world, we used the mud and the dirt and the wood around us to construct a center that would show us ways to protect and conserve our rich biodiversity. 

Even here in the US, we were asked to rethink the largest university for the deaf and hard of hearing in the world.

The deaf community, through sign language, shows us the power of visual communication.

We designed a campus that would awaken the ways in which we as humans all communicate, both verbally and nonverbally. 

And even in Poughkeepsie, my hometown, we thought about old industrial infrastructure.

We wondered: Could we use arts and culture and design to revitalize this city and other Rust Belt cities across our nation, and turn them into centers for innovation and growth?

In each of these projects, we asked a simple question: What more can architecture do?

And by asking that question, we were forced to consider how we could create jobs, how we could source regionally and how we could invest in the dignity of the communities in which we serve. 

I have learned that architecture can be a transformative engine for change. 

And Bryan had a bold architectural vision.

He and his team had been documenting the over 4,000 lynchings of African-Americans that have happened in the American South.

And they had a plan to mark every county where these lynchings occurred, and build a national memorial to the victims of lynching in Montgomery, Alabama. 

We have yet to do this in the United States. 

By any chance, do you know who will design it?"

When I got there, Bryan and his team picked me up, and we walked around the city.

And they took the time to point out the many markers that have been placed all over the city to the history of the Confederacy, and the very few that mark the history of slavery. 

And then he walked me to a hill.

It overlooked the whole city.

Our two teams have worked together over the last year to design this memorial.

The memorial will take us on a journey through a classical, almost familiar building type, like the Parthenon or the colonnade at the Vatican.

And as we continue, we begin to understand the vast number of those who have yet to be put to rest.

Their names will be engraved on the markers that hang above us.

And just outside will be a field of identical columns.

Our nation will begin to heal from over a century of silence. 

We wondered if we could fill those very columns with the soil from the sites of where these killings occurred.

The act of collecting soil itself has lead to a type of spiritual healing.

It's an act of restorative justice. 

As one EJI team member noted in the collection of the soil from where Will McBride was lynched, "If Will McBride left one drop of sweat, one drop of blood, one hair follicle -- I pray that I dug it up, and that his whole body would be at peace."

When my father told me that day that this house -- our house -- had saved his life, what I didn't know was that he was referring to a much deeper relationship between architecture and ourselves.

Buildings are not simply expressive sculptures.

They make visible our personal and our collective aspirations as a society.

Great architecture can give us hope.

Great architecture can heal. 

