You probably don't know me, but I am one of those .01 percenters that you hear about and read about, and I am by any reasonable definition a plutocrat.

Like most plutocrats, I too am a proud and unapologetic capitalist.

I have founded, cofounded or funded over 30 companies across a range of industries.

I was the first non-family investor in Amazon.com.

I cofounded a company called aQuantive that we sold to Microsoft for 6.4 billion dollars.

I am certainly not the hardest working.

I was a mediocre student.

I'm not technical at all.

I can't write a word of code.

Truly, my success is the consequence of spectacular luck, of birth, of circumstance and of timing.

But I am actually pretty good at a couple of things.

You see, the problem isn't that we have some inequality.

Some inequality is necessary for a high-functioning capitalist democracy.

The problem is that inequality is at historic highs today and it's getting worse every day.

That was France before the revolution and the mobs with the pitchforks. 

So I have a message for my fellow plutocrats and zillionaires and for anyone who lives in a gated bubble world: Wake up.

You show me a highly unequal society, and I will show you a police state or an uprising.

The pitchforks will come for us if we do not address this.

It's not a matter of if, it's when.

What I am arguing is that rising economic inequality is stupid and ultimately self-defeating.

Rising inequality doesn't just increase our risks from pitchforks, but it's also terrible for business too.

So the model for us rich guys should be Henry Ford.

When Ford famously introduced the $5 day, which was twice the prevailing wage at the time, he didn't just increase the productivity of his factories, he converted exploited autoworkers who were poor into a thriving middle class who could now afford to buy the products that they made.

Raising wages increases demand, which increases hiring, which in turn increases wages and demand and profits, and that virtuous cycle of increasing prosperity is precisely what is missing from today's economic recovery. 

And this is why we need to put behind us the trickle-down policies that so dominate both political parties and embrace something I call middle-out economics.

This 21st-century perspective allows you to clearly see that capitalism does not work by [efficiently] allocating existing resources.

It works by [efficiently] creating new solutions to human problems.

The genius of capitalism is that it is an evolutionary solution-finding system.

It rewards people for solving other people's problems.

The difference between a poor society and a rich society, obviously, is the degree to which that society has generated solutions in the form of products for its citizens.

The sum of the solutions that we have in our society really is our prosperity, and this explains why companies like Google and Amazon and Microsoft and Apple and the entrepreneurs who created those companies have contributed so much to our nation's prosperity. 

This 21st-century perspective also makes clear that what we think of as economic growth is best understood as the rate at which we solve problems.

But this maximizing participation thing doesn't happen by accident.

It doesn't happen by itself.

How often can I go out to dinner?

No matter how wealthy a few plutocrats get, we can never drive a great national economy.

Only a thriving middle class can do that.

There's nothing to be done, my plutocrat friends might say.

Henry Ford was in a different time.

Maybe we can't do some things.

Maybe we can do some things.

The good people at Forbes magazine, among my biggest admirers, called it "Nick Hanauer's near-insane proposal."

And yet, just 350 days after that article was published, Seattle's Mayor Ed Murray signed into law an ordinance raising the minimum wage in Seattle to 15 dollars an hour, more than double what the prevailing federal $7.25 rate is.

How did this happen, reasonable people might ask.

It happened because a group of us reminded the middle class that they are the source of growth and prosperity in capitalist economies.

We reminded them that when workers have more money, businesses have more customers, and need more employees.

Now the orthodox reaction, of course, is raising the minimum wage costs jobs.

Are you sure?

Because there's some contravening evidence.

Since 1980, the wages of CEOs in our country have gone from about 30 times the median wage to 500 times.

That's raising the price of employment.

And yet, to my knowledge, I have never seen a company outsource its CEO's job, automate their job, export the job to China.

In fact, we appear to be employing more CEOs and senior managers than ever before.

I know that most people think that the $15 minimum wage is this insane, risky economic experiment.

We disagree.

We believe that the $15 minimum wage in Seattle is actually the continuation of a logical economic policy.

It is allowing our city to kick your city's ass.

Because, you see, Washington state already has the highest minimum wage of any state in the nation.

If trickle-down thinkers were right, then Washington state should have massive unemployment.

Seattle should be sliding into the ocean.

And yet, Seattle is the fastest-growing big city in the country.

When restaurants pay restaurant workers enough so that even they can afford to eat in restaurants, that's not bad for the restaurant business.

That's good for it, despite what some restaurateurs may tell you. 

Is it more complicated than I'm making out?

Of course it is.

There are a lot of dynamics at play.

There is no evidence for it.

The most insidious thing about trickle-down economics is not the claim that if the rich get richer, everyone is better off.

This is nonsense.

It's not that they don't have good entrepreneurs in other places, even very, very poor places.

It's just that that's all that those entrepreneurs' customers can afford. 

Let's by all means shrink the size of government, but not by slashing the poverty programs, but by ensuring that workers are paid enough so that they actually don't need those programs.

Capitalism is the greatest social technology ever invented for creating prosperity in human societies, if it is well managed, but capitalism, because of the fundamental multiplicative dynamics of complex systems, tends towards, inexorably, inequality, concentration and collapse.

The work of democracies is to maximize the inclusion of the many in order to create prosperity, not to enable the few to accumulate money.

Government does create prosperity and growth, by creating the conditions that allow both entrepreneurs and their customers to thrive.

Balancing the power of capitalists like me and workers isn't bad for capitalism.

It's essential to it.

For thousands of years, these stories were called divine right.

Today, we have trickle-down economics.

How obviously, transparently self-serving all of this is.

Let's secure the future for ourselves, our children and their children.

Or alternatively, we could do nothing, hide in our gated communities and private schools, enjoy our planes and yachts — they're fun — and wait for the pitchforks. 

Thank you. 

