As a kid I always loved information that I could get from data and the stories that could be told with numbers.

I remember, growing up, I'd be frustrated at how my own parents would lie to me using numbers.

(Laughter) 

I think that is one of the reasons I got a Ph.D. in statistics.

As a statistician, I want people to show me the data so I can decide for myself.

Donald and I were pregnant with our third child and we were at about 41 and a half weeks, what some of you may refer to as being overdue.

Statisticians, we call that being within the 95 percent confidence interval.

And you are rarely, if ever, seen by your actual doctor, just whoever happens to be working at the hospital that day.

Show me the data!

We can collect more data.

I can try to be really still for 20 minutes.

We can average the two and see what that means.

(Laughter) Let's talk chances. 

(Laughter) I said, "Okay, so you are telling me that my chances go from a 0.1-percent chance to a 0.2-percent chance."

For instance, did you know that taking your temperature can tell you a lot about the condition of your thyroid?

So, your thyroid works a lot like the thermostat in your house.

When it gets too cold in the house, your thermostat kicks in and says, "Hey, we need to blow some heat around."

Or if it gets too hot, your thermostat registers, "Turn the A.C. on.

That's exactly how your thyroid works in your body.

But what happens when your thyroid is not functioning well?

And so by collecting this data you can find out information about your thyroid. 

So you might have a lot of hormone present, but it might not be actively working to regulate your body temperature.

So just by collecting your temperature every day, you get information about the condition of your thyroid.

So, what if you don't want to take your temperature every day?

I advocate that you do, but there are tons of other things you could take.

(Laughter) 

Early on in our marriage, Donald had a stuffy nose and he had been taking a slew of medications to try to relieve his stuffy nose, to no avail.

We just got married, people will think I killed you!

You're having a heart attack.

I'm going to order an EKG and a CAT scan for you immediately."

And so fortunately for us, this doctor was at the end of the shift.

So this new doctor comes in, he sees us clearly distraught, with a husband who can't breath out of his nose.

(Laughter) And he starts asking us questions.

And so had we had some information about our heart health to share with him, maybe we would have gotten a better diagnosis the first time. 

You'll see that these measurements start in the prehypertension/hypertension zone, but over about the course of a year and a half they move into the normal zone.

This is about the heart rate of a healthy 16-year-old.

What story is this data telling you?

So that 350-pound guy that walked into the emergency room with me is now an even sexier and healthier 225-pound guy, and that's his blood pressure trace.

So over the course of that year and a half Donald's eating changed and our exercise regimen changed, and his heart rate responded, his blood pressure responded to that change that he made in his body. 

So what's the take-home message that I want you to leave with today?

It's not hard to do.

You don't have to have a Ph.D. in statistics to be an expert in yourself.

You don't have to have a medical degree to be your body's expert.

Medical doctors, they're experts on the population, but you are the expert on yourself.

And so when two of you come together, when two experts come together, the two of you are able to make a better decision than just your doctor alone.

(Laughter) Yes, get it up.

I challenge you to take ownership of your data.

Audience: Show me the data!

TW: Show me the data.

