I didn't know when I agreed to do this whether I was expected to talk or to sing.

But when I was told that the topic was language, I felt that I had to speak about something for a moment. 

I have a problem.

It's not the worst thing in the world.

I'm fine.

I'm not on fire.

And the thing is that I have a stutter.

It might seem curious given that I spend a lot of my life on the stage.

One would assume that I'm comfortable in the public sphere and comfortable here, speaking to you guys.

(Laughter) But we'll get to that in a moment.

I've never really talked about it before so explicitly.

I'm pretty sure that I'm grown now.

(Laughter) And I'm an adult woman who spends her life as a performer, with a speech impediment.

So, I might as well come clean about it. 

There are some interesting angles to having a stutter.

For me, the worst thing that can happen is meeting another stutterer.

And it is a very weird thing, because proper nouns are the worst.

But with people's names, you can't change them.

(Laughter) When I was singing a lot of jazz, I worked a lot with a pianist whose name was Steve.

As you can probably gather, S's and T's, together or independently, are my kryptonite.

I've had a lot of therapy, and a common form of treatment is to use this technique that's called smooth speech, which is where you almost sing everything that you say.

I use it when I have to be on panel shows, or when I have to do radio interviews, when the economy of airtime is paramount.

(Laughter) I get through it that way for my job.

But as an artist who feels that their work is based solely on a platform of honesty and being real, that feels often like cheating. 

Which is why before I sing, I wanted to tell you what singing means to me.

It's more than making nice sounds, and it's more than making nice songs.

It's more than feeling known, or understood.

It's more than making you feel the things that I feel.

It's not about mythology, or mythologizing myself to you.

Somehow, through some miraculous synaptic function of the human brain, it's impossible to stutter when you sing.

And that's why I'm here today. 

Thank you. 

Singing for me is sweet relief.

It is the only time when I feel fluent.

It is the only time when what comes out of my mouth is comprehensively exactly what I intended.

(Laughter) So I know that this is a TED Talk, but now i'm going to TED sing.

This is a song that I wrote last year. 

Thank you. 

