What do you think of when I say the word "design"?

But I'm not here to talk about that kind of design.

I want to talk about the kind that you probably use every day and may not give much thought to, designs that change all the time and that live inside your pocket.

Consider the fact that Google processes over one billion search queries every day, that every minute, over 100 hours of footage are uploaded to YouTube.

That's more in a single day than all three major U.S. networks broadcast in the last five years combined.

And Facebook transmitting the photos, messages and stories of over 1.23 billion people.

That's almost half of the Internet population, and a sixth of humanity. 

These are some of the products that I've helped design over the course of my career, and their scale is so massive that they've produced unprecedented design challenges.

Now, the first thing that you need to know about designing at scale is that the little things really matter.

Here's a really good example of how a very tiny design element can make a big impact.

The team at Facebook that manages the Facebook "Like" button decided that it needed to be redesigned.

The button had kind of gotten out of sync with the evolution of our brand and it needed to be modernized.

Now you might think, well, it's a tiny little button, it probably is a pretty straightforward, easy design assignment, but it wasn't.

Turns out, there were all kinds of constraints for the design of this button.

The truth is, designing this tiny little button was a huge pain in the butt. 

Now, this is the new version of the button, and the designer who led this project estimates that he spent over 280 hours redesigning this button over the course of months.

Now, why would we spend so much time on something so small?

It's because when you're designing at scale, there's no such thing as a small detail.

This innocent little button is seen on average 22 billion times a day and on over 7.5 million websites.

It's one of the single most viewed design elements ever created.

Now that's a lot of pressure for a little button and the designer behind it, but with these kinds of products, you need to get even the tiny things right. 

Now, the next thing that you need to understand is how to design with data.

Now, when you're working on products like this, you have incredible amounts of information about how people are using your product that you can then use to influence your design decisions, but it's not just as simple as following the numbers.

Let me give you an example so that you can understand what I mean.

Facebook has had a tool for a long time that allowed people to report photos that may be in violation of our community standards, things like spam and abuse.

And there were a ton of photos reported, but as it turns out, only a small percentage were actually in violation of those community standards.

Most of them were just your typical party photo.

This is purely hypothetical, I can assure you.

So anyway, there are lots of these photos being erroneously reported as spam and abuse, and one of the engineers on the team had a hunch.

Now this was a scenario that the team never even took into account before.

Only 20 percent of people sent the message to their friend.

Here's how the experience works today.

Why don't you like this photo of yourself?

And I select "It's embarrassing."

And then I'm encouraged to message my friend, but here's the critical difference.

I'm provided specific suggested language that helps me communicate to Laura how the photo makes me feel.

Now the team found that this relatively small change had a huge impact.

Before, only 20 percent of people were sending the message, and now 60 percent were, and surveys showed that people on both sides of the conversation felt better as a result.

That same survey showed that 90 percent of your friends want to know if they've done something to upset you.

Now I don't know who the other 10 percent are, but maybe that's where our "Unfriend" feature can come in handy. 

So as you can see, these decisions are highly nuanced.

Of course we use a lot of data to inform our decisions, but we also rely very heavily on iteration, research, testing, intuition, human empathy.

It's both art and science.

Now, sometimes the designers who work on these products are called "data-driven," which is a term that totally drives us bonkers.

Data can help you make a good design great, but it will never made a bad design good. 

The next thing that you need to understand as a principle is that when you introduce change, you need to do it extraordinarily carefully.

So we decided to simplify into an up-down kind of voting binary model.

It's going to be much easier for people to engage with.

But people were very attached to the five-star rating system.

Video creators really loved their ratings.

Millions and millions of people were accustomed to the old design.

Now, it's impossible to completely avoid change aversion when you're making changes to products that so many people use.

Now, these things are all really useful.

They're good best practices for designing at scale.

But they don't mean anything if you don't understand something much more fundamental.

You have to understand who you are designing for. 

But what if you had to drive four hours to charge your phone because you had no reliable source of electricity?

What if you had no access to public libraries?

What if your country had no free press?

What would these products start to mean to you?

Designing for low-end cell phones is not glamorous design work, but if you want to design for the whole world, you have to design for where people are, and not where you are. 

We try to travel outside of our bubble to see, hear and understand the people we're designing for.

We use our products in non-English languages to make sure that they work just as well.

And we try to use one of these phones from time to time to keep in touch with their reality. 

So what does it mean to design at a global scale?

It means difficult and sometimes exasperating work to try to improve and evolve products.

Finding the audacity and the humility to do right by them can be pretty exhausting, and the humility part, it's a little tough on the design ego.

Because these products are always changing, everything that I've designed in my career is pretty much gone, and everything that I will design will fade away.

Thank you. 

