Look at the world.

Let's meet some of them. 

During the civil war, he and his family were forced to flee to Nigeria.

There, in spite of his situation, he graduated high school with nearly perfect grades.

He wanted to continue to higher education, but due to his family living on the poverty line, he was soon sent to South Africa to work and send back money to feed his family.

Patrick never gave up his dream of higher education.

Late at night, after work, he surfed the Net looking for ways to study. 

Meet Debbie.

Debbie is from Florida.

Her parents didn't go to college, and neither did any of her siblings.

But Debbie doesn't have the savings for higher education.

Meet Wael.

Wael is from Syria.

He's firsthand experiencing the misery, fear and failure imposed on his country.

He's a big believer in education.

He knew that if he would find an opportunity for higher education, an opportunity to get ahead of the rest, he has a better chance to survive in a world turned upside down. 

In large parts of the world, higher education is unattainable for an average citizen.

This is probably the biggest problem facing our society.

Higher education stopped being a right for all and became a privilege for the few.

Second, cultural.

This is the story of countless women in Africa, for example, prevented from higher education because of cultural barriers.

Patrick, Debbie and Wael are only three examples out of the 1,700 accepted students from 143 countries. 

We — (Applause) — Thank you. 

We didn't need to reinvent the wheel.

We just looked at what wasn't working and used the amazing power of the Internet to get around it.

We set out to build a model that will cut down almost entirely the cost of higher education, and that's how we did it.

First, bricks and mortar cost money.

Universities have expenses that virtual universities don't.

We don't need to pass these expenses onto our students.

They don't exist.

We also don't need to worry about capacity.

There are no limits of seats in virtual university.

Actually, nobody needs to stand at the back of the lecture hall.

Textbooks is also something our students don't need to buy.

By using open educational resources and the generosity of professors who are putting their material free and accessible, we don't need to send our students to buy textbooks.

All of our materials come free.

Finally, it's our belief in peer-to-peer learning.

We use this sound pedagogical model to encourage our students from all over the world to interact and study together and also to reduce the time our professors need to labor over class assignments. 

If the Internet has made us a global village, this model can develop its future leadership.

Look how we do it.

When our students are accepted, they are placed in a small classroom of 20 to 30 students to ensure that those who need personalized attention get it.

Every week, every student must contribute to the class discussion and also must comment on the contribution of others.

This way, we open our students' minds, we develop a positive shift in attitude toward different cultures.

By the end of each week, the students take a quiz, hand in their homework, which are assessed by their peers under the supervision of the instructors, get a grade, move to the next week.

By the end of the course, they take the final exam, get a grade, and follow to the next course. 

We opened the gates for higher education for every qualified student.

Broadband is not necessary.

Any student from any part of the world with any Internet connection can study with us.

We are tuition-free.

All we ask our students to cover is the cost of their exams, 100 dollars per exam.

It is our mission that nobody will be left behind for financial reasons.

With 5,000 students in 2016, this model is financially sustainable. 

Five years ago, it was a vision.

Today, it is a reality.

Last month, we got the ultimate academic endorsement to our model.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

With this accreditation, it's our time now to scale up.

We have demonstrated that our model works.

I invite universities and, even more important, developing countries' governments, to replicate this model to ensure that the gates of higher education will open widely.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

