It is one of 700 known slime molds belonging to the kingdom of the amoeba.

It is a single-celled organism, a cell, that joins together with other cells to form a mass super-cell to maximize its resources.

So within a slime mold you might find thousands or millions of nuclei, all sharing a cell wall, all operating as one entity.

I first came across the slime mold about five years ago.

A microbiologist friend of mine gave me a petri dish with a little yellow blob in it and told me to go home and play with it.

The only instructions I was given, that it likes it dark and damp and its favorite food is porridge oats.

I've worked with plants, bacteria, cuttlefish, fruit flies.

So I was keen to get my new collaborator home to see what it could do.

So I took it home and I watched.

It formed a connection between food sources.

I watched it leave a trail behind it, indicating where it had been.

And I noticed that when it was fed up with one petri dish, it would escape and find a better home. 

I captured my observations through time-lapse photography.

When it meets itself, it knows it's already there, it recognizes it's there, and instead retreats back and grows in other directions.

I found countless scientific studies, research papers, journal articles, all citing incredible work with this one organism, and I'm going to share a few of those with you.

For example, a team in Hokkaido University in Japan filled a maze with slime mold.

It joined together and formed a mass cell.

It retracted from empty areas and dead ends.

There are four possible routes through this maze, yet time and time again, the slime mold established the shortest and the most efficient route.

Quite clever.

The conclusion from their experiment was that the slime mold had a primitive form of intelligence.

Another study exposed cold air at regular intervals to the slime mold.

It doesn't like it dry.

They did this at repeat intervals, and each time, the slime mold slowed down its growth in response.

However, at the next interval, the researchers didn't put the cold air on, yet the slime mold slowed down in anticipation of it happening.

It fans out in a branching pattern.

As it goes, each food node it finds, it forms a network, a connection to, and keeps foraging.

After 26 hours, it established quite a firm network between the different oats.

It is a biological computer.

As such, it has been mathematically modeled, algorithmically analyzed.

It's been sonified, replicated, simulated.

World over, teams of researchers are decoding its biological principles to understand its computational rules and applying that learning to the fields of electronics, programming and robotics. 

It doesn't have a central nervous system.

It doesn't have a brain, yet it can perform behaviors that we associate with brain function.

It can learn, it can remember, it can solve problems, it can make decisions.

So where does that intelligence lie?

This is where its intelligence lies. 

So it's not just academic researchers in universities that are interested in this organism.

A few years ago, I set up SliMoCo, the Slime Mould Collective.

It's an online, open, democratic network for slime mold researchers and enthusiasts to share knowledge and experimentation across disciplinary divides and across academic divides.

The Slime Mould Collective membership is self-selecting.

People have found the collective as the slime mold finds the oats.

And it comprises of scientists and computer scientists and researchers but also artists like me, architects, designers, writers, activists, you name it.

It's a very interesting, eclectic membership.

Here, the slime mold is being used directly as a biological tool, but metaphorically as a symbol for ways of talking about social cohesion, communication and cooperation.

Everybody takes home a new pet and is invited to post their results on the Slime Mould Collective.

And the collective has enabled me to form collaborations with a whole array of interesting people.

This is part of an exhibition in Rotterdam last year.

We invited people to become slime mold for half an hour.

You have to communicate through oscillations, no speaking.

So a chaotic shuffle ensued as this bunch of strangers tied together with yellow ropes wearing "Being Slime Mold" t-shirts wandered through the museum park.

This is a ludicrous experiment in many, many ways.

This isn't hypothesis-driven.

We're not trying to prove, demonstrate anything.

But what it did provide us was a way of engaging a broad section of the public with ideas of intelligence, agency, autonomy, and provide a playful platform for discussions about the things that ensued.

One of the most exciting things about this experiment was the conversation that happened afterwards.

An entirely spontaneous symposium happened in the park.

People talked about the human psychology, of how difficult it was to let go of their individual personalities and egos.

Other people talked about bacterial communication.

And the slime mold is also my working material.

It's a coproducer of photographs, prints, animations, participatory events.

Whilst the slime mold doesn't choose to work with me, exactly, it is a collaboration of sorts.

The slime mold has the final say in the creative process.

And after all, it has its own internal aesthetics.

I give you Physarum polycephalum. 

Thank you. 

