The first time I stood in the operating room and watched a real surgery, I had no idea what to expect.

I was a college student in engineering.

But it wasn't like that at all.

There was music playing on this day, I think it was Madonna's greatest hits.

(Laughter) And there was plenty of conversation, not just about the patient's heart rate, but about sports and weekend plans.

And since then, the more surgeries I watched, the more I realized this is how it is.

In some weird way, it's just another day at the office.

But every so often the music gets turned down, everyone stops talking, and stares at exactly the same thing.

And then inserts these long, thin instruments and a camera, and actually does the procedure inside the patient.

And the way the surgeon uses this device is that he takes it and he presses it into the abdomen until it punctures through.

And now the reason why everyone in the operating room was staring at that device on that day was because he had to be absolutely careful not to plunge it through and puncture it into the organs and blood vessels below.

(Laughter) Remember this?

Every single time you did this, you experienced the same fundamental physics that I was watching in the operating room that day.

And it turns out it really is a problem.

So when I got to graduate school, this is what I wanted to work on.

A lot of neurosurgical procedures actually start with a drill incision through the skull.

And if the surgeon isn't careful, he can plunge directly into the brain.

Because think about it, when was the last time you went to the doctor and you didn't get stuck with something?

So the truth is in medicine puncture is everywhere.

And if we take just three of them — laparoscopic surgery, epidurals, and cranial drilling — these procedures account for over 30,000 complications every year in this country alone.

It's used to puncture through the ligaments in the spine and deliver anesthesia during childbirth.

Here's a set of bone marrow biopsy tools.

These are actually used to burrow into the bone and collect bone marrow or sample bone lesions.

Here's a bayonette from the Civil War.

(Laughter) If I had told you it was a medical puncture device you probably would have believed me.

Because what's the difference?

So, the more I did this research the more I thought there has to be a better way to do this.

So what are those physics?

Let's go back to drilling through a wall.

So you're applying a force on a drill towards the wall.

So, as you drill through the wall, those forces balance.

But then there's that moment when the drill first punctures through the other side of the wall, and right at that moment the wall can't push back anymore.

But your brain hasn't reacted to that change in force.

So imagine you have a device and it's got some kind of sharp tip to cut through tissue.

What's the simplest way you could pull that tip back?

I chose a spring.

So when you extend that spring, you extend that tip out so it's ready to puncture tissue, the spring wants to pull the tip back.

How do you keep the tip in place until the moment of puncture?

I used this mechanism.

When the tip of the device is pressed against tissue, the mechanism expands outwards and wedges in place against the wall.

And the friction that's generated locks it in place and prevents the spring from retracting the tip.

But right at the moment of puncture, the tissue can't push back on the tip anymore.

So the mechanism unlocks and the spring retracts the tip.

Let me show you that happening in slow motion.

And you'll see that right at the moment of puncture, right there, the mechanism unlocks and retracts that tip back.

I want to show it to you again, a little closer up.

You're going to see the sharp bladed tip, and right when it punctures that rubber membrane it's going to disappear into this white blunt sheath.

Right there.

That happens within four 100ths of a second after puncture.

But it didn't always look like this.

This was my first prototype.

It took about 30 minutes to do this, but it worked.

I worked on this because this problem really fascinated me.

It kept me up at night.

That means at some point it's going to be your problem too.

That first day in the operating room I never expected to find myself on the other end of a trocar.

But last year, I got appendicitis when I was visiting Greece.

So I was in the hospital in Athens, and the surgeon was telling me he was going to perform a laparoscopic surgery.

We have to be better at finding those problems and finding ways to solve them.

So if you come across a problem that grabs you, let it keep you up at night.

