It's an amazing multi-track movie.

Your movie has smell and taste and touch.

It has a sense of your body, pain, hunger, orgasms.

It has emotions, anger and happiness.

It has memories, like scenes from your childhood playing before you.

And it has this constant voiceover narrative in your stream of conscious thinking.

At the heart of this movie is you experiencing all this directly.

Consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.

Each of us is conscious.

At least, I know about my consciousness directly.

Consciousness also is what makes life worth living.

If we weren't conscious, nothing in our lives would have meaning or value.

But at the same time, it's the most mysterious phenomenon in the universe.

Why are we conscious?

Why do we have these inner movies?

Some people say a science of consciousness is impossible.

Science, by its nature, is objective.

Consciousness, by its nature, is subjective.

So there can never be a science of consciousness.

For much of the 20th century, that view held sway.

Psychologists studied behavior objectively, neuroscientists studied the brain objectively, and nobody even mentioned consciousness.

Now, about 20 years ago, all that began to change.

Neuroscientists like Francis Crick and physicists like Roger Penrose said now is the time for science to attack consciousness.

But it also has some fundamental limitations so far.

Now we understand much better, for example, the kinds of brain areas that go along with the conscious experience of seeing faces or of feeling pain or of feeling happy.

But this is still a science of correlations.

It's not a science of explanations.

We know that these brain areas go along with certain kinds of conscious experience, but we don't know why they do.

But in a certain sense, those are the easy problems.

No knock on the neuroscientists.

There are no truly easy problems with consciousness.

But when it comes to consciousness, questions about behavior are among the easy problems.

Now, I'm a scientific materialist at heart.

So I think we're at a kind of impasse here.

But consciousness doesn't seem to fit into this picture.

On the one hand, it's a datum that we're conscious.

On the other hand, we don't know how to accommodate it into our scientific view of the world.

Now, there are a few candidates for what those crazy ideas might be.

My friend Dan Dennett, who's here today, has one.

The whole idea of the inner subjective movie involves a kind of illusion or confusion.

Well I say, more power to him.

At the same time, for me and for many other people, that view is a bit too close to simply denying the datum of consciousness to be satisfactory.

So I go in a different direction.

The first crazy idea is that consciousness is fundamental.

These fundamental properties and laws aren't explained in terms of anything more basic.

Rather, they're taken as primitive, and you build up the world from there.

Now sometimes, the list of fundamentals expands.

I think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.

If you can't explain consciousness in terms of the existing fundamentals — space, time, mass, charge — then as a matter of logic, you need to expand the list.

The natural thing to do is to postulate consciousness itself as something fundamental, a fundamental building block of nature.

This doesn't mean you suddenly can't do science with it.

This opens up the way for you to do science with it.

Well I think something like that is the situation we're in with consciousness.

The second crazy idea is that consciousness might be universal.

Every system might have some degree of consciousness.

The idea is not that photons are intelligent or thinking.

This may sound a bit kooky to you.

I mean, why would anyone think such a crazy thing?

Some motivation comes from the first crazy idea, that consciousness is fundamental.

A deeper motivation comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way to find fundamental laws connecting consciousness to physical processing is to link consciousness to information.

Wherever there's information processing, there's consciousness.

And he supposes that phi goes along with consciousness.

So in a human brain, incredibly large amount of information integration, high degree of phi, a whole lot of consciousness.

In a mouse, medium degree of information integration, still pretty significant, pretty serious amount of consciousness.

But as you go down to worms, microbes, particles, the amount of phi falls off.

The amount of information integration falls off, but it's still non-zero.

On Tononi's theory, there's still going to be a non-zero degree of consciousness.

Another final motivation is that panpsychism might help us to integrate consciousness into the physical world.

Physicists and philosophers have often observed that physics is curiously abstract.

It describes the structure of reality using a bunch of equations, but it doesn't tell us about the reality that underlies it.

As Stephen Hawking puts it, what puts the fire into the equations?

Well, on the panpsychist view, you can leave the equations of physics as they are, but you can take them to be describing the flux of consciousness.

That's what physics really is ultimately doing, describing the flux of consciousness.

On this view, it's consciousness that puts the fire into the equations.

On that view, consciousness doesn't dangle outside the physical world as some kind of extra.

Some of these may be counterintuitive.

Now, if you're a panpsychist and you take that view, you're going to go very hungry.

It's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.

What about the artificially intelligent system in the movie "Her," Samantha?

Is she conscious?

Does Canada have its own consciousness?

Okay, so this panpsychist vision, it is a radical one, and I don't know that it's correct.

If we can answer those questions, then I think we're going to be well on our way to a serious theory of consciousness.

If not, well, this is the hardest problem perhaps in science and philosophy.

We can't expect to solve it overnight.

Thank you. 

