I am both a magician and a New York Times crossword puzzle constructor, which basically means I've taken the world's two nerdiest hobbies and combined them into one career.

Human beings are wired to solve, to make order out of chaos. 

It's certainly true for me.

I've been solving my whole life.

I test your ability to solve. 

From birth, we are wired to solve.

It's remarkable.

Now, solving exists across all cultures.

The American invention is the crossword puzzle, and this year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the crossword puzzle, first published in The New York World.

But many other cultures have their signature puzzles as well.

Okay.

Is this not making order out of chaos? 

So as you can see, we are always solving.

We are always trying to decode our world.

It's an eternal quest.

Come on guys, really?

Let's see.

(Applause) 

Are you so excited?

And over here we have a drawing of some farm animals.

It's going to be a lot of fun.

Okay, so don't start yet.

Wait for me to get over here and close my eyes.

Now Gwen, are you ready? 

And color in the owl for me.

Okay, good.

This is still going to work, though.

I think this is still going to work, mostly. 

Okay. 

Why don't you open it up and remove the one piece of paper from inside and hand it to me, and we will see if it matches your choices.

Yes, I think it does.

(Applause) I'll take that back from you. 

Well this is the puzzle I present to you.

Could there be order in the chaos that I created?

Let's take a closer look.

The plot thickens.

And then we played a game of tangrams with an emerald rooster.

That one's my favorite.

And then we had an experiment with a silver ox.

And Katy Perry drinks her morning coffee out of an amber owl.

(Laughter) But wait, but wait, wait, wait, wait, there's more.

There's more.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have today's New York Times.

See if you can fish out the newspaper and open up to the arts section and you will find the crossword puzzle, and the crossword puzzle today was written by yours truly.

You can see my name above the grid.

I'm going to give this to you, Gwen, to take a look.

And I will also put it up on the screen.

Now let's take a look at another piece of the puzzle.

(Applause) That's pretty cool, right?

That's chaos and order.

We've all made order out of chaos. 

So ladies and gentlemen, the next time you find yourself with a puzzle, whether it's in your life or in your work, or maybe it's at the Sunday morning breakfast table with The New York Times, remember, you are all wired to solve. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

