Could I protect my father from the Armed Islamic Group with a paring knife?

I woke up early that morning in Dad's apartment on the outskirts of Algiers, Algeria, to an unrelenting pounding on the front door.

It was a season as described by a local paper when every Tuesday a scholar fell to the bullets of fundamentalist assassins.

So my father tried to get the police on the phone, but perhaps terrified by the rising tide of armed extremism that had already claimed the lives of so many Algerian officers, they didn't even answer.

And that was when I went to the kitchen, got out a paring knife, and took up a position inside the entryway.

When I look back now, I think that that was the moment that set me on the path was to writing a book called "Your Fatwa Does Not Apply Here: Untold Stories from the Fight Against Muslim Fundamentalism."

The title comes from a Pakistani play.

Luckily, back in June of 1993, our unidentified visitor went away, but other families were so much less lucky, and that was the thought that motivated my research.

In any case, someone would return a few months later and leave a note on Dad's kitchen table, which simply said, "Consider yourself dead."

In its harsh counterterrorist response, the state resorted to torture and to forced disappearances, and as terrible as all of these events became, the international community largely ignored them.

For example, in a November 1994 series in the newspaper El Watan entitled "How Fundamentalism Produced a Terrorism without Precedent," he denounced what he called the terrorists' radical break with the true Islam as it was lived by our ancestors.

My father's country taught me in that dark decade of the 1990s that the popular struggle against Muslim fundamentalism is one of the most important and overlooked human rights struggles in the world.

This remains true today, nearly 20 years later.

In the West, it's often assumed that Muslims generally condone terrorism.

Some on the right think this because they view Muslim culture as inherently violent, and some on the left imagine this because they view Muslim violence, fundamentalist violence, solely as a product of legitimate grievances.

But both views are dead wrong.

In fact, many people of Muslim heritage around the world are staunch opponents both of fundamentalism and of terrorism, and often for very good reason.

You see, they're much more likely to be victims of this violence than its perpetrators.

Let me just give you one example.

According to a 2009 survey of Arabic language media resources, between 2004 and 2008, no more than 15 percent of al Qaeda's victims were Westerners.

Now I've been talking for the last five minutes about fundamentalism, and you have a right to know exactly what I mean.

Some use and advocate violence.

Some do not, though they're often interrelated.

They take different forms.

Some may be non-governmental organizations, even here in Britain like Cageprisoners.

Some may become political parties, like the Muslim Brotherhood, and some may be openly armed groups like the Taliban.

But in any case, these are all radical projects.

They're not conservative or traditional approaches.

They're most often about changing people's relationship with Islam rather than preserving it.

What I am talking about is the Muslim extreme right, and the fact that its adherents are or purport to be Muslim makes them no less offensive than the extreme right anywhere else.

So in my view, if we consider ourselves liberal or left-wing, human rights-loving or feminist, we must oppose these movements and support their grassroots opponents.

Nor should anything I say be taken as a justification of violations of human rights, like the mass death sentences handed out in Egypt earlier this week.

But what I am saying is that we must challenge these Muslim fundamentalist movements because they threaten human rights across Muslim-majority contexts, and they do this in a range of ways, most obviously with the direct attacks on civilians by the armed groups that carry those out.

But that violence is just the tip of the iceberg.

These movements as a whole purvey discrimination against religious minorities and sexual minorities.

They seek to curtail the freedom of religion of everyone who either practices in a different way or chooses not to practice.

Now, faced with these movements in recent years, Western discourse has most often offered two flawed responses.

So what I'm seeking is a new way of talking about this all together, which is grounded in the lived experiences and the hope of the people on the front lines.

Faizan Peerzada and the Rafi Peer Theatre workshop named for his father have for years promoted the performing arts in Pakistan.

With the rise of jihadist violence, they began to receive threats to call off their events, which they refused to heed.

As Faizan said at the time, if we bow down to the Islamists, we'll just be sitting in a dark corner.

But they didn't know what would happen.

Would anyone come?

And then the next year, they lost all of their sponsors due to the security risk.

This was a time when the Pakistani Taliban had commenced their systematic targeting of girls' schools that would culminate in the attack on Malala Yousafzai.

What did the Peerzadas do in that environment?

They staged girls' school theater.

So I had the privilege of watching "Naang Wal," which was a musical in the Punjabi language, and the girls of Lahore Grammar School played all the parts.

And when we did, the whole audience collectively exhaled, and a few people actually wept, and then they filled the auditorium with the peaceful boom of their applause.

Maria Bashir is the first and only woman chief prosecutor in Afghanistan.

She's been in the post since 2008 and actually opened an office to investigate cases of violence against women, which she says is the most important area in her mandate.

When I meet her in her office in Herat, she enters surrounded by four large men with four huge guns.

Why does she continue?

Later on in our interview, Prosecutor Bashir tells me how worried she is about the possible outcome of government negotiations with the Taliban, the people who have been trying to kill her.

A few weeks after I leave Afghanistan, I see a headline on the Internet.

An Afghan prosecutor has been assassinated.

And when I hear headlines like that now, I think that as international troops leave Afghanistan this year and beyond, we must continue to care about what happens to people there, to all of the Maria Bashirs.

They killed 67, including poets and pregnant women.

Far away in the American Midwest, I had the good fortune of meeting Somali-Americans who were working to counter the efforts of al Shabaab to recruit a small number of young people from their city of Minneapolis to take part in atrocities like Westgate.

Abdirizak Bihi's studious 17-year-old nephew Burhan Hassan was recruited here in 2008, spirited to Somalia, and then killed when he tried to come home.

Since that time, Mr. Bihi, who directs the no-budget Somali Education and Advocacy Center, has been vocally denouncing the recruitment and the failures of government and Somali-American institutions like the Abubakar As-Saddique Islamic Center where he believes his nephew was radicalized during a youth program.

Given his own lack of financial resources, Mr. Bihi has had to be creative.

To counter the efforts of al Shabaab to sway more disaffected youth, in the wake of the group's 2010 attack on World Cup viewers in Uganda, he organized a Ramadan basketball tournament in Minneapolis in response.

Scores of Somali-American kids came out to embrace sport despite the fatwa against it.

They played basketball as Burhan Hassan never would again.

Now I want to tell one last story, that of a 22-year-old law student in Algeria named Amel Zenoune-Zouani who had the same dreams of a legal career that I did back in the '90s.

She refused to give up her studies, despite the fact that the fundamentalists battling the Algerian state back then threatened all who continued their education.

On January 26, 1997, Amel boarded the bus in Algiers where she was studying to go home and spend a Ramadan evening with her family, and would never finish law school.

When the bus reached the outskirts of her hometown, it was stopped at a checkpoint manned by men from the Armed Islamic Group.

Carrying her schoolbag, Amel was taken off the bus and killed in the street.

Her mother showed me the watch with the second hand still aimed optimistically upward towards a 5:18 that would never come.

I think I found it in two places.

The first is in the strength of her family and all the other families to continue telling their stories and to go on with their lives despite the terrorism.

And the second place I found Amel's hope was everywhere that women and men continue to defy the jihadis.

Why is it that people like her, like all of them are not more well known?

Why is it that everyone knows who Osama bin Laden was and so few know of all of those standing up to the bin Ladens in their own contexts.

We must change that, and so I ask you to please help share these stories through your networks.

Thank you. 

