When I was preparing for this talk, I went to search for a couple of quotes that I can share with you.

In today's times of post-industrial capitalism, choice, together with individual freedom and the idea of self-making, has been elevated to an ideal.

Now, together with this, we also have a belief in endless progress.

Sadly, this ideology of individual choice has prevented us from thinking about social changes.

It appears that this ideology was actually very efficient in pacifying us as political and social thinkers.

Instead of making social critiques, we are more and more engaging in self-critique, sometimes to the point of self-destruction. 

Now, how come that ideology of choice is still so powerful, even among people who have not many things to choose among?

How come that even people who are poor very much still identify with the idea of choice, the kind of rational idea of choice which we embrace? 

Now, the ideology of choice is very successful in opening for us a space to think about some imagined future.

Let me give you an example.

My friend Manya, when she was a student at university in California, was earning money by working for a car dealer.

Now, Manya became so successful in selling cars that soon she moved on to selling airplanes.

Now, why were Manya's customers so irrational?

Now, we rarely make really totally rational choices.

Choices are influenced by our unconscious, by our community.

Also we are choosing by looking at what others are choosing.

We're also guessing what is socially acceptable choice.

Now, because of this, we actually even after we have already chosen, like bought a car, endlessly read reviews about cars, as if we still want to convince ourselves that we made the right choice. 

Now, choices are anxiety-provoking.

They are linked to risks, losses.

They are highly unpredictable.

Now, we think today that we can prevent these risks.

We have endless market analysis, projections of the future earnings.

Even with market, which is about chance, randomness, we think we can predict rationally where it's going. 

Now, chance is actually becoming very traumatic.

Now, we delivered the conference in such a way.

They couldn't believe that speaking from the position of authority like two professors we were, we would take chance seriously.

They thought we prepared the papers together and were just joking that it's random. 

We know about our brains more than before.

But surprisingly, people are more and more turning a blind eye in front of this knowledge.

Ignorance and denial are on the rise.

Now, in regard to the current economic crisis, we think that we will just wake up again and everything will be the same as before, and no political or social changes are needed.

In regard to ecological crisis, we think nothing needs to be done just now, or others need to act before us.

