I'm really interested in how you put people and computers together.

We will be using the TV screens or their equivalents for electronic books of the future.

Suddenly on September 11th, the world got bigger. 

Thank you. 

And I put on a slide where TED 1 happened in my life.

I had 15 years of stuff, and the Media Lab was about to start.

So that was easy. 

But there are a couple of things about that period and about what happened that are really quite important.

One is that it was a period when computers weren't yet for people.

And the other thing that sort of happened during that time is that we were considered sissy computer scientists.

We weren't considered the real thing.

So what I'm going to show you is, in retrospect, a lot more interesting and a lot more accepted than it was at the time. 

Papers were published about how stupid it was to use fingers.

And this was a device we built in the '70s, which has never even been picked up.

It's not just touch sensitive, it's pressure sensitive. 

(Video) Voice: Put a yellow circle there. 

NN: Later work, and again this was before TED 1 — 

Entebbe happened.

Immediately, you get a contract, Department of Defense, and we built this truck and this rig.

And one of the keys for anybody who wants to start something in life: Make sure your president is part of it.

So when I was doing the Media Lab, it was like having a gorilla in the front seat.

If you were stopped for speeding and the officer looked in the window and saw who was in the passenger seat, then, "Oh, continue on, sir."

And so we were able, and this is a cute, actually, device, parenthetically.

So when you oscillated that little piece of lenticular sheet with his photograph, it would be in lip sync with zero bandwidth.

It was a zero-bandwidth teleconferencing system at the time. 

Again, not generally accepted, but very much part of TED in the early days.

And this is really where we were headed.

And that created the Media Lab.

It started to because people caught on that the medium wasn't the message.

This is a student of mine who had done a Ph.D. called "Backseat Driver."

You might recognize a young Yo-Yo Ma and tracking his body for playing the cello or the hypercello.

These fellows literally walked around like that at the time.

It's now a little bit more discreet and more commonplace. 

It's a pretty profound statement. 

Then I felt television really was about displays.

Television, again, television what I said today, that was back in 1990, and the television of tomorrow would look something like that.

Again, people, but they laughed cynically, they didn't laugh with much appreciation. 

Telecommunications in the 1990s, George Gilder decided that he would call this diagram the Negroponte switch.

That is the original slide from that year, and it has worked in lockstep obedience. 

We started Wired magazine.

Some people, I remember we shared the reception desk periodically, and some parent called up irate that his son had given up Sports Illustrated to subscribe for Wired, and he said, "Are you some porno magazine or something?"

and couldn't understand why his son would be interested in Wired, at any rate. 

"Being Digital" came out.

So these are the things we were saying in those TEDs. 

I looked forward to it every year.

And then something for me changed pretty profoundly.

And here's the experiment.

The experiment is, can learning happen where there are no schools.

And in a short period of time, they not only turned them on and were using 50 apps per child within five days, they were singing "ABC" songs within two weeks, but they hacked Android within six months.

And so that seemed sufficiently interesting.

This is perhaps the best picture I have.

The kid on your right has sort of nominated himself as teacher.

Look at the kid on the left, and so on.

There are no adults involved in this at all.

And the answer is, what is missing?

Being rural and being poor are very different.

Poverty tends to be created by our society, and the people in that community are not poor in the same way at all.

They may be primitive, but the way to approach it and to connect them, the history of One Laptop per Child, and the experiment in Ethiopia, lead me to believe that we can in fact do this in a very short period of time. 

And so my plan, and unfortunately I haven't been able to get my partners at this point to let me announce them, but is to do this with a stationary satellite.

So surely if we can connect Africa and the last billion people for numbers like that, we should be doing it. 

Thank you very much. 

NN: You're going to give me extra time? 

You gamed it beautifully.

NN: Thank you for asking.

But one of the things about learning how to read, we have been doing a lot of consuming of information going through our eyes, and so that may be a very inefficient channel.

You're going to swallow a pill and know Shakespeare.

And the way to do it is through the bloodstream.

So it's ingesting. 

CA: Have you been hanging out with Ray Kurzweil by any chance? 

CA: We will check it out.

Well thank you for that. 

Nicholas Negroponte. 

NN: Thank you. 

NN: Thank you. 

