I'm a veteran of the starship Enterprise.

Well — (Applause) — I am the grandson of immigrants from Japan who went to America, boldly going to a strange new world, seeking new opportunities.

My mother was born in Sacramento, California.

My father was a San Franciscan.

They met and married in Los Angeles, and I was born there. 

I was four years old when Pearl Harbor was bombed on December 7, 1941 by Japan, and overnight, the world was plunged into a world war.

America suddenly was swept up by hysteria.

And the hysteria grew and grew until in February 1942, the president of the United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, ordered all Japanese-Americans on the West Coast of America to be summarily rounded up with no charges, with no trial, with no due process.

Due process, this is a core pillar of our justice system.

That all disappeared.

On April 20th, I celebrated my fifth birthday, and just a few weeks after my birthday, my parents got my younger brother, my baby sister and me up very early one morning, and they dressed us hurriedly.

My brother and I were in the living room looking out the front window, and we saw two soldiers marching up our driveway.

They carried bayonets on their rifles.

They stomped up the front porch and banged on the door.

My father answered it, and the soldiers ordered us out of our home.

I will never be able to forget that scene.

It is burned into my memory. 

We were taken from our home and loaded on to train cars with other Japanese-American families.

There were guards stationed at both ends of each car, as if we were criminals.

We were taken two thirds of the way across the country, rocking on that train for four days and three nights, to the swamps of Arkansas.

I still remember the barbed wire fence that confined me.

I remember the tall sentry tower with the machine guns pointed at us.

I remember the searchlight that followed me when I made the night runs from my barrack to the latrine.

But to five-year-old me, I thought it was kind of nice that they'd lit the way for me to pee.

I was a child, too young to understand the circumstances of my being there. 

Children are amazingly adaptable.

What would be grotesquely abnormal became my normality in the prisoner of war camps.

It became routine for me to line up three times a day to eat lousy food in a noisy mess hall.

It became normal for me to go with my father to bathe in a mass shower.

Being in a prison, a barbed-wire prison camp, became my normality. 

When the war ended, we were released, and given a one-way ticket to anywhere in the United States.

My parents decided to go back home to Los Angeles, but Los Angeles was not a welcoming place.

We were penniless.

Everything had been taken from us, and the hostility was intense.

It was a horrible experience, and for us kids, it was terrorizing.

I remember once a drunkard came staggering down, fell down right in front of us, and threw up.

My parents worked hard to get back on their feet.

We had lost everything.

They were at the middle of their lives and starting all over.

They worked their fingers to the bone, and ultimately they were able to get the capital together to buy a three-bedroom home in a nice neighborhood.

And I was a teenager, and I became very curious about my childhood imprisonment.

I had read civics books that told me about the ideals of American democracy.

I read history books, and I couldn't find anything about it.

And so I engaged my father after dinner in long, sometimes heated conversations.

We had many, many conversations like that, and what I got from them was my father's wisdom.

He was the one that suffered the most under those conditions of imprisonment, and yet he understood American democracy.

He told me that our democracy is a people's democracy, and it can be as great as the people can be, but it is also as fallible as people are.

He told me that American democracy is vitally dependent on good people who cherish the ideals of our system and actively engage in the process of making our democracy work.

And he took me to a campaign headquarters — the governor of Illinois was running for the presidency — and introduced me to American electoral politics.

And he also told me about young Japanese-Americans during the Second World War. 

