When we think about prejudice and bias, we tend to think about stupid and evil people doing stupid and evil things.

I want to try to convince you here that this is mistaken.

You could make guesses about my ethnicity, my political affiliation, my religious beliefs.

And the thing is, these judgments tend to be accurate.

Now we might be wrong.

But for the most part, we're good at this.

And in fact, Hazlitt later on in his wonderful essay concedes this.

He writes, "Without the aid of prejudice and custom, I should not be able to find my way my across the room; nor know how to conduct myself in any circumstances, nor what to feel in any relation of life."

Or take bias.

But other times we're proud of it.

We openly acknowledge it.

And my favorite example of this is a question that came from the audience in a Republican debate prior to the last election. 

(Video) Anderson Cooper: Gets to your question, the question in the hall, on foreign aid?

Woman: The American people are suffering in our country right now.

AC: Governor Perry, what about that? 

And in fact, in general, people are often swayed by feelings of solidarity, loyalty, pride, patriotism, towards their country or towards their ethnic group.

Regardless of your politics, many people feel proud to be American, and they favor Americans over other countries.

Residents of other countries feel the same about their nation, and we feel the same about our ethnicities. 

Now some of you may reject this.

Some of you may be so cosmopolitan that you think that ethnicity and nationality should hold no moral sway.

And in fact, when the war ended and he was released, most of his friends and family were dead.

He got involved in different pursuits.

He helped out the war orphans.

And what started his career is an insight that the way most people were thinking about the Holocaust was wrong.

Many people, most people at the time, viewed the Holocaust as sort of representing some tragic flaw on the part of the Germans, some genetic taint, some authoritarian personality.

And Tajfel rejected this.

Tajfel said what we see in the Holocaust is just an exaggeration of normal psychological processes that exist in every one of us.

And to explore this, he did a series of classic studies with British adolescents.

Their answers had nothing to do with Kandinsky or Klee.

They probably hadn't heard of the artists.

He just arbitrarily divided them up.

This bias seems to show up very early.

They test the babies own food preferences, and babies typically prefer the graham crackers.

We see this sort of in-group, out-group psychology all the time.

We see it in political clashes within groups with different ideologies.

Stereotypes can also go awry.

So often they're rational and useful, but sometimes they're irrational, they give the wrong answers, and other times they lead to plainly immoral consequences.

And the case that's been most studied is the case of race.

And in one of their studies they compared Obama and McCain, and they found McCain is thought of as more American than Obama, and to some extent, people aren't that surprised by hearing that.

McCain is a celebrated war hero, and many people would explicitly say he has more of an American story than Obama.

But they were responding, of course, to the color of his skin. 

These stereotypes and biases have real-world consequences, both subtle and very important.

In one recent study, researchers put ads on eBay for the sale of baseball cards.

Some of them were held by white hands, others by black hands.

They were the same baseball cards.

The ones held by black hands got substantially smaller bids than the ones held by white hands.

In research done at Stanford, psychologists explored the case of people sentenced for the murder of a white person.

So now that we know about this, how do we combat it?

And there are different avenues.

Psychologists have explored this.

None of this I think is a secret to the people who are engaged in charity work.

People don't tend to deluge people with facts and statistics.

Rather, you show them faces, you show them people.

It's possible that by extending our sympathies to an individual, they can spread to the group that the individual belongs to. 

This is Harriet Beecher Stowe.

And that could well have been a catalyst for great social change. 

I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that the major catalyst in America for moral change has been a situation comedy. 

I know I have obligations to them, but my moral feelings to them, my moral beliefs about how I should behave towards them, aren't grounded in love.

Smith says, that would matter a lot.

You would not sleep that night wondering about that.

And this last part is what is often described as the principle of impartiality.

And this principle of impartiality manifests itself in all of the world's religions, in all of the different versions of the golden rule, and in all of the world's moral philosophies, which differ in many ways but share the presupposition that we should judge morality from sort of an impartial point of view. 

The best articulation of this view is actually, for me, it's not from a theologian or from a philosopher, but from Humphrey Bogart at the end of "Casablanca."

Our reason could cause us to override our passions.

This is what a constitution is.

We have bound ourselves. 

And we bind ourselves in other ways as well.

I think prejudice and bias illustrate a fundamental duality of human nature.

And it's in this way that reason helps us create a better world. 

Thank you. 

