I've been thinking a lot about the world recently and how it's changed over the last 20, 30, 40 years.

This is globalization.

It's brought a lot of bad stuff, like the stuff that I just described, but it's also brought a lot of good stuff.

A lot of us are not aware of the extraordinary successes of the Millennium Development Goals, several of which have achieved their targets long before the due date.

That proves that this species of humanity is capable of achieving extraordinary progress if it really acts together and it really tries hard.

But if I had to put it in a nutshell these days, I sort of feel that globalization has taken us by surprise, and we've been slow to respond to it.

If you look at the downside of globalization, it really does seem to be sometimes overwhelming.

All of the grand challenges that we face today, like climate change and human rights and demographics and terrorism and pandemics and narco-trafficking and human slavery and species loss, I could go on, we're not making an awful lot of progress against an awful lot of those challenges. 

That's clearly what we've got to do next.

Why are we so slow at achieving these advances?

What's the reason for it?

But how are those seven billion organized?

The politicians that we elect and the politicians we don't elect, on the whole, have minds that microscope.

This is the problem: countries competing against each other, countries fighting against each other.

This is clearly not a good arrangement.

We clearly need to change it.

We clearly need to find ways of encouraging countries to start working together a little bit better.

And why won't they do that?

Why is it that our leaders still persist in looking inwards? 

Well, the first and most obvious reason is because that's what we ask them to do.

That's what we tell them to do.

When we elect governments or when we tolerate unelected governments, we're effectively telling them that what we want is for them to deliver us in our country a certain number of things.

We want them to deliver prosperity, growth, competitiveness, transparency, justice and all of those things.

That's the first reason why things tend not to change. 

The second reason is that these governments, just like all the rest of us, are cultural psychopaths.

A psychopath is a person who, unfortunately for him or her, lacks the ability to really empathize with other human beings.

When they look around, they don't see other human beings with deep, rich, three-dimensional personal lives and aims and ambitions.

What they see is cardboard cutouts, and it's very sad and it's very lonely, and it's very rare, fortunately. 

But actually, aren't most of us not really so very good at empathy?

And this is a question we need to ask ourselves.

I think constantly we have to monitor it.

Are we and our politicians to a degree cultural psychopaths? 

This is just nonsense.

In my day job, I'm a policy adviser.

And so you may say, well, given all of that, why then doesn't it work?

Why can we not make our politicians change?

Why can't we demand them?

We don't like to change.

It exists for very sensible evolutionary reasons.

But of course, there are exceptions to that.

Otherwise, we'd never get anywhere.

And one of the exceptions, the interesting exception, is when you can show to people that there might be some self-interest in them making that leap of faith and changing a little bit. 

And this is where I discovered something quite important.

And the Nation Brands Index over the years has grown to be a very, very large database.

It was 6.8.

I haven't got time to explain in detail.

Basically what it told me was — (Laughter) (Applause) — the kinds of countries we prefer are good countries.

We primarily admire countries that are good.

What do we mean by good?

We mean countries that seem to contribute something to the world in which we live, countries that actually make the world safer or better or richer or fairer.

I can now say, and often do, to any government, in order to do well, you need to do good.

I swear that as I get older, my ideas become simpler and more and more childish.

Bizarrely, nobody had ever thought of measuring this before.

And you're waiting for me to tell you which one comes top.

And I'm going to tell you, but first of all I want to tell you precisely what I mean when I say a good country.

I do not mean morally good.

When I say that Country X is the goodest country on Earth, and I mean goodest, I don't mean best.

Best is something different.

When you're talking about a good country, you can be good, gooder and goodest.

It's not the same thing as good, better and best.

This is a country which simply gives more to humanity than any other country.

And the winner is Ireland.

(Applause) According to the data here, no country on Earth, per head of population, per dollar of GDP, contributes more to the world that we live in than Ireland.

What does this mean?

Finland ranks pretty much the same.

The only reason why it's below Ireland is because its lowest score is lower than Ireland's lowest score. 

Now the other thing you'll notice about the top 10 there is, of course, they're all, apart from New Zealand, Western European nations.

They're also all rich.

This depressed me, because one of the things that I did not want to discover with this index is that it's purely the province of rich countries to help poor countries.

This is not what it's all about.

This is not about money.

This is about attitude.

This is about culture.

This is about a government and a people that care about the rest of the world and have the imagination and the courage to think outwards instead of only thinking selfishly. 

I'm going to whip through the other slides just so you can see some of the lower-lying countries.

Countries like China and Russia and India, which is down in the same part of the index, well, in some ways, it's not surprising.

And then you can break down each country in terms of the actual datasets that build into it.

I'll allow you to do that.

From midnight tonight it's going to be on goodcountry.org, and you can look at the country.

You can look right down to the level of the individual datasets. 

Now that's the Good Country Index.

What's it there for?

Well, it's there really because I want to try to introduce this word, or reintroduce this word, into the discourse.

I've had enough hearing about competitive countries.

I've had enough hearing about prosperous, wealthy, fast-growing countries.

That's still about us, and if we carry on thinking about us, we are in deep, deep trouble.

I think we all know what it is that we want to hear about.

I'm not asking a lot.

When you think about your own country, when you think about other people's countries, when you think about companies, when you talk about the world that we live in today, start using that word in the way that I've talked about this evening.

Not good, the opposite of bad, because that's an argument that never finishes.

That's what I would like you to do, and I'd like you to use it as a stick with which to beat your politicians.

Ultimately, that, I think, is what will make the change.

That word, "good," and the number 6.8 and the discovery that's behind it have changed my life.

I've started thinking very differently about my own country since I've been thinking about these things.

I don't want to live in a rich country.

I don't want to live in a fast-growing or competitive country.

Thank you. 

