I played 10 years of football, was struck in the head thousands of times.

There is a fear around concussion that does have some evidence behind it.

There is information that a repeated history of concussion can lead to early dementia, such as Alzheimer's, and chronic traumatic encephalopathy.

That was the subject of the Will Smith movie "Concussion."

And so another thing that I should tell you that you may not know is that the helmets that are worn in bicycling and football and many activities, they're not designed or tested for how well they can protect your children against concussion.

They're in fact designed and tested for their ability to protect against skull fracture. 

Is that even possible?

Concussion has been much more of a mystery. 

And what I'd like to do with this video is to tell you that there are some aspects that are probably right, indicative of what the scientists think happens with concussion, but there's probably more that's wrong with this video. 

That we think is true.

However, the amount of motion you see in the brain in this video is probably not right at all.

And so the brain as a whole probably moves very little inside the skull. 

Now, the way that we're approaching this problem to try to understand the mechanisms of concussion and to figure out if we can prevent it is we are using a device like this.

It's a mouthguard.

Your teeth are one of the hardest substances in your body.

People have tried other approaches, with helmets.

So where can we find a group of willing volunteers to go out and smash their heads into each other on a regular basis and sustain concussion?

So please watch this video. 

I hope he's all right. 

The hit delivered by -- 

But you get the idea. 

So when you look at just the film here, pretty much the only thing you can see is he got hit really hard and he was hurt.

But when we extract the data out of the mouthguard that he was wearing, we can see much more detail, much richer information.

And one of the things that we noticed here is that he was struck in the lower left side of his face mask.

And so that did something first that was a little counterintuitive.

His head did not move to the right.

In fact, it rotated first to the left.

So we collaborate with Svein Kleiven's group in Sweden.

They've developed a finite element model of the brain.

So you can see this doesn't look a lot like the CDC video.

Now, the colors that you're looking at are how much the brain tissue is being stretched.

And so the red is 50 percent.

That means the brain has been stretched to 50 percent of its original length, the tissue in that particular area. 

Now, to explain a little more detail about how we think concussion might be happening, one thing I should mention is that we and others have observed that a concussion is more likely when you're struck and your head rotates in this direction.

We have the right brain and the left brain.

And the key thing to notice in this figure here is that right down the center of the right brain and the left brain there's a large fissure that goes deep into the brain.

And so what that allows for is when you're struck and your head rotates in this left-right direction, forces can rapidly transmit right down to the center of your brain. 

Now, what's there at the bottom of this fissure?

It's called the corpus callosum.

This finding is also consistent of what we've seen in this brain disease that I mentioned, chronic traumatic encephalopathy.

And the same goes for all of the space in the ventricles.

These ventricles are much larger.

And so all of this tissue near the center of the brain has died off over time.

So what we're learning is indeed consistent. 

So how can we slow the head down? 

A gigantic helmet.

But in all seriousness, this principle does work, but this has gone too far.

This isn't something that's practical for bike riding or playing football.

And so we are collaborating with a company in Sweden called Hövding.

Kids, don't try this at home please.

This stuntman does not have a helmet.

So it's a pretty exciting development. 

But in order for us to actually realize the benefits of technology that can prevent concussion, it needs to meet regulations.

That's a reality.

So I wanted to tell you why.

There are some good reasons and then there are some not so good reasons. 

Bike helmets are federally regulated.

This is back to what I was telling you at the beginning about skull fracture.

That's what this test is for.

Similarly, it's not going to tell you is this helmet likely to prevent concussion or not?

And if you look at football helmets, which aren't regulated, they still have a very similar test.

And this might be just a result of my own traumatic experience.

I'm much more nervous about my daughter, Rose, riding a bicycle.

And I'm very fortunate to have a wonderful team at Stanford that's working hard on this. 

Thank you. 

