Those are important things, but that's not how I wanted to spend my life. 

But after 30 minutes of work as a defense contractor, I soon found out that my idea of cyber was a little bit off.

In fact, in terms of national security, keeping viruses off of my grandma's computer was surprisingly low on their priority list.

And the reason for that is cyber is so much bigger than any one of those things.

They're the reason you can call 911 and get someone on the other line.

They control our nation's entire infrastructure.

They're the reason you have electricity, heat, clean water, food.

Computers control our military equipment, everything from missile silos to satellites to nuclear defense networks.

But that's where I step in.

We're entering an age where we talk about cyberweapons.

In fact, so great is the potential for cyber offense that cyber is considered a new domain of warfare.

Warfare.

It's not necessarily a bad thing.

So he doesn't want to be in that building when it explodes.

He's going to use a cell phone as a remote detonator.

Now, it used to be the only way we had to stop this terrorist was with a hail of bullets and a car chase, but that's not necessarily true anymore.

A well-crafted cyber attack could break into his phone, disable the overvoltage protections on his battery, drastically overload the circuit, cause the battery to overheat, and explode.

So how does this work?

It all comes back to those ones and zeros.

Binary information makes your phone work, and used correctly, it can make your phone explode.

So when you start to look at cyber from this perspective, spending your life sifting through binary information starts to seem kind of exciting. 

Think about everything you have on your cell phone.

Unfortunately for me, I didn't know quite what I was looking for.

When I have to do that, what I have to do is basically look at various pieces of this binary information, try to decipher each piece, and see if it might be what I'm after.

So after a while, I thought I had found the piece I was looking for.

I thought maybe this was it.

It seemed to be about right, but I couldn't quite tell.

I couldn't tell what those ones and zeros represented.

I didn't know what these ones and zeros meant.

At the 15-hour mark, I started to get a better picture of what was there, but I had a creeping suspicion that what I was looking at was not at all related to what I was looking for.

Well I thought, when you're looking at information at this level, it's so easy to lose track of what you're doing.

This is how computers think, ones and zeros.

It's not how people think, but we've been trying to adapt our minds to think more like computers so that we can understand this information.

So what if we could unlock that potential just by translating this to the right kind of information?

At home, I'm surrounded by everything else I've ever learned.

So I poured through every book I could find, every idea I'd ever encountered, to see how could we translate a problem from one domain to something completely different? 

The biggest question was, what do we want to translate it to?

What do our brains do perfectly naturally that we could exploit?

My answer was vision.

We have a tremendous capability to analyze visual information.

So if we could find a way to translate these binary patterns to visual signals, we could really unlock the power of our brains to process this stuff.

And the very first thing I want to do, the very first question I want to answer, is what is this?

I don't care what it does, how it works.

All I want to know is, what is this?

When I gather up enough of these sequences, I begin to get an idea of exactly what this information must be.

So let's go back to that blow up the terrorist's phone situation.

This is what English text looks like at a binary level.

This is what your contacts list would look like if I were examining it.

We can instantly see all of the patterns here.

It takes me seconds to pick out patterns here, but hours, days, to pick them out in ones and zeros.

So this piece is caused by lower case letters followed by lower case letters inside of that contact list.

This is what an image looks like from your cell phone.

But this is what it looks like in a visual abstraction.

This is what your music looks like, but here's its visual abstraction.

Most importantly for me, this is what the code on your cell phone looks like.

This is what I'm after in the end, but this is its visual abstraction.

One of those most remarkable parts about all of this is it gives us an entirely new way to understand new information, stuff that we haven't seen before.

So this is what Russian looks like in a visual abstraction.

Our brains can pick up on these patterns in ways that we never could have from looking at raw ones and zeros.

But we've really only scratched the surface of what we can do with this approach.

We've only begun to unlock the capabilities of our minds to process visual information.

If we take those same concepts and translate them into three dimensions instead, we find entirely new ways of making sense of information.

We can even pick up the tiniest visual artifacts.

So this is really nice and helpful, but all this tells me is what I'm looking at.

So at this point, based on visual patterns, I can find the code on the phone.

But that's not enough to blow up a battery.

That code looks pretty much like all the other code on that system. 

So I might not be able to find the code that controls the battery, but there's a lot of things that are very similar to that.

You have code that controls your screen, that controls your buttons, that controls your microphones, so even if I can't find the code for the battery, I bet I can find one of those things.

So the next step in my binary analysis process is to look at pieces of information that are similar to each other.

All I have to do is wait for the image to light up to see when I'm at similar pieces.

I follow these strands of similarity like a trail of bread crumbs to find exactly what I'm looking for. 

The last piece of the puzzle is understanding how that code controls your battery.

But if we translate that information into a physical representation, we can sit back and let our visual cortex do all the hard work.

It can find all the detailed patterns, all the important pieces, for us.

It can find out exactly how the pieces of that code work together to control that battery.

This is all well and good in a theoretical blow up a terrorist's phone situation.

I wanted to find out if this would really work in the work I do every day.

In fact, I'm not really sure what this is, but when I stepped back a level and looked at the similarities within the code I saw, this doesn't have similarities like any code that exists out there.

I can't even be looking at code.

In fact, from this perspective, I could tell, this isn't code.

This is an image of some sort.

And from here, I can see, it's not just an image, this is a photograph.

I saw — (Laughter) — it was that darn kitten again.

All this is enabled because we were able to find a way to translate a very hard problem to something our brains do very naturally. 

So what does this mean?

Well, for kittens, it means no more hiding in ones and zeros.

For me, it means no more wasted weekends.

For cyber, it means we have a radical new way to tackle the most impossible problems.

When seconds count, we've unlocked the means to stop the bad guys. 

Thank you. 

