And yet many people have the experience that when they speak, people don't listen to them.

And why is that?

How can we speak powerfully to make change in the world? 

I'm not pretending this is an exhaustive list, but these seven, I think, are pretty large habits that we can all fall into. 

First, gossip.

Second, judging.

We know people who are like this in conversation, and it's very hard to listen to somebody if you know that you're being judged and found wanting at the same time. 

It demeans our language, actually, sometimes.

So here they are, seven deadly sins of speaking.

These are things I think we need to avoid.

But is there a positive way to think about this?

The A is authenticity, just being yourself.

A friend of mine described it as standing in your own truth, which I think is a lovely way to put it.

Tempered with love, of course, honesty is a great thing.

But also, if you're really wishing somebody well, it's very hard to judge them at the same time.

I'm not even sure you can do those two things simultaneously.

So hail. 

This instrument is incredible, and yet this is a toolbox that very few people have ever opened.

I'd like to have a little rummage in there with you now and just pull a few tools out that you might like to take away and play with, which will increase the power of your speaking. 

Now, falsetto register may not be very useful most of the time, but there's a register in between.

You hear the difference?

That's register. 

Then we have timbre.

It's the way your voice feels.

Again, the research shows that we prefer voices which are rich, smooth, warm, like hot chocolate.

This is the sing-song, the meta-language that we use in order to impart meaning.

It's root one for meaning in conversation.

And finally, volume.

(Loud) I can get really excited by using volume.

Sorry about that, if I startled anybody.

I'm going to show you the six vocal warm-up exercises that I do before every talk I ever do.

One more time.

Ahhhh, very good.

Now we're going to warm up our lips, and we're going to go Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba, Ba.

Now let me just put this in context to close.

What would the world be like if we were speaking powerfully to people who were listening consciously in environments which were actually fit for purpose?

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

