But how do we know if they are right?

Why should be believe the science?

The fact is, many of us actually don't believe the science.

So why should we believe the science?

Well, scientists don't like talking about science as a matter of belief.

In fact, they would contrast science with faith, and they would say belief is the domain of faith.

And faith is a separate thing apart and distinct from science.

Indeed they would say religion is based on faith or maybe the calculus of Pascal's wager.

And so Pascal said, we'd better believe in God.

Now the fact is though, for most of us, most scientific claims are a leap of faith.

Most chemists are not experts in evolutionary theory.

A physicist cannot tell you, despite the claims of some of them, whether or not tobacco causes cancer.

So, if even scientists themselves have to make a leap of faith outside their own fields, then why do they accept the claims of other scientists?

Why do they believe each other's claims?

And should we believe those claims? 

Most of us were taught in school that the reason we should believe in science is because of the scientific method.

We were taught that scientists follow a method and that this method guarantees the truth of their claims.

And if they are true, then the scientists say, "Great, we know the hypothesis is correct."

So there are many famous examples in the history of science of scientists doing exactly this.

One of the most famous examples comes from the work of Albert Einstein.

So if this theory were true then it meant that light as it passed the sun should actually be bent around it.

But also because in the ideal case, it's about laws.

So nomological means having to do with laws.

Why does it matter that it is a law of nature?

Because if it is a law, it can't be broken.

Now, it turns out, though, that there are several problems with this model.

(Laughter) And I'm going to talk about three reasons why it's wrong.

So the first reason is a logical reason.

It's the problem of the fallacy of affirming the consequent.

So that's another fancy, academic way of saying that false theories can make true predictions.

The Ptolemaic model was believed by many very smart people for many centuries.

Well, why?

Well the answer is because it made lots of predictions that came true.

The Ptolemaic system enabled astronomers to make accurate predictions of the motions of the planet, in fact more accurate predictions at first than the Copernican theory which we now would say is true.

So that's one problem with the textbook model.

If we now make the same observation six months later when the Earth has moved to this position in June, we look at that same star and we see it against a different backdrop.

That difference, that angular difference, is the stellar parallax.

So this is a prediction that the Copernican model makes.

So what happened?

Well, in hindsight we can say that astronomers were making two auxiliary hypotheses, both of which we would now say were incorrect.

The first was an assumption about the size of the Earth's orbit.

Astronomers were assuming that the Earth's orbit was large relative to the distance to the stars.

In fact, it's actually much smaller even than shown here.

The stellar parallax therefore, is very small and actually very hard to detect. 

And that leads to the second reason why the prediction didn't work, because scientists were also assuming that the telescopes they had were sensitive enough to detect the parallax.

And the most famous example of that is one of the most famous scientists who ever lived, Charles Darwin.

When Darwin went out as a young man on the voyage of the Beagle, he didn't have a hypothesis, he didn't have a theory.

So he started collecting data.

And he collected many things, including his famous finches.

When he collected these finches, he threw them in a bag and he had no idea what they meant.

Many years later back in London, Darwin looked at his data again and began to develop an explanation, and that explanation was the theory of natural selection. 

Besides inductive science, scientists also often participate in modeling.

One of the things scientists want to do in life is to explain the causes of things.

And how do we do that?

Well, one way you can do it is to build a model that tests an idea. 

You can tell he's Scottish because he's wearing a deerstalker cap and Wellington boots.

And this idea would later play a major role in discussions of continental drift.

I don't know why he's got the Wellington boots.

Maybe it's going to rain.

So it was an argument about the cause of mountains. 

But a computer simulation is a kind of a model.

How can we know what's causing the observed warming?

And they asked the question, what set of variables put into a model will reproduce what we actually see in real life?

Scientists are creative. 

Scientists collect evidence in many different ways, but however they collect it, they have to subject it to scrutiny.

And this led the sociologist Robert Merton to focus on this question of how scientists scrutinize data and evidence, and he said they do it in a way he called "organized skepticism."

And by that he meant it's organized because they do it collectively, they do it as a group, and skepticism, because they do it from a position of distrust.

That is to say, the burden of proof is on the person with a novel claim.

And in this sense, science is intrinsically conservative.

It's quite hard to persuade the scientific community to say, "Yes, we know something, this is true."

So despite the popularity of the concept of paradigm shifts, what we find is that actually, really major changes in scientific thinking are relatively rare in the history of science. 

That's what scientists call "intractable."

It's the authority of the collective community.

The modern automobile hardly ever breaks down. 

Our basis for trust in science is actually the same as our basis in trust in technology, and the same as our basis for trust in anything, namely, experience. 

Thank you very much. 

