So passwords are something that I hear a lot about.

A lot of people are frustrated with passwords, and it's bad enough when you have to have one really good password that you can remember but nobody else is going to be able to guess.

At Carnegie Mellon, they used to make it actually pretty easy for us to remember our passwords.

The password requirement up through 2009 was just that you had to have a password with at least one character.

Now entropy is a complicated term, but basically it measures the strength of passwords.

But the thing is, there isn't actually a standard measure of entropy.

So this is a problem, but our research group looked at it as an opportunity.

We said, "Well, there's a need for good password data.

Maybe we can collect some good password data and actually advance the state of the art here. 

So the first thing we did is, we got a bag of candy bars and we walked around campus and talked to students, faculty and staff, and asked them for information about their passwords.

Now we didn't say, "Give us your password."

Does it have a symbol?

We found that most people knew they were not supposed to write their password down, and only 13 percent of them did, but disturbingly, 80 percent of people said they were reusing their password.

So if you have to, write your passwords down, but don't reuse them.

We also found some interesting things about the symbols people use in passwords.

So it turns out there are a lot of people going around stealing passwords, and they often go and post these passwords on the Internet.

So we wanted to find some better source of data.

So we decided that one thing we could do is we could do a study and have people actually create passwords for our study.

So we did this, and we collected 5,000 passwords, and we gave people a bunch of different policies to create passwords with.

And one of the other policies we tried, and there were a whole bunch more, but one of the ones we tried was called Basic16, and the only requirement here was that your password had to have at least 16 characters. 

All right, so now we had 5,000 passwords, and so we had much more detailed information.

Again we see that there's only a small number of symbols that people are actually using in their passwords.

So a dumb attacker will try every password in order.

A smart attacker, on the other hand, does something much more clever.

They look at the passwords that are known to be popular from these stolen password sets, and they guess those first.

In fact, some of you probably have these passwords.

So this suggests that, instead of telling people that they need to put all these symbols and numbers and crazy things into their passwords, we might be better off just telling people to have long passwords.

You can make long passwords that are still the sort of thing that an attacker could easily guess.

So we need to do more than just say long passwords.

There has to be some additional requirements, and some of our ongoing research is looking at what additional requirements we should add to make for stronger passwords that also are going to be easy for people to remember and type. 

Another approach to getting people to have stronger passwords is to use a password meter.

Here are some examples.

You may have seen these on the Internet when you were creating passwords.

We decided to do a study to find out whether these password meters actually work.

As you type a better password, the bunny dances faster and faster.

So this was pretty fun. 

What we found was that password meters do work.

Now another approach to better passwords, perhaps, is to use pass phrases instead of passwords.

And so we decided to do a research study to find out whether this was true or not.

So we did the research study to see what would actually happen. 

So in our study, we used Mechanical Turk again, and we had the computer pick the random words in the pass phrase.

So we tried a few different conditions.

That comes up with something that's sort of sentence-like.

And then we decided to try something called a pronounceable password.

That one kind of rolls off your tongue.

So these were random passwords that were generated by our computer. 

People were not really better at remembering the pass phrases than these random passwords, and because the pass phrases are longer, they took longer to type and people made more errors while typing them in.

So it's not really a clear win for pass phrases.

Sorry, all of you xkcd fans.

On the other hand, we did find that pronounceable passwords worked surprisingly well, and so we actually are doing some more research to see if we can make that approach work even better.

So one of the problems with some of the studies that we've done is that because they're all done using Mechanical Turk, these are not people's real passwords.

They're the passwords that they created or the computer created for them for our study.

And we wanted to know whether people would actually behave the same way with their real passwords. 

So we talked to the information security office at Carnegie Mellon and asked them if we could have everybody's real passwords.

We got some interesting results, and those of you Tepper students in the back will be very interested in this.

So we found that the passwords created by people affiliated with the school of computer science were actually 1.8 times stronger than those affiliated with the business school.

We have lots of other really interesting demographic information as well.

The other interesting thing that we found is that when we compared the Carnegie Mellon passwords to the Mechanical Turk-generated passwords, there was actually a lot of similarities, and so this helped validate our research method and show that actually, collecting passwords using these Mechanical Turk studies is actually a valid way to study passwords.

So that was good news. 

Okay, I want to close by talking about some insights I gained while on sabbatical last year in the Carnegie Mellon art school.

(Laughter) And this quilt has the 1,000 most frequent passwords stolen from the RockYou website.

And the size of the passwords is proportional to how frequently they appeared in the stolen dataset.

So here are some examples of the difficulty.

Maybe they're a Justin Bieber fan.

Are they Disney princess fans?

Or maybe that's the name of their cat.

"Iloveyou" appears many times in many different languages.

There's a lot of love in these passwords.

If you look carefully, you'll see there's also some profanity, but it was really interesting to me to see that there's a lot more love than hate in these passwords.

And that guy is really cute. 

So it seems that at the end of the day, when we make passwords, we either make something that's really easy to type, a common pattern, or things that remind us of the word password or the account that we've created the password for, or whatever.

Or we think about things that make us happy, and we create our password based on things that make us happy.

And while this makes typing and remembering your password more fun, it also makes it a lot easier to guess your password.

So I know a lot of these TED Talks are inspirational and they make you think about nice, happy things, but when you're creating your password, try to think about something else. 

Thank you. 

