Think of a hard choice you'll face in the near future.

It might be between two careers -- artist and accountant -- or places to live -- the city or the country -- or even between two people to marry -- you could marry Betty or you could marry Lolita.

Or it might be a choice about whether to have children, to have an ailing parent move in with you, to raise your child in a religion that your partner lives by but leaves you cold.

Or whether to donate your life savings to charity. 

Chances are, the hard choice you thought of was something big, something momentous, something that matters to you.

Hard choices seem to be occasions for agonizing, hand-wringing, the gnashing of teeth.

But I think we've misunderstood hard choices and the role they play in our lives.

Understanding hard choices uncovers a hidden power each of us possesses. 

What makes a choice hard is the way the alternatives relate.

In any easy choice, one alternative is better than the other.

In a hard choice, one alternative is better in some ways, the other alternative is better in other ways, and neither is better than the other overall.

We shouldn't think that all hard choices are big.

Let's say you're deciding what to have for breakfast.

You could have high fiber bran cereal or a chocolate donut.

Realizing that small choices can also be hard may make big hard choices seem less intractable.

After all, we manage to figure out what to have for breakfast, so maybe we can figure out whether to stay in the city or uproot for the new job in the country. 

When I graduated from college, I couldn't decide between two careers, philosophy and law.

I really loved philosophy.

It wasn't who I was.

Even taking two alternatives side by side with full information, a choice can still be hard.

Now, if there's no best option, if the scales don't tip in favor of one alternative over another, then surely the alternatives must be equally good.

So maybe the right thing to say in hard choices is that they're between equally good options.

But that can't be right.

There's another reason for thinking that hard choices aren't choices between equally good options.

Imagine the two jobs however you like so that neither is better than the other. 

Now suppose we improve one of them a bit.

Suppose the bank, wooing you, adds 500 dollars a month to your salary.

Does the extra money now make the banking job better than the artist one?

Not necessarily.

A higher salary makes the banking job better than it was before, but it might not be enough to make being a banker better than being an artist.

But if an improvement in one of the jobs doesn't make it better than the other, then the two original jobs could not have been equally good.

If you start with two things that are equally good, and you improve one of them, it now must be better than the other.

That's not the case with options in hard choices. 

So now we've got a puzzle.

So how are we supposed to choose?

Something seems to have gone wrong here.

It's not like we're trying to choose between two things that can't be compared.

We're weighing the merits of two jobs, after all, not the merits of the number nine and a plate of fried eggs.

A comparison of the overall merits of two jobs is something we can make, and one we often do make. 

I think the puzzle arises because of an unreflective assumption we make about value.

We unwittingly assume that values like justice, beauty, kindness, are akin to scientific quantities, like length, mass and weight.

There are only three possibilities.

One number is greater, lesser, or equal to the other.

Not so with values.

We shouldn't assume that the world of is, of lengths and weights, has the same structure as the world of ought, of what we should do. 

I like to say that the alternatives are "on a par."

That's why the choice is hard. 

Each of us has the power to create reasons.

A world full of only easy choices would enslave us to reasons. 

When you think about it, it's nuts to believe that the reasons given to you dictated that you had most reason to pursue the exact hobbies you do, to live in the exact house you do, to work at the exact job you do.

When we choose between options that are on a par, we can do something really rather remarkable.

We can put our very selves behind an option.

I am for chocolate donuts.

Rather, it's supported by reasons created by us.

When we create reasons for ourselves to become this kind of person rather than that, we wholeheartedly become the people that we are.

You might say that we become the authors of our own lives. 

So when we face hard choices, we shouldn't beat our head against a wall trying to figure out which alternative is better.

There is no best alternative.

What we do in hard choices is very much up to each of us. 

Now, people who don't exercise their normative powers in hard choices are drifters.

We all know people like that.

I drifted into being a lawyer.

I didn't put my agency behind lawyering.

I wasn't for lawyering.

Drifters allow the world to write the story of their lives.

They let mechanisms of reward and punishment -- pats on the head, fear, the easiness of an option — to determine what they do.

And that's why hard choices are not a curse but a godsend. 

Thank you. 

