(Laughter) And they wait for me to go away and talk to someone else.

(Laughter) 

Who has the authority to make those kinds of official decisions about words, anyway?

Those are the questions I want to talk about today. 

I think most people, when they say a word isn't real, what they mean is, it doesn't appear in a standard dictionary.

Before I go any further, let me clarify my role in all of this.

I do not write dictionaries.

When I teach the history of the English language, I require that students teach me two new slang words before I will begin class.

(Laughter) But how real are they if we use them primarily as slang and they don't yet appear in a dictionary? 

With that, let's turn to dictionaries.

Okay, many fewer.

I'm actually fascinated by this.

They're watching what we say and what we write and trying to figure out what's going to stick and what's not going to stick.

There are about 200 or 300 people who come, some of the best known linguists in the United States.

To give you a sense of the flavor of the meeting, it occurs right before happy hour.

Anyone who comes can vote.

The most important rule is that you can vote with only one hand.

Past winners in this category have included "recombobulation area," which is at the Milwaukee Airport after security, where you can recombobulate.

(Laughter) You can put your belt back on, put your computer back in your bag.

And then my all-time favorite word at this vote, which is "multi-slacking."

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) But some of the past winners now seem completely unremarkable, such as "app" and "e" as a prefix, and "google" as a verb. 

Now, a few weeks before our vote, Lake Superior State University issues its list of banished words for the year.

We're noticing words that are coming into prominence.

It's really a question of attitude.

The list by Lake Superior State University continues a fairly long tradition in English of complaints about new words.

So here is Dean Henry Alford in 1875, who was very concerned that "desirability" is really a terrible word.

In 1760, Benjamin Franklin wrote a letter to David Hume giving up the word "colonize" as bad. 

Over the years, we've also seen worries about new pronunciations.

(Laughter) The word is borrowed in from Italian and it was pronounced bal-COE-nee. 

Now, it's not that dictionary editors ignore these kinds of attitudes about language.

In response, the American Heritage Dictionaries include usage notes.

I would guess many of you are thinking of skim, scan, reading quickly.

You might be surprised to learn that if you look in most standard dictionaries, the first definition will be to read carefully, or pore over.

American Heritage has that as the first definition.

(Laughter) And then they include a usage note, which is worth looking at. 

But who looks at the front matter of dictionaries?

There are about 200 people on the Usage Panel.

They include academicians, journalists, creative writers.

There's a Supreme Court justice on it and a few linguists.

Here's what we can do for you.

We can give you a sense of the range of opinions about contested usage.

That is and should be the extent of our authority.

We are not a language academy.

About once a year, I get a ballot that asks me about whether new uses, new pronunciations, new meanings, are acceptable. 

Now here's what I do to fill out the ballot.

I listen to what other people are saying and writing.

I do not listen to my own likes and dislikes about the English language.

Well, if you look for "impactful" in Google Books, here is what you find.

Well, it sure looks like "impactful" is proving useful for a certain number of writers, and has become more and more useful over the last 20 years. 

Now, there are going to be changes that all of us don't like in the language.

In retrospect, we think it's fascinating that the word "nice" used to mean silly, and that the word "decimate" used to mean to kill one in every 10.

(Laughter) We think that Ben Franklin was being silly to worry about "notice" as a verb.

Well, you know what?

We're going to look pretty silly in a hundred years for worrying about "impact" as a verb and "invite" as a noun.

The language is not going to change so fast that we can't keep up.

Language just doesn't work that way.

I hope you can enjoy being part of the creativity that is continually remaking our language and keeping it robust. 

So how does a word get into a dictionary?

It gets in because we use it and we keep using it, and dictionary editors are paying attention to us.

If you're thinking, "But that lets all of us decide what words mean," I would say, "Yes it does, and it always has."

If a community of speakers is using a word and knows what it means, it's real.

Thank you. 

