I've also been going about the business of putting down roots, choosing a partner, making babies.

We live in tenuous times.

In fact, for the first time in American history, the majority of parents do not think that their kids will be better off than they were.

This is true of rich and poor, men and women.

Now, some of you might hear this and feel sad.

After all, America is deeply invested in this idea of economic transcendence, that every generation kind of leapfrogs the one before it, earning more, buying more, being more.

We've exported this dream all over the world, so kids in Brazil and China and even Kenya inherit our insatiable expectation for more.

But when I read this historic poll for the first time, it didn't actually make me feel sad.

It felt like a provocation.

"Better off" -- based on whose standards? 

Is "better off" finding a secure job that you can count on for the rest of your life?

Those are nearly extinct.

Is it about earning as much as you possibly can?

By that singular measurement, we are failing.

Less of us are doing that.

Home-ownership rates are at their lowest since 1995. 

Toll the funeral bells for everything that made America great.

But, are those the best measurements of a country's greatness, of a life well lived?

What I think makes America great is its spirit of reinvention.

In the wake of the Great Recession, more and more Americans are redefining what "better off" really means.

Turns out, it has more to do with community and creativity than dollars and cents. 

And all of us need policies that protect us from exploitation by employers and financial institutions.

Nothing that follows is meant to suggest that the gap between rich and poor is anything but profoundly immoral.

But, too often we let the conversation stop there.

We talk about poverty as if it were a monolithic experience; about the poor as if they were solely victims.

Part of what I've learned in my research and reporting is that the art of living well is often practiced most masterfully by the most vulnerable. 

Now, if necessity is the mother of invention, I've come to believe that recession can be the father of consciousness.

How should we work?

How should we live?

He had, as unbelievable as it might sound, 21 children, with one woman, my great-grandmother, who died at 47 years old of ovarian cancer.

And if you're trying to do the math -- there were six sets of twins.

So my dad grew up answering the door for debt collectors and pretending his parents weren't home.

So my dad, unsurprisingly, became a bankruptcy lawyer.

Couldn't write this in a novel, right?

He was obsessed with providing a secure foundation for my brother and I. 

So I ask these questions by way of a few generations of struggle.

My parents made sure that I grew up on a kind of steady ground that allows one to question and risk and leap.

Whatever you call it, more and more men are craving these whole, if not harried, lives.

They're waking up to their desire and duty to be present fathers and sons. 

In other words, what we work on is what we understand about the world.

By prioritizing care, men are, in a sense, staking their claim to the full range of human existence. 

Now, this means the nine-to-five no longer works for anyone.

Punch clocks are becoming obsolete, as are career ladders.

Whole industries are being born and dying every day.

It's all nonlinear from here.

Their work will constantly change.

The common denominator is them.

So the more they understand their gifts and create crews of ideal collaborators, the better off they will be. 

We need to seriously consider a universal basic income.

We need to reinvent labor organizing.

We should live like our immigrant ancestors.

And even today, we see a white picket fence and we think success, self-possession.

But when you strip away the sentimentality, what it really does is divides us.

Fifty million of us, for example, live in intergenerational households.

Two-thirds of those who are living with multiple generations under one roof say it's improved their relationships.

Some people are choosing to share homes not with family, but with other people who understand the health and economic benefits of daily community.

CoAbode, an online platform for single moms looking to share homes with other single moms, has 50,000 users.

And people over 65 are especially prone to be looking for these alternative living arrangements.

They understand that their quality of life depends on a mix of solitude and solidarity.

Which is true of all of us when you think about it, young and old alike.

Now, I've experienced this firsthand.

For the last few years, I've been living in a cohousing community.

It's 1.5 acres of persimmon trees, this prolific blackberry bush that snakes around a community garden, all smack-dab, by the way, in the middle of urban Oakland.

So big, shiny black solar cells on our roof mean our electricity bill rarely exceeds more than five bucks in a month.

But additionally, we share an industrial-sized kitchen and eating area, where we have common meals twice a week. 

Now, people, when I tell them I live like this, often have one of two extreme reactions.

Rather than depending only on the idealized family unit to get all of your emotional needs met, you have two dozen other people that you can go to to talk about a hard day at work or troubleshoot how to handle an abusive teacher.

Teenagers in our community will often go to an adult that is not their parent to ask for advice.

Turns out, adults are healthier, too.

It's good common sense, right?

And yet, money has often made us dumb about reaching out.

The most reliable wealth is found in relationship. 

The new better off is not an individual prospect at all.

Maybe you're a mediocre earner but a masterful father.

Maybe you can't afford your dream home, but you throw legendary neighborhood parties.

If you're a textbook success, the implications of what I'm saying could be more grim for you.

You might be a failure by standards you hold dear but that the world doesn't reward.

Only you can know. 

You can't buy your way out of suffering or into meaning.

There is no home big enough to erase the pain that she must have endured.

I am a tribute to her if I live a life as connected and courageous as possible.

Or we can turn outward, cultivate faith in our ability to reach out, to connect, to create. 

Turns out, the biggest danger is not failing to achieve the American Dream.

The biggest danger is achieving a dream that you don't actually believe in.

So don't do that.

That is the beautiful struggle. 

Thank you. 

