People say things about religion all the time.

(Laughter) But last month, in Time magazine, Rabbi David Wolpe, who I gather is referred to as America's rabbi, said, to balance that against that negative characterization, that no important form of social change can be brought about except through organized religion. 

Now, remarks of this sort on the negative and the positive side are very old.

So there have been these long debates over the centuries, in that case, actually, we can say over the millennia, about religion.

It can't even be indifferent.

And if you think about claims about the nonexistence of things, one obvious way to try and establish the nonexistence of a purported thing would be to offer a definition of that thing and then to see whether anything satisfied it.

I'm going to start out on that little route to begin with. 

So if you look in the dictionaries and if you think about it, one very natural definition of religion is that it involves belief in gods or in spiritual beings.

The first problem for that definition is from a recent novel by Paul Beatty called "Tuff."

There's a guy talking to a rabbi.

The rabbi says he doesn't believe in God.

The guy says, "You're a rabbi, how can you not believe in God?"

(Laughter) So if this guy is a rabbi, and a Jewish rabbi, and if you have to believe in God in order to be religious, then we have the rather counterintuitive conclusion that since it's possible to be a Jewish rabbi without believing in God, Judaism isn't a religion.

That seems like a pretty counterintuitive thought. 

Here's another argument against this view.

(Laughter) 

I think the way our concept of religion works is that we actually have, we have a list of paradigm religions and their sub-parts, right, and if something new comes along that purports to be a religion, what we ask is, "Well, is it like one of these?"

Right?

But why do we have such a list?

I think the answer is a pretty simple one and therefore crude and contentious.

And that list was essentially constructed.

It consists of the things that other people had instead of Christianity. 

It's a religion in which people are really concerned about whether you believe the right things.

Here's another problem, I think.

A very specific thing happened.

So everything was framed in that way. 

In the early 19th century, if you were a geologist and made a claim about the age of the Earth, you had to explain whether that was consistent or how it was or wasn't consistent with the age of the Earth implied by the account in Genesis.

This is a soul disc.

There are many of them in the British Museum.

I could give you an interesting, different history of how it comes about that many of the things from my society ended up in the British Museum, but we don't have time for that.

So this object is a soul disc.

What is a soul disc?

And similarly, there were many other things, many other practices.

And finally, there were these huge public ceremonials.

So he's a religious figure, as Rattray would have said, as well as a political figure. 

So all this would count as religion for Rattray, but my point is that when you look into the lives of those people, you also find that every time they do anything, they're conscious of the ancestors.

This is not a world in which the separation between religion and science has occurred.

They meant, even though she was a dead person, they meant that she was still around.

So what I want you to think about next time somebody wants to make some vast generalization about religion is that maybe there isn't such a thing as a religion, such a thing as religion, and that therefore what they say cannot possibly be true. 

