Now I did not know what to make of this.

Part of me was like, okay, when's he going to ask me to wire 10,000 dollars to his Nigerian bank, right?

I have enough trouble with some of the ones I have already.

And I won't name names, but you know who you are.

But another part of me said, this is remarkable.

Here I am alone in my office, but I'm not alone at all.

Partly, this is because of DNA and genetic testing, but partly, it's because of the Internet.

I'm on something on Geni called the world family tree, which has no less than a jaw-dropping 75 million people.

So that's 75 million people connected by blood or marriage, sometimes both.

Here's my cousin Gwyneth Paltrow.

She has no idea I exist, but we are officially cousins.

We have just 17 links between us. 

And there's my cousin Barack Obama.

(Laughter) And he is my aunt's fifth great-aunt's husband's father's wife's seventh great-nephew, so practically my old brother. 

(Laughter) And he is my aunt's fifth great-aunt's husband's father's wife's seventh great-nephew, so practically my old brother. 

So six degrees of Kevin Bacon, plus or minus several degrees. 

Now, I'm not boasting, because all of you have famous people and historical figures in your tree, because we are all connected, and 75 million may seem like a lot, but in a few years, it's quite likely we will have a family tree with all, almost all, seven billion people on Earth. 

But does it really matter?

What's the importance?

First, it's got scientific value.

Number two, it brings history alive.

I found out I'm connected to Albert Einstein, so I told my seven-year-old son that, and he was totally engaged.

Now Albert Einstein is not some dead white guy with weird hair.

Also, it's not all good news.

(Laughter) (Applause) So I want to make that clear.

(Laughter) (Applause) So I want to make that clear.

Number three, interconnectedness.

We all have a bit of their DNA in us.

Number four, a kinder world.

Now, I know that there are family feuds.

I have three sons, so I see how they fight.

But I think that there's also a human bias to treat your family a little better than strangers.

We share 99.9 percent of our DNA. 

Now the final one is number five, a democratizing effect.

But that's really going to be hard to do now, because everyone is related.

I thought, what can I do with this information?

And you're all invited.

Next year, next summer, I will be hosting what I hope is the biggest and best family reunion in history.

There's going to be exhibits and food, music.

Paul McCartney is 11 steps away, so I'm hoping he brings his guitar.

He hasn't RSVP'd yet, but fingers crossed.

And there is going to be a day of speakers, of fascinating cousins.

It's early, but I've already, I've got some lined up.

Cass Sunstein, my cousin who is perhaps the most brilliant legal scholar, will be talking.

He was a former member of the Obama administration.

Only together can we solve these big problems.

(Applause) 

