In the middle of my Ph.D., I was hopelessly stuck.

Every research direction that I tried led to a dead end.

It seemed like my basic assumptions just stopped working.

I felt like a pilot flying through the mist, and I lost all sense of direction.

And so obviously, I couldn't be a scientist. 

But I had enough support and I made it through and discovered something new about nature.

And I started the second project in my Ph.D, and it happened again.

I got stuck and I made it through.

And I started thinking, maybe there's a pattern here.

At the same time, I was also studying to be an improvisation theater actor.

So physics by day, and by night, laughing, jumping, singing, playing my guitar.

But unlike science, in improvisation theater, they tell you from day one what's going to happen to you when you get onstage.

And we would practice staying creative inside that stuck place.

For example, we had an exercise where we all stood in a circle, and each person had to do the world's worst tap dance, and everybody else applauded and cheered you on, supporting you onstage. 

I'd studied thousands of hours of physics, biology, chemistry, but not one hour, not one concept on how to mentor, how to guide someone to go together into the unknown, about motivation. 

So I turned to improvisation theater, and I told my students from day one what's going to happen when you start research, and this has to do with our mental schema of what research will be like.

Because you see, whenever people do anything, for example if I want to touch this blackboard, my brain first builds up a schema, a prediction of exactly what my muscles will do before I even start moving my hand, and if I get blocked, if my schema doesn't match reality, that causes extra stress called cognitive dissonance.

That's why your schemas had better match reality.

But if you believe the way science is taught, and if you believe textbooks, you're liable to have the following schema of research.

If A is the question, and B is the answer, then research is a direct path.

The problem is that if an experiment doesn't work, or a student gets depressed, it's perceived as something utterly wrong and causes tremendous stress.

And that's why I teach my students a more realistic schema.

So I teach my students a different schema.

If A is the question, B is the answer, stay creative in the cloud, and you start going, and experiments don't work, experiments don't work, experiments don't work, experiments don't work, until you reach a place linked with negative emotions where it seems like your basic assumptions have stopped making sense, like somebody yanked the carpet beneath your feet.

And I call this place the cloud.

And experiments don't work, experiments don't work, but you get there, and then you tell everyone about it by publishing a paper that reads A arrow C, which is a great way to communicate, but as long as you don't forget the path that brought you there. 

Every day, we try to bring ourselves to the boundary between the known and the unknown and face the cloud. 

So B is essential in order to get going, but C is much more profound, and that's the amazing thing about resesarch. 

If you'd like to explore the risky paths needed to get out of the cloud, you need other emotions -- solidarity, support, hope — that come with your connection from somebody else, so like in improvisation theater, in science, it's best to walk into the unknown together. 

So knowing about the cloud, you also learn from improvisation theater a very effective way to have conversations inside the cloud.

It's based on the central principle of improvisation theater, so here improvisation theater came to my help again.

It's called saying "Yes, and" to the offers made by other actors.

That means accepting the offers and building on them, saying, "Yes, and."

For example, if one actor says, "Here is a pool of water," and the other actor says, "No, that's just a stage," the improvisation is over.

It's dead, and everybody feels frustrated.

That's called blocking.

If you're not mindful of communications, scientific conversations can have a lot of blocking. 

Saying "Yes, and" sounds like this. 

So saying "Yes, and" bypasses our inner critic.

Saying "Yes, and" bypasses the critic and unlocks hidden voices of creativity you didn't even know that you had, and they often carry the answer about the cloud. 

So you see, knowing about the cloud and about saying "Yes, and" made my lab very creative.

Students started playing off of each others' ideas, and we made surprising discoveries in the interface between physics and biology.

We talk about the results.

So there was no way to talk about it in conferences.

That was unthinkable.

I thought, that's the way it is.

That way of thinking got turned on its head when by chance I went to hear Evelyn Fox Keller give a talk about her experiences as a woman in science.

That's the beautiful thing about science.

But we also have a cultural myth that the doing of science, what we do every day to get that knowledge, is also only objective and rational, like Mr. Spock.

And when you label something as objective and rational, automatically, the other side, the subjective and emotional, become labeled as non-science or anti-science or threatening to science, and we just don't talk about it.

And when I heard that, that science has a culture, everything clicked into place for me, because if science has a culture, culture can be changed, and I can be a change agent working to change the culture of science wherever I could.

They couldn't hear what I was saying in the context of a 10 back-to-back PowerPoint presentation conference.

And I tried again and again, conference after conference, but I wasn't getting through.

I was in the cloud. 

And eventually I managed to get out the cloud using improvisation and music.

We call it being scooped, and being scooped feels horrible.

And then we go for it. 

Thank you.

Thank you for your backup singing. 

So everybody starts laughing, starts breathing, notices that there's other scientists around them with shared issues, and we start talking about the emotional and subjective things that go on in research.

It feels like a huge taboo has been lifted.

Finally, we can talk about this in a scientific conference.

And scientists have gone on to form peer groups where they meet regularly and create a space to talk about the emotional and subjective things that happen as they're mentoring, as they're going into the unknown, and even started courses about the process of doing science, about going into the unknown together, and many other things. 

And what I might ask you to remember from this talk is that next time you face a problem you can't solve in work or in life, there's a word for what you're going to see: the cloud.

Thank you. 

