Four years ago, a security researcher, or, as most people would call it, a hacker, found a way to literally make ATMs throw money at him.

His name was Barnaby Jack, and this technique was later called "jackpotting" in his honor. 

I'm here today because I think we actually need hackers.

He believed that sometimes you have to demo a threat to spark a solution.

And I feel the same way.

That's why I'm here today. 

We are often terrified and fascinated by the power hackers now have.

They scare us.

But the choices they make have dramatic outcomes that influence us all.

So I am here today because I think we need hackers, and in fact, they just might be the immune system for the information age.

Sometimes they make us sick, but they also find those hidden threats in our world, and they make us fix it. 

I knew that I might get hacked for giving this talk, so let me save you the effort.

In true TED fashion, here is my most embarrassing picture.

I was such a nerd back then that even the boys on the Dungeons and Dragons team wouldn't let me join.

She was pretty and she could rollerblade, but being a hacker, that made her powerful.

And I wanted to be just like her, so I started spending a lot of time on hacker chat rooms and online forums.

I remember one late night I found a bit of PHP code.

This is the rush of power that hackers feel.

It's geeks just like me discovering they have access to superpower, one that requires the skill and tenacity of their intellect, but thankfully no radioactive spiders. 

But what if you could read your ex's emails, or add a couple zeros to your bank account.

What would you do then?

Indeed, many hackers do not resist those temptations, and so they are responsible in one way or another to billions of dollars lost each year to fraud, malware or plain old identity theft, which is a serious issue.

He learned that anyone could remotely connect to these devices over the Internet and download documents from hard drives attached to those routers, no password needed.

He reported it to the company, of course, but they ignored his report.

But they didn't steal anything.

This is what Khalil did.

Khalil is a Palestinian hacker from the West Bank, and he found a serious privacy flaw on Facebook which he attempted to report through the company's bug bounty program.

These are usually great arrangements for companies to reward hackers disclosing vulnerabilities they find in their code.

Unfortunately, due to some miscommunications, his report was not acknowledged.

Frustrated with the exchange, he took to use his own discovery to post on Mark Zuckerberg's wall.

Thankfully for Khalil, a group of hackers were watching out for him.

In fact, they raised more than 13,000 dollars to reward him for this discovery, raising a vital discussion in the technology industry about how we come up with incentives for hackers to do the right thing.

But I think there's a greater story here still.

Even companies founded by hackers, like Facebook was, still have a complicated relationship when it comes to hackers.

And so for more conservative organizations, it is going to take time and adapting in order to embrace hacker culture and the creative chaos that it brings with it.

These are things that will come back and bite you. 

It is even more true if we go after hackers that are willing to risk their own freedom for ideals like the freedom of the web, especially in times like this, like today even, as governments and corporates fight to control the Internet.

This universal hacker movement needs no introduction today, but six years ago they were not much more than an Internet subculture dedicated to sharing silly pictures of funny cats and Internet trolling campaigns.

Their moment of transformation was in early 2008 when the Church of Scientology attempted to remove certain leaked videos from appearing on certain websites.

This is when Anonymous was forged out of the seemingly random collection of Internet dwellers.

Since then, they've gone after many targets.

They've uncovered corruption, abuse.

They've hacked popes and politicians, and I think their effect is larger than simple denial of service attacks that take down websites or even leak sensitive documents.

They grab the spotlight for causes they support, forcing us to take note, acting as a global magnifying glass for issues that we are not as aware of but perhaps we should be.

The reality is, hackers can do a lot more than break things.

They can bring people together. 

For a government to do a thing like that was unprecedented, and for hackers, it made it personal.

Hackers like the Telecomix group were already active on the ground, helping Egyptians bypass censorship using clever workarounds like Morse code and ham radio.

It was high season for low tech, which the government couldn't block, but when the Net went completely down, Telecomix brought in the big guns.

They found European service providers that still had 20-year-old analog dial-up access infrastructure.

They opened up 300 of those lines for Egyptians to use, serving slow but sweet Internet connection for Egyptians.

This worked.

It worked so well, in fact, one guy even used it to download an episode of "How I Met Your Mother."

This tweet was fake, of course, but the resulting drop in the Dow Jones index that day was most certainly not, and a lot of people lost a lot of money. 

This sort of thing is happening all over the world right now.

In conflicts from the Crimean Peninsula to Latin America, from Europe to the United States, hackers are a force for social, political and military influence.

As individuals or in groups, volunteers or military conflicts, there are hackers everywhere.

They come from all walks of life, ethnicities, ideologies and genders, I might add.

They are now shaping the world's stage.

Hackers represent an exceptional force for change in the 21st century.

This is because access to information is a critical currency of power, one which governments would like to control, a thing they attempt to do by setting up all-you-can-eat surveillance programs, a thing they need hackers for, by the way.

Two years ago, I saw General Keith Alexander.

He's the NSA director and U.S. cyber commander, but instead of his four star general uniform, he was wearing jeans and a t-shirt.

This was at DEF CON, the world's largest hacker conference.

Perhaps like me, General Alexander didn't see 12,000 criminals that day in Vegas.

I think he saw untapped potential.

The rules of the game are not that clear anymore, but hackers are perhaps the only ones still capable of challenging overreaching governments and data-hoarding corporates on their own playing field.

To me, that represents hope. 

They are compelled to either exploit it or try and change it, and so they find the vulnerable aspects in our rapidly changing world.

Thank you very much. 

Hack the planet! 

