I grew up in a very small country town in Victoria.

I had a very normal, low-key kind of upbringing.

I went to school, I hung out with my friends, I fought with my younger sisters.

It was all very normal.

(Laughter) 

But they were right, you know.

(Laughter) "It's usually in the big hall."

(Laughter) Yeah. 

Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid I'm going to disappoint you dramatically.

I am not here to inspire you.

And in the past few years, we've been able to propagate this lie even further via social media.

And these images, there are lots of them out there, they are what we call inspiration porn.

So in this case, we're objectifying disabled people for the benefit of nondisabled people.

But what if you are that person?

These images, those images objectify disabled people for the benefit of nondisabled people.

And life as a disabled person is actually somewhat difficult.

We do overcome some things.

But the things that we're overcoming are not the things that you think they are.

They are not things to do with our bodies.

They're not doing anything out of the ordinary.

They are just using their bodies to the best of their capacity.

So is it really fair to objectify them in the way that we do, to share those images?

People, when they say, "You're an inspiration," they mean it as a compliment.

And I know why it happens.

It's because of the lie, it's because we've been sold this lie that disability makes you exceptional.

And it honestly doesn't. 

And I know what you're thinking.

And the thing is, I am.

I learn from other disabled people all the time.

I'm learning not that I am luckier than them, though.

I am learning that it's a genius idea to use a pair of barbecue tongs to pick up things that you dropped.

(Laughter) I'm learning that nifty trick where you can charge your mobile phone battery from your chair battery.

Genius.

I really think that this lie that we've been sold about disability is the greatest injustice.

(Laughter) (Applause) Smiling at a television screen isn't going to make closed captions appear for people who are deaf.

No amount of standing in the middle of a bookshop and radiating a positive attitude is going to turn all those books into braille.

It's just not going to happen. 

I really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the norm.

Thank you. 

