[One hundred and forty-three] years after the end of slavery, and [43] years after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, an African-American was elected president.

And in many ways, it was the climax of the black civil rights movement in the United States. 

I was in California that night, which was ground zero at the time for another movement: the marriage equality movement.

And then it got even worse.

Pretty much immediately, African-Americans started to be blamed for the passage of Proposition 8.

This was largely due to an incorrect poll that said that blacks had voted for the measure by something like 70 percent.

This turned out not to be true, but this idea of pervasive black homophobia set in, and was grabbed on by the media.

I couldn't tear myself away from the coverage.

There were even reports of racist epithets being thrown at some of the participants of the gay rights rallies that took place after the election.

How was it that the gay rights movement was being pitted against the civil rights movement?

And this wasn't just an abstract question.

Let's just look at a few of these strategies. 

And I call this strategy the "I'm tired of your foot on my neck" strategy. 

So just 14 years after the Montgomery bus boycott, a group of LGBT folks took that same strategy.

So the next moment to look at on the timeline is the 1963 March on Washington.

Bayard was an out gay man, and he's considered one of the most brilliant strategists of the civil rights movement.

Some early gay activists were actually directly inspired by the march, and some had taken part.

The first one was in 1979, and the second one took place in 1987.

The third one was held in 1993.

Almost a million people showed up, and people were so energized and excited by what had taken place, they went back to their own communities and started their own political and social organizations, further increasing the visibility of the movement.

The day of that march, October 11, was then declared National Coming Out Day, and is still celebrated all over the world.

These marches set the groundwork for the historic changes that we see happening today in the United States. 

In 1967, the Supreme Court ruled in Loving v. Virginia, and invalidated all laws that prohibited interracial marriage.

This is considered one of the Supreme Court's landmark civil rights cases.

In 1996, President Clinton signed the Defense of Marriage Act, known as DOMA, and that made the federal government only have to recognize marriages between a man and a woman.

When it got to the Supreme Court in 2013, the Supreme Court agreed, and DOMA was thrown out.

It was incredible.

But the gay marriage movement has been making gains for years now.

To date, 17 states have passed laws allowing marriage equality.

So a lot has changed since that night in 2008 when I felt torn in half.

I did go on to make that film.

This is a clip of Karess Taylor-Hughes and Samantha Masters, two characters in the film, as they hit the streets of Baltimore and try to convince potential voters. 

(Video) Samantha Masters: That's what's up, man, this is a righteous man over here.

Okay, are you registered to vote? 

We got to get you registered to vote. 

SM: That's not cool. 

KSM: I used to not have the same rights as you, but I know that because a black man like yourself stood up for a woman like me, I know that I've got the same opportunities.

So you, as a black man, have the opportunity to stand up for somebody else.

Whether you're gay or not, these are your brothers and sisters out here, and they need you to represent. 

Man 2: Who is you to tell somebody who they can't have sex with, who they can't be with?

They ain't got that power.

Nobody has that power to say, you can't marry that young lady.

SM: But you know what?

Our state has put the power in your hands, and so what we need you to do is vote for, you gonna vote for 6. 

Man 2: I got you. 

Man 2: I got you. 

Y'all want to do that?

Maybe because she's younger, she's like 25, she's able to do this a little bit more easily, but the fact is that Maryland voters did pass that marriage equality amendment, and in fact it was the first time that marriage equality was directly voted on and passed by the voters.

It was, and feels, monumental.

We in the LGBT community have gone from being a pathologized and reviled and criminalized group to being seen as part of the great human quest for dignity and equality.

We've gone from having to hide our sexuality in order to maintain our jobs and our families to literally getting a place at the table with the president and a shout out at his second inauguration.

Now we know that everything is not perfect, especially when you look at what's happening with the LGBT rights issue internationally, but it says something about how far we've come when our president puts the gay freedom struggle in the context of the other great freedom struggles of our time: the women's rights movement and the civil rights movement.

Maybe one more other reason for the relative quick progress of the gay rights movement.

Whereas a lot of us continue to still live in racially segregated spaces, LGBT folks, we are everywhere.

We are your mothers and brothers and sisters and sons.

And when someone that you love or a family member comes out, it may be easier to support their quest for equality.

And in fact, the gay rights movement asks us to support justice and equality from a space of love.

That may be the biggest, greatest gift that the movement has given us.

It calls on us to access that which is most universal and most intimate: a love of our brother and our sister and our neighbor.

I just want to end with a quote by one of our greatest freedom fighters who's no longer with us, Nelson Mandela of South Africa.

Thank you. 

