Yet one of the greatest differences between natural and human technologies relates to robustness.

Robust systems are stable in complex and new environments.

Remarkably, cockroaches can self-stabilize running over rough terrain.

They can go over complex terrain like grass, no problem, and not get destabilized.

We discovered a new behavior where, because of their shape, they actually roll automatically to their side to go through this artificial test bit of grass. 

Robust systems can perform multiple tasks with the same structure.

Here's a new behavior we've discovered.

They can run upside down very rapidly on rods, branches and wires, and if you perturb one of those branches, they can do this.

They can perform gymnastic maneuvers like no robot we have yet.

And they have nearly unlimited maneuverability with that same structure and unprecedented access to a variety of different areas.

They have wings for flying when they get warm, but they use those same wings to flip over if they get destabilized.

Very effective. 

They can run up mesh without their feet.

Here's one moving with two middle legs gone.

It can even lose three legs, in a tripod, and adopt a new gait, a hopping gait.

And I point out that all of these videos are slowed down 20 times, so they're actually really fast, when you see this. 

Here's what they do.

They intentionally have a head-on collision with the wall so they don't slow down and can transition up it in 75 milliseconds.

And they can do this in part because they have extraordinary exoskeletons.

And they're really just made up of compliant joints that are tubes and plates connected to one another.

My engineering colleague at Berkeley designed with his students a novel manufacturing technique where you essentially origami the exoskeleton, you laser cut it, laminate it, and you fold it up into a robot.

And you can do that now in less than 15 minutes.

These robots, called DASH, for Dynamic Autonomous Sprawled Hexapod, are highly compliant robots, and they're remarkably robust as a result of these features.

They're certainly incredibly damage resistant.

They even have some of the beginnings of the rapid inversion behavior where they disappear. 

Now we want to know why they can go anywhere.

To understand it better, we did a CT scan of the exoskeleton and showed that they can compress their body by over 40 percent.

We put them in a materials testing machine to look at the stress strain analysis and showed that they can withstand forces 800 times their body weight, and after this they can fly and run absolutely normally. 

Thank you. 

