So young people pay good money to get tattoos removed that teenagers paid good money to get.

Middle-aged people rushed to divorce people who young adults rushed to marry.

Older adults work hard to lose what middle-aged adults worked hard to gain.

On and on and on.

The question is, as a psychologist, that fascinates me is, why do we make decisions that our future selves so often regret? 

Let me give you some data to back up that claim.

So here's a study of change in people's personal values over time.

Here's three values.

Everybody here holds all of them, but you probably know that as you grow, as you age, the balance of these values shifts.

So how does it do so?

Well, we asked thousands of people.

Here's what we found.

At every age, from 18 to 68 in our data set, people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years.

We call this the "end of history" illusion.

For example, personality.

Many of you know that psychologists now claim that there are five fundamental dimensions of personality: neuroticism, openness to experience, agreeableness, extraversion, and conscientiousness.

And it isn't just ephemeral things like values and personality.

You can ask people about their likes and dislikes, their basic preferences.

For example, name your best friend, your favorite kind of vacation, what's your favorite hobby, what's your favorite kind of music.

People can name these things.

Does any of this matter?

It bedevils our decision-making in important ways.

I put mine up on the screen to help you along.

And yet, when we asked them how much they would pay to see the person who was their favorite 10 years ago perform today, they say only 80 dollars.

Sorry, when people say "I can't imagine that," they're usually talking about their own lack of imagination, and not about the unlikelihood of the event that they're describing. 

The bottom line is, time is a powerful force.

Only when we look backwards do we realize how much change happens in a decade.

It's as if, for most of us, the present is a magic time.

It's a watershed on the timeline.

It's the moment at which we finally become ourselves.

Human beings are works in progress that mistakenly think they're finished.

The person you are right now is as transient, as fleeting and as temporary as all the people you've ever been.

The one constant in our life is change. 

Thank you. 

