It's really a failure to detect a certain kind of danger.

And yet if you're anything like me, you'll find that it's fun to think about these things.

Famine isn't fun.

I am unable to marshal this response, and I'm giving this talk. 

It's as though we stand before two doors.

Behind door number one, we stop making progress in building intelligent machines.

Our computer hardware and software just stops getting better for some reason.

Now take a moment to consider why this might happen.

I mean, given how valuable intelligence and automation are, we will continue to improve our technology if we are at all able to.

What could stop us from doing this?

A full-scale nuclear war?

A global pandemic?

An asteroid impact?

Justin Bieber becoming president of the United States? 

The point is, something would have to destroy civilization as we know it.

Almost by definition, this is the worst thing that's ever happened in human history. 

And then we risk what the mathematician IJ Good called an "intelligence explosion," that the process could get away from us. 

But that isn't the most likely scenario.

It's not that our machines will become spontaneously malevolent.

The concern is really that we will build machines that are so much more competent than we are that the slightest divergence between their goals and our own could destroy us. 

Just think about how we relate to ants.

We don't hate them.

We don't go out of our way to harm them.

In fact, sometimes we take pains not to harm them.

We step over them on the sidewalk.

But whenever their presence seriously conflicts with one of our goals, let's say when constructing a building like this one, we annihilate them without a qualm.

The concern is that we will one day build machines that, whether they're conscious or not, could treat us with similar disregard. 

But then you must find something wrong with one of the following assumptions.

And there are only three of them. 

Intelligence is a matter of information processing in physical systems.

Actually, this is a little bit more than an assumption.

We have already built narrow intelligence into our machines, and many of these machines perform at a level of superhuman intelligence already.

I mean, there's just atoms in here, and as long as we continue to build systems of atoms that display more and more intelligent behavior, we will eventually, unless we are interrupted, we will eventually build general intelligence into our machines. 

We just need to keep going. 

The second assumption is that we will keep going.

We will continue to improve our intelligent machines.

And given the value of intelligence -- I mean, intelligence is either the source of everything we value or we need it to safeguard everything we value.

It is our most valuable resource.

So we want to do this.

We have problems that we desperately need to solve.

So we will do this, if we can.

The train is already out of the station, and there's no brake to pull. 

And this really is the crucial insight.

Now, just consider the smartest person who has ever lived.

On almost everyone's shortlist here is John von Neumann.

I mean, the impression that von Neumann made on the people around him, and this included the greatest mathematicians and physicists of his time, is fairly well-documented.

If only half the stories about him are half true, there's no question he's one of the smartest people who has ever lived.

So consider the spectrum of intelligence.

Here we have John von Neumann.

And then we have you and me.

And then we have a chicken. 

Sorry, a chicken. 

There's no reason for me to make this talk more depressing than it needs to be. 

How could we even understand, much less constrain, a mind making this sort of progress? 

The other thing that's worrying, frankly, is that, imagine the best case scenario.

It's as though we've been handed an oracle that behaves exactly as intended.

Well, this machine would be the perfect labor-saving device.

So we're talking about the end of human drudgery.

We're also talking about the end of most intellectual work. 

So what would apes like ourselves do in this circumstance?

Well, we'd be free to play Frisbee and give each other massages.

Add some LSD and some questionable wardrobe choices, and the whole world could be like Burning Man. 

Now, that might sound pretty good, but ask yourself what would happen under our current economic and political order?

This is a winner-take-all scenario.

To be six months ahead of the competition here is to be 500,000 years ahead, at a minimum.

So it seems that even mere rumors of this kind of breakthrough could cause our species to go berserk. 

And the most common reason we're told not to worry is time.

This is all a long way off, don't you know.

This is probably 50 or 100 years away.

And we have no idea how long it will take us to create the conditions to do that safely.

Let me say that again.

We have no idea how long it will take us to create the conditions to do that safely. 

And if you haven't noticed, 50 years is not what it used to be.

This is 50 years in months.

This is how long we've had the iPhone.

This is how long "The Simpsons" has been on television.

The computer scientist Stuart Russell has a nice analogy here.

We would feel a little more urgency than we do. 

They'll be grafted onto our brains, and we'll essentially become their limbic systems.

Now, this may in fact be the safest and only prudent path forward, but usually one's safety concerns about a technology have to be pretty much worked out before you stick it inside your head. 

I think we need something like a Manhattan Project on the topic of artificial intelligence.

Not to build it, because I think we'll inevitably do that, but to understand how to avoid an arms race and to build it in a way that is aligned with our interests.

Now would be a good time to make sure it's a god we can live with. 

Thank you very much. 

