Let me tell you a story.

It goes back 200 million years.

It's a story of the neocortex, which means "new rind."

Rather than the fixed behaviors that non-mammalian animals have, it could invent new behaviors.

So a mouse is escaping a predator, its path is blocked, it'll try to invent a new solution.

Non-mammalian animals couldn't do any of those things.

They had fixed behaviors.

Now they could learn a new behavior but not in the course of one lifetime.

In the course of maybe a thousand lifetimes, it could evolve a new fixed behavior.

That was perfectly okay 200 million years ago.

The environment changed very slowly.

Now that went along fine, but then something happened.

Sixty-five million years ago, there was a sudden, violent change to the environment.

We call it the Cretaceous extinction event.

If you took the human neocortex and stretched it out, it's about the size of a table napkin, and it's still a thin structure.

It's about the thickness of a table napkin.

It could implement a pattern.

And these modules were organized in hierarchies, and we created that hierarchy with our own thinking.

And there was actually very little to go on 50 years ago.

It led me to meet President Johnson.

The amount of data we're getting about the brain from neuroscience is doubling every year.

Spatial resolution of brainscanning of all types is doubling every year.

We can now see inside a living brain and see individual interneural connections connecting in real time, firing in real time.

We can see your brain create your thoughts.

So let me describe briefly how it works.

I've actually counted these modules.

We have about 300 million of them, and we create them in these hierarchies.

I'll give you a simple example.

That goes to the next level, and these layers are organized in conceptual levels.

That goes up to a higher level that might say "Apple."

Information flows down also.

Go up another 10 levels, and now you're at a very high level.

You're probably in the frontal cortex, and you'll have modules that say, "That was ironic.

You might think that those are more sophisticated, but actually what's more complicated is the hierarchy beneath them.

You can do that because there's no pain receptors in the brain.

And whenever they stimulated particular, very small points on her neocortex, shown here in red, she would laugh.

So how are we doing today?

Well, computers are actually beginning to master human language with techniques that are similar to the neocortex.

They'll go into our brain through the capillaries and basically connect our neocortex to a synthetic neocortex in the cloud providing an extension of our neocortex.

In the 2030s, if you need some extra neocortex, you'll be able to connect to that in the cloud directly from your brain.

It will grow exponentially.

And remember what happens the last time we expanded our neocortex?

That was two million years ago when we became humanoids and developed these large foreheads.

Other primates have a slanted brow.

They don't have the frontal cortex.

But the frontal cortex is not really qualitatively different.

No other species has done that. 

And so, over the next few decades, we're going to do it again.

We're going to again expand our neocortex, only this time we won't be limited by a fixed architecture of enclosure.

It'll be expanded without limit.

That additional quantity will again be the enabling factor for another qualitative leap in culture and technology. 

Thank you very much. 

