So I was born and raised in the shadow of a shipyard in a little town on the northeast coast of England.

Some of my earliest memories are of giant ships blocking the end of my street, as well as the sun, for a lot of the year.

Every morning as a child, I'd watch thousands of men walk down that hill to work in the shipyard.

I'd watch those same men walking back home every night.

It has to be said, the shipyard was not the most pleasant place to live next door to, or indeed work in.

The shipyard was noisy, dangerous, highly toxic, with an appalling health and safety record. 

Despite that, the men and women who worked on those ships were extraordinarily proud of the work they did, and justifiably so.

Some of the largest vessels ever constructed on planet Earth were built right at the end of my street. 

My grandfather had been a shipwright, and as a child, as there were few other jobs in the town, I would wonder with some anxiety whether that would be my destiny too.

I was fairly determined that it wouldn't be.

I had other dreams, not necessarily practical ones, but at the age of eight, I was bequeathed a guitar.

Well, they say if you dream something hard enough, it will come to pass.

I dreamt I would leave this town, and just like those ships, once they were launched, I'd never come back.

I dreamt I'd become a writer of songs, that I would sing those songs to vast numbers of people all over the world, that I would be paid extravagant amounts of money, that I'd become famous, that I'd marry a beautiful woman, have children, raise a family, buy a big house in the country, keep dogs, grow wine, have rooms full of Grammy Awards, platinum discs, and what have you.

Day after day, you face a blank page, and nothing's coming.

So you start asking yourself questions.

What have I done to offend the gods that they would abandon me so?

Is the gift of songwriting taken away as easily as it seems to have been bestowed?

Well they say, write what you know.

If you can't write about yourself anymore, then who do you write about?

So it's ironic that the landscape I'd worked so hard to escape from, and the community that I'd more or less abandoned and exiled myself from should be the very landscape, the very community I would have to return to to find my missing muse. 

And as soon as I did that, as soon as I decided to honor the community I came from and tell their story, that the songs started to come thick and fast.

One of the first things I wrote was just a list of names of people I'd known, and they become characters in a kind of three-dimensional drama, where they explain who they are, what they do, their hopes and their fears for the future. 

This is Jackie White.

He's the foreman of the shipyard. 

So having decided to write about other people instead of myself, a further irony is that sometimes you reveal more about yourself than you'd ever intended.

Or perhaps your father could finagle you an apprenticeship at the age of 15.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

So whenever they'd launch a big ship, they would invite some dignitary up from London on the train to make a speech, break a bottle of champagne over the bows, launch it down the slipway into the river and out to sea.

Occasionally on a really important ship, they'd get a member of the royal family to come, Duke of Edinburgh, Princess Anne or somebody.

And you have to remember, it wasn't that long ago that the royal family in England were considered to have magical healing powers.

Sick children were held up in crowds to try and touch the cloak of the king or the queen to cure them of some terrible disease.

It wasn't like that in my day, but we still got very excited. 

I'm not very happy with her.

In the middle of the motorcycles, there's a big, black Rolls-Royce.

Inside the Rolls-Royce is the Queen Mother.

This is a big deal.

So the procession is moving at a stately pace down my street, and as it approaches my house, I start to wave my flag vigorously, and there is the Queen Mother.

We're having a moment, me and the Queen Mother.

She's acknowledged me.

And then she's gone. 

Well, I wasn't cured of anything.

It was the opposite, actually.

I was infected.

I was infected with an idea.

It's my belief that abstract economic theory that denies the needs of community or denies the contribution that community makes to economy is shortsighted, cruel and untenable. 

The fact is, whether you're a rock star or whether you're a welder in a shipyard, or a tribesman in the upper Amazon, or the queen of England, at the end of the day, we're all in the same boat. 

Thanks very much for listening to my song.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Here we go. 

