That moment changed my life.

In fact, for thousands of human traits, a molecular basis that's known for that, and for thousands of people, every day, there's information that they gain about the risk of going on to get this disease or that disease. 

If you look at the cost of developing drugs, how that's done, it basically hasn't budged that.

And so it's as if we have the power to diagnose yet not the power to fully treat.

And there are two commonly given reasons for why that happens.

One of them is it's early days.

We're just learning the words, the fragments, the letters in the genetic code.

The other reason given is that most of those changes are a loss of function, and it's actually really hard to develop drugs that restore function. 

But maybe, if what we're trying to do is to develop therapies for prevention, maybe what we should be doing is studying those who don't get sick.

Maybe we should be studying those that are well.

A vast majority of those people are not necessarily carrying a particular genetic load or risk factor.

They're not going to help us.

That's not what we're looking for.

What we're asking and looking for is, are there a very few set of individuals who are actually walking around with the risk that normally would cause a disease, but something in them, something hidden in them is actually protective and keeping them from exhibiting those symptoms? 

And let's go and then screen those to find those who are carrying genes for childhood diseases. 

I want to give you two examples. 

The first comes from San Francisco.

They went on to get AIDS.

And astute clinicians tracked that down, and what they found was they were carrying mutations.

Notice, they were carrying mutations from birth that were protective, that were protecting them from going on to get AIDS.

You may also know that actually a line of therapy has been coming along based on that fact.

But we began to think, maybe we should look all over the world.

Maybe we should look not just here but in remote places where their might be a distinct genetic context, there might be environmental factors that protect people.

And let's look at a million individuals. 

They basically said, "Let's work on this in an open, crowd-sourced, team way to do this decoding."

Six months ago, we locked down the screening key for this decoder.

Maybe we could take two, three percent of the project on, and see if it was there.

We found dozens of these strong candidate unexpected heroes. 

Basically all we need is information.

Most of us spend our lives, when it comes to health and disease, acting as if we're voyeurs.

We delegate the responsibility for the understanding of our disease, for the treatment of our disease, to anointed experts.

Thank you very much. 

