I didn't join the Army because I had a lust or a need to go overseas and fight.

I didn't come from a military family.

I'm not a military brat.

And then when I was 10 and 11, my behavior just kept on getting worse.

I was on academic and disciplinary probation before I hit double digits, and I first felt handcuffs on my wrists when I was 11 years old.

I had to disagree with her wholeheartedly when I first showed up there, because literally in the first four days, I had already run away five times from this school.

They had these big black gates that surrounded the school, and every time they would turn their backs, I would just simply run out of the black gates and take them up on their offer that if we don't want to be there, we can leave at any time.

And I kept on getting lost. 

But then eventually, after staying there for a little while, and after the end of that first year at this military school, I realized that I actually was growing up.

I realized the things that I enjoyed about this school and the thing that I enjoyed about the structure was something that I'd never found before: the fact that I finally felt like I was part of something bigger, part of a team, and it actually mattered to people that I was there, the fact that leadership wasn't just a punchline there, but that it was a real, actually core part of the entire experience.

And so when it was time for me to actually finish up high school, I started thinking about what I wanted to do, and just like probably most students, had no idea what that meant or what I wanted to do.

And I thought about the people who I respected and admired.

I thought about a lot of the people, in particular a lot of the men, in my life who I looked up to.

They all happened to wear the uniform of the United States of America, so for me, the question and the answer really became pretty easy.

The question of what I wanted to do was filled in very quickly with saying, I guess I'll be an Army officer. 

So the Army then went through this process and they trained me up, and when I say I didn't join the Army because I wanted to go to war, the truth is, I joined in 1996.

There really wasn't a whole lot going on.

I didn't ever feel like I was in danger.

When I went to my mom, I first joined the Army when I was 17 years old, so I literally needed parental permission to join the Army, so I kind of gave the paperwork to my mom, and she just assumed it was kind of like military school.

She was like, "Well, it was good for him before, so I guess I'll just let him keep doing it," having no idea that the paperwork that she was signing was actually signing her son up to become an Army officer.

And after 9/11, there was an entirely new context about the occupation that I chose.

And I thought about so much about the soldiers who I eventually had to end up leading.

I received the scholarship to go overseas and to go study and live overseas, and I was living in England and that was interesting, but at the same time, the same people who I was training with, the same soldiers that I went through all my training with, and we prepared for war, they were now actually heading over to it.

They were now about to find themselves in the middle of places the fact is the vast majority of people, the vast majority of us as we were training, couldn't even point out on a map.

That was the new reality. 

I remember walking out with my unit for the first time, and when you join the Army and you go through a combat tour, everyone looks at your shoulder, because on your shoulder is your combat patch.

And so immediately as you meet people, you shake their hand, and then your eyes go to their shoulder, because you want to see where did they serve, or what unit did they serve with?

And I was the only person walking around with a bare shoulder, and it burned every time someone stared at it. 

A lot of my soldiers signed up for completely different reasons.

They signed up because their family said this was important.

They signed up because their family said this was important.

And now we all found ourselves overseas fighting in these conflicts. 

And what was amazing to me was that I very naively started hearing this statement that I never fully understood, because right after 9/11, you start hearing this idea where people come up to you and they say, "Well, thank you for your service."

And I just kind of followed in and started saying the same things to all my soldiers.

This is even before I deployed.

But I really had no idea what that even meant.

I just said it because it sounded right.

I said it because it sounded like the right thing to say to people who had served overseas.

When I first came back from Afghanistan, I thought that if you make it back from conflict, then the dangers were all over.

It keeps playing out in all of our minds.

It plays out in all of our memories.

It plays out in all of our emotions.

I remember when I came back, I wanted to talk to people.

I wanted people to ask me about my experiences.

And those were the ones who were even curious enough to say anything.

The problem with that is then it feels like your service was not even acknowledged, like no one even cared.

"Thank you for your service," and we move on.

What I wanted to better understand was what's behind that, and why "thank you for your service" isn't enough.

The fact is, we have literally 2.6 million men and women who are veterans of Iraq or Afghanistan who are all amongst us.

The fact is, there's still a tremendous amount that can be offered and can be given.

He loses his leg in Iraq.

He comes back and instead of deciding that, well, now since I've lost my leg, that second dream is over, he decides that he still has that dream of playing baseball, and he starts this group called VETSports, which now works with veterans all over the country and uses sports as a way of healing.

People like Tammy Duckworth, who was a helicopter pilot and with the helicopter that she was flying, you need to use both your hands and also your legs to steer, and her helicopter gets hit, and she's trying to steer the chopper, but the chopper's not reacting to her instructions and to her commands.

She's trying to land the chopper safely, but the chopper doesn't land safely, and the reason it's not landing safely is because it's not responding to the commands that her legs are giving because her legs were blown off.

She barely survives.

And now she uses her voice as a Congresswoman from Illinois to fight and advocate for a collection of issues to include veterans issues. 

And the only thing we then ask is that "thank you for your service" needs to be more than just a quote break, that "thank you for your service" means honestly digging in to the people who have stepped up simply because they were asked to, and what that means for us not just now, not just during combat operations, but long after the last vehicle has left and after the last shot has been taken. 

These are the people who I served with, and these are the people who I honor.

So thank you for your service. 

