And for a long time, I thought the meaning was out there, some great truth waiting to be found. 

But over time, I've come to feel that the truth is irrelevant.

We call it finding meaning, but we might better call it forging meaning. 

We make those choices all our lives.

When I was in second grade, Bobby Finkel had a birthday party and invited everyone in our class but me.

And that day, my mom took me to the zoo and out for a hot fudge sundae.

I survived that childhood through a mix of avoidance and endurance.

Identity involves entering a community to draw strength from that community, and to give strength there too.

It involves substituting "and" for "but" -- not "I am here but I have cancer," but rather, "I have cancer and I am here."

Forging meaning is about changing yourself.

Building identity is about changing the world.

All of us with stigmatized identities face this question daily: how much to accommodate society by constraining ourselves, and how much to break the limits of what constitutes a valid life?

Forging meaning and building identity does not make what was wrong right.

It only makes what was wrong precious. 

Most of them had knowingly committed the offenses that landed them in prison, and they had walked in with their heads held high, and they walked out with their heads still held high, many years later.

She had sought meaning and made her travail into a crucial identity.

But if the people I met were less bitter than I'd anticipated about being in prison, they were also less thrilled than I'd expected about the reform process going on in their country.

In my own adolescence, I went to extreme lengths to try to be straight.

(Laughter) My particular favorite was a blonde woman from the Deep South who eventually admitted to me that she was really a necrophiliac and had taken this job after she got in trouble down at the morgue.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

We don't seek the painful experiences that hew our identities, but we seek our identities in the wake of painful experiences.

We cannot bear a pointless torment, but we can endure great pain if we believe that it's purposeful.

Ease makes less of an impression on us than struggle.

We could have been ourselves without our delights, but not without the misfortunes that drive our search for meaning.

"Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities," St. Paul wrote in Second Corinthians, "for when I am weak, then I am strong."

One of the artists I met said to me, "We were in training to be not artists but angels."

And on the third day of the putsch, one of them suggested we walk up to Smolenskaya.

Sometimes, forging meaning can give you the vocabulary you need to fight for your ultimate freedom. 

It took identity to rescue me from sadness.

The gay rights movement posits a world in which my aberrances are a victory.

Identity politics can be narcissistic.

But properly understood and wisely practiced, identity politics should expand our idea of what it is to be human.

Identity itself should be not a smug label or a gold medal but a revolution. 

But if you banish the dragons, you banish the heroes, and we become attached to the heroic strain in our own lives.

(Laughter) (Applause) It's a great idea, but its time has not yet come.

(Laughter) And neutrality, which seems to lie halfway between despair and celebration, is actually the endgame. 

(Laughter) And neutrality, which seems to lie halfway between despair and celebration, is actually the endgame. 

In Russia, the anti-propaganda law has led to people being beaten in the streets.

In Saudi Arabia recently, two men who had been caught in carnal acts, were sentenced to 7,000 lashes each, and are now permanently disabled as a result.

So who can forge meaning and build identity?

And yet, every step forward is so sweet.

In 2007, six years after we met, my partner and I decided to get married.

Marrying was a way to declare our love as more a presence than an absence. 

Marriage soon led us to children, and that meant new meanings and new identities, ours and theirs.

As a gay father, I can teach them to own what is wrong in their lives, but I believe that if I succeed in sheltering them from adversity, I will have failed as a parent.

Nirvana, he said, is what you arrive at when you have only bliss to look forward to and find in what looked like sorrows the seedlings of your joy.

Perhaps I could.

Perhaps all the complex imagining I've done could have been applied to other topics.

But if seeking meaning matters more than finding meaning, the question is not whether I'd be happier for having been bullied, but whether assigning meaning to those experiences has made me a better father.

I know many heterosexuals who have equally happy marriages and families, but gay marriage is so breathtakingly fresh, and gay families so exhilaratingly new, and I found meaning in that surprise. 

And I thought — Thank you.

If we live out loud, we can trounce the hatred and expand everyone's lives. 

Forge meaning.

Forge meaning.

Build identity.

And then invite the world to share your joy. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

