You may be wondering why a marine biologist from Oceana would come here today to talk to you about world hunger.

I'm here today because saving the oceans is more than an ecological desire.

And this is a big concern, especially considering where we are now.

It's going to make it harder for the land to help us solve the hunger problem.

And that's why the oceans need to be their most abundant, so that the oceans can provide us as much food as possible. 

And that's something the oceans have been doing for us for a long time.

As far back as we can go, we've seen an increase in the amount of food we've been able to harvest from our oceans.

You've heard of peak oil.

This red line is continuing to go down. 

We know how to turn that curve back upwards.

This doesn't have to be peak fish.

If we do a few simple things in targeted places, we can bring our fisheries back and use them to feed people. 

You get into international agreements, and if any of you are tracking the climate change agreement, you know this can be a very slow, frustrating, tedious process.

And so controlling things nationally is a great thing to be able to do. 

How many fish are actually in these coastal areas compared to the high seas?

We can restore a lot of our fisheries if we focus in these coastal areas. 

But how many of these countries do we have to work in?

There's something like 80 coastal countries.

Do we have to fix fisheries management in all of those countries?

So if we got good fisheries management in the European Union and, say, nine other countries, how much of our fisheries would we be covering?

Turns out, European Union plus nine countries covers about two thirds of the world's fish catch.

So we think we can work in a limited number of places to make the fisheries come back.

But what do we have to do in these places?

If we do those three things, we know the fisheries will come back. 

How do we know?

We know because we've seen it happening in a lot of different places.

It was coming down, and when Norway set limits, or quotas, on its fishery, what happens?

The fishery comes back.

They set limits on discards.

Discards are these fish they weren't targeting and they get thrown overboard wastefully.

When they set the discard limit, the fishery came back.

And it's not just in Norway.

We've seen this happening in countries all around the world, time and time again.

When these countries step in and they put in sustainable fisheries management policies, the fisheries, which are always crashing, it seems, are starting to come back.

So there's a lot of promise here. 

What does this mean for the world fish catch?

This means that if we take that fishery catch that's on the decline and we could turn it upwards, we could increase it up to 100 million metric tons per year.

So we didn't have peak fish yet.

If you look at how much fish protein you get per dollar invested compared to all of the other animal proteins, obviously, fish is a good business decision.

And it doesn't need a lot of fresh water.

It also has a very low carbon footprint.

It can reduce our risks of cancer, heart disease and obesity.

In fact, our CEO Andy Sharpless, who is the originator of this concept, actually, he likes to say fish is the perfect protein.

There's a constant tough decision that has to be made between two very important things: maintaining biodiversity and feeding people.

But in the oceans, we don't have that war.

In the oceans, biodiversity is not at war with abundance.

In fact, they're aligned.

Now, there's a catch. 

Illegal fishing.

Illegal fishing undermines the type of sustainable fisheries management I'm talking about.

It can be when you catch fish using gears that have been prohibited, when you fish in places where you're not supposed to fish, you catch fish that are the wrong size or the wrong species.

The way illegal fish get into our market is through seafood fraud.

You might have heard about this.

It's when fish are labeled as something they're not.

Think about the last time you had fish.

What were you eating?

Are you sure that's what it was?

Because we tested 1,300 different fish samples and about a third of them were not what they were labeled to be.

Snappers, nine out of 10 snappers were not snapper.

Fifty-nine percent of the tuna we tested was mislabeled.

Traceability is a way where the seafood industry can track the seafood from the boat to the plate to make sure that the consumer can then find out where their seafood came from. 

This is a really important thing.

We know that we can manage our fisheries sustainably.

We know that saving the oceans can feed the world, and we need to start now. 

