One of the people he rescued was a sergeant, and he and a comrade were making their way to a medevac helicopter. 

And what was remarkable about this day is, by sheer coincidence, one of the medevac medics happened to have a GoPro camera on his helmet and captured the whole scene on camera.

It shows Captain Swenson and his comrade bringing this wounded soldier who had received a gunshot to the neck.

They put him in the helicopter, and then you see Captain Swenson bend over and give him a kiss before he turns around to rescue more. 

There's a love there, and I wanted to know why is it that I don't have people that I work with like that?

You know, in the military, they give medals to people who are willing to sacrifice themselves so that others may gain.

And my initial conclusion was that they're just better people.

But that's completely wrong.

What I learned was that it's the environment, and if you get the environment right, every single one of us has the capacity to do these remarkable things, and more importantly, others have that capacity too.

So trust and cooperation are really important here.

The problem with concepts of trust and cooperation is that they are feelings, they are not instructions.

I can't simply say to you, "Trust me," and you will.

I can't simply instruct two people to cooperate, and they will.

So where does that feeling come from?

If you go back 50,000 years to the Paleolithic era, to the early days of Homo sapiens, what we find is that the world was filled with danger, all of these forces working very, very hard to kill us.

Nothing personal.

Whether it was the weather, lack of resources, maybe a saber-toothed tiger, all of these things working to reduce our lifespan.

And so we evolved into social animals, where we lived together and worked together in what I call a circle of safety, inside the tribe, where we felt like we belonged.

And when we felt safe amongst our own, the natural reaction was trust and cooperation.

There are inherent benefits to this.

It means I can fall asleep at night and trust that someone from within my tribe will watch for danger.

If we don't trust each other, if I don't trust you, that means you won't watch for danger.

Bad system of survival. 

The modern day is exactly the same thing.

The world is filled with danger, things that are trying to frustrate our lives or reduce our success, reduce our opportunity for success.

It could be the ups and downs in the economy, the uncertainty of the stock market.

It could be a new technology that renders your business model obsolete overnight.

Or it could be your competition that is sometimes trying to kill you.

It's sometimes trying to put you out of business, but at the very minimum is working hard to frustrate your growth and steal your business from you.

We have no control over these forces.

These are a constant, and they're not going away. 

When a leader makes the choice to put the safety and lives of the people inside the organization first, to sacrifice their comforts and sacrifice the tangible results, so that the people remain and feel safe and feel like they belong, remarkable things happen. 

I was flying on a trip, and I was witness to an incident where a passenger attempted to board before their number was called, and I watched the gate agent treat this man like he had broken the law, like a criminal.

He was yelled at for attempting to board one group too soon.

So I said something.

The reason we like flying Southwest Airlines is not because they necessarily hire better people.

It's because they don't fear their leaders. 

When we feel safe inside the organization, we will naturally combine our talents and our strengths and work tirelessly to face the dangers outside and seize the opportunities. 

The closest analogy I can give to what a great leader is, is like being a parent.

Great leaders want exactly the same thing.

We would never do it.

Then why do we consider laying off people inside our organization?

Charlie implemented a policy of lifetime employment.

If you get a job at Next Jump, you cannot get fired for performance issues.

It's the complete opposite. 

This is the reason so many people have such a visceral hatred, anger, at some of these banking CEOs with their disproportionate salaries and bonus structures.

It's not the numbers.

It's that they have violated the very definition of leadership.

They have violated this deep-seated social contract.

We know that they allowed their people to be sacrificed so they could protect their own interests, or worse, they sacrificed their people to protect their own interests.

This is what so offends us, not the numbers.

Would anybody be offended if we gave a $150 million bonus to Gandhi?

None at all.

Great leaders would never sacrifice the people to save the numbers.

They would sooner sacrifice the numbers to save the people. 

Bob Chapman, who runs a large manufacturing company in the Midwest called Barry-Wehmiller, in 2008 was hit very hard by the recession, and they lost 30 percent of their orders overnight.

They needed to save 10 million dollars, so, like so many companies today, the board got together and discussed layoffs.

And Bob refused.

You see, Bob doesn't believe in head counts.

And so they came up with a furlough program.

Every employee, from secretary to CEO, was required to take four weeks of unpaid vacation.

But it was how Bob announced the program that mattered so much.

They saved 20 million dollars, and most importantly, as would be expected, when the people feel safe and protected by the leadership in the organization, the natural reaction is to trust and cooperate.

And quite spontaneously, nobody expected, people started trading with each other.

Those who could afford it more would trade with those who could afford it less.

People would take five weeks so that somebody else only had to take three. 

This is what a leader is. 

We call them leaders because they take the risk before anybody else does.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

