The most romantic thing to ever happen to me online started out the way most things do: without me, and not online.

On December 10, 1896, the man on the medal, Alfred Nobel, died.

One hundred years later, exactly, actually, December 10, 1996, this charming lady, Wislawa Szymborska, won the Nobel Prize for literature.

She's a Polish poet.

Had I shared an elevator ride with this poem?

Did I flirt with this poem in a coffee shop somewhere?

I could not place it, and it bugged me, and then in the coming week or two, I would just be watching an old movie, and this would happen. 

Rives: My roommates would have the TV on, and this would happen. 

Rives: I would be listening to music, and this would happen. 

Obviously, the demigods of coincidence were just messing with me.

I always assumed it would just go away on its own eventually, and I never talked about it with anybody, but it did not, and I totally did. 

So my talk had some of my four in the morning examples, but it also had examples from my fellow TED speakers that year.

I found four in the morning in a novel by Isabel Allende.

I found a really great one in the autobiography of Bill Clinton.

However, had Matt been there, he would have seen this mock conspiracy theory that was un-freaking-canny for me to assemble.

It was totally contrived just for that room, just for that moment.

The email itself was from another very sexy European type, TED Curator Chris Anderson.

(Laughter) Chris found this quote on a coffee cup or something, and I'm thinking, this man is the Typhoid Mary of ideas worth spreading, and I have infected him.

As a bonus, she hooked me up with a second one they make.

It says, "Just knowing I can call you at four in the morning if I need to makes me not really need to," which I love, because together these are like, "Hallmark: When you care enough to send the very best twice, phrased slightly differently."

I was not surprised at the TEDster and New Yorker magazine overlap.

More than one person sent me this. 

(Video) Didi Pickles: It's four o'clock in the morning.

Why on Earth are you making chocolate pudding? 

Rives: And then there was the lone TEDster who was disgruntled I had overlooked what he considers to be a classic. 

Ronnie: Not at four o'clock in the morning. 

Those were all really solid examples.

Maybe this was some kind of cliche that had never been taxonomized before.

Maybe I was on the trail of a new meme or something. 

Just when things were getting pretty interesting, things got really interesting.

I don't know anybody with juvenile diabetes.

(Laughter) Take note of those clock ends.

This is a college student's suggestion for what a "four in the morning" gang sign should look like.

People sent me magazine ads.

They took photographs in grocery stores.

I got a ton of graphic novels and comics.

In fact, the oldest citation anybody sent in was from a cartoon from the Stone Age.

Take a look. 

Rives: And the flip side of the timeline, this is from the 31st century.

A thousand years from now, people are still doing this. 

If I just stick to modern male movie stars, I keep it to the length of about a commercial.

Here's your sampler. 

First of all, you are not getting clips like that about four in the afternoon.

Secondly, I did a little research.

You know, I was kind of interested.

If this is confirmation bias, there is so much confirmation, I am biased.

Literature probably shows it best.

There are a couple three in the mornings in Shakespeare.

In "Measure for Measure," it's the call time for the executioner.

Tolstoy gives Napoleon insomnia at four in the morning right before battle in "War and Peace."

"Lolita" has as a creepy four in the morning.

Someone else sent in Ralph Ellison's "Invisible Man."

"The Great Gatsby" spends the last four in the morning of his life waiting for a lover who never shows, and the most famous wake-up in literature, perhaps, "The Metamorphosis."

What kind of person would do that?

This kind of person would do that. 

(4 a.m. alarm clock montage) (Video) Newcaster: Top of the hour.

But of course, there is no news yet.

Everyone's still asleep in their comfy, comfy beds. 

Rives: Exactly.

So that's Lucy from the Peanuts, "Mommie Dearest", Rocky, first day of training, Nelson Mandela, first day in office, and Bart Simpson, which combined with a cockroach would give you one hell of a dinner party and gives me yet another category, people waking up, in my big old database. 

Just imagine that your friends and your family have heard that you collect, say, stuffed polar bears, and they send them to you.

Even if you don't really, at a certain point, you totally collect stuffed polar bears, and your collection is probably pretty kick-ass.

I started archiving.

My hobby had become a habit, and my habit gave me possibly the world's most eclectic Netflix queue.

At one point, it went, "Guys and Dolls: The Musical," "Last Tango in Paris," "Diary of a Wimpy Kid," "Porn Star: Legend of Ron Jeremy."

Why "Porn Star: Legend of Ron Jeremy"?

Because someone told me I would find this clip in there. 

(Video) Ron Jeremy: I was born in Flushing, Queens on March, 12, 1953, at four o'clock in the morning. 

So last October, in gentleman scholar tradition, I put the entire collection online as "Museum of Four in the Morning."

Here is a knockout poem by Billy Collins called "Forgetfulness."

Rives: So the first hour of this project was satisfying.

A Bollywood actor sang a line on a DVD in a cafe.

Less than a week later, though, I received a little bit of grace.

I received a poignant tweet.

The name was a pseudonym, actually, or a pseudo-pseudonym.

She was a grad student in the library sciences department.

Not the kind of librarian that takes her glasses off, lets her hair down, suddenly she's smoking hot.

But her mix tape did not get away.

I have kept this mix tape in a box with notes and postcards, not just from L.D., from my life, but for decades.

When I got this mix tape, I put it in my cassette player, I took it to the campus library, her library, I found 14 books on the shelves.

I did this again last October.

"PG" is Slavic literature.

"7000" series Polish literature.

Z9A24 is a collection of 70 poems.

Page 31 is Wislawa Szymborska's poem paired with Paul Simon's "Peace Like a River."

