Unfortunately, it is also a magnet for suicide, being one of the most utilized sites in the world.

The Golden Gate Bridge opened in 1937.

But let me tell you what actually occurs when the bridge is used as a means of suicide.

After a free fall of four to five seconds, the body strikes the water at about 75 miles an hour.

That impact shatters bones, some of which then puncture vital organs.

Most die on impact.

Those that don't generally flail in the water helplessly, and then drown.

I don't think that those who contemplate this method of suicide realize how grisly a death that they will face.

This is the cord.

Except for around the two towers, there is 32 inches of steel paralleling the bridge.

This is where most folks stand before taking their lives.

I can tell you from experience that once the person is on that cord, and at their darkest time, it is very difficult to bring them back.

I took this photo last year as this young woman spoke to an officer contemplating her life.

I want to tell you very happily that we were successful that day in getting her back over the rail. 

When I first began working on the bridge, we had no formal training.

We've come a long, long way since then.

Now, veteran officers and psychologists train new officers. 

This is Jason Garber.

I responded, and when I arrived, I observed Jason speaking to a Golden Gate Bridge officer.

After about an hour of speaking with Jason, he asked us if we knew the story of Pandora's box.

Recalling your Greek mythology, Zeus created Pandora, and sent her down to Earth with a box, and told her, "Never, ever open that box."

Well one day, curiosity got the better of Pandora, and she did open the box.

Out flew plagues, sorrows, and all sorts of evils against man.

The only good thing in the box was hope.

This kind, intelligent young man from New Jersey had just committed suicide. 

Jason's parents had asked him to do so.

The collateral damage of suicide affects so many people. 

What would you say?

Would you know what to say?

In my experience, it's not just the talking that you do, but the listening.

Listen to understand.

Don't argue, blame, or tell the person you know how they feel, because you probably don't.

By just being there, you may just be the turning point that they need.

Some other signs to look for: hopelessness, believing that things are terrible and never going to get better; helplessness, believing that there is nothing that you can do about it; recent social withdrawal; and a loss of interest in life. 

I came up with this talk just a couple of days ago, and I received an email from a lady that I'd like to read you her letter.

She lost her son on January 19 of this year, and she wrote this me this email just a couple of days ago, and it's with her permission and blessing that I read this to you. 

When he saw me, he immediately traversed that pedestrian rail, and stood on that small pipe which goes around the tower.

For the next hour and a half, I listened as Kevin spoke about his depression and hopelessness.

Kevin decided on his own that day to come back over that rail and give life another chance.

When Kevin came back over, I congratulated him.

Today, Kevin is a loving father and contributing member of society.

He speaks openly about the events that day and his depression in the hopes that his story will inspire others. 

Suicide is not just something I've encountered on the job.

It's personal.

My grandfather committed suicide by poisoning.

Typically, this is accomplished in just three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol, or death.

In my career, I've responded to and been involved in hundreds of mental illness and suicide calls around the bridge.

Of those incidents I've been directly involved with, I've only lost two, but that's two too many.

During that time, he shook my hand on three occasions.

Additionally, that very few who have jumped off the bridge and lived and can talk about it, that one to two percent, most of those folks have said that the second that they let go of that rail, they knew that they had made a mistake and they wanted to live.

I tell people, the bridge not only connects Marin to San Francisco, but people together also.

That connection, or bridge that we make, is something that each and every one of us should strive to do.

Suicide is preventable.

Thank you very much. 

