So what all these systems have in common is that there's no central control.

They don't give any instructions.

Even though they're called queens, they don't tell anybody what to do.

Ants interact using smell.

So here you see a lot of ants moving around and interacting in a lab arena that's connected by tubes to two other arenas.

So when one ant meets another, it doesn't matter which ant it meets, and they're actually not transmitting any kind of complicated signal or message.

All that matters to the ant is the rate at which it meets other ants.

And all of these interactions, taken together, produce a network.

So an ant outside foraging, searching for seeds in the hot sun, just loses water into the air.

But the colony gets its water by metabolizing the fats out of the seeds that they eat.

So in this environment, interactions are used to activate foraging.

The system works to stay stopped, unless something positive happens. 

So interactions function to activate foragers.

And we've been studying the evolution of this system.

First of all, there's variation.

It turns out that colonies are different.

And we're trying to understand why some colonies forage less than others by thinking about ants as neurons, using models from neuroscience.

So just as a neuron adds up its stimulation from other neurons to decide whether to fire, an ant adds up its stimulation from other ants to decide whether to forage.

And this raises an analogous question about brains.

So in order to ask evolutionary questions, we need to know about reproductive success.

This is a map of the study site where I have been tracking this population of harvester ant colonies for 28 years, which is about as long as a colony lives.

Here's her daughter colony, here's her granddaughter colony, and these are her great-granddaughter colonies.

And so our next step is to look for the genetic variation underlying this resemblance. 

So then I was able to ask, okay, who's doing better?

To my knowledge, this is the first time that we've been able to track the ongoing evolution of collective behavior in a natural population of animals and find out what's actually working best. 

Now, the Internet uses an algorithm to regulate the flow of data that's very similar to the one that the harvester ants are using to regulate the flow of foragers.

And guess what we call this analogy?

The anternet is coming.

(Applause) So data doesn't leave the source computer unless it gets a signal that there's enough bandwidth for it to travel on.

So what happens when operating costs are low?

Operating costs are low in the tropics, because it's very humid, and it's easy for the ants to be outside walking around.

But the ants are so abundant and diverse in the tropics that there's a lot of competition.

So another environmental challenge that all systems have to deal with is resources, finding and collecting them.

So the invasive Argentine ant makes expandable search networks.

They're good at dealing with the main problem of collective search, which is the trade-off between searching very thoroughly and covering a lot of ground.

When I first saw this picture, I thought, Oh no, they've mounted the habitat vertically, but then I realized that, of course, it doesn't matter.

Now this is a place where I think we might be able to learn something from ants about cancer.

But we might be able to learn something from ants about treating cancer.

So ants are using interactions in different ways in a huge variety of environments, and we could learn from this about other systems that operate without central control.

Thank you. 

