Rank amateurs who know nothing about how to cook the books. 

That's what 11 trillion looks like.

That's how many zeros?

And cost us over 10 million jobs as well. 

So our task is to educate ourselves so that we can understand why we have these recurrent, intensifying financial crises, and how we can prevent them in the future.

And the answer to that is that we have to stop epidemics of control fraud.

Control fraud is what happens when the people who control, typically a CEO, a seemingly legitimate entity, use it as a weapon to defraud.

And these are the weapons of mass destruction in the financial world. 

They also follow in finance a particular strategy, because the weapon of choice in finance is accounting, and there is a recipe for accounting control fraud, and how it occurs.

And we discovered this recipe in quite an odd way that I'll come back to in a moment.

Two, the CEO will immediately be made incredibly wealthy by modern executive compensation.

And three, farther down the road, the bank will suffer catastrophic losses and will fail unless it is bailed out.

And three, the warnings were unambiguous.

They were obvious that what was going on was an epidemic of accounting control fraud building up. 

Let's take appraisal fraud first.

This is simply where you inflate the value of the home that is being pledged as security for the loan.

In 2000, the year 2000, that is over a year before Enron fails, by the way, the honest appraisers got together a formal petition begging the federal government to act, and the industry to act, to stop this epidemic of appraisal fraud.

And the appraisers explained how it was occurring, that banks were demanding that appraisers inflate the appraisal, and that if the appraisers refused to do so, they, the banks, would blacklist honest appraisers and refuse to use them.

So this was an incredibly early warning, 2000.

It was something we'd seen before, and it was completely unambiguous.

This was an epidemic of accounting control fraud led by the banks. 

What about liar's loans?

Well, that warning actually comes earlier.

And like all good financial frauds in America, it began in Orange County, California.

And we happened to be the regional regulators for it.

So let's take a look at the reaction of the industry and the regulators and the prosecutors to these clear early warnings that could have prevented the crisis. 

Start with the industry.

The industry responded between 2003 and 2006 by increasing liar's loans by over 500 percent.

These were the loans that hyperinflated the bubble and produced the economic crisis.

By 2006, half of all the loans called subprime were also liar's loans.

This came from the lenders because of the fraud recipe. 

What happened to appraisal fraud?

It expanded remarkably as well.

By 2007, when a survey of appraisers was done, 90 percent of appraisers reported that they had been subject to coercion from the lenders trying to get them to inflate an appraisal.

In other words, both forms of fraud became absolutely endemic and normal, and this is what drove the bubble. 

What happened in the governmental sector?

Well, the government, as I told you, when we were the savings and loan regulators, we could only deal with our industry, and if people gave up their federal deposit insurance, we couldn't do anything to them.

So what did Ben Bernanke and Alan Greenspan, as chairs of the Fed, do when they got these warnings that these were massively fraudulent loans and that they were being sold to the secondary market?

Remember, there's no fraud exorcist.

And remember, we had experience with this.

We had seen significant losses, and we had experience of competent regulators in stopping it.

So that was the regulatory response.

What about the response of the prosecutors after the crisis, after 11 trillion dollars in losses, after 10 million jobs lost, a crisis in which the losses and the frauds were more than 70 times larger than the savings and loan debacle?

Roughly 300 savings and loans involved, roughly 600 senior officials.

Virtually all of them were prosecuted.

We had a 90 percent conviction rate.

It's the greatest success against elite white collar criminals ever, and it was because of this understanding of control fraud and the accounting control fraud mechanism. 

Flash forward to the current crisis.

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is supposed to regulate the largest national banks, has made zero criminal referrals.

The Fed appears to have made zero criminal referrals.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is smart enough to refuse to answer the question.

Without any guidance from the regulators, there's no expertise in the FBI to investigate complex frauds.

With no expertise coming from the regulators, the FBI formed what it calls a partnership with the Mortgage Bankers Association in 2007.

The Mortgage Bankers Association is the trade association of the perps.

And the Mortgage Bankers Association set out, it had the audacity and the success to con the FBI.

It had created a supposed definition of mortgage fraud, in which, guess what, its members are always the victim and never the perpetrators.

And the FBI has bought this hook, line, sinker, rod, reel and the boat they rode out in.

And so the FBI, under the leadership of an attorney general who is African-American and a president of the United States who is African-American, have adopted the Tea Party definition of the crisis, in which it is the first virgin crisis in history, conceived without sin in the executive ranks.

And it's those oh-so-clever hairdressers who were able to defraud the poor, pitiful banks, who lack any financial sophistication.

It is the silliest story you can conceive of, and so they go and they prosecute the hairdressers, and they leave the banksters alone entirely.

And so, while lions are roaming the campsite, the FBI is chasing mice. 

What do we need to do?

What can we do in all of this?

We need to change the perverse incentive structures that produce these recurrent epidemics of accounting control fraud that are driving our crises.

So we have to first get rid of the systemically dangerous institutions.

These are the so-called too-big-to-fail institutions.

We need to shrink them to the point, within the next five years, that they no longer pose a systemic risk.

Second thing we need to do is completely reform modern executive and professional compensation, which is what they use to suborn the appraisers.

Remember, they were pressuring the appraisers through the compensation system, trying to produce what we call a Gresham's dynamic, in which bad ethics drives good ethics out of the marketplace.

And the third thing that we need to do is deal with what we call the three D's: deregulation, desupervision, and the de facto decriminalization.

Because we can make all three of these changes, and if we do so, we can dramatically reduce how often we have a crisis and how severe those crises are.

That is not simply critical to our economy.

You can see what these crises do to inequality and what they do to our democracy.

There are many forms of ammunition they can use. 

Thank you very much. 

