Mark Applebaum: I'm going to -- Kate Stone: -- mix some music.

MA: I'm going to do so in a way that tells a story.

Tod Machover: Something nobody's ever heard before.

Chris Anderson: You turn up the dials, the wheel starts to turn.

Dan Ellsey: I have always loved music.

Michael Tilson Thomas: Is it a melody or a rhythm or a mood or an attitude?

Daniel Wolpert: Feeling everything that's going on inside my body.

TM: We all love music a great deal.

Ryan Holladay: Blend seamlessly.

Kathryn Schulz: And that's how it goes.

MTT: What happens when the music stops?

Neither have I provided electricity to my village through sheer ingenuity.

But I still kept watching the videos, because I'm a masochist, and eventually, things like Michael Tilson Thomas and Tod Machover, and seeing their visceral passion talking about music, it definitely stirred something in me, and I'm a sucker for anyone talking devotedly about the power of music.

Man, yeah, back to the real world, probably Sir Ken Robinson and I are not going to end up being best of friends.

I can hear something that I love in a piece of media and I can co-opt it and insert myself in that narrative, or alter it, even. 

In a nutshell, that's what I was trying to do with these things, but more importantly, that's what the past 30 years of music has been.

That's the major thread.

See, 30 years ago, you had the first digital samplers, and they changed everything overnight.

Albums like De La Soul's "3 Feet High and Rising" and the Beastie Boys' "Paul's Boutique" looted from decades of recorded music to create these sonic, layered masterpieces that were basically the Sgt.

I'd like to play a song for you. 

(Music: "La Di Da Di" by Doug E. Fresh &amp; Slick Rick) 

That's "La Di Da Di" and it's the fifth-most sampled song of all time.

It's been sampled 547 times.

I do hope that comes back soon. 

Anyway, this predated the sampling era.

Doug E. Fresh was the human beat box.

It's Throwback Thursday already.

I was in the middle.

And the simplest way that I knew how to co-opt myself into that experience of wanting to be in that song somehow was to just get a band together of fellow nine-year-olds and play "Wild Boys" at the school talent show.

I didn't care who liked it.

I just loved it, and I thought I could put myself in there. 

Over the next 10 years, "La Di Da Di" continues to be sampled by countless records, ending up on massive hits like "Here Comes the Hotstepper" and "I Wanna Sex You Up."

Snoop Doggy Dogg covers this song on his debut album "Doggystyle" and calls it "Lodi Dodi."

Copyright lawyers are having a field day at this point.

But the way he interpreted it, as you hear, is completely his own.

He flips it, makes it, there's nothing pastiche whatsoever about it.

It's thoroughly modern Biggie.

Elsewhere in the pop and rap world, we're going a little bit sample-crazy.

A lot of fuss was made about the sonic of the album that myself and Salaam Remi, the other producer, achieved, how we captured this long-lost sound, but without the very, very 21st-century personality and firebrand that was Amy Winehouse and her lyrics about rehab and Roger Moore and even a mention of Slick Rick, the whole thing would have run the risk of being very pastiche, to be honest.

Imagine any other singer from that era over it singing the same old lyrics.

It runs a risk of being completely bland.

I mean, there was no doubt that Amy and I and Salaam all had this love for this gospel, soul and blues and jazz that was evident listening to the musical arrangements.

She brought the ingredients that made it urgent and of the time. 

Since the dawn of the sampling era, there's been endless debate about the validity of music that contains samples.

You know, the Grammy committee says that if your song contains some kind of pre-written or pre-existing music, you're ineligible for song of the year.

We live in the post-sampling era.

We take the things that we love and we build on them.

That's just how it goes.

And when we really add something significant and original and we merge our musical journey with this, then we have a chance to be a part of the evolution of that music that we love and be linked with it once it becomes something new again. 

So I would like to do one more piece that I put together for you tonight, and it takes place with two pretty inspiring TED performances that I've seen.

One of them is the piano player Derek Paravicini, who happens to be a blind, autistic genius at the piano, and Emmanuel Jal, who is an ex-child soldier from the South Sudan, who is a spoken word poet and rapper.

Let's hear that TED sound again, right? 

