So I did some calculations.

Now, normally, when an object flies through the air, the air will flow around the object, but in this case, the ball would be going so fast that the air molecules wouldn't have time to move out of the way.

Can you do this one soon?

But one week, a couple months ago, I got a question that was actually about Google.

And I've tried, I've met them a few times, tried asking them, and they aren't revealing anything. 

So I decided to try to figure this out myself.

There are a few things that I looked at here.

I started with money.

So they go through a huge number of them.

And so by looking at money, you can get an idea of how many of these centers they have.

You can also look at power.

You can also look at square footage and see of the data centers that you know, how big are they?

And for some data centers, you might get two of these pieces of information.

It's sort of circling around the number you're trying to get.

And this is a lot of fun.

The math is not all that advanced, and really it's like nothing more than solving a sudoku puzzle. 

So what I did, I went through all of this information, spent a day or two researching.

And there are some things I didn't look at.

You could always look at the Google recruitment messages that they post.

That gives you an idea of where they have people.

Sometimes, when people visit a data center, they'll take a cell-cam photo and post it, and they aren't supposed to, but you can learn things about their hardware that way.

And in fact, you can just look at pizza delivery drivers.

So I came up with this estimate, and this is a staggering amount of data.

It's quite a bit more than any other organization in the world has, as far as we know.

There's a couple of other contenders, especially everyone always thinks of the NSA.

But using some of these same methods, we can look at the NSA's data centers, and figure out, you know, we don't know what's going on there, but it's pretty clear that their operation is not the size of Google's. 

So I go and get it, open it up, and it's punch cards.

(Laughter) Google-branded punch cards.

And I have a lot of stupid questions, and I love that math gives the power to answer them sometimes. 

And sometimes not.

And I think there are some questions that math just cannot answer.

