So it's 2006.

My friend Harold Ford calls me.

You come with him."

Harold and I arrive in New York.

We are in our best suits.

We look like shiny new pennies.

And we get to the receptionist, and we say, "We're here for the lunch."

She motions for us to follow her.

The blood drains from her face.

There are literally no words, right?

And I look at her, and I say, "Now, don't you think we need more than one black person in the U.S.

I mean, why would anyone treat me differently?

But she knew.

And she looked me right in the eye and she said, "They will not always treat you well."

Now, race is one of those topics in America that makes people extraordinarily uncomfortable.

You bring it up at a dinner party or in a workplace environment, it is literally the conversational equivalent of touching the third rail.

One example from corporate America: Even though white men make up just 30 percent of the U.S. population, they hold 70 percent of all corporate board seats.

So that is a fact.

But if I walked you into a Fortune 500 company, and everyone around the table is a white male, when will it be that we think that's weird too? 

I know how we got here.

You know, there was institutionalized, at one time legalized, discrimination in our country.

You see, researchers have coined this term "color blindness" to describe a learned behavior where we pretend that we don't notice race.

If you happen to be surrounded by a bunch of people who look like you, that's purely accidental.

But I'll be the first one to tell you, this subject matter can be hard, awkward, uncomfortable -- but that's kind of the point. 

In the spirit of debunking racial stereotypes, the one that black people don't like to swim, I'm going to tell you how much I love to swim.

I love to swim so much that as an adult, I swim with a coach.

And one day my coach had me do a drill where I had to swim to one end of a 25-meter pool without taking a breath.

And I failed a lot.

We cannot afford to be color blind.

He runs ESPN.

The example that he gives is the smallpox epidemic.

When it was ravaging Europe, they brought together all these scientists, and they were stumped.

And the smallpox vaccination is bovine-based because of that dairy farmer. 

And I'm telling you, you can be color brave.

If you're part of a hiring process or an admissions process, you can be color brave.

If you are trying to solve a really hard problem, you can speak up and be color brave.

But she never gave up hope, ever, and she never allowed us to give up hope either.

She taught me so many lessons, but the most important lesson was that every single day she told me, "Mellody, you can be anything."

You see, I want them to look at a CEO on television and say, "I can be like her," or, "He looks like me."

You see this idea of being the land of the free and the home of the brave, it's woven into the fabric of America.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

