First of all, for those of you who are not familiar with my work, I create multicultural characters, so characters from lots of different backgrounds.

That's a long story filled with intrigue and interfaith guilt and shame.

But I was totally immersed in this world that was filled with everybody, and then I went on to the United Nations school, and that just completely — 

I don't know if that's true for other people, but that notion of thinking about how we can understand the future and predict outcomes, for me, it's terrifying to not know what might be coming.

That said, let's just see who comes out.

May we have the first question: 

Right. 

Right. 

Right. 

It's fabulous to be here with such big machers again this year.

Who do we got? 

I just want to say first of all that dating is never boring under any circumstance.

It's like, the separation of church and state.

It's just, I couldn't, like, I couldn't process.

It was really too much.

You know where I'm going with that.

Okay, ciao, gracias. 

What are your top five favorite songs right now? 

Y'all can see that right there.

What do you got? 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Like, not that there's anything wrong with that, but my mom, she's like, like, why do you have to wear pants that, like, objectify your body?

Like, I like my voice.

So that's my feeling about that.

You guys are a-mazing, by the way. 

And, you know, I just have to say, the whole thing with baldness, and, you know, here's the thing.

But as far as I'm concerned, attractiveness, women don't really care as much as you think they do about the, you know.

I mean, I remember hearing this woman.

She loved her husband, it was the sweetest thing.

It's a pretty young girl, you know?

And this guy's older.

I don't got nothing more to say.

Keep your noses clean. 

I don't know what to call myself now, because I have really my Chinese identity, but my kids, they are American-Chinese, but it's difficult to try to express myself in front of audience of people like this.

But if had to give my opinion about meat, I think first, the most important thing is to say that we don't have to have perfect food, but maybe it can also not be poison.

Maybe we can have some middle ground for that.

But I will continue to consider this idea, and I will report back maybe next year. 

I'm a member of the Blackfeet Nation.

Tough crowd.

For example, in addition to being an activist, I'm also a professional stand-up comedian.

(Laughter) And, you know, I'm most popular on college and university campuses.

You know, whenever they want to do a diversity day, or hey-we're-not-all-white week, then I'm there.

(Laughter) Do I think there will ever be a post-racial world?

I think we have time for one more. 

Who's here? 

I mean really fast.

I'm just gonna let y'all know that, as far as diet is concerned, if you don't love yourself inside, there is no diet on this Earth that is going to make your behind small enough for you to feel good, so just stop wasting your time. 

There is nothing wrong with a woman of size.

That is what I am trying to say.

Women, celebrate your body, for God's sake.

Stop running around starving.

You are making yourselves and other people miserable. 

So we're talking about what's the most popular diet?

I'm gonna start off by telling y'all that this is my first time here at TED.

I might not be your typical person you find on this stage.

How are people living today?

