The conventional wisdom about our world today is that this is a time of terrible decline.

Look, it's not that I don't see the problems.

I read the same headlines that you do.

What I dispute is the conclusion that so many people draw from them, namely that we're all screwed because the problems are unsolvable and our governments are useless. 

Now, why do I say this?

It's not like I'm particularly optimistic by nature.

But something about the media's constant doom-mongering with its fixation on problems and not on answers has always really bugged me. 

And what I found astonished me.

Their stories matter because they contain tools the rest of us can use, and not just for those particular problems, but for many others, too. 

They think we say "sorry" too much in our funny accents.

And that's all true. 

Sorry. 

Meanwhile, Canada admitted 10 times more Syrian refugees in the last year than did the United States. 

And now Canada is taking even more.

In other words, at a time when other countries are now frantically building new barriers to keep foreigners out, Canadians want even more of them in. 

Now, here's the really interesting part.

Canada wasn't always like this.

Until the mid-1960s, Canada followed an explicitly racist immigration policy.

So how did that Canada become today's Canada?

Well, despite what my mom in Ontario will tell you, the answer had nothing to do with virtue.

Canadians are not inherently better than anyone else.

The real explanation involves the man who became Canada's leader in 1968, Pierre Trudeau, who is also the father of the current prime minister. 

The thing to know about that first Trudeau is that he was very different from Canada's previous leaders.

He was a French speaker in a country long-dominated by its English elite.

So they waged their war with extraordinary delicacy.

They used the police instead of the army.

They only detained suspects if they had enough evidence.

They held public trials.

And all of this paid off in spectacular fashion, creating the kind of country that was unimaginable 20 years ago. 

So at this point, my optimism should, I hope, be starting to make a bit more sense.

Neither immigration nor Islamic extremism are impossible to deal with.

Rather than use their new freedoms to fight for reform, Mexico's politicians used them to fight one another.

Then in 2012, this guy named Enrique Pe침a Nieto somehow got himself elected president.

Now, this Pe침a hardly inspired much confidence at first.

In fact, he seemed like such a pretty boy lightweight that women called him "bomb칩n," sweetie, at campaign rallies.

And over the next 18 months, they together passed an incredibly comprehensive set of reforms.

They busted open Mexico's smothering monopolies.

They liberalized its rusting energy sector.

They restructured its failing schools, and much more.

To ward off pressure from special interests, he kept their meetings small and secret, and many of the participants later told me that it was this intimacy, plus a lot of shared tequila, that helped build confidence.

So did the fact that all decisions had to be unanimous, and that Pe침a even agreed to pass some of the other party's priorities before his own.

Now, before describing them, I need to add a caveat.

I realize, of course, that all countries are unique.

So you can't simply take what worked in one, port it to another and expect it to work there too.

That said, by stripping these stories to their essence, you absolutely can distill a few common tools for problem-solving that will work in other countries and in boardrooms and in all sorts of other contexts, too. 

Number one, embrace the extreme.

In all the stories we've just looked at, salvation came at a moment of existential peril.

And that was no coincidence.

Take Canada: when Trudeau took office, he faced two looming dangers.

First, though his vast, underpopulated country badly needed more bodies, its preferred source for white workers, Europe, had just stopped exporting them as it finally recovered from World War II.

The other problem was that Canada's long cold war between its French and its English communities had just become a hot one.

That's nothing special.

And it had to rethink its identity.

Again, it had no choice.

Number two, there's power in promiscuous thinking.

Another striking similarity among good problem-solvers is that they're all pragmatists.

They'll steal the best answers from wherever they find them, and they don't let details like party or ideology or sentimentality get in their way.

As I mentioned earlier, Indonesia's democrats were clever enough to steal many of the Islamists' best campaign promises for themselves.

They even invited some of the radicals into their governing coalition.

Now, that horrified a lot of secular Indonesians.

Number three, please all of the people some of the time.

I know I just mentioned how crises can grant leaders extraordinary freedoms.

And that's true, but problem-solving often requires more than just boldness.

Take Trudeau: when he took office, he could easily have put his core constituency, that is Canada's French community, first.

He could have pleased some of the people all of the time.

