You can even see it outside your window.

It's a huge challenge to understand.

It's the whole or it's nothing. 

What does that mean?

And if I think about a weather model, that spans about five orders of magnitude, from the planet to a few kilometers, and the time scale from a few minutes to 10 days, maybe a month.

We're interested in more than that.

We're interested in the climate.

That's years, that's millennia, and we need to go to even smaller scales.

That is a huge challenge.

Climate models in the 2010s, kind of what we're working with now, four orders of magnitude.

One extra order of magnitude in space is 10,000 times more calculations.

And we keep adding more things, more questions to these different models. 

So what does a climate model look like?

This is an old climate model, admittedly, a punch card, a single line of Fortran code.

We no longer use punch cards.

We do still use Fortran.

New-fangled ideas like C really haven't had a big impact on the climate modeling community. 

But how do we go about doing it?

How do we go from that complexity that you saw to a line of code?

We do it one piece at a time.

This is a picture of sea ice taken flying over the Arctic.

We can look at all of the different equations that go into making the ice grow or melt or change shape.

We can encapsulate that in code.

So you can look at that piece, but you can look at the other pieces too.

What happens when you have clouds?

What happens when clouds form, when they dissipate, when they rain out?

That's another piece.

What happens when we have radiation coming from the sun, going through the atmosphere, being absorbed and reflected?

We can code each of those very small pieces as well.

We can talk about the role of vegetation in transporting water from the soils back into the atmosphere.

And each of these different elements we can encapsulate and put into a system.

Each of those pieces ends up adding to the whole. 

And you get something like this.

All of those things are emergent properties. 

But what we really want to know is what happens to these emergent properties when we kick the system?

When something changes, what happens to those properties?

And there's lots of different ways to kick the system.

There are wobbles in the Earth's orbit over hundreds of thousands of years that change the climate.

There are changes in the solar cycles, every 11 years and longer, that change the climate.

Big volcanoes go off and change the climate.

Changes in biomass burning, in smoke, in aerosol particles, all of those things change the climate.

The ozone hole changed the climate.

Deforestation changes the climate by changing the surface properties and how water is evaporated and moved around in the system.

Each of these different kicks provides us with a target to evaluate whether we understand something about this system.

So we can go to look at what model skill is.

They're always approximations.

The question you have to ask is whether a model tells you more information than you would have had otherwise.

If it does, it's skillful.

We can look at other examples.

The eruption of Mount Pinatubo in 1991 put an enormous amount of aerosols, small particles, into the stratosphere.

That changed the radiation balance of the whole planet.

There was less energy coming in than there was before, so that cooled the planet, and those red lines and those green lines, those are the differences between what we expected and what actually happened.

We can look at that too, and the models are skillful.

The models are skillful in response to the ice sheets 20,000 years ago.

The models are skillful when it comes to the 20th-century trends over the decades.

Models are successful at modeling lake outbursts into the North Atlantic 8,000 years ago.

And we can get a good match to the data. 

How do organic aerosols from biomass burning, which you can see in the red dots, intersect with clouds and rainfall patterns?

How does pollution, which you can see in the white wisps of sulfate pollution in Europe, how does that affect the temperatures at the surface and the sunlight that you get at the surface? 

We can look at this across the world.

How do air pollution and climate coexist?

Can we change things that affect air pollution and climate at the same time?

The answer is yes. 

So this is a history of the 20th century.

The first one is the model.

The weather is a little bit different to what actually happened.

The second one are the observations.

And we're going through the 1930s.

As you get towards the 1970s, things are going to start to change.

We know where it's gotten warmer.

And if you ask the models why did that happen, and you say, okay, well, yes, basically it's because of the carbon dioxide we put into the atmosphere.

We have a very good match up until the present day. 

So when we go out into the future, there's a difference.

The future is unknown, the future is uncertain, and there are choices.

Here are the choices that we have.

We can do some work to mitigate the emissions of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

That's the top one.

We can do more work to really bring it down so that by the end of the century, it's not much more than there is now.

Or we can just leave it to fate and continue on with a business-as-usual type of attitude.

The differences between these choices can't be answered by looking at models. 

Thank you. 

