There are 39 million people in the world who are blind.

They are blind from diseases that are either completely curable or preventable. 

Knowing this, with my young family, we moved to Kenya.

The challenges were great.

When we got to where we were going, we set up our high-tech equipment.

Power was rarely available.

We'd have to run our equipment from petrol power generators.

More people in Kenya, and in sub-Saharan Africa, have access to a mobile phone than they do clean running water.

So we said, could we harness the power of mobile technology to deliver eye care in a new way?

And so we developed Peek, a smartphone [system] that enables community healthcare workers and empowers them to deliver eye care everywhere.

We set about replacing traditional hospital equipment, which is bulky, expensive and fragile, with smartphone apps and hardware that make it possible to test anyone in any language and of any age.

Here we have a demonstration of a three-month-old having their vision accurately tested using an app and an eye tracker. 

Traditionally, this requires expensive equipment to examine an area called the retina.

The retina is the single part of the eye that has huge amounts of information about the body and its health.

We've developed 3D-printed, low-cost hardware that comes in at less than five dollars to produce, which can then be clipped onto a smartphone and makes it possible to get views of the back of the eye of a very high quality.

And the beauty is, anybody can do it.

In our trials on over two and half thousand people, the smartphone with the add-on clip is comparable to a camera that is hugely more expensive and hugely more difficult to transport. 

When we first moved to Kenya, we went with 150,000 dollars of equipment, a team of 15 people, and that was what was needed to deliver health care.

Now, all that's needed is a single person on a bike with a smartphone.

And it costs just 500 dollars.

The issue of power supply is overcome by harnessing the power of solar.

Our healthcare workers travel with a solar-powered rucksack which keeps the phone charged and backed up.

Now we go to the patient rather than waiting for the patient never to come.

We go to them in their homes and we give them the most comprehensive, high-tech, accurate examination, which can be delivered by anyone with minimal training.

Project managers, hospital directors, are able to search on our interface by any parameter they may be interested in.

Here in Nakuru, where I've been living, we can search for people by whatever condition.

Here are people who are blind from a curable condition cataract.

Each red pin depicts somebody who is blind from a disease that is curable and treatable, and they're locatable.

We can use bulk text messaging services to explain that we're coming to arrange a treatment. 

What's more, we've learned that this is something that we haven't built just for the community but with the community.

Those blue pins that drop represent elders, or local leaders, that are connected to those people who can ensure that we can find them and arrange treatment. 

It's only in statistics that people go blind by the millions.

The reality is everyone goes blind on their own.

But now, they might just be a text message away from help. 

And now because live demos are always a bad idea, we're going to try a live demo. 

So here we have the Peek Vision app.

We can see all parts of the retina.

Thank you. 

