The Olympic motto is "Citius, Altius, Fortius."

The winner of the 2012 Olympic marathon ran two hours and eight minutes.

Had he been racing against the winner of the 1904 Olympic marathon, he would have won by nearly an hour and a half.

Now we all have this feeling that we're somehow just getting better as a human race, inexorably progressing, but it's not like we've evolved into a new species in a century.

So what's going on here?

I want to take a look at what's really behind this march of athletic progress. 

In 1936, Jesse Owens held the world record in the 100 meters.

Had Jesse Owens been racing last year in the world championships of the 100 meters, when Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt finished, Owens would have still had 14 feet to go.

That's a lot in sprinter land.

To give you a sense of how much it is, I want to share with you a demonstration conceived by sports scientist Ross Tucker.

And I want you to pretend that Jesse Owens is in that race.

(Beeps) That's the entire finish of the race.

You can open your eyes now.

Rather than blocks, Jesse Owens had a gardening trowel that he had to use to dig holes in the cinders to start from.

Consider a longer event.

In 1954, Sir Roger Bannister became the first man to run under four minutes in the mile.

Nowadays, college kids do that every year.

On rare occasions, a high school kid does it.

So if you apply a one and a half percent slowdown conversion to every man who ran his sub-four mile on a synthetic track, this is what happens.

Only 530 are left.

If you look at it from that perspective, fewer than ten new men per [year] have joined the sub-four mile club since Sir Roger Bannister.

And that guy who won the 1904 Olympic marathon in three in a half hours, that guy was drinking rat poison and brandy while he ran along the course.

(Laughter) 

Take a look at the record for the 100-meter freestyle swim.

This first cliff, in 1956, is the introduction of the flip turn.

Rather than stopping and turning around, athletes could somersault under the water and get going right away in the opposite direction.

This second cliff, the introduction of gutters on the side of the pool that allows water to splash off, rather than becoming turbulence that impedes the swimmers as they race.

This final cliff, the introduction of full-body and low-friction swimsuits. 

Throughout sports, technology has changed the face of performance.

But then in 2000, the International Cycling Union decreed that anyone who wanted to hold that record had to do so with essentially the same equipment that Eddy Merckx used in 1972.

Essentially the entire improvement in this record was due to technology. 

Still, technology isn't the only thing pushing athletes forward.

While indeed we haven't evolved into a new species in a century, the gene pool within competitive sports most certainly has changed.

And this showed in athletes' bodies.

In the 1920s, the average elite high-jumper and average elite shot-putter were the same exact size.

Today, rather than the same size as the average elite high jumper, the average elite shot-putter is two and a half inches taller and 130 pounds heavier.

And this happened throughout the sports world. 

In fact, if you plot on a height versus mass graph one data point for each of two dozen sports in the first half of the 20th century, it looks like this.

There's some dispersal, but it's kind of grouped around that average body type.

The financial incentives and fame and glory afforded elite athletes skyrocketed, and it tipped toward the tiny upper echelon of performance.

It accelerated the artificial selection for specialized bodies.

And if you plot a data point for these same two dozen sports today, it looks like this.

The athletes' bodies have gotten much more different from one another.

And because this chart looks like the charts that show the expanding universe, with the galaxies flying away from one another, the scientists who discovered it call it "The Big Bang of Body Types."

In sports where height is prized, like basketball, the tall athletes got taller.

In 1983, the National Basketball Association signed a groundbreaking agreement making players partners in the league, entitled to shares of ticket revenues and television contracts.

Almost overnight, the proportion of men in the NBA who are at least seven feet tall doubled to 10 percent.

(Laughter) That is, find six honest seven footers, one is in the NBA right now.

And that's not the only way that NBA players' bodies are unique.

My arm span is exactly equal to my height.

Yours is probably very nearly so.

But not the average NBA player.

The average NBA player is a shade under 6'7", with arms that are seven feet long.

Not only are NBA players ridiculously tall, they are ludicrously long.

Had Leonardo wanted to draw the Vitruvian NBA Player, he would have needed a rectangle and an ellipse, not a circle and a square. 

So in sports where large size is prized, the large athletes have gotten larger.

Conversely, in sports where diminutive stature is an advantage, the small athletes got smaller.

And while the large got larger and the small got smaller, the weird got weirder.

It's like the long hull of a canoe for speed over the water.

And this shows in athletes' bodies today.

These men are seven inches different in height, but because of the body types advantaged in their sports, they wear the same length pants.

Seven inches difference in height, these men have the same length legs. 

We think of Kenyans as being great marathoners.

Kenyans think of the Kalenjin tribe as being great marathoners.

The Kalenjin make up just 12 percent of the Kenyan population but the vast majority of elite runners.

To put Kalenjin running success in perspective, consider that 17 American men in history have run faster than two hours and 10 minutes in the marathon.

That's a four-minute-and-58-second-per-mile pace.

Thirty-two Kalenjin men did that last October.

(Laughter) That's from a source population the size of metropolitan Atlanta. 

Still, even changing technology and the changing gene pool in sports don't account for all of the changes in performance.

Athletes have a different mindset than they once did.

Have you ever seen in a movie when someone gets an electrical shock and they're thrown across a room?

There's no explosion there.

They're essentially jumping.

That's the power that's contained in the human body.

But normally we can't access nearly all of it.

But the more we learn about how that limiter functions, the more we learn how we can push it back just a bit, in some cases by convincing the brain that the body won't be in mortal danger by pushing harder.

Endurance and ultra-endurance sports serve as a great example.

Our primate cousins can't do that.

They have to run like this.

And we have big old butt muscles that keep us upright while running.

Have you ever looked at an ape's butt?

They have no buns because they don't run upright.

Here's Kílian running up the Matterhorn.

(Laughter) With a sweatshirt there tied around his waist.

It's so steep he can't even run here.

He's pulling up on a rope.

Amazing.

And talented though he is, Kílian is not a physiological freak.

Thank you very much. 

