"Why?"

But autism is not a single condition.

He's actually quite remarkably gifted in mathematics.

He doesn't make eye contact.

Yet both of these boys have the same diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. 

One of the things that concerns us is whether or not there really is an epidemic of autism.

Has that number been increasing dramatically over time?

Or is it because we have now started labeling individuals with autism, simply giving them a diagnosis when they were still present there before yet simply didn't have that label?

With that increased awareness, more parents, more pediatricians, more educators learned to recognize the features of autism.

As a result of that, more individuals were diagnosed and got access to the resources they needed.

The next question everyone wonders is, what caused autism?

And a common misconception is that vaccines cause autism.

But let me be very clear: Vaccines do not cause autism.

(Applause) In fact, the original research study that suggested that was the case was completely fraudulent.

It was actually retracted from the journal Lancet, in which it was published, and that author, a physician, had his medical license taken away from him.

(Applause) The Institute of Medicine, The Centers for Disease Control, have repeatedly investigated this and there is no credible evidence that vaccines cause autism.

Furthermore, one of the ingredients in vaccines, something called thimerosal, was thought to be what the cause of autism was.

So again, there is no evidence that this is the answer.

So the question remains, what does cause autism? 

In fact, there's probably not one single answer.

In addition, another vulnerable and critical period in terms of development is when the mother is pregnant.

During that period, while the fetal brain is developing, we know that exposure to certain agents can actually increase the risk of autism.

One of the genetic factors that we don't understand, however, is the difference that we see in terms of males and females.

One of the ways that we can understand that genetics is a factor is by looking at something called the concordance rate.

Remarkably, though, it's not 100 percent.

So this provides some of the data that autism is genetic.

Well, how genetic is it?

But with this, that doesn't tell us what the genes are.

So the question becomes, how can we start to identify what exactly those genes are.

And we can actually use that strategy to now understand and to identify those genes causing autism in those individuals.

In doing this within these families, we were able to account for approximately 25 percent of the individuals and determine that there was a single powerful genetic factor that caused autism within those families.

On the other hand, there's 75 percent that we still haven't figured out. 

In fact, the current estimates are that there are 200 to 400 different genes that can cause autism.

And that explains, in part, why we see such a broad spectrum in terms of its effects.

Although there are that many genes, there is some method to the madness.

It's not simply random 200, 400 different genes, but in fact they fit together.

But early diagnosis is a key for us.

This particular infant, you can see, making very good eye contact with this woman as she's singing "Itsy, Bitsy Spider," in fact is not going to develop autism.

This baby we know is going to be in the clear.

On the other hand, this other baby is going to go on to develop autism.

In this particular child, you can see, it's not making good eye contact.

How are we going to intervene?

It's probably going to be a combination of factors.

In part, in some individuals, we're going to try and use medications.

But that's not going to be the only answer.

Beyond just drugs, we're going to use educational strategies.

Individuals with autism, some of them are wired a little bit differently.

Is it something that's really going to make a difference in your lives, as an individual, as a family with autism?

