And when we do, the results will often surprise. 

But Western Australia is not alone in this.

The incident of shark engagements on humans is escalating worldwide.

And I have for you today the story of that journey, but also the notion that science can be as powerful as a translator as it can be for invention. 

Now Harry Butler, who most Australians would know is a famous naturalist, had spent a lot of time in the marine environment.

Harry Butler is a precursor, if you like, to the late Steve Irwin.

When I asked him about what the solution to the problem might be, the answer was quite surprising.

He said, "Take a black wetsuit, band it in yellow stripes like a bumblebee, and you'll be mimicking the warning systems of most marine species."

I didn't think about that much at the time, and it wasn't until the next three fatal shark attacks happened, and it caused me to think, maybe there's some merit to this idea.

And I turned to the web to see if there might be some clues. 

And it turns out the web is awash with this sort of evidence that supports this sort of thinking.

On the human side, Walter Starck, an oceanographer, has been painting his wetsuit since the 1970s, and anthropologically, Pacific island tribes painted themselves in bands in a sea snake ceremony to ward off the shark god. 

So what's going on here?

Is this an idea lying wide out in the open for us to consider and define?

It makes sense to pay attention to the biological anecdote because that's time-tested evolution over many millennia.

But isn't human anecdote also an evolution of sorts, the idea that there's a kernel of truth thought to be important, passed down from generation to generation, so that it actually ends up shaping human behavior? 

I wanted to test this idea.

And professor Nathan Hart and his team had just written a paper which tells us, confirms that predatory sharks see in black and white, or grayscale.

So what ensued is a collaborative bit of research supported by the West Australian State Government.

And we did three key things.

We did that genetically and we did that anatomically.

The next thing we did was to understand, using complex computer modeling, what that eye can see at different depths, distances, light conditions, and water clarity in the ocean.

So this is what I call a "don't eat me" wetsuit.

So this takes that banding idea, takes that banding idea, it's highly visible, provides a highly disruptive profile, and is intended to prevent the shark from considering that you would be ordinary food, and potentially even create confusion for the shark.

Second iteration is the cryptic wetsuit, or the one which attempts to hide the wearer in the water column.

So we knew that we had some really solid science here.

We knew, if you wanted to stand out, you needed to look stripy, and we knew if you wanted to be cryptic, you needed to look like this.

We can't put humans in the water.

We're ethically precluded from even using humanoid shapes and baiting them up in the water.

Great white sharks are more confident than the tigers, and here you see great white shark engaging a control rig, so a black neoprene wetsuit, and going straight to the bottom, coming up and engaging.

It'll be an ongoing process.

It's subject to peer review and subject to publication.

It's so important that this concept is led with the science.

We'll license others to do that. 

So what have we done here?

And it strikes me that this idea of science as a tool for translation rather than invention is one that we can apply much more widely than this in the pursuit of innovation.

As for the humble wetsuit, who knows what oceanwear will look like in two years' time, in five years' time or in 50 years' time, but with this new thinking, I'm guessing there's a fair chance it won't be pure black. 

