Wow, this is bright.

It must use a lot of power.

Well, flying you all in here must have cost a bit of energy too.

So the whole planet needs a lot of energy, and so far we've been running mostly on fossil fuel.

We've been burning gas.

It's been a good run.

It got us to where we are, but we have to stop.

We can't do that anymore. 

So we are trying different types of energy now, alternative energy, but it proved quite difficult to find something that's as convenient and as cost-effective as oil, gas and coal.

My personal favorite is nuclear energy.

Now, it's very energy-dense, it produces solid, reliable power, and it doesn't make any CO2. 

Now we know of two ways of making nuclear energy: fission and fusion.

Now in fission, you take a big nucleus, you break it in part, in two, and it makes lots of energy, and this is how the nuclear reactor today works.

It works pretty good.

So you take two small nuclei, you put it together, and you make helium, and that's very nice.

It makes lots of energy.

This is nature's way of producing energy.

The sun and all the stars in the universe run on fusion.

Now, a fusion plant would actually be quite cost-effective and it also would be quite safe.

It only produces short term radioactive waste, and it cannot melt down.

Now, the fuel from fusion comes from the ocean.

In the ocean, you can extract the fuel for about one thousandth of a cent per kilowatt-hour, so that's very, very cheap.

Now, if fusion is so great, why don't we have it?

Where is it?

Well, there's always a bit of a catch.

Fusion is really, really hard to do.

So in order to make them fuse, you have to throw them at each other with great speed, and if they have enough speed, they will go against the repulsion, they will touch, and they will make energy.

Now, the particle speed is a measure of the temperature.

So some people buy a Porsche.

So the physicists have been working on fusion for a while, and one of the ways they do it is with something called a tokamak.

Then they throw a huge amount of heat in there to try to cook that to fusion temperature.

So this is the inside of one of those donuts, and on the right side you can see the fusion plasma in there. 

Now, a second way of doing this is by using laser fusion.

And if you squeeze something hard enough, it gets hotter, and if it gets really, really fast, and they do that in one billionth of a second, it makes enough energy and enough heat to make fusion.

So this is the inside of one such machine.

You see the laser beam and the pellet in the center. 

Now, most people think that fusion is going nowhere.

That's actually not quite true.

That's a pretty good gain.

So this one is the real one.

It's going to work.

For example, it took them about three years to decide where to put it. 

But you have to compare that to the cost of making Moore's Law.

That cost way more than that.

The result of Moore's Law is this cell phone here in my pocket.

So I decided I would need to find a solution that is cheaper and faster. 

Now magnetic and laser fusion are pretty good machines.

They're way too big, way too complicated, way too expensive, and also, they don't deal very much with the fusion energy.

So I decided that surely there is a better way of doing that. 

So back to the literature, and I read about the fusion everywhere.

When you pull the plug on a sink, it makes a vortex.

However, plasma is difficult to compress.

