I feel so fortunate that my first job was working at the Museum of Modern Art on a retrospective of painter Elizabeth Murray.

I learned so much from her.

After the curator Robert Storr selected all the paintings from her lifetime body of work, I loved looking at the paintings from the 1970s.

There were some motifs and elements that would come up again later in her life.

I remember asking her what she thought of those early works.

If you didn't know they were hers, you might not have been able to guess.

She told me that a few didn't quite meet her own mark for what she wanted them to be.

One of the works, in fact, so didn't meet her mark, she had set it out in the trash in her studio, and her neighbor had taken it because she saw its value. 

In that moment, my view of success and creativity changed.

I realized that success is a moment, but what we're always celebrating is creativity and mastery.

But this is the thing: What gets us to convert success into mastery?

This is a question I've long asked myself.

I think it comes when we start to value the gift of a near win. 

I started to understand this when I went on one cold May day to watch a set of varsity archers, all women as fate would have it, at the northern tip of Manhattan at Columbia's Baker Athletics Complex.

I stood and watched as the coach drove up these women in this gray van, and they exited with this kind of relaxed focus.

One held a half-eaten ice cream cone in one hand and arrows in the left with yellow fletching.

The ten ring from the standard 75-yard distance, it looks as small as a matchstick tip held out at arm's length.

And this is while holding 50 pounds of draw weight on each shot.

For three hours this went on.

But I stayed because I realized I was witnessing what's so rare to glimpse, that difference between success and mastery. 

So success is hitting that ten ring, but mastery is knowing that it means nothing if you can't do it again and again.

Mastery is not just the same as excellence, though.

Mastery is not a commitment to a goal but to a constant pursuit.

What gets us to do this, what get us to forward thrust more is to value the near win.

How many times have we designated something a classic, a masterpiece even, while its creator considers it hopelessly unfinished, riddled with difficulties and flaws, in other words, a near win?

Elizabeth Murray surprised me with her admission about her earlier paintings.

His favorite novel was "The [Unknown] Masterpiece" by Honoré de Balzac, and he felt the protagonist was the painter himself.

Franz Kafka saw incompletion when others would find only works to praise, so much so that he wanted all of his diaries, manuscripts, letters and even sketches burned upon his death.

The pursuit of mastery, in other words, is an ever-onward almost.

Mastery is in the reaching, not the arriving.

It's in constantly wanting to close that gap between where you are and where you want to be.

Mastery is about sacrificing for your craft and not for the sake of crafting your career.

How many inventors and untold entrepreneurs live out this phenomenon?

We thrive when we stay at our own leading edge.

Part of the reason that the near win is inbuilt to mastery is because the greater our proficiency, the more clearly we might see that we don't know all that we thought we did.

It's called the Dunning–Kruger effect.

Success motivates us, but a near win can propel us in an ongoing quest.

One of the most vivid examples of this comes when we look at the difference between Olympic silver medalists and bronze medalists after a competition.

Thomas Gilovich and his team from Cornell studied this difference and found that the frustration silver medalists feel compared to bronze, who are typically a bit more happy to have just not received fourth place and not medaled at all, gives silver medalists a focus on follow-up competition.

The reason the near win has a propulsion is because it changes our view of the landscape and puts our goals, which we tend to put at a distance, into more proximate vicinity to where we stand.

If I ask you to envision what a great day looks like next week, you might describe it in more general terms.

But if I ask you to describe a great day at TED tomorrow, you might describe it with granular, practical clarity.

And this is what a near win does.

It gets us to focus on what, right now, we plan to do to address that mountain in our sights.

It's Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who in 1984 missed taking the gold in the heptathlon by one third of a second, and her husband predicted that would give her the tenacity she needed in follow-up competition.

We thrive not when we've done it all, but when we still have more to do.

In Navajo culture, some craftsmen and women would deliberately put an imperfection in textiles and ceramics.

This is the dynamic of mastery.

Coming close to what you thought you wanted can help you attain more than you ever dreamed you could.

It's what I have to imagine Elizabeth Murray was thinking when I saw her smiling at those early paintings one day in the galleries.

Even if we created utopias, I believe we would still have the incomplete.

Completion is a goal, but we hope it is never the end. 

Thank you. 

