The universe is teeming with planets.

I want us, in the next decade, to build a space telescope that'll be able to image an Earth about another star and figure out whether it can harbor life.

My colleagues at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Princeton and I are working on technology that will be able to do just that in the coming years.

We've only detected them indirectly. 

This is NASA's famous picture of the pale blue dot.

I want to take that of an Earth-like planet about another star. 

Well to see, let's imagine we take the Hubble Space Telescope and we turn it around and we move it out to the orbit of Mars.

Now let's move ten times further away.

We can still see the little moon, but let's go ten times further away again.

Here we are at the edge of the solar system, out at the Kuiper Belt.

Now it's not resolved at all.

It's that pale blue dot of Carl Sagan's.

But let's move yet again ten times further away.

One more time, ten times further away.

Now we're at Alpha Centauri, our nearest neighbor star, and the planet is gone.

The light from the star is diffracting.

It's scattering inside the telescope, creating that very bright image that washes out the planet. 

So to see the planet, we have to do something about all of that light.

We have to get rid of it.

The moon has moved in front of the sun.

It blocks out most of the light so we can see that dim corona around it.

Well, what's going on?

Well the moon is casting a shadow down on the Earth.

Spitzer's suggestion was we do this in space.

Well that would look something like this.

But Spitzer actually knew the answer.

It looks something like that.

We call that our flower petal starshade.

If we make the edges of those petals exactly right, if we control their shape, we can control diffraction, and now we have a great shadow.

It's about 10 billion times dimmer than it was before, and we can see the planets beam out just like that.

That, of course, has to be bigger than my thumb.

The petals unfurl, they open up, the telescope turns around.

(Applause) Thank you. 

That's not science fiction.

We've been working on this for the last five or six years.

Last summer, we did a really cool test out in California at Northrop Grumman.

So those are four petals.

This is a sub-scale star shade.

It's about half the size of the one you just saw.

You'll see the petals unfurl.

Those four petals were built by four undergraduates doing a summer internship at JPL.

Now you're seeing it deploy.

This has to be done very precisely, but if we can do this, if we can build this technology, if we can get it into space, you might see something like this.

That's a picture of one our nearest neighbor stars taken with the Hubble Space Telescope.

You can see Jupiter, you can see Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and right there in the center, next to the residual light is that pale blue dot.

I think this is the coolest possible science.

That will change everything when we see that. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

