This one's mine, and I think you would really like her.

She is smart and funny and kind to people and a good friend.

But when I talk about my daughter, the word I find myself saying most is "athlete."

My kid's athletic.

She is strong and fast and has great balance and good body control.

She is a three-time, back-to-back-to-back state champion in Shaolin Kempo.

At nine years old, she is already halfway to a black belt.

My daughter is athletic. 

Now, when a man who is six feet two and 265 pounds stands in front of you and says his daughter is athletic, you might think that's a reflection of him.

It is not. 

And that is why, although my daughter is an athlete, she's also a huge nerd, which I love.

even though she has never seen "Game of Thrones," primarily because we are not the worst parents who ever lived.

But she knows there's someone called the Mother of Dragons, and she calls herself that and she loves it.

She's a huge comic book fan.

Right now, her favorite character is Groot.

She loves Groot.

She adores The Incredible Hulk.

But my daughter really at heart, her thing is Star Wars.

My kid is a Jedi.

But here's the question that I have to ask.

Why is it that when my daughter dresses up, whether it's Groot or The Incredible Hulk, whether it's Obi-Wan Kenobi or Darth Maul, why is every character she dresses up as a boy?

And where are all the female superheroes?

My question really is, where is all the female superhero stuff?

Because every day when my daughter plays when she dresses up, she's learning stuff through a process that, in my own line of work, as a professor of media studies, we refer to as public pedagogy.

That is, it is how societies are taught ideologies.

It's how you learned what it meant to be a man or a woman, what it meant to behave yourself in public, what it meant to be a patriot and have good manners.

It's all the constituent social relations that make us up as a people.

It's, in short, how we learn what we know about other people and about the world.

But we live in a 100-percent media-saturated society.

What that means is that every single aspect of your human existence outside of your basic bodily functions is in some way touched by media.

From the car that you drive to the food that you eat to the clothes that you wear to the way you construct your relationships to the very language you use to formulate thought -- all of that is in some way mediated.

So the answer in our society to how do we learn what we know about other people and about the world is largely through media. 

Well, there's a wrinkle in that, in that our society, media don't simply exist as information distribution technologies and devices.

They also exist as corporate entities.

And when the distribution of information is tied to financial gain, there's a problem.

How big of a problem?

Well think about this: in 1983, 90 percent of American media were owned by 50 companies.

In any market, 50 companies doing something is a lot of companies.

It's a lot of different worldviews.

These six companies produce nine out of every 10 movies you watch, nine out of every 10 television shows, nine out of every 10 songs, nine out of every 10 books.

So my question to you is, if six companies control 90 percent of American media, how much influence do you think they have over what you're allowed to see every day? 

But that's not their job.

Media don't tell us what to think.

Media tell us what to think about.

How does this work in practice?

Let's just take one of those companies.

We'll do an easy one.

Since 1937, Disney has made most of its money selling princesses to girls.

It's made a huge chunk of its money.

Unless, of course, the princess your daughter is interested in, as my daughter is, is this one. 

Because when you make a lot of money selling princesses to girls, you also kind of want to make money from boys.

And so what better to sell boys than superheroes?

So now Disney had access to Captain America and to Thor, The Incredible Hulk, and they had access even to a group of superheroes no one had ever even heard of.

That's how good Marvel was at selling superheroes. 

Last year, they released a film called "Guardians of the Galaxy."

It's a film that absolutely should not work.

Nobody knew who they were except for comic book nerds like me.

One of the characters is a talking tree.

One of the characters is an anthropomorphic raccoon.

It should not work.

And they made a killing off of "Guardians of the Galaxy."

This character here in the middle, her name is Gamora.

If I wanted to buy her a Gamora backpack, well, Gamora's not on it.

They probably should have marketed this as "some" of the Guardians of the Galaxy. 

But here's the real thing about this.

Even though Scarlett Johansson, who is one of the most popular actresses in America, plays Black Widow, and Black Widow is the star of not one, not two, but five different Marvel movies, there is not a single piece of Black Widow merchandise available.

Not one.

And if you go to the Disney store and look for a Black Widow costume, what you will find, is you will find Captain America and The Incredible Hulk.

You will find Iron Man and Thor.

You will even find War Machine, who isn't even really in the movie that long.

Who you will not find is Black Widow.

But I'm tired of doing that.

I'm tired of having to do that. 

All over the country right now, there are kids playing with the Cycle Blast Quinjet play set, where Captain America rides a motorcycle out of a moving jet and it's really awesome.

You know how awesome it is?

So awesome that when it happened in the movie, it was Black Widow that did it.

Not only has she been erased, but she has been replaced with a male figure. 

And so what is this teaching us?

I mean, over the next five years, Disney and Warner Bros. and a bunch of movie studios are going to release over 30 feature-length films with comic book characters, and of those 30 feature-length films, exactly two of them will have female solo leads.

Two.

They will not be the main character.

She will either be ignored like Gamora or erased and replaced with a boy like Black Widow.

And it's not fair.

It's not fair to her and it's not fair to your sons and daughters either. 

People will think it's cute.

I'm not raising a little boy, like Mike. 

They have a club.

And what are Mike and myself and millions of other boys and men learning in this feminine, sissified world of "My Little Pony?"

Well, they're learning to study hard and to work hard and to party hard and to look good and to feel good and to do good, and heaven preserve us from teaching these wussified concepts to boys. 

We have failed him.

We have failed our children.

And we have to do better for them.

We have to stop making it so that the only female superheroes appear on shirts that are pink and cut for girls.

We have to stop. 

They were going to mix it up.

So let's don't pat ourselves on the back too much.

And please buy them.

And don't just buy them for your daughters, buy them for your sons.

Because it's important that boys play with and as female superheroes just as my daughter plays with and as male superheroes. 

If the answer is yes, then that is not a toy for children. 

And if the answer is no, then it's for boys and girls.

It's really simple.

Because today is about the future of the future, and in my future, boys and girls are equally respected, equally valued, and most importantly, equally represented. 

Thank you. 

