(Laughter) Thank you for indulging me.

I have always wanted to do that. 

No, it was Benjamin Spock, and his book was called "The Common Sense Book of Baby And Child Care."

It sold almost 50 million copies by the time he died.

Today, I, as the mother of a six-year-old, walk into Barnes and Noble, and see this.

And it is amazing the variety that one finds on those shelves.

There are guides to raising an eco-friendly kid, a gluten-free kid, a disease-proof kid, which, if you ask me, is a little bit creepy.

There are guides to raising a bilingual kid even if you only speak one language at home.

There are guides to raising a financially savvy kid and a science-minded kid and a kid who is a whiz at yoga.

Short of teaching your toddler how to defuse a nuclear bomb, there is pretty much a guide to everything. 

All of these books are well-intentioned.

I am sure that many of them are great.

But taken together, I am sorry, I do not see help when I look at that shelf.

I see anxiety.

Why is it that we are at sixes and sevens about the one thing human beings have been doing successfully for millennia, long before parenting message boards and peer-reviewed studies came along?

Why is it that so many mothers and fathers experience parenthood as a kind of crisis? 

Crisis might seem like a strong word, but there is data suggesting it probably isn't.

Parents experience more stress than non-parents.

Their marital satisfaction is lower.

There have been a number of studies looking at how parents feel when they are spending time with their kids, and the answer often is, not so great.

Something about parenting right now at this moment is the problem.

Specifically, I don't think we know what parenting is supposed to be.

Parent, as a verb, only entered common usage in 1970.

Our roles as mothers and fathers have changed.

The roles of our children have changed.

So how did we get here?

How is it that we are all now navigating a child-rearing universe without any norms to guide us?

Well, for starters, there has been a major historical change.

Sometime during the Progressive Era, we put an end to this arrangement.

And thank God it did.

But that only made a parent's role more confusing in a way.

The old arrangement might not have been particularly ethical, but it was reciprocal.

We provided food, clothing, shelter, and moral instruction to our kids, and they in return provided income. 

Once kids stopped working, the economics of parenting changed.

About three years ago, a Texas woman told something to me that totally broke my heart.

Mothers now spend more time with their children than they did in 1965, when most women were not even in the workforce. 

It would probably be easier for parents to do their new roles if they knew what they were preparing their kids for.

This is yet another thing that makes modern parenting so very confounding.

We have no clue what portion our wisdom, if any, is of use to our kids.

The world is changing so rapidly, it's impossible to say.

This was true even when I was young.

When I was a kid, high school specifically, I was told that I would be at sea in the new global economy if I did not know Japanese.

And with all due respect to the Japanese, it didn't turn out that way.

Now there is a certain kind of middle-class parent that is obsessed with teaching their kids Mandarin, and maybe they're onto something, but we cannot know for sure.

So, absent being able to anticipate the future, what we all do, as good parents, is try and prepare our kids for every possible kind of future, hoping that just one of our efforts will pay off.

We teach our kids chess, thinking maybe they will need analytical skills.

But the presumption now is that what was good enough for me, or for my folks for that matter, isn't good enough anymore.

So it's hard enough to navigate our new roles as mothers and fathers.

This is another reason, I think, that parenthood feels like a crisis.

We have no rules, no scripts, no norms for what to do when a child comes along now that both mom and dad are breadwinners.

The writer Michael Lewis once put this very, very well.

Find a guy at home, and odds are he is doing just one thing at a time.

In fact, UCLA recently did a study looking at the most common configuration of family members in middle-class homes.

Guess what it was?

They spend more time with their kids than their fathers ever spent with them.

They work more paid hours, on average, than their wives, and they genuinely want to be good, involved dads.

Today, it is fathers, not mothers, who report the most work-life conflict. 

They are truly improvising as they go. 

Now, in a more progressive country, and forgive me here for capitulating to cliché and invoking, yes, Sweden, parents could rely on the state for support.

There are countries that acknowledge the anxieties and the changing roles of mothers and fathers.

We are one of eight known countries that does not. 

That is what it means to raise kids in an age when they are economically worthless but emotionally priceless.

We are all the custodians of their self-esteem.

But it is a very elusive one.

Happiness and self-confidence, teaching children that is not like teaching them how to plow a field.

It's not like teaching them how to ride a bike.

There's no curriculum for it.

A child's happiness is a very unfair burden to place on a parent.

And happiness is an even more unfair burden to place on a kid. 

I wish I could say I was kidding about this, but if you go out and you buy the first few episodes of "Sesame Street" on DVD, as I did out of nostalgia, you will find a warning at the beginning saying that the content is not suitable for children.

(Laughter) Can I just repeat that?

The content of the original "Sesame Street" is not suitable for children.

When asked about this by The New York Times, a producer for the show gave a variety of explanations.

I cannot tell you how much this distresses me.

(Laughter) You are looking at a woman who has a periodic table of the Muppets hanging from her cubicle wall.

The offending muppet, right there. 

That's my son the day he was born.

I was high as a kite on morphine.

I whispered it into his ear.

I said, "I will try so hard not to hurt you."

It was the Hippocratic Oath, and I didn't even know I was saying it.

But it occurs to me now that the Hippocratic Oath is a much more realistic aim than happiness.

In fact, as any parent will tell you, it's awfully hard.

All of us have said or done hurtful things that we wish to God we could take back.

It strikes me as a better goal, and, dare I say, a more virtuous one, to focus on making productive kids and moral kids, and to simply hope that happiness will come to them by virtue of the good that they do and their accomplishments and the love that they feel from us.

That, anyway, is one response to having no script.

Absent having new scripts, we just follow the oldest ones in the book -- decency, a work ethic, love — and let happiness and self-esteem take care of themselves.

I think if we all did that, the kids would still be all right, and so would their parents, possibly in both cases even better. 

Thank you. 

