Pat Mitchell: That day, January 8, 2011, began like all others.

You were both doing the work that you love.

And suddenly, everything that you had planned or expected in your lives was irrevocably changed forever. 

People don't realize that.

I certainly didn't.

She didn't have much other information.

She just said, "Gabby was shot."

A few minutes later, I called her back and I actually thought for a second, well, maybe I just imagined getting this phone call.

I called her back, and that's when she told me that Gabby had been shot in the head.

PM: And when you arrived at the hospital, what was the prognosis that they gave you about Gabby's condition and what recovery, if any, you could expect? 

So they didn't know how long Gabby would be in a coma, didn't know when that would change and what the prognosis would be. 

PM: Gabby, has your recovery been an effort to create a new Gabby Giffords or reclaim the old Gabby Giffords? 

MK: That to say, when you look at the picture behind us, to come back from that kind of injury and come back strong and stronger than ever is a really tough thing to do.

PM: And what were the first signs that recovery was not only going to be possible but you were going to have some semblance of the life that you and Gabby had planned? 

PM: And there were certain words, too.

Didn't she surprise you with words in the beginning? 

MK: Yeah, that was it.

PM: Gabby, what's been the toughest challenge for you during this recovery? 

MK: I do.

It might be some of the most dangerous things I've ever done. 

PM: Gabby, are you optimistic about your continuing recovery -- walking, talking, being able to move your arm and leg? 

GG: On the treadmill, walked on my treadmill, Spanish lessons, French horn. 

And she's on a motor scooter there, but it's my understanding that's a very tame image of what Gabby Giffords was like growing up. 

MK: Yeah, Gabby, she used to race motorcycles.

You're going into the military and eventually to become an astronaut.

So you meet.

What attracts you to Gabby? 

Gabby would — GG: Fact-finding mission. 

MK: She would call it an important fact-finding mission.

She was a state senator at the time, and we met here, at the airport, before a trip to China. 

PM: Would you describe it as a whirlwind romance? 

MK: Yeah, we were friends for a long time. 

GG: Death row. 

They were working on some legislation that had to do with crime and punishment and capital punishment in the state of Arizona.

So she couldn't get anybody else to go with her, and I'm like, "Of course I want to go to death row."

PM: Well, that might have contributed to the reason that Gabby decided to marry you.

You were willing to go to death row, after all. 

MK: I guess. 

PM: Gabby, what did make you want to marry Mark? 

MK: I thought we always had a very special relationship.

We've gone through some tough times and it's only made it stronger.

PM: After you got married, however, you continued very independent lives.

Actually, you didn't even live together. 

MK: We had one of those commuter marriages.

In our case, it was Washington, D.C., Houston, Tucson.

Sometimes we'd go clockwise, sometimes counterclockwise, to all those different places, and we didn't really live together until that Saturday morning.

Within an hour of Gabby being shot, I was on an airplane to Tucson, and that was the moment where that had changed things. 

PM: And also, Gabby, you had run for Congress after being a state senator and served in Congress for six years.

What did you like best about being in Congress? 

MK: Yeah, you know, legislation is often at a colossally slow pace, but my wife, and I have to admit, a lot of other members of Congress that I know, work incredibly hard.

PM: Installing solar panels on the top of her house, I have to say.

So after the tragic incident, Mark, you decided to resign your position as an astronaut, even though you were supposed to take the next space mission.

Everybody, including Gabby, talked you into going back, and you did end up taking. 

So I didn't actually resign from being an astronaut, but I gave up my job and they found a replacement.

MK: She was the biggest supporter of my career, and I knew it was the right thing to do. 

PM: Is that for appetizer or dessert, Mark? 

MK: Well, it just gets the conversation going. 

PM: But there was a lot of conversation about something you did, Gabby, after Mark's flight.

You had to make another step of courage too, because here was Congress deadlocked again, and you got out of the rehabilitation center, got yourself to Washington so that you could walk on the floor of the House -- I can barely talk about this without getting emotional — and cast a vote which could have been the deciding vote. 

MK: Yeah, we had that vote, I guess about five months after Gabby was injured, and she made this bold decision to go back.

A very controversial vote, but she wanted to be there to have her voice heard one more time. 

PM: And after that, resigned and began what has been a very slow and challenging recovery.

What's life like, day to day? 

MK: Well, that's Gabby's service dog Nelson. 

But she did a great job with this dog.

He's a fabulous service dog. 

PM: So Gabby, what have you learned from your experiences the past few years? 

PM: Your relationship is deeper.

MK: I imagine being grateful, too, right? 

GG: Grateful. 

PM: This is a picture of family and friends gathering, but I love these pictures because they show the Gabby and Mark relationship now.

And you describe it, Gabby, over and over, as deeper on so many levels.

MK: I think when something tragic happens in a family, it can pull people together.

PM: And of course, the two of you go through these challenges of a slow and difficult recovery, and yet, Gabby, how do you maintain your optimism and positive outlook? 

And Gabby, what's on the agenda now? 

GG: Americans for Responsible Solutions. 

MK: That's our political action committee, where we are trying to get members of Congress to take a more serious look at gun violence in this country, and to try to pass some reasonable legislation. 

MK: You know, this affected us very personally, but it wasn't what happened to Gabby that got us involved.

So far the national response has been pretty much to do nothing.

We're trying to change that. 

PM: There have been 11 mass shootings since Newtown, a school a week in the first two months of last year.

What are you doing that's different than other efforts to balance rights for gun ownership and responsibilities? 

MK: We're gun owners, we support gun rights.

At the same time, we've got to do everything we can to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the dangerously mentally ill.

It's not too difficult to do that.

This issue, like many others, has become very polarizing and political, and we're trying to bring some balance to the debate in Washington. 

PM: Thank you both for that effort.

And not surprisingly for this woman of courage and of a sense of adventure, you just keep challenging yourself, and the sky seems to be the limit.

I have to share this video of your most recent adventure.

Take a look at Gabby. 

MK: This is a couple months ago. 

MK: Let me just say one of the guys that Gabby jumped with that day was a Navy SEAL who she met in Afghanistan who was injured in combat, had a really rough time.

Gabby visited him when he was at Bethesda and went through a really tough period.

He started doing better.

So they have a very, very nice connection. 

PM: What a wonderful moment.

Because this is the TED stage, Gabby, I know you worked very hard to think of the ideas that you wanted to leave with this audience. 

GG: Thank you.

It's been a long, hard haul, but I'm getting better.

I'm working hard, lots of therapy -- speech therapy, physical therapy, and yoga too.

But my spirit is strong as ever.

I'm still fighting to make the world a better place, and you can too.

Get involved with your community.

