Right now there's a student who is coming up with a way to convince his mom or dad that he's very, very sick and can't make it to school tomorrow.

The reality is, the folks I described as the master teachers, the master narrative builders, the master storytellers are far removed from classrooms.

The folks who know the skills about how to teach and engage an audience don't even know what teacher certification means.

They may not even have the degrees to be able to have anything to call an education.

And that to me is sad.

It's sad because the people who I described, they were very disinterested in the learning process, want to be effective teachers, but they have no models.

I'm going to paraphrase Mark Twain.

Mark Twain says that proper preparation, or teaching, is so powerful that it can turn bad morals to good, it can turn awful practices into powerful ones, it can change men and transform them into angels. 

The folks who I described earlier got proper preparation in teaching, not in any college or university, but by virtue of just being in the same spaces of those who engage.

Guess where those places are?

We got a couple of hands.

CE: And all of a sudden, everybody's reawoken.

That preacher bangs on the pulpit for attention.

But I'm here to tell you that magic can be taught.

Now, how do you teach it?

You teach it by allowing people to go into those spaces where the magic is happening.

If you want to be an aspiring teacher in urban education, you've got to leave the confines of that university and go into the hood.

You've got to go in there and hang out at the barbershop, you've got to attend that black church, and you've got to view those folks that have the power to engage and just take notes on what they do.

At our teacher education classes at my university, I've started a project where every single student that comes in there sits and watches rap concerts.

They watch the way that the rappers move and talk with their hands.

They study the way that he walks proudly across that stage.

They listen to his metaphors and analogies, and they start learning these little things that if they practice enough becomes the key to magic.

And if we could transform teacher education to focus on teaching teachers how to create that magic then poof!

Thank you. 

