So Intel said your average spreadsheet would be flawed once every 27,000 years.

They didn't think it was significant, but there was an outrage in the community.

The community, the techies, said, this flaw has to be addressed.

They were not going to stand by quietly as Intel gave them these chips.

So there was a revolution across the world.

People marched to demand -- okay, not really exactly like that — but they rose up and they demanded that Intel fix the flaw.

So billions of dollars in our society was spent to address a problem which would come once out of every 360 billion calculations. 

Number two, a poet.

This is Martin Niemöller.

You're familiar with his poetry.

This is an insight at the core of intelligence.

We could call it cluefulness.

It's a certain kind of test: Can you recognize an underlying threat and respond?

Can you save yourself or save your kind?

Turns out ants are pretty good at this.

Cows, not so much.

So can you see the pattern?

Can you see a pattern and then recognize and do something about it?

Number three, a boy.

This is my friend Aaron Swartz.

He's Tim's friend.

So I was a little put off by this.

I said, "Yeah, as an academic, it's not my field."

But his questions spoke as clearly as my four-year-old's hug.

It is every time, every single important issue.

We've got to end the bovinity of this political society.

I had to focus on, what was I going to say to you?

It saved me. 

But after the buzz, the excitement, the power that comes from this community, I began to yearn for a less sterile, less academic way to address these issues, the issues that I was talking about.

It was a group called the New Hampshire Rebellion that was beginning to talk about, how would we make this issue of this corruption central in 2016?

Now, I don't have 13 months to walk across the country.

What about a walk not of 3,200 miles but of 185 miles across New Hampshire in January? 

So on January 11, the anniversary of Aaron's death, we began a walk that ended on January 24th, the day that Granny D was born.

A total of 200 people joined us across this walk, as we went from the very top to the very bottom of New Hampshire talking about this issue.

And what was astonishing to me, something I completely did not expect to find, was the passion and anger that there was among everyone that we talked to about this issue.

We had found in a poll that 96 percent of Americans believe it important to reduce the influence of money in politics.

And it's this gap between 96 and 91 that explains our politics of resignation.

That's because we accept our limits, and so too with this reform.

But when you give people the sense of hope, you begin to thaw that absolute sense of impossibility.

As Harvey Milk said, if you give 'em hope, you give 'em a chance, a way to think about how this change is possible.

I loved that boy like I love my son.

But we failed him.

That sense of hope, we're going to hold, and we're going to fight for, however impossible this battle looks. 

What's next?

And so they developed a platform, which we are announcing today, that allows us to pull together voters who are committed to this idea of reform.

And then finally number three, the hardest.

We're in the age of the Super PAC.

Indeed yesterday, Merriam announced that Merriam-Webster will have Super PAC as a word.

It is now an official word in the dictionary.

So on May 1, aka May Day, we're going to try an experiment.

We're going to try a launching of what we can think of as a Super PAC to end all Super PACs.

And the basic way this works is this.

For the last year, we have been working with analysts and political experts to calculate, how much would it cost to win enough votes in the United States Congress to make fundamental reform possible?

So last night, we heard about wishes.

Here's my wish.

Thank you very much. 

