If you remember that first decade of the web, it was really a static place.

You could go online, you could look at pages, and they were put up either by organizations who had teams to do it or by individuals who were really tech-savvy for the time.

Facebook has 1.2 billion users per month.

So half the Earth's Internet population is using Facebook.

So the result is that we have behavioral, preference, demographic data for hundreds of millions of people, which is unprecedented in history.

And as a computer scientist, what this means is that I've been able to build models that can predict all sorts of hidden attributes for all of you that you don't even know you're sharing information about.

So what I want to talk to you about today is some of these things that we're able to do, and then give us some ideas of how we might go forward to move some control back into the hands of users. 

So this is Target, the company.

I didn't just put that logo on this poor, pregnant woman's belly.

He said, "How did Target figure out that this high school girl was pregnant before she told her parents?"

And they compute that not by looking at the obvious things, like, she's buying a crib or baby clothes, but things like, she bought more vitamins than she normally had, or she bought a handbag that's big enough to hold diapers.

So that's the kind of thing that we do when we're predicting stuff about you on social media.

We're looking for little patterns of behavior that, when you detect them among millions of people, lets us find out all kinds of things. 

We can do all of this really well.

And again, it doesn't come from what you might think of as obvious information. 

So my favorite example is from this study that was published this year in the Proceedings of the National Academies.

If you Google this, you'll find it.

It's four pages, easy to read.

And they looked at just people's Facebook likes, so just the things you like on Facebook, and used that to predict all these attributes, along with some other ones.

And in their paper they listed the five likes that were most indicative of high intelligence.

And it turns out that we have to look at a whole bunch of underlying theories to see why we're able to do this.

So if you're smart, you tend to be friends with smart people, and if you're young, you tend to be friends with young people, and this is well established for hundreds of years.

It turns out things like viral videos or Facebook likes or other information spreads in exactly the same way that diseases spread through social networks.

So this is something we've studied for a long time.

We have good models of it.

And so you can put those things together and start seeing why things like this happen.

So if I were to give you a hypothesis, it would be that a smart guy started this page, or maybe one of the first people who liked it would have scored high on that test.

So this is pretty complicated stuff, right?

How do you know that you've liked something that indicates a trait for you that's totally irrelevant to the content of what you've liked?

There's a lot of power that users don't have to control how this data is used.

And I see that as a real problem going forward. 

We know how to predict all that.

We totally can do that now.

That seems to me to be a problem. 

So one of the paths we can go down is the policy and law path.

You have total control over how it's used.

The problem is that the revenue models for most social media companies rely on sharing or exploiting users' data in some way.

It's sometimes said of Facebook that the users aren't the customer, they're the product.

And so how do you get a company to cede control of their main asset back to the users?

It's possible, but I don't think it's something that we're going to see change quickly. 

So I think the other path that we can go down that's going to be more effective is one of more science.

It's doing science that allowed us to develop all these mechanisms for computing this personal data in the first place.

So that gives us an advantage over the law side. 

One of the problems that people bring up when I talk about this is, they say, you know, if people start keeping all this data private, all those methods that you've been developing to predict their traits are going to fail.

I want users to be informed and consenting users of the tools that we develop. 

Thank you. 

