So, we're going to start here.

We were already engaged to be married.

But what really touched us, actually, were the people, and the extreme poverty.

We started asking ourselves questions.

Does it have to be like this?

(Laughter) 

Our naïveté is pretty incredible, when we look back on it.

But we had a certain enthusiasm that that would be the phase, the post-Microsoft phase would be our philanthropy. 

CA: So it started there, but it got accelerated.

So that was '93, and it was '97, really, before the foundation itself started. 

CA: So, you've got a big pot of money and a world full of so many different issues.

How on Earth do you decide what to focus on? 

And so we picked those two things, and everything the foundation does is focused there. 

What's this about? 

And I kept hearing from women, over and over and over, the more I traveled, "I want to be able to use this shot."

which is an injection they were getting called Depo-Provera, which is a contraceptive.

And I would come back and talk to global health experts, and they'd say, "Oh no, contraceptives are stocked in in the developing world."

How do you navigate that? 

What's this about? 

BG: Well, my graph has numbers on it.

(Laughter) I really like this graph.

This is the number of children who die before the age of five every year.

We go from 20 million not long after I was born to now we're down to about six million.

So this is a story largely of vaccines.

Smallpox was killing a couple million kids a year.

That was eradicated, so that got down to zero.

Measles was killing a couple million a year.

That's down to a few hundred thousand.

Anyway, this is a chart where you want to get that number to continue, and it's going to be possible, using the science of new vaccines, getting the vaccines out to kids.

We can actually accelerate the progress.

It's not reported.

An airliner with 200-plus deaths is a far, far bigger story than that.

Does that drive you crazy? 

It's incredible how people think, okay, that could be me, and the money flows.

These causes have been a bit invisible.

CA: Maybe it needed someone who is turned on by numbers and graphs rather than just the big, sad face to get engaged.

BG: Yeah, well people can take, there is some aid that was well-meaning and didn't go well.

You should look at, what was your goal?

We can spend aid smarter.

He's going to listen and be really interested.

(Laughter) 

That must have been hard, adjusting to that.

I was actually really excited.

CA: That's cool. 

BG: Including some of the employees. 

CA: So what do you guys argue about?

Sunday, 11 o'clock, you're away from work, what comes up?

She's got a lot of insight.

She'll sit down with the employees a lot.

I can't think of anything where one of us had a super strong opinion about one thing or another? 

(Laughter) You never know. 

MG: Well, here's the thing.

Can you get a woman to accept those polio drops in her child's mouth?

Because the delivery piece is every bit as important as the science.

CA: So, in vaccines and polio and so forth, you've had some amazing successes.

What about failure, though?

Like, we put out, one that got a lot of publicity was asking for a better condom.

Well, we got hundreds of ideas.

Are there any failures that you can talk about? 

They bring down the dropout rate.

They have less violence and crime in those schools.

But the thing that we learned from that work, and what turned out to be the fundamental key, is a great teacher in front of the classroom.

CA: So Melinda, this is you and your eldest daughter, Jenn.

And just taken about three weeks ago, I think, three or four weeks ago.

MG: So we went to Tanzania.

Jenn's been to Tanzania.

All our kids have been to Africa quite a bit, actually.

And we did something very different, which is, we decided to go spend two nights and three days with a family.

Anna and Sanare are the parents.

They invited us to come and stay in their boma.

It was a very loving relationship.

Their children, their six children, the two in the middle were twins, 13, a boy, and a girl named Grace.

She was very, very shy.

They need to have a sense that their own work is meaningful and important.

I guess there's a long version and a short version of that.

We've got time for the short version. 

Tragically, she passed away before he did, and he's big on delegation, and — (Laughter) — he said — 

CA: Tweet that. 

It's allowed us to increase our ambition in what the foundation can do quite dramatically.

Half the resources we have come from Warren's mind-blowing generosity. 

CA: And I think you've pledged that by the time you're done, more than, or 95 percent of your wealth, will be given to the foundation. 

BG: Yes. 

BG: Well, we've got about 120 people who have now taken this giving pledge.

The thing that's great is that we get together yearly and talk about, okay, do you hire staff, what do you give to them?

We're not trying to homogenize it.

I mean, the beauty of philanthropy is this mind-blowing diversity.

But that's great.

We need more experimentation.

Now it looks like it'll just keep growing in size in the years ahead. 

CA: It seems to me, it's actually really hard for some people to figure out even how to remotely spend that much money on something else.

There are probably some billionaires in the room and certainly some successful people.

I'm curious, can you make the pitch?

What's the pitch? 

And part of the reason I'm so optimistic is because I do think philanthropy is going to grow and take some of these things government's not just good at working on and discovering and shine some light in the right direction. 

Is that a fair comment? 

MG: But you change systems.

That, to me, really changes the inequality balance. 

Thank you so much for coming to TED and for sharing with us and for all you do. 

