If you look deep into the night sky, you see stars, and if you look further, you see more stars, and further, galaxies, and further, more galaxies.

Now, the Big Bang was an era in the early universe when everything we see in the night sky was condensed into an incredibly small, incredibly hot, incredibly roiling mass, and from it sprung everything we see. 

We've mapped the afterglow with spectacular precision, and one of the shocks about it is that it's almost completely uniform.

Fourteen billion light years that way and 14 billion light years that way, it's the same temperature.

Now it's been 14 billion years since that Big Bang, and so it's got faint and cold.

It's now 2.7 degrees.

But it's not exactly 2.7 degrees.

It's only 2.7 degrees to about 10 parts in a million.

And those small, little, inhomogeneities, 20 parts in a million, those were formed by quantum mechanical wiggles in that early universe that were stretched across the size of the entire cosmos. 

But if you wait, that ringing fades and fades and fades until you don't notice it anymore.

Those waves have long since faded.

If you go for a walk, you don't wiggle.

Those gravitational waves in the structure of space are totally invisible for all practical purposes.

But early on, when the universe was making that last afterglow, the gravitational waves put little twists in the structure of the light that we see.

And on Monday, they announced that they had found it. 

And the thing that's so spectacular about that to me is not just the ringing, though that is awesome.

The thing that's totally amazing, the reason I'm on this stage, is because what that tells us is something deep about the early universe.

This isn't conclusive evidence for inflation, but anything that isn't inflation that explains this will look the same.

This is a theory, an idea, that has been around for a while, and we never thought we we'd really see it.

For good reasons, we thought we'd never see killer evidence, and this is killer evidence. 

But the really crazy idea is that our bubble is just one bubble in a much larger, roiling pot of universal stuff.

And that amazes me. 

Thanks a lot. 

