All of us are put in boxes by our family, by our religion, by our society, our moment in history, even our own bodies.

Some people have the courage to break free, not to accept the limitations imposed by the color of their skin or by the beliefs of those that surround them.

Those people are always the threat to the status quo, to what is considered acceptable. 

In my case, for the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends, colleagues, even my agent, did not know about my history.

I think, in mystery, this is called the reveal.

Here is mine. 

Gender has always been considered a fact, immutable, but we now know it's actually more fluid, complex and mysterious.

Every day, I am so grateful because I am a woman.

I have a mom and dad and family who accepted me for who I am.

Many are not so fortunate. 

There's a long tradition in Asian culture that celebrates the fluid mystery of gender.

So when I was eight years old, I was at a fiesta in the Philippines celebrating these mysteries.

So when I was 15 years old, still dressing as a boy, I met this woman named T.L.

She is a transgender beauty pageant manager.

That moment changed my life.

All of a sudden, I was introduced to the world of beauty pageants.

Not a lot of people could say that your first job is a pageant queen for transgender women, but I'll take it. 

I also experienced the goodness of strangers, especially when we would travel in remote provinces in the Philippines.

But most importantly, I met some of my best friends in that community. 

My mom also told me to put two E's in the spelling of my name.

For some people, their I.D.

All of a sudden, my fears were minimized.

I felt that I could conquer my dream and move to New York and be a model. 

For most of my community, this is the reality in which we live.

Our suicide rate is nine times higher than that of the general population.

Every November 20, we have a global vigil for Transgender Day of Remembrance.

This is Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera.

Today, this very moment, is my real coming out.

I could no longer live my truth for and by myself.

I want to do my best to help others live their truth without shame and terror.

My deepest truth allowed me to accept who I am.

Will you? 

Thank you very much. 

(Applause) 

Kathryn Schulz: Geena, one quick question for you.

The support system, with my mom especially, and my family, that in itself is just so powerful.

The transgender movement, it's at the very beginning, to compare to how the gay movement started.

There's still a lot of work that needs to be done.

There should be an understanding.

(Applause) 

