Let's talk about what scale looks like at Twitter.

Back in January 2009, we saw more than two million new tweets each day on the platform.

January 2014, more than 500 million.

We were seeing two million tweets in less than six minutes.

That's a 24,900-percent increase. 

Now, the vast majority of activity on Twitter puts no one in harm's way.

There's no risk involved.

Why spend so much time searching for potential calamities in innocuous activities?

Given the scale that Twitter is at, a one-in-a-million chance happens 500 times a day.

It's the same for other companies dealing at this sort of scale.

For us, edge cases, those rare situations that are unlikely to occur, are more like norms.

Say 99.999 percent of tweets pose no risk to anyone.

There's no threat involved.

After you take out that 99.999 percent, that tiny percentage of tweets remaining works out to roughly 150,000 per month.

The sheer scale of what we're dealing with makes for a challenge. 

You know what else makes my role particularly challenging?

People do weird things.

The details have been changed to protect the innocent and sometimes the guilty.

We'll start off easy. 

I will admit that I did not expect to encounter a fourth use case.

It turns out it is also used on Twitter when people are role-playing as dogs.

(Laughter) 

Let's look at spam.

While this is a mockup I put together using my account, we see accounts doing this all the time.

Seems pretty straightforward.

We should just automatically suspend accounts engaging in this kind of behavior.

You're not going to get that chance if we mistakenly suspend the account thinking it's spam. 

Back to my account, again exhibiting classic behavior.

This time it's sending the same message and link.

That's pretty clearly not a good thing.

We want to, and do, suspend accounts engaging in that kind of behavior.

So why are the stakes higher for this?

Well, this could also be a bystander at a rally who managed to record a video of a police officer beating a non-violent protester who's trying to let the world know what's happening.

We don't want to gamble on potentially silencing that crucial speech by classifying it as spam and suspending it.

Now, given the sorts of challenges I'm up against, it's crucial that I not only predict but also design protections for the unexpected.

And that's not just an issue for me, or for Twitter, it's an issue for you.

It's an issue for anybody who's building or creating something that you think is going to be amazing and will let people do awesome things.

So what do I do?

What do I mean by "visualize catastrophe?"

I try to think of how something as benign and innocuous as a picture of a cat could lead to death, and what to do to prevent that.

Which happens to be my next example.

This is my cat, Eli.

We wanted to give users the ability to add photos to their tweets.

A picture is worth a thousand words.

You only get 140 characters.

You add a photo to your tweet, look at how much more content you've got now.

There's all sorts of great things you can do by adding a photo to a tweet.

My job isn't to think of those.

It's to think of what could go wrong. 

How could this picture lead to my death?

Well, here's one possibility.

There's more in that picture than just a cat.

There's geodata.

When you take a picture with your smartphone or digital camera, there's a lot of additional information saved along in that image.

That's why, when we launched photos on Twitter, we made the decision to strip that geodata out.

(Applause) If I start by assuming the worst and work backwards, I can make sure that the protections we build work for both expected and unexpected use cases. 

Given that I spend my days and nights imagining the worst that could happen, it wouldn't be surprising if my worldview was gloomy.

(Laughter) It's not.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

