Good morning.

That one moment profoundly affected how I think about art, design and engineering. 

As background, I was fortunate enough to grow up in a family of loving and talented artists in one of the world's great cities.

Isn't it remarkable that, after thousands of years of people doing mostly representational art, that modern art, comparatively speaking, is about 15 minutes old, yet now pervasive.

In our home, art was everywhere.

It was like oxygen, around us and necessary for life.

As I watched him paint, Dad taught me that art was not about being decorative, but was a different way of communicating ideas, and in fact one that could bridge the worlds of knowledge and insight. 

I followed the path of most kids who are genetically programmed to make their parents crazy.

Fortunately, my family also had engineers in it, and with my parents, these were my first role models.

What they all had in common was they worked very, very hard.

My grandpa owned and operated a sheet metal kitchen cabinet factory in Brooklyn.

I found these objects both useful and fascinating.

I learned about engineering and how things worked, not at school but by taking apart and studying these fabulously complex devices.

Life was good. 

However, every summer, sadly, the machines got left behind while my parents and I traveled overseas to experience history, art and design.

Then, when I was about nine years old, we went to Rome.

On one particularly hot summer day, we visited a drum-shaped building that from the outside was not particularly interesting.

My dad said it was called the Pantheon, a temple for all of the gods.

It was very dark, the only source of light being an big open hole in the roof.

Dad explained that this wasn't a big open hole, but it was called the oculus, an eye to the heavens.

As we walked to the center of the room, I looked up at the heavens through the oculus.

This was the first church that I'd been to that provided an unrestricted view between God and man.

But I wondered, what about when it rained?

Dad may have called this an oculus, but it was, in fact, a big hole in the roof.

As I became more accustomed to the dark, I was able to make out details of the floor and the surrounding walls.

But the ceiling was amazing.

It was modern, high-tech, impressive, a huge 142-foot clear span which, not coincidentally, was exactly its height.

I loved this place.

He said, "It's the original roof."

(Laughter) This had never crossed my mind.

And incidentally, it is still the largest unreinforced concrete dome that's ever been built.

To build the Pantheon took some miracles.

By miracles, I mean things that are technically barely possible, very high-risk, and might not be actually accomplishable at this moment in time, certainly not by you. 

For example, here are some of the Pantheon's miracles.

But in school, with few exceptions, they were treated as separate worlds, and they still are.

My teachers told me that I had to get serious and focus on one or the other.

And this led me to embrace and want to be in both worlds. 

So then how do these projects of unprecedented creative vision and technical complexity like the Pantheon actually happen?

Someone themselves, perhaps Hadrian, needed a brilliant creative vision.

It is my belief that to create these rare game changers requires you to pull off at least five miracles.

In my experience, these rare visionaries who can think across the worlds of art, design and engineering have the ability to notice when others have provided enough of the miracles to bring the goal within reach.

Take the oculus of the Pantheon.

By insisting that it be in the design, it meant you couldn't use much of the structural technology that had been developed for Roman arches.

However, by instead embracing it and rethinking weight and stress distribution, they came up with a design that only works if there's a big hole in the roof.

That done, you now get the aesthetic and design benefits of light, cooling and that critical direct connection with the heavens.

Not bad.

These people not only believed that the impossible can be done, but that it must be done. 

Enough ancient history.

What are some recent examples of innovations that combine creative design and technological advances in a way so profound that they will be remembered a thousand years from now?

So what came after the moon?

The Internet isn't a Pantheon.

However, just as the technology of concrete was critical in realization of the Pantheon, new designers will use the technologies of the Internet to create novel concepts that will endure.

The smartphone is a perfect example.

Soon the majority of people on the planet will have one, and the idea of connecting everyone to both knowledge and each other will endure. 

So what's next?

What imminent advance will be the equivalent of the Pantheon?

It is a different kind of language, like art.

So what is next?

How can a fancy version of cruise control be profound?

Look, much of our world has been designed around roads and transportation.

Although perhaps not obvious today, autonomous vehicles will be the key technology that enables us to redesign our cities and, by extension, civilization.

They will enable compelling new concepts in how we design cities, work, and the way we live.

We will get where we're going faster and society will recapture vast amounts of lost productivity now spent sitting in traffic basically polluting. 

It took folks like DARPA, universities, and companies completely outside of the automotive industry to notice that if you were clever about it, autonomy could be done now.

So what are the five miracles needed for autonomous vehicles?

You need to know where all the roads are, what the rules are, and where you're going.

The various needs of personal navigation systems, in-car navigation systems, and web-based maps address this.

The wireless technologies developed for mobile devices, with some minor modifications, are completely suitable to solve this.

But finally, you need to recognize people, signs and objects.

Occasionally, humans will need to do sense-making.

But these people don't spontaneously pop into existence.

They need to be nurtured and encouraged from when they're little kids.

We need to love them and help them discover their passions.

We need to encourage them to work hard and help them understand that failure is a necessary ingredient for success, as is perseverance.

If we don't, they won't understand what these precious things are that someday they will be resopnsible for protecting and improving.

They are in fact essential to what makes us special. 

Thank you. 

