Larry Page: Well, thank you. 

Mainly we want to talk about the future.

So my first question: Where is Google and where is it going?

And people always say, is that really what you guys are still doing?

And I always kind of think about that myself, and I'm not quite sure.

We've been at it for 15 years already, but it's not at all done. 

CR: When it's done, how will it be? 

Google Now, you know, knows where you are, knows what you may need.

So really having computing work and understand you and understand that information, we really haven't done that yet.

It's still very, very clunky. 

CR: Tell me, when you look at what Google is doing, where does Deep Mind fit? 

LP: Yeah, so Deep Mind is a company we just acquired recently.

So what's the state of the art on speech recognition?

It's not very good.

It doesn't really understand you.

And we started just looking at things like YouTube.

Can we understand YouTube?

But we actually ran machine learning on YouTube and it discovered cats, just by itself.

Now, that's an important concept.

And we realized there's really something here.

If we can learn what cats are, that must be really important.

So I think Deep Mind, what's really amazing about Deep Mind is that it can actually -- they're learning things in this unsupervised way.

CR: Take a look at the video games and how machines are coming to be able to do some remarkable things. 

It's learned to play all of these games with superhuman performance.

We've not been able to do things like this with computers before.

And maybe I'll just narrate this one quickly.

This is boxing, and it figures out it can sort of pin the opponent down.

The computer's on the left, and it's just racking up points.

So imagine if this kind of intelligence were thrown at your schedule, or your information needs, or things like that.

We're really just at the beginning of that, and that's what I'm really excited about. 

LP: Well, I think for me, this is kind of one of the most exciting things I've seen in a long time.

The guy who started this company, Demis, has a neuroscience and a computer science background.

He went back to school to get his Ph.D. to study the brain.

CR: But where's the level of it now?

And how fast do you think we are moving? 

LP: Well, this is the state of the art right now, understanding cats on YouTube and things like that, improving voice recognition.

CR: I don't know if we can do this, but we've got the image of the cat.

It would be wonderful to see this.

This is how machines looked at cats and what they came up with.

Can we see that image? 

Designed by machines, seen by machines. 

LP: That's right.

So this is learned from just watching YouTube.

Maybe just finishing also on the search part, it started with search, really understanding people's context and their information.

I did have a video I wanted to show quickly on that that we actually found. 

Zack Matere: Not long ago, I planted a crop of potatoes.

Then suddenly they started dying one after the other.

I checked out the books and they didn't tell me much.

So, I went and I did a search.

It said, sprinkle wood ash over the plants.

Then after a few days the ants disappeared.

I got excited about the Internet.

I have this friend who really would like to expand his business.

So I went with him to the cyber cafe and we checked out several sites.

When I met him next, he was going to put a windmill at the local school.

I realized that not everybody can be able to access what I was able to access.

I thought that I need to have an Internet that my grandmother can use.

So I thought about a notice board.

A simple wooden notice board.

When I get information on my phone, I'm able to post the information on the notice board.

So it's basically like a computer.

I use the Internet to help people.

I think I am searching for a better life for me and my neighbors.

So many people have access to information, but there's no follow-up to that.

I think the follow-up to that is our knowledge.

When people have the knowledge, they can find solutions without having to helped out.

Information is powerful, but it is how we use it that will define us. 

LP: Now, the amazing thing about that video, actually, was we just read about it in the news, and we found this gentlemen, and made that little clip. 

CR: When I talk to people about you, they say to me, people who know you well, say, Larry wants to change the world, and he believes technology can show the way.

We recently released this Loon Project which is using balloons to do it.

It sounds totally crazy.

We can show the video here.

Actually, two out of three people in the world don't have good Internet access now.

We actually think this can really help people sort of cost-efficiently. 

CR: And why does this balloon give you access to the Internet?

LP: Yeah, and this is a good example of innovation.

You normally have to use satellites and it takes a long time to launch them.

CR: But are you at the mercy of the wind? 

It is security and privacy.

You have to have been thinking about that. 

LP: Yeah, absolutely.

I saw the picture of Sergey with Edward Snowden yesterday.

Some of you may have seen it.

But I think, for me, I guess, privacy and security are a really important thing.

I think for me, it's tremendously disappointing that the government secretly did all this stuff and didn't tell us.

I don't think we can have a democracy if we're having to protect you and our users from the government for stuff that we've never had a conversation about.

So I think the government's actually done itself a tremendous disservice by doing all that in secret. 

CR: Never coming to Google to ask for anything. 

LP: Not Google, but the public.

I think we need to have a debate about that, or we can't have a functioning democracy.

It's just not possible.

So I'm sad that Google's in the position of protecting you and our users from the government doing secret thing that nobody knows about.

It doesn't make any sense. 

There's so much more information about you, and that's an important thing, and it makes sense why people are asking difficult questions.

We spend a lot of time thinking about this and what the issues are.

I'm a little bit -- I think the main thing that we need to do is just provide people choice, show them what data's being collected -- search history, location data.

I also think it's very easy.

What I'm worried is that we throw out the baby with the bathwater.

And I look at, on your show, actually, I kind of lost my voice, and I haven't gotten it back.

I'm hoping that by talking to you I'm going to get it back. 

CR: If I could do anything, I would do that. 

But I think, you know what, I look at that, I made that public, and I got all this information.

And when someone accesses your medical record, a research doctor, they could see, you could see which doctor accessed it and why, and you could maybe learn about what conditions you have.

I think if we just did that, we'd save 100,000 lives this year. 

CR: And the necessary condition that people have to have confidence that their information will not be abused. 

I was scared to share it.

Sergey encouraged me to do that, and it was a great thing to do. 

CR: And the response has been overwhelming. 

LP: Yeah, and people are super positive.

We got thousands and thousands of people with similar conditions, which there's no data on today.

So it was a really good thing. 

CR: So talking about the future, what is it about you and transportation systems? 

I had to get on the bus and take it and wait for it.

And it was cold and snowing.

I did some research on how much it cost, and I just became a bit obsessed with transportation systems. 

CR: And that began the idea of an automated car. 

There's 20 million people or more injured per year.

It's the leading cause of death for people under 34 in the U.S. 

CR: So you're talking about saving lives. 

LP: Yeah, and also saving space and making life better.

It's just crazy that that's what we use our space for. 

CR: And how soon will we be there? 

LP: I think we can be there very, very soon.

We've driven well over 100,000 miles now totally automated.

I'm super excited about getting that out quickly. 

You see bikes going everywhere, and the bikes wear out.

They're getting used 24 hours a day. 

CR: But you want to put them above the street, too. 

LP: Well I said, how do we get people using bikes more? 

CR: We may have a video here. 

LP: Yeah, let's show the video.

I just got excited about this. 

(Music) So this is actually how you might separate bikes from cars with minimal cost.

And I went and searched, and this is what I found.

And we're not actually working on this, that particular thing, but it gets your imagination going. 

CR: Let me close with this.

Give me a sense of the philosophy of your own mind.

You have this idea of [Google X].

You don't simply want to go in some small, measurable arena of progress. 

I think of somebody you knew and read about, Tesla.

The principle of that for you is what? 

LP: Well, I think invention is not enough.

If you invent something, Tesla invented electric power that we use, but he struggled to get it out to people.

That had to be done by other people.

It took a long time.

And I think if we can actually combine both things, where we have an innovation and invention focus, plus the ability to really -- a company that can really commercialize things and get them to people in a way that's positive for the world and to give people hope.

CR: Which is a second thing about corporations.

You are one of those people who believe that corporations are an agent of change if they are run well. 

They get a bad rap.

And I think that's somewhat correct.

Companies are doing the same incremental thing that they did 50 years ago or 20 years ago.

That's not really what we need.

So I think we aim to do kind of similar things.

And I think, you ask, we have a lot of employees at Google who have become pretty wealthy.

People make a lot of money in technology.

A lot of people in the room are pretty wealthy.

You're working because you want to change the world.

You want to make it better.

Why isn't the company that you work for worthy not just of your time but your money as well?

I mean, but we don't have a concept of that.

People like Rupert Murdoch have said curiosity, and other people in the media have said that.

Bill Gates and Warren Buffett have said focus.

What quality of mind, as I leave this audience, has enabled you to think about the future and at the same time change the present? 

LP: You know, I think the most important thing -- I looked at lots of companies and why I thought they don't succeed over time.

We've had a more rapid turnover of companies.

And I said, what did they fundamentally do wrong?

What did those companies all do wrong?

And usually it's just that they missed the future.

Look at Android.

I felt guilty about working on Android when it was starting.

It was a little startup we bought.

It wasn't really what we were really working on.

And I felt guilty about spending time on that.

That was stupid.

That was the future, right?

That was a good thing to be working on. 

CR: It is great to see you here.

LP: Thank you. 

CR: Larry Page. 

