Chris Anderson: We had Edward Snowden here a couple days ago, and this is response time.

And several of you have written to me with questions to ask our guest here from the NSA.

So Richard Ledgett is the 15th deputy director of the National Security Agency, and he's a senior civilian officer there, acts as its chief operating officer, guiding strategies, setting internal policies, and serving as the principal advisor to the director.

Richard Ledgett: I'm really thankful for the opportunity to talk to folks here.

It's certainly quite a strong statement that the NSA is willing to reach out and show a more open face here.

You saw, I think, the talk and interview that Edward Snowden gave here a couple days ago.

What did you make of it?

RL: So I think it was interesting.

CA: So the question that a lot of people have here is, what do you make of Snowden's motivations for doing what he did, and did he have an alternative way that he could have gone? 

RL: He absolutely did have alternative ways that he could have gone, and I actually think that characterizing him as a whistleblower actually hurts legitimate whistleblowing activities.

They're all great citizens.

First off, there's their supervisor, and up through the supervisory chain within their organization.

If folks aren't comfortable with that, there are a number of inspectors general.

In the case of Mr. Snowden, he had the option of the NSA inspector general, the Navy inspector general, the Pacific Command inspector general, the Department of Defense inspector general, and the intelligence community inspector general, any of whom would have both kept his concerns in classified channels and been happy to address them.

CA: Now, you had said that Ed Snowden had other avenues for raising his concerns.

I mean, in that circumstance, couldn't you argue that what he did was reasonable? 

RL: No, I don't agree with that.

They actually do.

I think that's extremely arrogant on his part. 

CA: Can you give a specific example of how he put people's lives at risk? 

The net effect of that is that our people who are overseas in dangerous places, whether they're diplomats or military, and our allies who are in similar situations, are at greater risk because we don't see the threats that are coming their way. 

CA: So that's a general response saying that because of his revelations, access that you had to certain types of information has been shut down, has been closed down.

But the concern is that the nature of that access was not necessarily legitimate in the first place.

But it's also used by people who are working against us and our allies.

Otherwise, if we could make it so that all the bad guys used one corner of the Internet, we could have a domain, badguy.com.

That's not how it works.

But I will tell you this.

And so we make recommendations on standards to use, and we use those same standards, and so we are invested in making sure that those communications are secure for their intended purposes. 

CA: But it sounds like what you're saying is that when it comes to the Internet at large, any strategy is fair game if it improves America's safety.

It's the bringer of knowledge to all.

It's the connector of all.

It is a global telecommunications system.

The Internet is a big chunk of that, but there is a lot more.

And I think that people have legitimate concerns about the balance between transparency and secrecy.

That's sort of been couched as a balance between privacy and national security.

I don't think that's the right framing.

I think it really is transparency and secrecy.

And so that's the national and international conversation that we're having, and we want to participate in that, and want people to participate in it in an informed way.

There's takeoffs of our logo of an eagle with headphones on around it.

And so that's the public characterization.

And so we need to be more transparent about those things.

CA: You're sitting there with the American flag, and the American Constitution guarantees freedom from unreasonable search and seizure.

How do you characterize the American citizen's right to privacy?

Is there such a right? 

RL: Yeah, of course there is.

and beyond that, the privacy of citizens around the world, it's not just Americans.

Several things come into play here.

First, we're all in the same network.

My communications, I'm a user of a particular Internet email service that is the number one email service of choice by terrorists around the world, number one.

So I'm there right beside them in email space in the Internet.

And so we need to be able to pick that apart and find the information that's relevant.

These are called minimization procedures.

They're approved by the attorney general and constitutionally based.

And so we protect those.

And then, for people, citizens of the world who are going about their lawful business on a day-to-day basis, the president on his January 17 speech, laid out some additional protections that we are providing to them.

So I think absolutely, folks do have a right to privacy, and that we work very hard to make sure that that right to privacy is protected. 

CA: What about foreigners using American companies' Internet services?

Do they have any privacy rights? 

CA: Much has been made of the fact that a lot of the information that you've obtained through these programs is essentially metadata.

It's not necessarily the actual words that someone has written in an email or given on a phone call.

It's who they wrote to and when, and so forth.

With metadata, who knows what the conclusions are that are drawn?

Is there anything to that? 

RL: I don't really understand that argument.

I think that metadata's important for a couple of reasons.

Metadata is the information that lets you find connections that people are trying to hide.

What metadata lets you do is connect that.

The alternative to that is one that's much less efficient and much more invasive of privacy, which is gigantic amounts of content collection.

So metadata, in that sense, actually is privacy-enhancing.

And we don't, contrary to some of the stuff that's been printed, we don't sit there and grind out metadata profiles of average people.

If you're not connected to one of those valid intelligence targets, you are not of interest to us. 

CA: So in terms of the threats that face America overall, where would you place terrorism? 

RL: I think terrorism is still number one.

I think that we have never been in a time where there are more places where things are going badly and forming the petri dish in which terrorists take advantage of the lack of governance.

An old boss of mine, Tom Fargo, Admiral Fargo, used to describe it as arcs of instability.

You've got places like Iraq, which is suffering from a high level of sectarian violence, again a breeding ground for terrorism.

That is a hugely costly set of activities that's going on right now.

Several nation-states are doing it.

Second is the denial-of-service attacks.

You're probably aware that there have been a spate of those directed against the U.S. financial sector since 2012.

Again, that's a nation-state who is executing those attacks, and they're doing that as a semi-anonymous way of reprisal.

And the last one is destructive attacks, and those are the ones that concern me the most.

Those are on the rise.

You have the attack against Saudi Aramco in 2012, August of 2012.

It took down about 35,000 of their computers with a Wiper-style virus.

You had a follow-on a week later to a Qatari company.

You had March of 2013, you had a South Korean attack that was attributed in the press to North Korea that took out thousands of computers.

Those are on the rise, and we see people expressing interest in those capabilities and a desire to employ them. 

I mean, first of all, a lot of people who look at risk and look at the numbers don't understand this belief that terrorism is still the number one threat.

The chance in the last few years of being killed by terrorism is far less than the chance of being killed by lightning.

RL: Well, I'd say two things.

One is, the reason that there hasn't been a major attack in the United States since 9/11, that is not an accident.

That's a lot of hard work that we have done, that other folks in the intelligence community have done, that the military has done, and that our allies around the globe have done.

The other thing I would say is that your idea of nuclear or chem-bio-threat is not at all far-fetched and in fact there are a number of groups who have for several years expressed interest and desire in obtaining those capabilities and work towards that. 

The needle was found by other methods.

Isn't there something to that? 

RL: No, there's actually two programs that are typically implicated in that discussion.

One is the section 215 program, the U.S. telephony metadata program, and the other one is popularly called the PRISM program, and it's actually section 702 of the FISA Amendment Act.

But the 215 program is only relevant to threats that are directed against the United States, and there have been a dozen threats where that was implicated.

Now what you'll see people say publicly is there is no "but for" case, and so there is no case where, but for that, the threat would have happened.

But that actually indicates a lack of understanding of how terrorist investigations actually work.

Think of it is as mosaic, and it's hard to say that any one piece of a mosaic was necessary to building the mosaic, but to build the complete picture, you need to have all the pieces of information.

On the other, the non-U.S.-related threats out of those 54, the other 42 of them, the PRISM program was hugely relevant to that, and in fact was material in contributing to stopping those attacks. 

Is there any internal debate about that? 

And it's important to note that the programs that we're talking about were all authorized by two different presidents, two different political parties, by Congress twice, and by federal judges 16 different times, and so this is not NSA running off and doing its own thing.

CA: And yet, when congressmen discovered what was actually being done with that authorization, many of them were completely shocked.

RL: Congress is a big body.

I think I would say that Congress members had the opportunity to make themselves aware, and in fact a significant number of them, the ones who are assigned oversight responsibility, did have the ability to do that.

And you've actually had the chairs of those committees say that in public.

And the other one is that the NSA has both of those missions, and we are heavily biased towards defense, and, actually, the vulnerabilities that we find in the overwhelming majority of cases, we disclose to the people who are responsible for manufacturing or developing those products.

We want to be more transparent about that.

So again, we eat our own dog food.

CA: Edward Snowden, when, after his talk, was wandering the halls here in the bot, and I heard him say to a couple of people, they asked him about what he thought of the NSA overall, and he was very complimentary about the people who work with you, said that it's a really impassioned group of employees who are seeking to do the right thing, and that the problems have come from just some badly conceived policies.

He came over certainly very reasonably and calmly.

He didn't come over like a crazy man.

Would you accept that at least, even if you disagree with how he did it, that he has opened a debate that matters? 

RL: So I think that the discussion is an important one to have.

I do not like the way that he did it.

I think there were a number of other ways that he could have done that that would have not endangered our people and the people of other nations through losing visibility into what our adversaries are doing.

But I do think it's an important conversation. 

But you've been quoted as saying that, if Snowden could prove that he was surrendering all undisclosed documents, that a deal maybe should be considered.

Do you still think that? 

But there is a strong tradition in American jurisprudence of having discussions with people who have been charged with crimes in order to, if it benefits the government, to get something out of that, that there's always room for that kind of discussion.

So I'm not presupposing any outcome, but there is always room for discussion. 

Do you see, has that kind of possibility been entertained at all?

RL: So that's out of my lane.

That's not an NSA thing.

That would be a Department of Justice sort of discussion.

I'll defer to them. 

CA: Rick, when Ed Snowden ended his talk, I offered him the chance to share an idea worth spreading.

What would be your idea worth spreading for this group? 

RL: So I think, learn the facts.

Don't rely on headlines, don't rely on sound bites, don't rely on one-sided conversations.

So that's the idea, I think, worth spreading.

So the lanyard that our people who work in the organization that does our crypto-analytic work have a tab that says, "Look at the data."

So that's the idea worth spreading.

Look at the data. 

CA: Rick, it took a certain amount of courage, I think, actually, to come and speak openly to this group.

It's not something the NSA has done a lot of in the past, and plus the technology has been challenging.

We truly appreciate you doing that and sharing in this very important conversation.

Thank you so much. 

