What's the scariest thing you've ever done?

Or another way to say it is, what's the most dangerous thing that you've ever done?

And why did you do it?

I know what the most dangerous thing is that I've ever done because NASA does the math.

You look back to the first five shuttle launches, the odds of a catastrophic event during the first five shuttle launches was one in nine.

You go into, at the Kennedy Space Center, the suit-up room, the same room that our childhood heroes got dressed in, that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin got suited in to go ride the Apollo rocket to the moon.

The crew is sitting in the Astro van sort of hushed, almost holding hands, looking at that as it gets bigger and bigger.

We ride the elevator up and we crawl in, on your hands and knees into the spaceship, one at a time, and you worm your way up into your chair and plunk yourself down on your back.

And as the time gets closer and closer, this excitement is building.

And 15 seconds before launch, this happens: (Video) Voice: 12, 11, 10, nine, eight, seven, six -- (Space shuttle preparing for takeoff) -- start, two, one, booster ignition, and liftoff of the space shuttle Discovery, returning to the space station, paving the way ... (Space shuttle taking off) 

Chris Hadfield: It is incredibly powerful to be on board one of these things.

You are in the grip of something that is vastly more powerful than yourself.

It's shaking you so hard you can't focus on the instruments in front of you.

You get lighter and lighter, the force gets on us heavier and heavier.

It feels like someone's pouring cement on you or something.

Until finally, after about eight minutes and 40 seconds or so, we are finally at exactly the right altitude, exactly the right speed, the right direction, the engine shut off, and we're weightless.

And we're alive. 

It's an amazing experience.

But why would we take that risk?

Why would you do something that dangerous? 

In my case the answer is fairly straightforward.

I was inspired as a youngster that this was what I wanted to do.

But the real question is, how do you deal with the danger of it and the fear that comes from it?

How do you deal with fear versus danger?

But maybe even more importantly, allowing us to see the world in a way that is impossible through any other means, to be able to look down and have -- if your jaw could drop, it would -- the jaw-dropping gorgeousness of the turning orb like a self-propelled art gallery of fantastic, constantly changing beauty that is the world itself.

And you see, because of the speed, a sunrise or a sunset every 45 minutes for half a year.

And the most magnificent part of all that is to go outside on a spacewalk.

You are in a one-person spaceship that is your spacesuit, and you're going through space with the world.

It's an entirely different perspective, you're not looking up at the universe, you and the Earth are going through the universe together.

And you're holding on with one hand, looking at the world turn beside you.

It's roaring silently with color and texture as it pours by mesmerizingly next to you.

And if you can tear your eyes away from that and you look under your arm down at the rest of everything, it's unfathomable blackness, with a texture you feel like you could stick your hand into.

when my left eye went blind, and I didn't know why.

Suddenly my left eye slammed shut in great pain and I couldn't figure out why my eye wasn't working.

I was thinking, what do I do next?

I thought, well maybe that's why we have two eyes, so I kept working.

But unfortunately, without gravity, tears don't fall.

So you just get a bigger and bigger ball of whatever that is mixed with your tears on your eye until eventually, the ball becomes so big that the surface tension takes it across the bridge of your nose like a tiny little waterfall and goes "goosh" into your other eye, and now I was completely blind outside the spaceship. 

So what's the scariest thing you've ever done?

(Laughter) Maybe it's spiders.

A lot of people are afraid of spiders.

And how do you know?

And so a spider lands on you, and you go through this great, spasmy attack because spiders are scary.

So if you actually do the research, you find out that in the world there are about 50,000 different types of spiders, and there are about two dozen that are venomous out of 50,000.

And if you're in Canada, because of the cold winters here in B.C., there's about 720, 730 different types of spiders and there's one -- one -- that is venomous, and its venom isn't even fatal, it's just kind of like a nasty sting.

And that spider -- not only that, but that spider has beautiful markings on it, it's like "I'm dangerous.

So, if you're even slightly careful you can avoid running into the one spider -- and it lives close the ground, you're walking along, you are never going to go through a spider web where a black widow bites you.

Spider webs like this, it doesn't build those, it builds them down in the corners.

And its a black widow because the female spider eats the male; it doesn't care about you.

So in fact, the next time you walk into a spiderweb, you don't need to panic and go with your caveman reaction.

The danger is entirely different than the fear. 

How do you get around it, though?

How do you change your behavior?

Well, next time you see a spiderweb, have a good look, make sure it's not a black widow spider, and then walk into it.

And you can apply this to anything. 

If you're outside on a spacewalk and you're blinded, your natural reaction would be to panic, I think.

It would make you nervous and worried.

But we had considered all the venom, and we had practiced with a whole variety of different spiderwebs.

We knew everything there is to know about the spacesuit and we trained underwater thousands of times.

And we don't just practice things going right, we practice things going wrong all the time, so that you are constantly walking through those spiderwebs.

And not just underwater, but also in virtual reality labs with the helmet and the gloves so you feel like it's realistic.

So when you finally actually get outside on a spacewalk, it feels much different than it would if you just went out first time.

And even if you're blinded, your natural, panicky reaction doesn't happen.

I could find my own way back.

It's not nearly as big a deal.

And actually, if you keep on crying for a while, whatever that gunk was that's in your eye starts to dilute and you can start to see again, and Houston, if you negotiate with them, they will let you then keep working.

But the key to that is by looking at the difference between perceived danger and actual danger, where is the real risk?

What is the real thing that you should be afraid of?

Not just a generic fear of bad things happening.

You can fundamentally change your reaction to things so that it allows you to go places and see things and do things that otherwise would be completely denied to you ... 

You see a beauty that otherwise never would have happened. 

It's time to come home at the end.

This is our spaceship, the Soyuz, that little one.

Three of us climb in, and then this spaceship detaches from the station and falls into the atmosphere.

These two parts here actually melt, we jettison them and they burn up in the atmosphere.

But instead of riding into the atmosphere just screaming, like you would if suddenly you found yourself riding a meteorite back to Earth -- (Laughter) -- instead, 20 years previously we had started studying Russian, and then once you learn Russian, then we learned orbital mechanics in Russian, and then we learned vehicle control theory, and then we got into the simulator and practiced over and over and over again.

And when the great big parachute opened, we knew that if it didn't open there's a second parachute, and it runs on a nice little clockwork mechanism.

So we came back, we came thundering back to Earth and this is what it looked like to land in a Soyuz, in Kazakhstan.

(Video) Reporter: And you can see one of those search and recovery helicopters, once again that helicopter part of dozen such Russian Mi-8 helicopters.

Touchdown -- 3:14 and 48 seconds, a.m. Central Time.

CH: And you roll to a stop as if someone threw your spaceship at the ground and it tumbles end over end, but you're ready for it you're in a custom-built seat, you know how the shock absorber works.

And then eventually the Russians reach in, drag you out, plunk you into a chair, and you can now look back at what was an incredible experience.

Just to finish, they asked me to play that guitar.

(Applause) That's very nice of you.

Thank you. 

