Ed, welcome to the TED stage.

What can you see, as a matter of fact? 

Edward Snowden: Ha, I can see everyone.

CA: Ed, some questions for you.

You've been called many things in the last few months.

You've been called a whistleblower, a traitor, a hero.

What words would you describe yourself with? 

ES: You know, everybody who is involved with this debate has been struggling over me and my personality and how to describe me.

But when I think about it, this isn't the question that we should be struggling with.

Who I am really doesn't matter at all.

If I'm the worst person in the world, you can hate me and move on.

What really matters here are the issues.

What really matters here is the kind of government we want, the kind of Internet we want, the kind of relationship between people and societies.

And that's what I'm hoping the debate will move towards, and we've seen that increasing over time.

If I had to describe myself, I wouldn't use words like "hero."

I wouldn't use "patriot," and I wouldn't use "traitor."

I'd say I'm an American and I'm a citizen, just like everyone else. 

CA: So just to give some context for those who don't know the whole story -- (Applause) — this time a year ago, you were stationed in Hawaii working as a consultant to the NSA.

As a sysadmin, you had access to their systems, and you began revealing certain classified documents to some handpicked journalists leading the way to June's revelations.

Now, what propelled you to do this?

ES: You know, when I was sitting in Hawaii, and the years before, when I was working in the intelligence community, I saw a lot of things that had disturbed me.

We do a lot of good things in the intelligence community, things that need to be done, and things that help everyone.

But there are also things that go too far.

There are things that shouldn't be done, and decisions that were being made in secret without the public's awareness, without the public's consent, and without even our representatives in government having knowledge of these programs.

But the First Amendment of the United States Constitution guarantees us a free press for a reason, and that's to enable an adversarial press, to challenge the government, but also to work together with the government, to have a dialogue and debate about how we can inform the public about matters of vital importance without putting our national security at risk.

And by working with journalists, by giving all of my information back to the American people, rather than trusting myself to make the decisions about publication, we've had a robust debate with a deep investment by the government that I think has resulted in a benefit for everyone.

And the risks that have been threatened, the risks that have been played up by the government have never materialized.

CA: So let me show the audience a couple of examples of what you revealed.

If we could have a slide up, and Ed, I don't know whether you can see, the slides are here.

This is a slide of the PRISM program, and maybe you could tell the audience what that was that was revealed. 

ES: The best way to understand PRISM, because there's been a little bit of controversy, is to first talk about what PRISM isn't.

Much of the debate in the U.S. has been about metadata.

They've said it's just metadata, it's just metadata, and they're talking about a specific legal authority called Section 215 of the Patriot Act.

That allows sort of a warrantless wiretapping, mass surveillance of the entire country's phone records, things like that -- who you're talking to, when you're talking to them, where you traveled.

These are all metadata events.

PRISM is about content.

These aren't the people that we want deciding what the role of corporate America in a free and open Internet should be. 

CA: Now, this slide that we're showing here shows the dates in which different technology companies, Internet companies, are alleged to have joined the program, and where data collection began from them.

Now, they have denied collaborating with the NSA.

How was that data collected by the NSA? 

It doesn't mean that there's a group of company representatives sitting in a smoky room with the NSA palling around and making back-room deals about how they're going to give this stuff away.

Now each company handles it different ways.

Some are responsible.

Some are somewhat less responsible.

But the bottom line is, when we talk about how this information is given, it's coming from the companies themselves.

It's not stolen from the lines.

So even these companies that are cooperating in at least a compelled but hopefully lawful manner with the NSA, the NSA isn't satisfied with that, and because of that, we need our companies to work very hard to guarantee that they're going to represent the interests of the user, and also advocate for the rights of the users.

And I think over the last year, we've seen the companies that are named on the PRISM slides take great strides to do that, and I encourage them to continue. 

CA: What more should they do? 

ES: The biggest thing that an Internet company in America can do today, right now, without consulting with lawyers, to protect the rights of users worldwide, is to enable SSL web encryption on every page you visit.

The reason this matters is today, if you go to look at a copy of "1984" on Amazon.com, the NSA can see a record of that, the Russian intelligence service can see a record of that, the Chinese service can see a record of that, the French service, the German service, the services of Andorra.

They can all see it because it's unencrypted.

The world's library is Amazon.com, but not only do they not support encryption by default, you cannot choose to use encryption when browsing through books.

All companies need to move to an encrypted browsing habit by default for all users who haven't taken any action or picked any special methods on their own.

That'll increase the privacy and the rights that people enjoy worldwide. 

(Applause) This is a program called Boundless Informant.

What is that? 

ES: So, I've got to give credit to the NSA for using appropriate names on this.

This is one of my favorite NSA cryptonyms.

Boundless Informant is a program that the NSA hid from Congress.

It's already in place.

The NSA has its own internal data format that tracks both ends of a communication, and if it says, this communication came from America, they can tell Congress how many of those communications they have today, right now.

And what Boundless Informant tells us is more communications are being intercepted in America about Americans than there are in Russia about Russians.

I'm not sure that's what an intelligence agency should be aiming for. 

CA: Ed, there was a story broken in the Washington Post, again from your data.

But what's especially interesting about this, about the fact that the NSA has violated their own rules, their own laws thousands of times in a single year, including one event by itself, one event out of those 2,776, that affected more than 3,000 people.

In another event, they intercepted all the calls in Washington, D.C., by accident.

What's amazing about this, this report, that didn't get that much attention, is the fact that not only were there 2,776 abuses, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Dianne Feinstein, had not seen this report until the Washington Post contacted her asking for comment on the report.

And she then requested a copy from the NSA and received it, but had never seen this before that.

CA: Ed, one response to this whole debate is this: Why should we care about all this surveillance, honestly?

I mean, look, if you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to worry about.

What's wrong with that point of view?

ES: Well, so the first thing is, you're giving up your rights.

You're saying hey, you know, I don't think I'm going to need them, so I'm just going to trust that, you know, let's get rid of them, it doesn't really matter, these guys are going to do the right thing.

Your rights matter because you never know when you're going to need them.

People should be able to pick up the phone and to call their family, people should be able to send a text message to their loved ones, people should be able to buy a book online, they should be able to travel by train, they should be able to buy an airline ticket without wondering about how these events are going to look to an agent of the government, possibly not even your government years in the future, how they're going to be misinterpreted and what they're going to think your intentions were.

We have a right to privacy.

We require warrants to be based on probable cause or some kind of individualized suspicion because we recognize that trusting anybody, any government authority, with the entirety of human communications in secret and without oversight is simply too great a temptation to be ignored. 

CA: Some people are furious at what you've done.

What would you say to people who think that? 

ES: Dick Cheney's really something else.

(Laughter) (Applause) Thank you.

So we should be suspicious about the same sort of overblown claims of damage to national security from these kind of officials.

But let's assume that these people really believe this.

I would argue that they have kind of a narrow conception of national security.

The prerogatives of people like Dick Cheney do not keep the nation safe.

The public interest is not always the same as the national interest.

Going to war with people who are not our enemy in places that are not a threat doesn't make us safe, and that applies whether it's in Iraq or on the Internet.

The Internet is not the enemy.

Our economy is not the enemy.

American businesses, Chinese businesses, and any other company out there is a part of our society.

It's a part of our interconnected world.

CA: But it's alleged that you've stolen 1.7 million documents.

It seems only a few hundred of them have been shared with journalists so far.

Are there more revelations to come? 

ES: There are absolutely more revelations to come.

I don't think there's any question that some of the most important reporting to be done is yet to come. 

I mean, this is a story which I think for a lot of the techies in this room is the single most shocking thing that they have heard in the last few months.

It's about a program called "Bullrun."

Can you explain what that is? 

And the reason that I believe they're named this way is because they target our own infrastructure.

They're programs through which the NSA intentionally misleads corporate partners.

We won't be able to access our banks and we won't be able to access commerce without worrying about people monitoring those communications or subverting them for their own ends. 

CA: And do those same decisions also potentially open America up to cyberattacks from other sources? 

ES: Absolutely.

One of the problems, one of the dangerous legacies that we've seen in the post-9/11 era, is that the NSA has traditionally worn two hats.

If we hack a Chinese business and steal their secrets, if we hack a government office in Berlin and steal their secrets, that has less value to the American people than making sure that the Chinese can't get access to our secrets.

Congress, who has access to be briefed on these things, and now has the desire to be, has produced bills to reform it, and two independent White House panels who reviewed all of the classified evidence said these programs have never stopped a single terrorist attack that was imminent in the United States.

So is it really terrorism that we're stopping?

Do these programs have any value at all?

CA: I mean, do you think there's a deeper motivation for them than the war against terrorism? 

Terrorism is something that provokes an emotional response that allows people to rationalize authorizing powers and programs that they wouldn't give otherwise.

The Bullrun and Edgehill-type programs, the NSA asked for these authorities back in the 1990s.

They asked the FBI to go to Congress and make the case.

The FBI went to Congress and did make the case.

But Congress and the American people said no.

Speaking of terror, most people would find the situation you're in right now in Russia pretty terrifying.

How are you coping with this?

How are you coping with the fear? 

ES: It's no mystery that there are governments out there that want to see me dead.

I don't want to harm my government.

We shouldn't be threatening dissidents.

We shouldn't be criminalizing journalism.

And whatever part I can do to see that end, I'm happy to do despite the risks. 

You could view what he did as fundamentally a reckless act that has endangered America or you could view it as fundamentally a heroic act that will work towards America and the world's long-term good?

Those are the two choices I'll give you.

There are some hands going up.

Some hands going up.

It's hard to put your hand up when the man is standing right here, but I see them. 

It's not left or right, it's not really about pro-government, libertarian, or not just that.

Part of it is almost a generational issue.

Is there some truth to that? 

This is not a left or right issue.

CA: Well, I have heard similar language recently from the founder of the world wide web, who I actually think is with us, Sir Tim Berners-Lee.

Which camp are you in, by the way, traitor, hero?

CA: And Ed, I think you've read the proposal that Sir Tim has talked about about a new Magna Carta to take back the Internet.

And I believe that a Magna Carta for the Internet is exactly what we need.

CA: Do you have a question for Ed? 

TBL: Well, two questions, a general question — 

CA: Ed, can you still hear us? 

ES: It's a little bit of an NSA problem. 

TBL: So, from the 25 years, stepping back and thinking, what would you think would be the best that we could achieve from all the discussions that we have about the web we want? 

ES: When we think about in terms of how far we can go, I think that's a question that's really only limited by what we're willing to put into it.

There was a recent legal article at Yale that established something called the Bankston-Soltani Principle, which is that our expectation of privacy is violated when the capabilities of government surveillance have become cheaper by an order of magnitude, and each time that occurs, we need to revisit and rebalance our privacy rights.

ES: Nice to meet you, and I hope my beam looks as nice as my view of you guys does. 

I mean, The New York Times recently called for an amnesty for you.

Would you welcome the chance to come back to America? 

I'm curious, how does that feel? 

ES: Canada is different than what I expected.

CA: At TED, the mission is "ideas worth spreading."

We don't have to give up our liberty to have security.

Thank you very much. 

