We're living in an era of scientific creationism, 9/11 conspiracy theories, psychic hotlines, and a resurgence of religious fundamentalism.

People who think too well are often accused of elitism, and even in the academy, there are attacks on logocentrism, the crime of letting logic dominate our thinking. 

SP: But is this necessarily a bad thing?

Perhaps reason is overrated.

In this way of thinking, it's character and conscience, not cold-hearted calculation, that will save us.

Besides, a human being is not a brain on a stick.

My fellow psychologists have shown that we're led by our bodies and our emotions and use our puny powers of reason merely to rationalize our gut feelings after the fact. 

RNG: How could a reasoned argument logically entail the ineffectiveness of reasoned arguments?

Look, you're trying to persuade us of reason's impotence.

You're not threatening us or bribing us, suggesting that we resolve the issue with a show of hands or a beauty contest.

You show up for that debate and you've already lost it. 

SP: But can reason lead us in directions that are good or decent or moral?

Can reason force the reasoner to want less cruelty and waste? 

And that's certainly true of our gregarious and loquatious species, well endowed with the instinct for language. 

In particular, can it explain a momentous historical development that I spoke about five years ago here at TED?

Namely, we seem to be getting more humane.

Centuries ago, our ancestors would burn cats alive as a form of popular entertainment.

Knights waged constant war on each other by trying to kill as many of each other's peasants as possible.

Respectable people kept slaves.

For all our flaws, we have abandoned these barbaric practices. 

SP: Well, among other things, our circle of empathy expanded.

Years ago, our ancestors would feel the pain only of their family and people in their village.

RNG: Can hard-headed scientists really give so much credit to soft-hearted empathy? 

SP: They can and do.

But all on its own, it's a feeble instrument for making moral progress.

For one thing, it's innately biased toward blood relations, babies and warm, fuzzy animals.

As far as empathy is concerned, ugly outsiders can go to hell.

And even our best attempts to work up sympathy for those who are unconnected with us fall miserably short, a sad truth about human nature that was pointed out by Adam Smith. 

He would, I imagine, first of all express very strongly his sorrow for the misfortune of that unhappy people.

He would make many melancholy reflections upon the precariousness of human life, and when all these humane sentiments had been once fairly expressed, he would pursue his business or his pleasure with the same ease and tranquility as if no such accident had happened.

Reason has muscle.

And if you look at the history of moral progress, you can trace a direct pathway from reasoned arguments to changes in the way that we actually feel.

Time and again, a thinker would lay out an argument as to why some practice was indefensible, irrational, inconsistent with values already held.

By now, these things just feel wrong.

But just those arguments had to be made, and they were, in centuries past. 

SP: Are you saying that people needed a step-by-step argument to grasp why something might be a wee bit wrong with burning heretics at the stake? 

Sebastian Castellio: Calvin says that he's certain, and other sects say that they are.

But then, why does he write so many books about manifest truth?

In view of the uncertainty, we must define heretics simply as one with whom we disagree.

SP: Or with hideous punishments like breaking on the wheel? 

Cesare Beccaria: As punishments become more cruel, the minds of men, which like fluids always adjust to the level of the objects that surround them, become hardened, and after a hundred years of cruel punishments, breaking on the wheel causes no more fear than imprisonment previously did.

Everything beyond this is superfluous, and therefore tyrannical. 

SP: But everyone knows that the movement to abolish slavery depended on faith and emotion.

It was a movement spearheaded by the Quakers, and it only became popular when Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel "Uncle Tom's Cabin" became a bestseller. 

RNG: But the ball got rolling a century before.

John Locke bucked the tide of millennia that had regarded the practice as perfectly natural.

He argued that it was inconsistent with the principles of rational government. 

SP: Those words sound familiar.

Mary Astell: If absolute sovereignty be not necessary in a state, how comes it to be so in a family?

Or if in a family, why not in a state?

Since no reason can be alleged for the one that will not hold more strongly for the other, if all men are born free, how is it that all women are born slaves, as they must be if being subjected to the inconstant, uncertain, unknown, arbitrary will of men be the perfect condition of slavery? 

But fully two centuries before, the Enlightenment thinker Jeremy Bentham had exposed the indefensibility of customary practices such as the cruelty to animals. 

RNG: And the persecution of homosexuals. 

JB: As to any primary mischief, it's evident that it produces no pain in anyone.

On the contrary, it produces pleasure.

The partners are both willing.

As to the any danger exclusive of pain, the danger, if any, much consist in the tendency of the example.

But what is the tendency of this example?

To dispose others to engage in the same practices.

But this practice produces not pain of any kind to anyone. 

It kind of makes you wonder about our own time.

Are there practices that we engage in where the arguments against them are there for all to see but nonetheless we persist in them? 

RNG: When our great grandchildren look back at us, will they be as appalled by some of our practices as we are by our slave-owning, heretic-burning, wife-beating, gay-bashing ancestors? 

SP: I'm sure everyone here could think of an example. 

RNG: I opt for the mistreatment of animals in factory farms. 

RNG: Scrimping on donations to life-saving charities in the developing world. 

RNG: The appeal to religion to justify the otherwise unjustifiable, such as the ban on contraception. 

RNG: Eh, I'm not holding my breath. 

SP: Still, I have become convinced that reason is a better angel that deserves the greatest credit for the moral progress our species has enjoyed and that holds out the greatest hope for continuing moral progress in the future. 

RNG: And if, our friends, you detect a flaw in this argument, just remember you'll be depending on reason to point it out. 

