In real life, I love to hike, but every time I want to go on a hike, it makes me nervous.

I have this thought in the back of my mind that I might lose a limb. 

Mohammed, like so many other survivors all around the world, had to live through the horrifying repercussions of cluster munitions on a daily basis. 

When the one-month conflict started in Lebanon, I was still working at Agence France-Presse in Paris.

I remember how I was glued to the screens, anxiously following the news.

An estimated four million cluster submunitions were spread in Lebanon during the 34-day conflict.

Mohammed lost both legs during the last week of the conflict.

The fact that he lives a five-minute drive from my parents' home made it easier to follow him through the years.

It was now almost 10 years since we first met.

I saw the young boy who had to endure physical and emotional trauma.

His fate and the effects of losing his legs are now his daily reality. 

Survivors of bomb trauma like Mohammed have to deal with so many details that never occur to us.

Ten years ago, I had no clue what a cluster bomb was, nor its horrifying implications.

Let me explain to you what a cluster bomb is.

It's a large canister filled with bomblets.

When it's dropped from the air, it opens up in midair to release hundreds of bomblets.

They scatter around wide areas and on impact, many fail to explode.

Those unexploded ones end up just like landmines -- sitting on the ground, waiting for their next target.

If someone steps on them by accident or picks them up, they can explode.

These weapons are extremely unpredictable, which makes the threat even bigger.

Being a documentary photographer, I decided to go back to Lebanon a few months after the conflict ended to meet cluster bomb survivors.

That's when I met Mohammed, in January 2007.

He was 11 years old, and I met him exactly four months after his accident.

When I first saw him, he was going through painful physiotherapy to recover from his fresh wounds.

Still in shock at such a young age, Mohammed was struggling to get used to his new body.

He would even wake up sometimes at night wanting to scratch his lost feet.

Even before his disability, Mohammed's life wasn't easy.

He was born in the Rashidieh Camp for Palestinian refugees, and this is where he still lives.

Lebanon holds some 400,000 Palestinian refugees, and they suffer from discriminatory laws.

They're not allowed to work in the public sector or practice certain professions and are denied the right to own property.

This is not to mention the continuous physical pain and the experience of feeling isolated.

These weapons affect the poorest of the poor.

The high medical cost is a burden to the families.

Ten years after Mohammed's injury, he is still unable to afford proper prosthetic legs.

He joked that since he doesn't have legs, some days he tries to walk on his hands. 

One of the worst yet invisible impacts of the weapon is the psychological scars it leaves.

In one of Mohammed's early medical reports, he was diagnosed with signs of PTSD.

He suffered from anxiety, poor appetite, sleep disturbance and showed signs of anger.

The reality is Mohammed never received proper help to fully recover.

In an online interview with the director of the Mines Advisory Group, Jamie Franklin, he said, "The US forces dropped over two million tons of munitions over Laos.

According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, in Laos alone -- one of the poorest countries in the world -- nine to 27 million unexploded submunitions remain.

Some 11,000 people have been killed or injured since 1973.

Cluster bombs have reportedly been used most recently in the ongoing conflicts in Yemen and Syria.

According to research on the worldwide investments in cluster munitions producers by Pax, a Dutch-based NGO, financial institutions invested billions of US dollars into companies that make cluster munitions.

The majority of these institutions are based in countries that have not yet signed the Convention on Cluster Munitions. 

Getting back to Mohammed, one of the few jobs he was able to find was picking lemons.

When I ask him if it's safe to work in the field he said, "I'm not sure."

Research shows that cluster munitions often contaminate areas where agriculture is the main source of income.

According to Handicap International's research, 98 percent of those killed or injured by cluster munitions are civilians.

Eighty-four percent of casualties are males.

In countries where these people have no choice but to work in those fields, they simply do it and risk it. 

Mohammed is the only male to three sisters.

Culturally, he's expected to provide for his family, but he simply can't.

He tried to have so many different jobs, but he couldn't keep any due to his physical disability and the less-than-friendly environment to people with disabilities, to say the least.

He said, "I'm not here to beg for money, I just want to earn it."

Mohammed today is 21 years old.

He's illiterate, and he communicates with voice messages.

Here is one of his messages. 

Laura Boushnak: He said, "My dream is to run, and I'm pretty sure once I start running, I would never stop."

Thank you. 

