Anyone in the room thought about sex today?

(Laughter) Yeah, you did.

Thank you for putting your hand up over there.

Well, I'm here to provide you with some biological validation for your sordid daydreams.

I'm here to tell you a few things that you might not have known about wild sex. 

Now, when humans think about sex, male and female forms are generally what come to mind, but for many millions of years, such specific categories didn't even exist.

Sex was a mere fusion of bodies or a trickle of DNA shared between two or more beings.

It wasn't until about 500 million years ago that we start to see structures akin to a penis or a thing that gives DNA out, and a vagina, something that receives it.

Penile diversity is especially profuse.

So this is a paper nautilus.

It's a close relative of squid and octopus, and males have a hectocotylus.

Just what is a hectocotylus?

A detachable, swimming penis.

It leaves the [body of the male], finds the female through pheromonal cues in the water, attaches itself to her body and deposits the sperm.

For many decades, biologists actually felt that the hectocotylus was a separate organism altogether.

Now, the tapir is a mammal from South America.

And the tapir has a prehensile penis.

It actually has a level of dexterity in its penis much akin to what we have with our hands.

The biggest penis in the animal kingdom, however, is not that of the tapir.

Simply insert part A into slot B, and we should all be good to go.

And these contributions are far from equal.

So how do animals cope with these very incongruent needs between the sexes?

If a female gets too many stab wounds, or if a stab wound happens to become infected, she can actually die from it. 

And quite frankly, that's exactly what it is.

A group of males will grab a female, hold her down, and ballistically ejaculate their spiral-shaped penis into her corkscrew-shaped vagina over and over and over again.

From flaccid to ejaculation in less than a second.

Now the female actually gets the last laugh, though, because she can actually manipulate her posture so as to allow the sperm of certain suitors better access to her ovaries. 

But orgasm didn't actually evolve until about 65 million years ago with the advent of mammals.

But some animals had it going on quite a bit before that.

There are some more primitive ways of pleasing one's partner. 

Earwig males have either really large penile appendages or really small ones.

It's a very simple genetically inherited trait and the males are not otherwise any different.

But biologists have repeatedly observed that females choose to have sex with the males that have the long appendages.

These are Mexican guppies, and what you see on their upper maxilla is an outgrowth of epidermal filaments, and these filaments basically form a fish mustache, if you will.

A little guppy porn for you right there. 

So we've seen very different strategies that males are using when it comes to winning a female partner.

We've seen a coercion strategy in which sexual structures are used in a forceful way to basically make a female have sex.

We've also seen a titillation strategy where males are actually pleasing their female partners into choosing them as a sex partner.

Now unfortunately, in the animal kingdom, it's the coercion strategy that we see time and time again.

It's very common in many phyla, from invertebrates to avian species, mammals, and, of course, even in primates. 

Now interestingly, there are a few mammalian species in which females have evolved specialized genitalia that doesn't allow for sexual coercion to take place.

So before a male can insert his penis into a female's vagina, she has to take this penile clitoris and basically inside-out it in her own body.

I mean, imagine putting a penis into another penis.

It's simply not going to happen unless the female is on board with the action.

In hyena societies, adult males are actually the lowest on the social scale.

So what are my take-home messages from my talk today?

Well, sex is just so much more than insert part A into slot B and hope that the offspring run around everywhere.

The sexual strategies and reproductive structures that we see in the animal kingdom basically dictate how males and females will react to each other, which then dictates how populations and societies form and evolve. 

