So I'm going to talk about innovation in Africa, which I think is the purest form, innovation out of necessity.

But first, I'm going to ask you some other questions.

You don't have to put your hands up.

These are rhetorical. 

Why did Nikola Tesla have to invent the alternating current that powers the lights in this building or the city that we're in? 

Why did Henry Ford have to invent the production line to produce these Fords that came in anything as long as they were black? 

So where it's happening is in Africa.

Now, this is real innovation, not the way people have expropriated the word to talk about launching new products.

This is real innovation, and I define it as problem-solving.

Because we have real problems.

And when we solve real problems for people, we solve them for the rest of the world at the same time. 

In Africa, we've been doing that for years, and we've been doing it on phones like this.

You can pay bills with it, you can buy your groceries, you can pay your kids' school fees, and I'm told you can even bribe customs officials.

(Laughter) Something like 25 million dollars a day is transacted through M-Pesa.

Forty percent of Kenya's GDP moves through M-Pesa using phones like this. 

And you think this is just a feature phone.

Actually it's the smartphone of Africa.

We have really severe energy problems in Africa.

By the way, you can update Facebook and send Gmail from a phone like this. 

I come from Johannesburg, which is a mining town.

It's built on gold.

This is a picture I Instagrammed earlier.

And the difference today is that the gold of today is mobile.

So what are some of the things that you can do with it?

Really simple, really effective, really life-saving.

And if you can do that, you can rise out of poverty.

Really simple, using a basic phone.

If you don't have electricity, no problem!

We'll just make it out of old bicycle parts using a windmill, as William Kamkwamba did.

There's another great African that you've heard that's busy disrupting the automobile industry in the world.

So back to Joburg, which is sometimes called Egoli, which means City of Gold.

And not only is mobile the gold of today, I don't believe that the gold is under the ground.

I believe we are the gold.

So, you hear the West talk about innovation at the edge.

(Laughter) This is not that catchy catchphrase.

This is innovation over the edge. 

So there's only one thing left to say. 

