So my moment of truth did not come all at once.

The woman I thought I was would have said yes.

That was a decision based on love and responsibility.

But the real change came more gradually.

I didn't want to miss the last five years that my sons were at home.

I am still completely committed to the cause of male-female equality, but let's think about what that equality really means, and how best to achieve it.

I still think we should do everything we possibly can to achieve that goal.

I suggest that real equality, full equality, does not just mean valuing women on male terms.

It means creating a much wider range of equally respected choices for women and for men.

And to get there, we have to change our workplaces, our policies and our culture. 

In the workplace, real equality means valuing family just as much as work, and understanding that the two reinforce each other.

Workers who have a reason to get home to care for their children or their family members are more focused, more efficient, more results-focused.

And breadwinners who are also caregivers have a much wider range of experiences and contacts.

Those are all attributes that are ever more important in a high-speed, horizontal, networked global economy. 

And a 2012 study of employers showed that deep, flexible practices actually lowered operating costs and increased adaptability in a global service economy. 

Sadly, though, the obsession with work is no longer a uniquely American disease.

Twenty years ago, when my family first started going to Italy, we used to luxuriate in the culture of siesta.

So making a place for those we love is actually a global imperative. 

In policy terms, real equality means recognizing that the work that women have traditionally done is just as important as the work that men have traditionally done, no matter who does it.

Think about it: Breadwinning and caregiving are equally necessary for human survival.

At least if we get beyond a barter economy, somebody has to earn an income and someone else has to convert that income to care and sustenance for loved ones. 

Now most of you, when you hear me talk about breadwinning and caregiving, instinctively translate those categories into men's work and women's work.

And we don't typically challenge why men's work is advantaged.

They're psychiatrists.

They got married five years ago, and now they have two-year-old twins.

Or should they both change their practices so they can have much more flexible schedules?

Or who has the most flexible boss? 

The same-sex perspective helps us see that juggling work and family are not women's problems, they're family problems.

If breadwinning and caregiving are really equal, then why shouldn't a government invest as much in an infrastructure of care as the foundation of a healthy society as it invests in physical infrastructure as the backbone of a successful economy? 

Those governments invest in that infrastructure the same way they invest in roads and bridges and tunnels and trains.

Those societies also show you that breadwinning and caregiving reinforce each other.

Men are still socialized to believe that they have to be breadwinners, that to derive their self-worth from how high they can climb over other men on a career ladder.

The feminist revolution still has a long way to go.

It's certainly not complete.

But 60 years after "The Feminine Mystique" was published, many women actually have more choices than men do.

We can decide to be a breadwinner, a caregiver, or any combination of the two.

When a man, on the other hand, decides to be a caregiver, he puts his manhood on the line.

His friends may praise his decision, but underneath, they're scratching their heads.

Isn't the measure of a man his willingness to compete with other men for power and prestige?

So as parents and partners, we should be socializing our sons and our husbands to be whatever they want to be, either caregivers or breadwinners.

But in fact, the change is actually already happening.

At least in the United States, lots of men take pride in cooking, and frankly obsess over stoves.

They are in the birthing rooms.

They take paternity leave when they can.

Indeed, there are male college students now who are starting to say, "I want to be a stay-at-home dad."

That was completely unthinkable 50 or even 30 years ago.

So I was raised to believe that championing women's rights meant doing everything we could to get women to the top.

It turns out that "you don't care" is just as much a part of who we are as "that's not fair."

Bill Gates agrees.

He argues that the two great forces of human nature are self-interest and caring for others.

Let's bring them both together.

As whole human beings, we will be better caregivers and breadwinners.

Today, not so much.

The revolution for human equality can happen.

It is happening.

It will happen.

How far and how fast is up to us. 

Thank you. 

