A curious little invention is being talked about.

It's called a microscope.

What it allows you to do is see tiny little lifeforms that are invisible to the naked eye.

Soon comes the medical discovery that many of these lifeforms are actually causes of terrible human diseases.

Now it's actually very simple to put a face to many of these monsters.

You take a stain, like acridine orange or a fluorescent stain or Giemsa, and a microscope, and you look at them.

They all have faces.

Why is that so, that Alex in Kenya, Fatima in Bangladesh, Navjoot in Mumbai, and Julie and Mary in Uganda still wait months to be able to diagnose why they are sick?

The problem lies with the microscope itself.

Even though the pinnacle of modern science, research microscopes are not designed for field testing.

Neither were they first designed for diagnostics at all.

They are heavy, bulky, really hard to maintain, and cost a lot of money.

Two of my students, Jim and James, traveled around India and Thailand, starting to think about this problem a lot.

We saw all kinds of donated equipment.

We saw fungus growing on microscope lenses.

And we saw people who had a functional microscope but just didn't know how to even turn it on.

What grew out of that work and that trip was actually the idea of what we call Foldscopes. 

So what is a Foldscope?

A Foldscope is a completely functional microscope, a platform for fluorescence, bright-field, polarization, projection, all kinds of advanced microscopy built purely by folding paper.

So, now you think, how is that possible?

I'm going to show you some examples here, and we will run through some of them.

It starts with a single sheet of paper.

What you see here is all the possible components to build a functional bright-field and fluorescence microscope.

And there are micro optics at the bottom that's actually embedded in the paper itself.

What you do is, you take it on, and just like you are playing like a toy, which it is, I tab it off, and I break it off. 

This paper has no instructions and no languages.

There is a code, a color code embedded, that tells you exactly how to fold that specific microscope.

So this is what changes, but the standard stains all remain the same for many different diseases.

You pop this in.

And I'm going to pick one randomly.

So the idea of very specific diagnostic microscopes comes out of this. 

So up till now, you didn't actually see what I would see from one of these setups.

You actually see how the lenses are cut together in the cross-section pattern.

Right there.

All from the simple setup that I actually described. 

You get to see the beam the way it's projected and bent. 

Can we get the lights back on again? 

I'm going to give you a quick snapshot of some of the parts that go in.

Here is a sheet of paper.

This is when we were thinking about the idea.

This is an A4 sheet of paper.

These are the three stages that you actually see.

So that's where the lenses go.

There are some light sources.

So even though this looks like a simple toy, the aspects of engineering that go in something like this are fairly sophisticated. 

So here is another obvious thing that we would do, typically, if I was going to show that these microscopes are robust, is go to the third floor and drop it from the floor itself.

There it is, and it survives. 

So for us, the next step actually is really finishing our field trials.

We are starting at the end of the summer.

We are at a stage where we'll be making thousands of microscopes.

That would be the first time where we would be doing field trials with the highest density of microscopes ever at a given place.

And I want to leave you with this picture.

What are the tools that we're actually providing the kids who are going to fight this monster soup for tomorrow?

I would love for them to be able to just print out a Foldscope and carry them around in their pockets. 

Thank you. 

