It's a caviar vending machine. 

This is the Art-o-mat, an art vending machine that sells small artistic creations by different artists, usually on small wood blocks or matchboxes, in limited edition. 

In fact, I saw Oliver do one of these strawberry DNA extractions about a year ago, and this is what led me onto this bizarre path that I'm going to talk to you right now.

Because strawberry DNA is really fascinating, because it's so beautiful.

I'd never thought about DNA being a beautiful thing before, before I saw it in this form.

And a lot of people, especially in the art community, don't necessarily engage in science in this way.

I instantly joined Genspace after this, and I asked Oliver, "Well, if we can do this strawberries, can we do this with people as well?"

And about 10 minutes later, we were both spinning it in vials together and coming up with a protocol for human DNA extraction.

And I started doing this on my own, and this is what my DNA actually looks like. 

And I was at a dinner party with some friends, some artist friends, and I was telling them about this project, and they couldn't believe that you could actually see DNA.

So I said, all right, let's get out some supplies right now.

But they became fascinated by it, and it was really exciting for me to see them get excited about science. 

This is what that looked like.

And it started to make me think about a couple of things.

First of all, this looked a lot like my Facebook wall.

They were just numbered because that was the order that I extracted the DNA in.

But then, when you open them up, you have different rarities of the toys.

And so I thought that was interesting.

We're in the first edition of 100 pieces, hoping to do another edition pretty soon.

I'd actually like to get it into more of a metro hub, like Grand Central or Penn Station, right next to some of the other, actual vending machines in that location. 

And how much will these samples be worth?

And will you buy someone else's sample?

And what will you be able to do with that sample? 

Thank you. 

