The 2011 Arab Spring captured the attention of the world.

Of course, it's no secret that governments are able to intercept telephone calls and text messages.

It's for that reason that many activists specifically avoid using the telephone.

Instead, they use tools like Skype, which they think are immune to interception.

They're wrong.

There have now been over the last few years an industry of companies who provide surveillance technology to governments, specifically technology that allows those governments to hack into the computers of surveillance targets.

When the government of Egypt fell in 2011, activists raided the office of the secret police, and among the many documents they found was this document by the Gamma Corporation, by Gamma International.

Gamma is a German company that manufactures surveillance software and sells it only to governments.

It's important to note that most governments don't really have the in-house capabilities to develop this software.

Smaller ones don't have the resources or the expertise, and so there's this market of Western companies who are happy to supply them with the tools and techniques for a price.

Gamma is just one of these companies.

I should note also that Gamma never actually sold their software to the Egyptian government.

They'd sent them an invoice for a sale, but the Egyptians never bought it.

Instead, apparently, the Egyptian government used a free demo version of Gamma's software.

Really, they're just emphasizing in a relatively slick presentation the fact that the police can sort of sit in an air-conditioned office and remotely monitor someone without them having any idea that it's going on.

You know, your webcam light won't turn on.

There are many photos of Mr. Muench that exist.

This is perhaps my favorite.

I'm just going to zoom in a little bit onto his webcam.

You can see there's a little sticker that's placed over his camera.

He knows what kind of surveillance is possible, and so clearly he doesn't want it to be used against him.

Muench has said that he intends for his software to be used to capture terrorists and locate pedophiles.

Gamma is not the only company in the business.

As I said, it's a $5 billion industry.

One of the other big guys in the industry is an Italian company called Hacking Team.

Now, Hacking Team has what is probably the slickest presentation.

(Video) Narrator: You want to look through your target's eyes.

(Music) You have to hack your target.

[Skype &amp; encrypted calls, target location, messaging, relationships, web browsing, audio &amp; video"] Being stealth and untraceable.

["Immune to any protection system Hidden collection infrastructure"] Deployed all over your country.

Last year we learned, for example, that it's been used to target Moroccan journalists by the Moroccan government.

Many, many countries it's been found in.

So, Hacking Team has also been actively courting the U.S. law enforcement market.

In the last year or so, the company has opened a sales office in Maryland.

The company has also hired a spokesperson.

They've spoken at the conferences.

What I thought was most fascinating was they've actually paid for the coffee break at one of the law enforcement conferences earlier this year.

They're all buying off-the-shelf stuff.

My friends at an organization called the Electronic Frontier Foundation -- they're a civil society group — obtained hundreds of documents from the FBI detailing their next generation of surveillance technologies.

Most of these documents were heavily redacted, but what you can see from the slides, if I zoom in, is this term: Remote Operations Unit.

Now, when I first looked into this, I'd never heard of this unit before.

There's no drug dealer phone and there's no journalist laptop.

So governments around the world have been embracing this technology.

Thank you very much. 

