I'm going to talk a little bit about strategy and its relationship with technology.

Let me start, if I may, with a little bit of history.

Henderson's central idea was what you might call the Napoleonic idea of concentrating mass against weakness, of overwhelming the enemy.

What Henderson recognized was that, in the business world, there are many phenomena which are characterized by what economists would call increasing returns -- scale, experience.

The more you do of something, disproportionately the better you get.

And therefore he found a logic for investing in such kinds of overwhelming mass in order to achieve competitive advantage.

And that was the first introduction of essentially a military concept of strategy into the business world. 

He pointed out, correctly, that that's all very well, but businesses actually have multiple steps to them.

A company or a business might actually be advantaged in some activities but disadvantaged in others.

It was on those two ideas, Henderson's idea of increasing returns to scale and experience, and Porter's idea of the value chain, encompassing heterogenous elements, that the whole edifice of business strategy was subsequently erected. 

Now what I'm going to argue is that those premises are, in fact, being invalidated.

First of all, let's think about transaction costs.

There are really two components to transaction costs.

One is about processing information, and the other is about communication.

These are the economics of processing and communicating as they have evolved over a long period of time.

As we all know from so many contexts, they have been radically transformed since the days when Porter and Henderson first formulated their theories.

They needn't necessarily, but they can.

In particular, it then becomes possible for a competitor in one business to use their position in one step of the value chain in order to penetrate or attack or disintermediate the competitor in another. 

That is not just an abstract proposition.

There are many very specific stories of how that actually happened.

A poster child example was the encyclopedia business.

The encyclopedia business in the days of leatherbound books was basically a distribution business.

Most of the cost was the commission to the salesmen.

The CD-ROM and then the Internet came along, new technologies made the distribution of knowledge many orders of magnitude cheaper, and the encyclopedia industry collapsed.

It's now, of course, a very familiar story.

This, in fact, more generally was the story of the first generation of the Internet economy.

And it was a while before the answer became manifest.

Now, of course, we know what it is: it's the Wikipedia.

The Wikipedia, of course, is an encyclopedia created by its users.

Now what that really meant in terms of the Porter-Henderson framework was the collapse of certain kinds of economies of scale.

It turned out that tens of thousands of autonomous individuals writing an encyclopedia could do just as good a job, and certainly a much cheaper job, than professionals in a hierarchical organization.

So basically what was happening was that one layer of this value chain was becoming fragmented, as individuals could take over where organizations were no longer needed. 

And what I'm going to argue is that indeed something does distinguish the third, and it maps exactly on to the kind of Porter-Henderson logic that we've been talking about.

And that is, about data.

but it was still at that point overwhelmingly analog.

We go forward to 2007, not only had the world's stock of data exploded, but there'd been this massive substitution of digital for analog.

And more important even than that, if you look more carefully at this graph, what you will observe is that about a half of that digital data is information that has an I.P.

If we run the numbers forward to 2020, we of course have an exact number, courtesy of IDC.

It's curious that the future is so much more predictable than the present.

And what it implies is a hundredfold multiplication in the stock of information that is connected via an I.P.

Since then, the costs of mapping the genome have come down.

Now, in the days when mapping a genome cost millions, or even tens of thousands, it was basically a research enterprise.

But when the genome can be mapped for 100 bucks, 99 dollars while you wait, then what happens is, it becomes retail.

It becomes above all clinical.

Now think of the power of that.

But there's one thing that doesn't get much attention.

How is that model of colossal sharing across all of those kinds of databases compatible with the business models of institutions and organizations and corporations that are involved in this business today?

If your business is based on proprietary data, if your competitive advantage is defined by your data, how on Earth is that company or is that society in fact going to achieve the value that's implicit in the technology?

The basic story here is that what used to be vertically integrated, oligopolistic competition among essentially similar kinds of competitors is evolving, by one means or another, from a vertical structure to a horizontal one.

Why is that happening?

It's happening because transaction costs are plummeting and because scale is polarizing.

The plummeting of transaction costs weakens the glue that holds value chains together, and allows them to separate.

The polarization of scale economies towards the very small -- small is beautiful -- allows for scalable communities to substitute for conventional corporate production.

The scaling in the opposite direction, towards things like big data, drive the structure of business towards the creation of new kinds of institutions that can achieve that scale.

But either way, the typically vertical structure gets driven to becoming more horizontal. 

The logic isn't just about big data.

If we were to look, for example, at the telecommunications industry, you can tell the same story about fiber optics.

If we look at the pharmaceutical industry, or, for that matter, university research, you can say exactly the same story about so-called "big science."

That is the fragmentation of scale because the very small can substitute for the traditional corporate scale. 

It means, for example, we need to work out how to accommodate collaboration and competition simultaneously.

Think about the genome.

We need to accommodate the very large and the very small simultaneously.

These kinds of transformations render the traditional premises of business strategy obsolete.

They drive us into a completely new world.

Thank you. 

