I'm actually an engineer.

And if not, can you make yourself smart again? 

It wasn't the grey matter, but it was the gooey part dead center that makes key hormones and neurotransmitters.

Every day now for 18 years -- every single day -- I've had to try to decide the combinations and mixtures of chemicals, and try to get them, to stay alive.

There have been several close calls. 

I was kind of extreme.

But to me, the surprise was, I wasn't trying to be arrogant.

So I couldn't handle it.

I changed my dosages.

What I was trying to do with tuning these hormones and neurotransmitters and so forth was to try to get my intelligence back after my illness and surgery, my creative thought, my idea flow.

This kind of thinking isn't new.

Philiosophers like Hume and Descartes and Hobbes saw things similarly.

They thought that mental images and ideas were actually the same thing.

So after several years, I tuned myself up and I have lots of great, really vivid mental images with a lot of sophistication and the analytical backbone behind them.

And so now I'm working on, how can I get these mental images in my mind out to my computer screen faster?

Can you imagine, if you will, a movie director being able to use her imagination alone to direct the world in front of her?

Or a musician to get the music out of his head?

There are incredible possibilities with this as a way for creative people to share at light speed.

And the truth is, the remaining bottleneck in being able to do this is just upping the resolution of brain scan systems. 

So let me show you why I think we're pretty close to getting there by sharing with you two recent experiments from two top neuroscience groups.

And the left-hand column shows a brain scan of a person looking at an image.

This was repeated on lots of different individuals with lots of different images, always with a similar result.

The difference between seeing an image and imagining seeing that same image is next to nothing. 

Next let me share with you one other experiment, this from Jack Gallant's lab at Cal Berkeley.

They've been able to decode brainwaves into recognizable visual fields.

So let me set this up for you.

The computer, using brain scan data alone, decoded that new brain scan to show what it thought the individual was actually seeing.

On the right-hand side, you see the computer's guess, and on the left-hand side, the presented clip.

This is the jaw-dropper.

We are so close to being able to do this.

We just need to up the resolution.

And now remember that when you see an image versus when you imagine that same image, it creates the same brain scan. 

Next we need to increase the resolution another thousandfold to get a deeper glimpse.

How do we do that?

There's a lot of techniques in this approach.

One way is to crack open your skull and put in electrodes.

I'm not for that.

So why does that matter?

A lot of effort in MRI over the years has gone into making really big, really huge magnets, right?

But yet most of the recent advances in resolution have actually come from ingeniously clever encoding and decoding solutions in the F.M.

Let's also, instead of a uniform magnetic field, put down structured magnetic patterns in addition to the F.M.

So by combining the magnetics patterns with the patterns in the F.M.

And on top of that, we can then layer our ever-growing knowledge of brain structure and memory to create a thousandfold increase that we need.

And using fMRI, we should be able to measure not just oxygenated blood flow, but the hormones and neurotransmitters I've talked about and maybe even the direct neural activity, which is the dream. 

We're going to be able to dump our ideas directly to digital media.

Could you imagine if we could leapfrog language and communicate directly with human thought?

What would we be capable of then?

And how will we learn to deal with the truths of unfiltered human thought?

You think the Internet was big.

These are huge questions.

It might be irresistible as a tool to amplify our thinking and communication skills.

And indeed, this very same tool may prove to lead to the cure for Alzheimer's and similar diseases. 

We have little option but to open this door.

It's hard to imagine it taking much longer.

We need to learn how to take this step together. 

Thank you. 

