Guys, we have an issue. 

Our global economy stops growing.

And it's not new.

Growth has actually declined for the last 50 years.

If we continue like this, we need to learn how to live in a world with no growth in the next decade.

This is scary because when the economy doesn't grow, our children don't get better lives.

What's even scarier is that when the pie does not grow, each of us get a smaller piece.

We're then ready to fight for a bigger one.

This creates tensions and serious conflicts.

Growth matters a lot. 

If we look at the history of growth, times of big growth have always been fueled by big manufacturing revolutions.

It happened three times, every 50-60 years.

And the first automation wave in the 1970s. 

Why did these manufacturing revolutions create huge growth in our economies?

Because they have injected huge productivity improvement.

It's rather simple: in order to grow, you need to be producing more, putting more into our economy.

This means either more labor or more capital or more productivity.

Each time, productivity has been the growth lever. 

I'm here today to tell you that we are on the verge of another huge change, and that this change, surprisingly enough, is going to come from manufacturing, again.

It will get us out of our growth slump and it will change radically the way globalization has been shaped over the last decade.

I'm here to tell you about the amazing fourth manufacturing revolution that is currently underway. 

It's not as if we've done nothing with manufacturing since the last revolution.

Actually, we've made some pretty lame attempts to try to revitalize it.

Then, we've tried to make our factories larger and we specialized them by product.

The idea was that we can make a lot of one product and stockpile it to be sold with demand. 

This did help productivity for a while.

But it introduced a lot of rigidities in our supply chain.

Let's take fashion retail.

Traditional clothing companies have built offshore, global, rigid supply chains.

Most of them are in great difficulties today. 

Yet, with all of their shortcomings, those are the factories we know today.

When you open the doors, they look the same as they did 50 years ago.

We've just changed the location, the size, the way they operate.

Can you name anything else that looks the same as it did 50 years ago?

It's crazy.

We've made all the tweaks to the model that we could, and now we hit its limits. 

Just to name one: the Internet.

We hoped it could produce growth.

And indeed, it changed our lives.

It made big waves in the media, the service, the entertainment spaces.

But it hasn't done much for productivity.

Weird. 

This is why we are not growing.

But what if we could combine those forces?

What if the existing manufacturing and large technological innovation came together to create the next big manufacturing reinvention. 

Bingo!

Let me tell you about some of them. 

Have you already met advanced manufacturing robots?

Today in our factories, only 8 percent of the tasks are automated.

The less complex, the more repetitive ones.

It will be 25 percent in 10 years.

It means that by 2025, advanced robots will complement workers to be, together, 20 percent more productive, to manufacture 20 percent more outputs, to achieve 20 percent additional growth. 

This isn't some fancy, futuristic idea.

These robots are working for us right now.

That's real economic growth. 

Those are not small industries.

Plastic and metals represent 25 percent of global manufacturing production. 

Let's take a real example.

The results?

But actually, the most exciting part of this new manufacturing revolution goes much beyond productivity.

It's about producing better, smarter products.

It's about scale customization.

The new manufacturing revolution makes it possible. 

Advanced robots can be programmed in order to perform any product configuration without any setup time or ramp up.

3D printers instantaneously produce any customized design.

Those are only a few examples of the manufacturing revolution at play. 

It will create a huge macroeconomic shift. 

First, our factories will be relocated into our home markets.

In the world of scale customization, consumer proximity is the new norm. 

Then, our factories will be smaller, agile.

Scale does not matter anymore, flexibility does.

They will be operating on a multi-product, made-to-order basis.

The change will be drastic. 

East for East, West for West.

Piling up stocks, making products travel the whole world before they reach their end consumers.

Good news, isn't it? 

But here's the thing with growth -- it does not come automatically.

Mature economies will have to seize it.

We'll have to massively re-train our workforce.

In most countries, like in my country, France, we've told our children that manufacturing had no future.

That it was something happening far away.

Only the countries that will boldly transform will be able to seize this growth. 

It's also a chance for developing economies.

Of course China and other emerging economies won't be the factory of the world anymore.

Last year, it was already as expensive to produce in Brazil as to produce in France.

By 2018, manufacturing costs in China will be on par with the US. 

The new manufacturing revolution will accelerate the transition of those emerging economies towards a model driven by domestic consumption.

This fourth manufacturing revolution is a chance for all of us.

If we play it right, we'll see sustainable growth in all of our economies.

This means more wealth distributed to all of us and a better future for our children. 

Thank you. 

