Almost two years ago, I was driving in my car in Germany, and I turned on the radio.

Europe at the time was in the middle of the Euro crisis, and all the headlines were about European countries getting downgraded by rating agencies in the United States.

I listened and thought to myself, "What are these rating agencies, and why is everybody so upset about their work?"

Well, if you were sitting next to me in the car that day and would have told me that I would devote the next years to trying to reform them, obviously I would have called you crazy.

But guess what's really crazy: the way these rating agencies are run.

So let me tell you a little bit about what rating agencies really do.

As you would read a car magazine before purchasing a new car or taking a look at a product review before deciding which kind of tablet or phone to get, investors are reading ratings before they decide in which kind of product they are investing their money.

Rating agencies are rating companies.

They are rating banks.

They are rating even financial products like the infamous mortgage-backed securities.

And I can tell, as you're listening to me right now, you're thinking, so why should I really care about this, right?

Be honest.

Well, ratings affect you.

They affect all of us.

If a rating agency rates a country, it basically assesses and evaluates a country's debt and the ability and willingness of a country to repay its debt.

So if a country gets downgraded by a rating agency, the country has to pay more in order to borrow money on the international markets.

But what if a country can't afford to pay more because it's maybe too expensive?

Well, then the country has less available for other services, like roads, schools, healthcare.

And that is the reason why I believe they should be defined as public goods.

They should be transparent, accessible, and available to everyone at no cost. 

There is no incentive to improve the quality of your product.

But that's actually what's going on in the rating agency sector every single day.

But for ratings, a crucial element of our economy, we really do not know what all the different ingredients are.

I think there is no doubt that the sector needs a complete overhaul, not just a trimming at the margins.

I think it's time for a bold move.

I think it's time to upgrade the system.

And this is why we at the Bertelsmann Foundation have invested a lot of time and effort thinking about an alternative for the sector.

And we have developed the first model for a nonprofit rating agency for sovereign risk, and we call it by its acronym, INCRA. 

INCRA would make a difference to the current system by adding another nonprofit player to the mix.

It would be based on a nonprofit model that would be based on a sustainable endowment.

But this is not enough to make a difference, right?

The second big difference that INCRA would make is that would it base its sovereign risk assessment on a broader set of indicators.

How is it managed?

And this is the reason why we have developed what we call forward-looking indicators.

These are indicators that give you a much better read about the socioeconomic development of a country.

If over 70 percent of a country's population under the age of 35 is unemployed, of course this has a huge impact on the economy today and even more so in the future.

And this leads me to the third big difference that INCRA would make.

INCRA would not only release its ratings but it would also release its indicators and methodology. 

So in contrast to the current system, INCRA would be fully transparent.

And this is why we are testing our model right now, and why we are trying to find out if it can bring together a group of able and willing actors to bring INCRA to life.

Because for way too long, we have left the big financial players on their own.

It's time to give them some company. 

Thank you. 

