Here are some images of clusters of galaxies.

Useful as the universe's most massive laboratories.

So, how big?

Well, here is an image of a particular galaxy cluster.

It is so massive that the light passing through it is being bent, it's being distorted by the extreme gravity of this cluster.

And, in fact, if you look very carefully you'll be able to see rings around this cluster.

But more than their mass, they have this additional feature.

So that was very big.

The second things is very hot.

Okay, if I take an image of a galaxy cluster, and I subtract away all of the starlight, what I'm left with is this big, blue blob.

This is in false color.

It's actually X-ray light that we're seeing.

And the question is, if it's not galaxies, what is emitting this light?

And the reason why it's so hot goes back to the previous slide.

So this is the main idea, but science is a rough draft.

You were lied to.

Most of it is made up of something very, very mysterious, which we call dark matter.

Well, how do we do this?

To answer that question, I'm going to have to ask another one, which is, what happens when galaxy clusters collide?

Here is an image.

What's happened is a particle accelerator at a huge, huge scale.

So, it's very funny.

Fourth thing: the physics of the very strange.

They give the cause of this accelerated expansion a name, and they call it dark energy.

Depending on how strong it is, maybe structure forms faster or slower.

Well, the problem with the large-scale structure of the universe is that it's horribly complicated.

Well, I like to think about this using an analogy.

If I want to understand the sinking of the Titanic, the most important thing to do is not to model the little positions of every single little piece of the boat that broke off.

The most important thing to do is to track the two biggest parts.

So, as I come to a close, you might feel slightly cheated.

I mean, I began by talking about how galaxy clusters are useful, and I've given some reasons, but what is their use really?

And the solutions to these problems are not obvious.

They are not faster horses.

And I can't think of a better way to do this than by studying the universe around us.

