I'm going to talk about hackers.

And the image that comes to your mind when I say that word is probably not of Benjamin Franklin, but I'm going to explain to you why it should be. 

The image that comes to your mind is probably more likely of a pasty kid sitting in a basement doing something mischievous, or of a shady criminal who is trying to steal your identity, or of an international rogue with a political agenda.

And mainstream culture has kind of fed this idea that hackers are people that we should be afraid of. 

But like most things in technology and the technology world, hacking has equal power for good as it has for evil.

For every hacker that's trying to steal your identity there's one that's building a tool that will help you find your loved ones after a disaster or to monitor environmental quality after an oil spill.

It's about critical thinking.

It's about questioning existing ways of doing things.

It's the idea that if you see a problem, you work to fix it, and not just complain about it.

And in many ways, hacking is what built America.

Betsy Ross was a hacker.

The Underground Railroad was a brilliant hack.

And from the Wright brothers to Steve Jobs, hacking has always been at the foundation of American democracy. 

So if there's one thing I want to leave you here with today, it's that the next time you think about who a hacker is, you think not of this guy but of this guy, Benjamin Franklin, who was one of the greatest hackers of all time.

He brought us bifocals and the lightning rod, and of course there was his collaboration on the invention of American democracy. 

And in Code For America, we really try to embody the spirit of Ben Franklin.

He was a tinkerer and a statesman whose conception of citizenship was always predicated on action.

And so it's no surprise that many hackers are turning their attention to the problem of government. 

But before I give you a few examples of what civic hacking looks like, I want to make clear that you don't have to be a programmer to be a civic hacker.

You just have to believe that you can bring a 21st-century tool set to bear on the problems that government faces.

And we hear all the time from our community of civic hackers at Code for America that they didn't understand how much nontechnical work actually went into civic hacking projects.

So keep that in mind.

All of you are potential civic hackers. 

So what does civic hacking look like?

And it's a massive thing of tens of thousands of pages which just wasn't going to be possible in the few months that they had.

So instead, they decided to build a parallel site that better conformed to how citizens actually want to interact with information on a city website.

They're looking for answers to questions, and they want to take action when they're done, which is really hard to do from a site that looks like this.

So our team built Honolulu Answers, which is a super-simple search interface where you enter a search term or a question and get back plain language answers that drive a user towards action.

Now the site itself was easy enough to build, but the team was faced with the challenge of how they populate all of the content.

It would have taken the three of them a very long time, especially given that none of them are actually from Honolulu.

And so they did something that's really radical, when you think about how government is used to working.

They asked citizens to write the content.

So you've heard of a hack-a-thon.

Now, I think this is a really cool story in and of itself, but it gets more awesome.

I authored this answer, and a few others.

And I'm trying to this day to articulate the sense of empowerment and responsibility that I feel for the place that I live based simply on this small act of participation.

At this point, you may be wondering what city officials think of all this.

They actually love it.

As most of you guys know, cities are being asked every day to do more with less, and they're always looking for innovative solutions to entrenched problems.

So when you give citizens a way to participate beyond attending a town hall meeting, cities can actually capture the capacity in their communities to do the business of government. 

Now I don't want to leave the impression that civic hacking is just an American phenomenon.

So this was just for the handful of legislators in the House.

And the contract was a two-year contract for 9.3 million dollars.

But instead of taking to the streets, they issued a challenge.

And in those 10 days, they submitted 173 apps, five of which were presented to Congress and are still in the app store today.

And because of this action, that contract was vacated, and now this has sparked a movement in Mexico City which is home to one of our partners, Code for Mexico City. 

And so what you see in all three of these places, in Honolulu and in Oakland and in Mexico City, are the elements that are at the core of civic hacking.

It's citizens who saw things that could be working better and they decided to fix them, and through that work, they're creating a 21st-century ecosystem of participation.

They can actually build government. 

So back to our friend Ben Franklin, who, one of his lesser-known accomplishments was that in 1736 he founded the first volunteer firefighting company in Philadelphia, called a brigade.

And we have our own brigades at Code for America working on the projects that I've just described, and we want to ask you to follow in Ben Franklin's footsteps and come join us.

Our goal is to create a global network of civic hackers who are innovating on the existing system in order to build tools that will solve entrenched problems, that will support local government, and that will empower citizens. 

So please come hack with us. 

Thank you. 

