I'm going to go off script and make Chris quite nervous here by making this audience participation.

So what I'd like to do is have you raise your hand if you've ever heard a heterosexual couple having sex.

Now raise your hand if the man was making more noise than the woman.

I see one guy there.

It doesn't count if it was you, sir.

Sitting next to a loud guy. 

Now what does this tell us?

It tells us that human beings make noise when they have sex, and it's generally the woman who makes more noise.

This is known as female copulatory vocalization to the clipboard crowd.

So I thought, got to talk about that.

We'll get back to that a little bit later. 

We are more closely related to the chimp and the bonobo than the African elephant is to the Indian elephant, as Jared Diamond pointed out in one of his early books.

So we're extremely closely related to them, and as you'll see in terms of our behavior, we've got some relationship as well.

The idea is that, as part of human nature, from the beginning of our species' time, men have sort of leased women's reproductive potential by providing them with certain goods and services.

Generally we're talking about meat, shelter, status, protection, things like that.

And in exchange, women have offered fidelity, or at least a promise of fidelity.

What Cacilda and I have argued is that no, this economic relationship, this oppositional relationship, is actually an artifact of agriculture, which only arose about 10,000 years ago at the earliest.

Anatomically modern human beings have been around for about 200,000 years, so we're talking about five percent, at most, of our time as a modern, distinct species.

So before agriculture, before the agricultural revolution, it's important to understand that human beings lived in hunter-gatherer groups that are characterized wherever they're found in the world by what anthropologists called fierce egalitarianism.

They not only share things, they demand that things be shared: meat, shelter, protection, all these things that were supposedly being traded to women for their sexual fidelity, it turns out, are shared widely among these societies.

Now I'm not saying that our ancestors were noble savages, and I'm not saying modern day hunter-gatherers are noble savages either.

What I'm saying is that this is simply the best way to mitigate risk in a foraging context.

And there's really no argument about this among anthropologists.

All Cacilda and I have done is extend this sharing behavior to sexuality.

What I'm saying is that to argue that our ancestors were sexual omnivores is no more a criticism of monogamy than to argue that our ancestors were dietary omnivores is a criticism of vegetarianism.

(Laughter) That one took a minute to sink in, huh? 

(Laughter) That one took a minute to sink in, huh? 

Chimps and bonobos, Darwin didn't really know this, but chimps and bonobos mate one to four times per hour with up to a dozen males per day when they have their sexual swellings.

This is vanishingly rare among mammals.

So it's a very interesting aspect of human sexuality.

Now, Darwin ignored the reflections of the sexual swelling in his own day, as scientists tend to do sometimes. 

So what we're talking about is sperm competition.

Now the average human ejaculate has about 300 million sperm cells, so it's already a competitive environment.

The question is whether these sperm are competing against other men's sperm or just their own.

There's a lot to talk about in this chart.

The one thing I'll call your attention to right away is the little musical note above the female chimp and bonobo and human.

That indicates female copulatory vocalization.

Just look at the numbers.

The average human has sex about 1,000 times per birth.

If that number seems high for some of you, I assure you it seems low for others in the room.

We share that ratio with chimps and bonobos.

We don't share it with the other three apes, the gorilla, the orangutan and the gibbon, who are more typical of mammals, having sex only about a dozen times per birth.

Humans and bonobos are the only animals that have sex face-to-face when both of them are alive.

If you're the kind of guy who has a beer fridge in the garage, you expect a party to happen at any moment, and you need to be ready.

That's what the external testicles are.

The human, some of you will be happy to hear, has the largest, thickest penis of any primate. 

Historical records are full of accounts of people around the world who have sexual practices that should be impossible given what we have assumed about human sexual evolution.

These women are the Mosuo from southwestern China.

In their society, everyone, men and women, are completely sexually autonomous.

There's no shame associated with sexual behavior.

When the woman becomes pregnant, the child is cared for by her, her sisters, and her brothers.

The biological father is a nonissue.

On the other side of the planet, in the Amazon, we've got many tribes which practice what anthropologists call partible paternity.

These people actually believe -- and they have no contact among them, no common language or anything, so it's not an idea that spread, it's an idea that's arisen around the world -- they believe that a fetus is literally made of accumulated semen.

So paternity is actually sort of a team endeavor in this society.

So there are all sorts of examples like this that we go through in the book. 

Now, why does this matter?

The contradictions between what we're told we should feel and what we actually do feel generates a huge amount of unnecessary suffering.

My hope is that a more accurate, updated understanding of human sexuality will lead us to have greater tolerance for ourselves, for each other, greater respect for unconventional relationship configurations like same-sex marriage or polyamorous unions, and that we'll finally put to rest the idea that men have some innate, instinctive right to monitor and control women's sexual behavior.

(Applause) Thank you.

And when we do come out of those closets, we'll recognize that our fight is not with each other, our fight is with an outdated, Victorian sense of human sexuality that conflates desire with property rights, generates shame and confusion in place of understanding and empathy.

It's time we moved beyond Mars and Venus, because the truth is that men are from Africa and women are from Africa. 

Thank you. 

CA: So a question.

It's so perplexing, trying to use arguments about evolutionary history to turn that into what we ought to do today.

How is that different from the talk you gave? 

CR: Well first of all, the evidence for high levels of violence in prehistory is very debatable.

But that's just an example.

Everyone has to respond to the modern world.

But the body does have its inherent evolved trajectories.

It's the idea that if you love your husband or wife but you still are attracted to other people, there's something wrong with you, there's something wrong with your marriage, something wrong with your partner.

I think a lot of families are fractured by unrealistic expectations that are based upon this false vision of human sexuality.

That's what I'm trying to get at. 

