What makes a great leader today?

We conducted a study of 4,000 companies, and we asked them, let's see the effectiveness of your leadership development programs.

Fifty-eight percent of the companies cited significant talent gaps for critical leadership roles.

That means that despite corporate training programs, off-sites, assessments, coaching, all of these things, more than half the companies had failed to grow enough great leaders.

The odds are, probably not. 

Now, I've spent 25 years of my professional life observing what makes great leaders.

I've worked inside Fortune 500 companies, I've advised over 200 CEOs, and I've cultivated more leadership pipelines than you can imagine.

But a few years ago, I noticed a disturbing trend in leadership preparation.

I noticed that, despite all the efforts, there were familiar stories that kept resurfacing about individuals.

Now, these recurring stories cause me to ask two questions.

Why are the leadership gaps widening when there's so much more investment in leadership development?

And what are the great leaders doing distinctly different to thrive and grow?

And so I did things like travel to South Africa, where I had an opportunity to understand how Nelson Mandela was ahead of his time in anticipating and navigating his political, social and economic context.

And then, when I returned to work full time, in this role, I joined with wonderful colleagues who were also interested in these questions. 

I want to share some of those with you now. 

In fact, traditional assessments like narrow 360 surveys or outdated performance criteria will give you false positives, lulling you into thinking that you are more prepared than you really are.

Leadership in the 21st century is defined and evidenced by three questions. 

Where are you looking to anticipate the next change to your business model or your life?

And then how are you distilling this into understanding potential discontinuities, and then making a decision to do something right now so that you're prepared and ready?

There's a leadership team that does a practice where they bring together each member collecting, here are trends that impact me, here are trends that impact another team member, and they share these, and then make decisions, to course-correct a strategy or to anticipate a new move.

Great leaders are not head-down.

They see around corners, shaping their future, not just reacting to it. 

The second question is, what is the diversity measure of your personal and professional stakeholder network?

You know, we hear often about good ol' boy networks and they're certainly alive and well in many institutions.

But to some extent, we all have a network of people that we're comfortable with.

So this question is about your capacity to develop relationships with people that are very different than you.

And those differences can be biological, physical, functional, political, cultural, socioeconomic.

And yet, despite all these differences, they connect with you and they trust you enough to cooperate with you in achieving a shared goal.

But if you follow this advice, chances are as a leader, you're going to keep doing what's familiar and comfortable.

Great leaders dare to be different.

They don't just talk about risk-taking, they actually do it.

Now interestingly, the people who will join you are not your usual suspects in your network.

They're often people that think differently and therefore are willing to join you in taking a courageous leap.

And it's a leap, not a step.

More than traditional leadership programs, answering these three questions will determine your effectiveness as a 21st-century leader. 

So what makes a great leader in the 21st century?

I've met many, and they stand out.

They are women and men who are preparing themselves not for the comfortable predictability of yesterday but also for the realities of today and all of those unknown possibilities of tomorrow. 

Thank you. 

