As humans, it's in our nature to want to improve our health and minimize our suffering.

Whatever life throws at us, whether it's cancer, diabetes, heart disease, or even broken bones, we want to try and get better.

Now I'm head of a biomaterials lab, and I'm really fascinated by the way that humans have used materials in really creative ways in the body over time. 

Take, for example, this beautiful blue nacre shell.

This was actually used by the Mayans as an artificial tooth replacement.

We're not quite sure why they did it.

But it also had other very nice properties.

And I think in many ways we can sort of think of the use of the blue nacre shell and the Mayans as the first real application of the bluetooth technology. 

But if we move on and think throughout history how people have used different materials in the body, very often it's been physicians that have been quite creative.

They've taken things off the shelf. 

And this led him to propose that material as a new material for intraocular lenses.

It's called PMMA, and it's now used in millions of people every year and helps in preventing cataracts. 

Their very purpose was to perform a mechanical function.

You'd put them in the body and you wouldn't get an adverse response.

And what I want to show you is that in regenerative medicine, we've really shifted away from that idea of taking a bioinert material.

But one of the things that's really important when we're thinking about stem cells is that obviously stem cells can be many different things, and they want to be many different things, and so we want to make sure that the environment we put them into has enough information so that they can become the right sort of specialist tissue.

And if we think about the different types of tissues that people are looking at regenerating all over the world, in all the different labs in the world, there's pretty much every tissue you can think of.

He was tied to a rock, and an eagle would come every day to eat his liver.

But of course his liver would regenerate every day, and so day after day he was punished for eternity by the gods.

And liver will regenerate in this very nice way, but actually if we think of other tissues, like cartilage, for example, even the simplest nick and you're going to find it really difficult to regenerate your cartilage.

So it's going to be very different from tissue to tissue. 

Now, bone is somewhere in between, and this is one of the tissues that we work on a lot in our lab.

And one of the ways that you can think about repairing your fracture is this procedure here, called an iliac crest harvest.

And what the surgeon might do is take some bone from your iliac crest, which is just here, and then transplant that somewhere else in the body.

But the problem is, there's only so much you can take, and also when you do that operation, your patients might actually have significant pain in that defect site even two years after the operation. 

And we simplified it a lot, so we got rid of a lot of these steps.

We got rid of the need to harvest cells from the patient, we got rid of the need to put in really fancy chemistries, and we got rid of the need to culture these scaffolds in the lab.

So we were using the body as really the catalyst to help us to make lots of new bone.

And it's an approach that we call the in vivo bioreactor, and we were able to make enormous amounts of bone using this approach.

And I'll talk you through this. 

So what we do is, in humans, we all have a layer of stem cells on the outside of our long bones.

That layer is called the periosteum.

And that layer is actually normally very, very tightly bound to the underlying bone, and it's got stem cells in it.

Those stem cells are really important in the embryo when it develops, and they also sort of wake up if you have a fracture to help you with repairing the bone.

So we take that periosteum layer and we developed a way to inject underneath it a liquid that then, within 30 seconds, would turn into quite a rigid gel and can actually lift the periosteum away from the bone.

So it creates, in essence, an artificial cavity that is right next to both the bone but also this really rich layer of stem cells.

So it's very, very low in terms of after-pain compared to an iliac crest harvest.

And you can grow different amounts of bone depending on how much gel you put in there, so it really is an on demand sort of procedure. 

So this was our approach, and it was simple materials, but we thought about it carefully.

And actually we know that those cells in the body, in the embryo, as they develop can form a different kind of tissue, cartilage, and so we developed a gel that was slightly different in nature and slightly different chemistry, put it in there, and we were able to get 100 percent cartilage instead. 

And this approach works really well, I think, for pre-planned procedures, but it's something you do have to pre-plan.

So for other kinds of operations, there's definitely a need for other scaffold-based approaches.

And when you think about designing those other scaffolds, actually, you need a really multi-disciplinary team.

And so one of the things we think about a lot is really trying to understand the structure of the tissues in the body.

We've lots of blood vessels in there.

You can see here a very squishy one and now a material that's also this hybrid sort of material but actually has remarkable toughness, and it's no longer brittle.

And an inorganic material would normally be really brittle, and you wouldn't be able to have that sort of strength and toughness in it. 

And there's a lot of work going on in both of these areas. 

And it would be really great, actually, if we could stop that dead tissue either from dying or help it to regenerate.

And so some of the things that we're thinking of, and many other people in the field are thinking of, are actually developing materials for that.

But there's a difference here.

And so for that, I'd like to thank all of you as well. 

Thank you. 

