What is love?

It's a hard term to define in so far as it has a very wide application.

But there's a great difference between an escalope and my wife, for instance.

That is, if I value the escalope, the escalope, on the other hand, it doesn't value me back.

Therefore, only another desiring conscience can conceive me as a desirable being.

Hence the eternal problem of love: how to become and remain desirable? 

The individual used to find an answer to this problem by submitting his life to community rules.

Think about the young woman who must remain chaste before marriage.

Think about the youngest son who must obey the eldest son, who in turn must obey the patriarch. 

This phenomenon is modernity.

We can basically summarize it through a triple process.

And finally, a process of rationalization of economic production and of trade liberalization. 

Now individuals are free to value or disvalue any attitude, any choice, any object.

But as a result, they are themselves confronted with this same freedom that others have to value or disvalue them.

In other words, my value was once ensured by submitting myself to the traditional authorities.

Now it is quoted in the stock exchange. 

I call this act of collecting, along with others, seduction capital.

Indeed, our consumer society is largely based on seduction capital.

We do it to make them love us, to seduce them.

(Laughter) Consumerism is not materialism.

It is rather what is swallowed up and sacrificed in the name of the god of love, or rather in the name of seduction capital. 

In light of this observation on contemporary love, how can we think of love in the years to come?

We can envision two hypotheses: The first one consists of betting that this process of narcissistic capitalization will intensify.

We can also imagine a chemical treatment for breakups that weakens the feelings of attachment. 

By the way, there's a program on MTV already in which seduction teachers treat heartache as a disease.

"Pick-up" is to pick someone up, but not just any picking up -- it's picking up chicks.

So they are artists of picking up chicks.

(Laughter) And they call heartache "one-itis."

In English, "itis" is a suffix that signifies infection.

We can also envision a romantic use of the genome.

So we can expect that modernity itself, which is the origin of seduction capital, would be called into question.

I'm thinking particularly of the reaction of neo-fascist or religious communes.

But such a future doesn't have to be. 

Another path to thinking about love may be possible.

But how?

How to renounce the hysterical need to be valued?

Well, by becoming aware of my uselessness.

(Laughter) Yes, I'm useless.

We are all useless.

I don't have any inherent value.

We all pretend to have an idol; we all pretend to be an idol for someone else, but actually we are all impostors, a bit like a man on the street who appears totally cool and indifferent, while he has actually anticipated and calculated so that all eyes are on him. 

I think that becoming aware of this general imposture that concerns all of us would ease our love relationships.

I want them to be perfect so that I can be reassured of my value.

It leads to couples obsessed with performance who will break up, just like that, at the slightest underachievement. 

What is tenderness?

To be tender is to accept the loved one's weaknesses.

It's not about becoming a sad couple of orderlies.

(Laughter) That's pretty bad.

On the contrary, there's plenty of charm and happiness in tenderness.

I refer specifically to a kind of humor that is unfortunately underused.

It is a sort of poetry of deliberate awkwardness. 

I refer to self-mockery.

For a couple who is no longer sustained, supported by the constraints of tradition, I believe that self-mockery is one of the best means for the relationship to endure. 

