In the words of the poet Longfellow, "the human voice is the organ of the soul."

As a speech scientist, I'm fascinated by how the voice is produced, and I have an idea for how it can be engineered.

That's what I'd like to share with you. 

I'm going to start by playing you a sample of a voice that you may recognize. 

Rupal Patel: That was the voice of Professor Stephen Hawking.

We wouldn't dream of fitting a little girl with the prosthetic limb of a grown man.

So why then the same prosthetic voice?

It really struck me, and I wanted to do something about this. 

I want you to take a listen to how they sound.

They're saying the same utterance. 

So I reached out to my collaborator, Tim Bunnell.

These are people who had lost their voice later in life.

We didn't have the luxury of pre-recorded samples of speech for those born with speech disorder.

But I thought, there had to be a way to reverse engineer a voice from whatever little is left over. 

So we decided to do exactly that.

We set out with a little bit of funding from the National Science Foundation, to create custom-crafted voices that captured their unique vocal identities.

Now before I get into the details of how the voice is made and let you listen to it, I need to give you a real quick speech science lesson.

So first, we know that the voice is changing dramatically over the course of development.

Children sound different from teens who sound different from adults.

We've all experienced this.

Fact number two is that speech is a combination of the source, which is the vibrations generated by your voice box, which are then pushed through the rest of the vocal tract.

So the combination of source and filter is how we produce speech.

And that happens in one individual. 

These are called prosody, and I've been documenting for years that the prosodic abilities of these individuals are preserved.

So when I realized that those same cues are also important for speaker identity, I had this idea.

It's that simple.

That's the science behind what we're doing. 

So once you have that in mind, how do you go about building this voice?

Well, you have to find someone who is willing to be a surrogate.

It's not such an ominous thing.

Being a surrogate donor only requires you to say a few hundred to a few thousand utterances.

The process goes something like this. 

(Video) Voice: Things happen in pairs. 

The more speech you have, the better sounding voice you're going to have.

Once you have those recordings, what we need to do is we have to parse these recordings into little snippets of speech, one- or two-sound combinations, sometimes even whole words that start populating a dataset or a database.

We're going to call this database a voice bank.

That's not the novel part.

This is Samantha.

I met her when she was nine, and since then, my team and I have been trying to build her a personalized voice.

What she can produce are mostly vowel-like sounds, but that's enough for us to extract her source characteristics.

Samantha's voice is like a concentrated sample of red food dye which we can infuse into the recordings of her surrogate to get a pink voice just like this. 

RP: So now, Samantha can say this. 

(Video) Samantha: This voice is only for me.

I can't wait to use my new voice with my friends. 

I'll never forget the gentle smile that spread across her face when she heard that voice for the first time.

What we've done so far is we have a few surrogate talkers from around the U.S. who have donated their voices, and we have been using those to build our first few personalized voices.

But there's so much more work to be done.

For Samantha, her surrogate came from somewhere in the Midwest, a stranger who gave her the gift of voice.

What I want to share with you next is how I envision taking this work to that next level.

To do that as a first step, we've put together this website, VocaliD.org, as a way to bring together those who want to join us as voice donors, as expertise donors, in whatever way to make this vision a reality. 

They say that giving blood can save lives.

Well, giving your voice can change lives.

So that's the science behind what we're doing.

About five years ago, we built our very first voice for a little boy named William.

Imagine carrying around someone else's voice for nine years and finally finding your own voice.

Imagine that. 

Thank you. 

