Which one do you choose if you want to do the right thing by the environment? 

Most people do pick the paper.

Okay, let's think of why.

It's brown to start with.

In some cases, it's recyclable.

So when people are looking at the plastic bag, it's likely they're thinking of something like this, which we all know is absolutely terrible, and we should be avoiding at all expenses these kinds of environmental damages.

But people are often not thinking of something like this, which is the other end of the spectrum.

You see, what happens is, when we need to make complex choices, us humans like really simple solutions, and so we often ask for simple solutions.

And I work in design.

I advise designers and innovators around sustainability, and everyone always says to me, "Oh Leyla, I just want the eco-materials."

So I like to call that intuitive framework our environmental folklore.

And environmental folklore is a really important thing because we're trying to do the right thing.

But how do we know if we're actually reducing the net environmental impacts that our actions as individuals and as professionals and as a society are actually having on the natural environment? 

So the thing about environmental folklore is it tends to be based on our experiences, the things we've heard from other people.

It doesn't tend to be based on any scientific framework.

And this is really hard, because we live in incredibly complex systems.

We have the human systems of how we communicate and interrelate and have our whole constructed society, We have the industrial systems, which is essentially the entire economy, and then all of that has to operate within the biggest system, and, I would argue, the most important, the ecosystem.

And you see, the choices that we make as an individual, but the choices that we make in every single job that we have, no matter how high or low you are in the pecking order, has an impact on all of these systems.

We have an increasing population, and everybody likes their mobile phones, especially in this situation here.

So we need to find innovative ways of solving some of these problems that we face. 

So essentially, everything that is created goes through a series of life cycle stages, and we use this scientific process called life cycle assessment, or in America, you guys say life cycle analysis, in order to have a clearer picture of how everything that we do in the technical part of those systems affects the natural environment.

And through doing this, we've learned some absolutely fascinating things.

And we've busted a bunch of myths. 

So to start with, there's a word that's used a lot.

Now biodegradability is a material property; it is not a definition of environmental benefits.

Allow me to explain.

When something natural, something that's made from a cellulose fiber like a piece of bread, even, or any food waste, or even a piece of paper, when something natural ends up in the natural environment, it degrades normally.

Its little carbon molecules that it stored up as it was growing are naturally released back into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide, but this is a net situation.

Landfill is a different environment.

Those same molecules, they become methane, and methane is a 25 times more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide.

So our old lettuces and products that we have thrown out that are made out of biodegradable materials, if they end up in landfill, contribute to climate change.

Because right now, what people do is they turn around and they say, "Let's ban plastic bags.

But if you're throwing it in the bin, and your local landfill facility is just a normal one, then we're having what's called a double negative. 

I'm a product designer by trade.

I then did social science.

And so I'm absolutely fascinated by consumer goods and how the consumer goods that we have kind of become immune to that fill our lives have an impact on the natural environment.

Now America has this amazing ability to keep growing refrigerators.

In the last few years, they've grown one cubic foot on average, the standard size of a refrigerator.

And the problem is, they're so big now, it's easier for us to buy more food that we can't eat or find.

I mean, I have things at the back of my refrigerator that have been there for years, all right?

And so what happens is, we waste more food.

And I blame it on the refrigerator, well, especially in Western cultures, because it makes it easier.

I mean, there's a lot of complex systems going on here.

I don't want to make it so simplistic. 

But the refrigerator is a serious contributor to this, and one of the features of it is the crisper drawer.

You all got crisper drawers?

The drawer that you put your lettuces in?

In the U.K., this is such a problem that there was a government report a few years ago that actually said the second biggest offender of wasted food in the U.K. is the soggy lettuce.

You need, like, an airless environment to prevent the degrading that would happen naturally.

Don't ever invite me over because I'll just start going through your refrigerator and looking at all sorts of things like that.

But essentially, this is a big problem.

Because when we lose something like the lettuce from the system, not only do we have that impact I just explained at the end of life, but we actually have had to grow that lettuce.

The life cycle impact of that lettuce is astronomical.

All of the embodied impacts in that lettuce get lost from the system, which makes it a far bigger environmental impact than the loss of the energy from the fridge.

So we need to design things like this far better if we're going to start addressing serious environmental problems.

A little bit, but essentially they're still big boxes, cold boxes that we store stuff in.

So imagine if we actually really started to identify these problems and use that as the foundation for finding innovative and elegant design solutions that will solve those problems.

This is design-led system change, design dictating the way in which the system can be far more sustainable.

Another item that I find fascinating is the electric tea kettle, which I found out that you don't do tea kettles in this country, really, do you?

So they're very popular.

And, I mean, if I were to work with a design firm or a designer, and they were designing one of these, and they wanted to do it eco, they'd usually ask me two things.

Because the problem is with use.

It's with how people use the product.

Sixty-five percent of Brits admit to over-filling their kettle when they only need one cup of tea.

All of this extra water that's being boiled requires energy, and it's been calculated that in one day of extra energy use from boiling kettles is enough to light all of the streetlights in England for a night. 

But this is the thing.

This is what I call a product-person failure.

Simon works for the national electricity company in the U.K.

He has a very important job of monitoring all of the electricity coming into the system to make sure there is enough so it powers everybody's homes.

He's also watching television.

The reason is because there's a unique phenomenon that happens in the U.K. the moment that very popular TV shows end.

The minute the ad break comes on, this man has to rush to buy nuclear power from France, because everybody turns their kettles on at the same time.

(Laughter) 1.5 million kettles, seriously problematic.

Now, I looked at a number of kettles available on the market, and found the minimum fill lines, so the little piece of information that tells you how much you need to put in there, was between two and a five-and-a-half cups of water just to make one cup of tea.

So this kettle here is an example of one where it actually has two reservoirs.

One's a boiling chamber, and one's the water holder.

The user actually has to push that button to get their hot water boiled, which means, because we're all lazy, you only fill exactly what you need.

And this is what I call behavior-changing products: products, systems or services that intervene and solve these problems up front. 

Now, this is a technology arena, so obviously these things are quite popular, but I think if we're going to keep designing, buying and using and throwing out these kinds of products at the rate we currently do, which is astronomically high, there are seven billion people who live in the world right now.

There are six billion mobile phone subscriptions as of last year.

Every single year, 1.5 billion mobile phones roll off production lines, and some companies report their production rate as being greater than the human birth rate.

We need to find ways of solving the problems around this, because these things are so complicated.

There's a number of highly complex and valuable materials embodied inside these things, so we need to find ways of encouraging disassembly, because this is otherwise what happens.

This is a community in Ghana, and e-waste is reported, or electronic waste is reported by the U.N. as being up to 50 million tons trafficked.

This is how they get the gold and the other valuable materials out.

They burn the electronic waste in open spaces.

These are communities, and this is happening all over the world.

And because we don't see the ramifications of the choices that we make as designers, as businesspeople, as consumers, then these kinds of externalities happen, and these are people's lives.

So we need to find smarter, more systems-based, innovative solutions to these problems, if we're going to start to live sustainably within this world. 

So imagine if, when you bought your mobile phone, your new one because you replaced your old one -- after 15 to 18 months is the average time that people replace their phones, by the way — so if we're going to keep this kind of expedient mobile phone replacing, then we should be looking at closing the loop on these systems.

The people who produce these phones, and some of which I'm sure are in the room right now, could potentially look at doing what we call closed-loop systems, or product system services, so identifying that there is a market demand and that market demand's not going to go anywhere, so you design the product to solve the problem.

Design for disassembly, design for light-weighting.

We heard some of those kinds of strategies being used in the Tesla Motors car today.

These kinds of products are everywhere.

By identifying alternative ways of doing things, we can actually start to innovate, and I say actually start to innovate.

I'm sure everyone in this room is very innovative.

But in the regards to using sustainability as a parameter, as a criteria for fueling systems-based solutions, because as I've just demonstrated with these simple products, they're participating in these major problems.

So we need to look across the entire life of the things that we do. 

If you just had paper or plastic -- obviously reusable is far more beneficial -- then the paper is worse, and the paper is worse because it weighs four to 10 times more than the plastic, and when we actually compare, from a life cycle perspective, a kilo of plastic and a kilo of paper, the paper is far better, but the functionality of a plastic or a paper bag to carry your groceries home is not done with a kilo of each material.

It's done with a very small amount of plastic and quite a lot more paper.

Because functionality defines environmental impact, and I said earlier that the designers always ask me for the eco-materials.

I say, there's only a few materials that you should completely avoid.

The rest of them, it's all about application, and at the end of the day, everything we design and produce in the economy or buy as consumers is done so for function.

We want something, therefore we buy it.

So breaking things back down and delivering smartly, elegantly, sophisticated solutions that take into consideration the entire system and the entire life of the thing, everything, all the way back to the extraction through to the end of life, we can start to actually find really innovative solutions. 

