I'd like to start, if I may, with the story of the Paisley snail.

The ginger beer came in a brown, opaque bottle labeled "D. Stevenson, Glen Lane, Paisley."

Three days later, she was admitted to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary and diagnosed with severe gastroenteritis and shock. 

One of the judges, Lord Atkin, described it like this: You must take care to avoid acts or omissions which you can reasonably foresee would be likely to injure your neighbor.

Indeed, one wonders that without a duty of care, how many people would have had to suffer from gastroenteritis before Stevenson eventually went out of business. 

Here are a couple of rather depressing observations from that survey.

Tabloid-only readers are twice as likely to agree with a negative view of politics than readers of no newspapers.

Little wonder that the report concluded that in this respect, the press, particularly the tabloids, appear not to be living up to the importance of their role in our democracy. 

Now I doubt if anyone in this room would seriously challenge that view.

And the more you think about it, the stranger that is. 

A couple of years ago, I had the pleasure of opening a brand new school in the northeast of England.

It had been renamed by its pupils as Academy 360.

Isn't it time that we develop this concept of a duty of care and extended it to include a care for our shared but increasingly endangered democratic values?

Could anyone honestly suggest, on the evidence, that the same media which Hansard so roundly condemned have taken sufficient care to avoid behaving in ways which they could reasonably have foreseen would be likely to undermine or even damage our inherently fragile democratic settlement. 

It has to be possible to balance freedom of expression with wider moral and social responsibilities. 

Let me explain why by taking the example from my own career as a filmmaker.

Throughout that career, I never accepted that a filmmaker should set about putting their own work outside or above what he or she believed to be a decent set of values for their own life, their own family, and the future of the society in which we all live.

We should always remember that our notion of individual freedom and its partner, creative freedom, is comparatively new in the history of Western ideas, and for that reason, it's often undervalued and can be very quickly undermined.

It's a prize easily lost, and once lost, once surrendered, it can prove very, very hard to reclaim.

Our integrity as we deal with those with whom we work and our own standards as we operate within society.

And these standards of ours need to be all of a piece with a sustainable social agenda.

Yet, as has become strikingly clear over the last couple of years, such responsibility has to a very great extent been abrogated by large sections of the media.

Far from signifying overbearing state power, it's that small common sense test of reasonableness that I'd like us to apply to those in the media who, after all, set the tone and the content for much of our democratic discourse. 

Politics is about choices, and within those choices, politics is about priorities.

But if the facts themselves are distorted, the resolutions are likely only to create further conflict, with all the stresses and strains on society that inevitably follow.

Because in the end, it comes down to a combination of trust and leadership. 

We have to trust that those making those decisions are acting in the best interest not of themselves but of the whole of the people.

If we want to provide decent, fulfilling lives for our children and our children's children, we need to exercise to the very greatest degree possible that duty of care for a vibrant, and hopefully a lasting, democracy.

