Since we are still realizing these works, we are largely working within the realm of intuition and mystery, still.

So I'm going to try and describe some of the experiences that we're looking for through each of the works. 

So the first work is called the Imperial Monochromes.

Within seconds, as if the panels have noticed the presence of the viewer, they appear to panic and sort of get into a strict symmetry.

And we were interested in seeing how little change it takes to move from one state to the other state.

This also reminded us of two very different pictorial traditions.

One is the altar tablets of the 15th century, and the other is about 100 years ago, Malevich's abstract compositions.

So I'm just going to take you to a video.

So a viewer enters the space, and they snap to attention.

(Laughter) So here it appears as if it's the viewer that's sort of instigating the sense of order among the panels, but it could also be the other way around, that the panels are so stuck within their preconditioned behaviors that they sort of thrust the viewer with the role of a tyrant. 

So this brings me to a quieter, small work called Handheld.

The viewer also sees that this entire sculpture is sort of moving very slightly, as if these two hands are trying to hold the paper very still for a long period of time, and somehow are not managing to.

So this instability in the movement very closely resembles the unsteady nature of images seen through a handheld camera.

So here I'm going to show you two tandem clips.

One is through a still camera and the other is through a handheld camera.

And you immediately see how the unsteady nature of the video suggests the presence of an observer and a subjective point of view.

So we've just removed the camera and transferred that movement onto the panel.

But to us, we're sort of trying to evoke a self-effacing gesture, as if there's a little person with outstretched arms behind this enormous piece of paper.

That sort of likens it to the amount of strain to be at the service of the observer and present this piece of paper very delicately to the viewer in front of them. 

The next work is Decoy.

This is a cardboard model, so the object is about as tall as I am.

So when a viewer passes by, it sort of tilts from side to side, and moves its arms more and more frantically as the person gets closer.

So here is the first test scenario.

(Laughter) So this is the final fabricated body of the Decoy.

It appears to be mass-manufactured like it came out of a factory like vacuum cleaners and washing machines.

The next work is an object, that's also a kind of sound instrument.

In the shape of an amphitheater that's scaled to the size of an audience as perceived from somebody from the stage.

Seated in this audience are 996 small figures.

They're mechanically enabled to clap of their own free will.

So when the viewer steps in front of the audience, there will be a response.

It could be a few claps or a strong applause, and then nothing happens until the viewer leaves the stage, and again the audience will respond.

It could be anything from a few feeble claps from members in the audience, or it could be a very loud ovation.

So to us, I think we're really looking at an audience as its own object or its own organism that's also got a sort of musical-like quality to it, an instrument.

So the viewer can play it by eliciting quite complex and varied, nuanced musical or sound patterns, but cannot really provoke the audience into any particular kind of response.

So there's a sense of judgment and capriciousness and uneasiness involved.

And here is a prototype.

So we can't wait to be engulfed by 996 of them. 

It comes out of the idea of a window.

This grid is inhabited by a tribe of small figures.

They're also made up of three different sizes, as if to suggest a kind of perspective or landscape on the single plain.

Each of these figures can also run backward and forward in the track and hide behind two adjacent tracks.

So to us, this work also presents its own contradiction.

So you see they extracted the motion cogs from our animations and created a wiggle that integrated the head-bobbing movement and the back-and-forth movement.

So it's really quite small.

You can see it can fit into the palm of my hand.

So imagine our excitement when we saw it really working in the studio, and here it is. 

(Laughter) 

Thank you. 

