Five years ago, I was a Ph.D. student living two lives.

In one, I used NASA supercomputers to design next-generation spacecraft, and in the other I was a data scientist looking for potential smugglers of sensitive nuclear technologies.

As a data scientist, I did a lot of analyses, mostly of facilities, industrial facilities around the world.

And I was always looking for a better canvas to tie these all together.

Although I was a satellite engineer, I hadn't thought about using satellite imagery in my work. 

But I was intrigued.

I mean, satellite imagery is pretty amazing stuff.

There are millions and millions of sensors surrounding us today, but there's still so much we don't know on a daily basis.

How much oil is stored in all of China?

How much corn is being produced?

How many ships are in all of our world's ports?

Now, in theory, all of these questions could be answered by imagery, but not if it's old.

And if this data was so valuable, then how come I couldn't get my hands on more recent pictures? 

So the story begins over 50 years ago with the launch of the first generation of U.S. government photo reconnaissance satellites.

All of this has only made satellites bigger and bigger and bigger and more expensive, now nearly a billion, with a b, dollars per copy.

Because they are so expensive, there aren't very many of them.

Because there aren't very many of them, the pictures that we see on a daily basis tend to be old. 

Now as aerospace engineering grad students, this chart cried out to us as a challenge.

Why do these things have to be so expensive?

Does a single satellite really have to cost the equivalent of three 747 jumbo jets?

Wasn't there a way to build a smaller, simpler, new satellite design that could enable more timely imaging? 

I realize that it does sound a little bit crazy that we were going to go out and just begin designing satellites, but fortunately we had help.

In the late 1990s, a couple of professors proposed a concept for radically reducing the price of putting things in space.

This was hitchhiking small satellites alongside much larger satellites.

And a new generation of engineers and scientists, mostly out of universities, began launching these very small, breadbox-sized satellites called CubeSats.

And these were built with electronics obtained from RadioShack instead of Lockheed Martin. 

Now it was using the lessons learned from these early missions that my friends and I began a series of sketches of our own satellite design.

And I can't remember a specific day where we made a conscious decision that we were actually going to go out and build these things, but once we got that idea in our minds of the world as a dataset, of being able to capture millions of data points on a daily basis describing the global economy, of being able to unearth billions of connections between them that had never before been found, it just seemed boring to go work on anything else. 

And so we moved into a cramped, windowless office in Palo Alto, and began working to take our design from the drawing board into the lab.

The first major question we had to tackle was just how big to build this thing.

And we found that the best picture we would have been able to get looked something like this.

Although this was the low-cost option, quite frankly it was just too blurry to see the things that make satellite imagery valuable.

We would have to build something larger than the original breadbox, now more like a mini-fridge, but we still wouldn't have to build a pickup truck.

So now we had our constraint.

The laws of physics dictated the absolute minimum-sized telescope that we could build. 

The big challenge became actually taking the pictures through that telescope.

Now people use these because they get a lot of light, which means less of the noise you see in a low-cost cell phone image.

The problem with them is they require very sophisticated pointing.

So instead, we turned to a new generation of video sensors, originally created for use in night vision goggles.

And we applied this technique to many of the other systems on the satellite as well, and day by day, our design evolved from CAD to prototypes to production units. 

A few short weeks ago, we packed up SkySat 1, put our signatures on it, and waved goodbye for the last time on Earth.

Today, it's sitting in its final launch configuration ready to blast off in a few short weeks.

And soon, we'll turn our attention to launching a constellation of 24 or more of these satellites and beginning to build the scalable analytics that will allow us to unearth the insights in the petabytes of data we will collect. 

Well, it turns out imaging satellites have a unique ability to provide global transparency, and providing that transparency on a timely basis is simply an idea whose time has come.

We see ourselves as pioneers of a new frontier, and beyond economic data, unlocking the human story, moment by moment.

For a data scientist that just happened to go to space camp as a kid, it just doesn't get much better than that. 

Thank you. 

