I want you to imagine what a breakthrough this was for women who were victims of violence in the 1980s.

And as activists, we would take our Polaroid camera, we would take her picture, we would wait 90 seconds, and we would give her the photograph.

And she would then have the evidence she needed to go to court.

We were making what was invisible visible. 

I've been doing this for 30 years.

I've been part of a social movement that has been working on ending violence against women and children.

Why do I believe this?

Because it's true.

It is absolutely true.

Our eyes were wide open.

Thirty years ago, women were beaten, they were stalked, they were raped, and no one talked about it.

There was no justice.

And as an activist, that was not good enough.

And you know what else we did?

And so, step number two, we knew we needed to change the laws.

And so we went to Washington, and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation.

Do you know what he called this important piece of legislation?

He called it the Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act.

The Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act.

(Applause) Thank you.

And I have to tell you, I'm passionate about data.

In fact, I am a data nerd.

I'm sure there are a lot of data nerds here.

I am a data nerd, and the reason for that is I want to make sure that if we spend a dollar, that the program works, and if it doesn't work, we should change the plan. 

Please don't—Let go of me! 

Woman: Help me! 

Esta Soler: As we were in the process of releasing this campaign, O.J.

We learned that he had a long history of domestic violence.

The media became fixated.

The story of domestic violence went from the back page, but actually from the no-page, to the front page.

Our ads blanketed the airwaves, and women, for the first time, started to tell their stories.

And let me just put this in context.

Before 1980, do you have any idea how many articles were in The New York Times on domestic violence?

I'll tell you: 158.

And in the 2000s, over 7,000.

We were obviously making a difference. 

But we were still missing a critical element.

So, step four: We needed to engage men.

We couldn't solve this problem with 50 percent of the population on the sidelines.

And I already told you I'm a data nerd.

National polling told us that men felt indicted and not invited into this conversation.

So we wondered, how can we include men?

How can we get men to talk about violence against women and girls?

And a male friend of mine pulled me aside and he said, "You want men to talk about violence against women and girls.

(Laughter) I apologize to the men in the audience.

We met men where they were at and we built a program.

And he was talking about the importance of coaching boys into men and changing the culture of the locker room and giving men the tools to have healthy relationships.

We've come a long way since the days of the Polaroid.

Technology has been our friend.

You can't make that one up.

And it is his spirit and his optimism that is in my DNA.

Thank you very much. 

