Server: May I help you, sir? 

Customer: Uh, let's see. 

Server: We have pan seared registry error sprinkled with the finest corrupted data, binary brioche, RAM sandwiches, Conficker fitters, and a scripting salad with or without polymorphic dressing, and a grilled coding kabob. 

Customer: I'd like a RAM sandwich and a glass of your finest Code 39. 

Server: Coming right up, sir.

Your food will be served shortly. 

At that age, I also learned about what an animator was.

There was a program on TV about jobs most kids don't know about.

Animation and art has always been my first love.

It was my love for technology that sparked the idea for "Malicious Dishes."

At four years old, my dad showed me how to take apart a computer and put it back together again.

That started my love for technology.

I built my first website myself in HTML, and I'm learning JavaScript and Python. 

I'm also working on an animated series called "The Pollinators."

It's about bees and other pollinators in our environment and why they're so important.

If plants aren't pollinated by the pollinators, then all creatures, including ourselves, that depend on these plants, would starve.

Ideas can spark a movement.

Ideas are opportunities and innovation.

Ideas truly are what make the world go round.

If it wasn't for ideas, we wouldn't be where we are now with technology, medicine, art, culture, and how we even live our lives.

At eight years old, I took my ideas and started my own business called Maya's Ideas, and my nonprofit, Maya's Ideas for the Planet.

(Laughter) And I make eco-friendly clothing and accessories.

I'm 13 now, and although I started my business in 2008, my artistic journey started way before then.

I was greatly influenced by art, and I wanted to incorporate it in everything I did, even my business.

I would find different fabrics around the house, and say, &amp;quot;This could be a scarf or a hat,&amp;quot; and I had all these ideas for designs.

I noticed when I wore my creations, people would stop me and say, "Wow, that's really cute.

And I thought, I can start my own business. 

Now I didn't have any business plans at only eight years old.

I only knew I wanted to make pretty creations that were safe for the environment and I wanted to give back.

I started making more items like hats, scarves and bags.

Soon, my items began selling all over the world, and I had customers in Denmark, Italy, Australia, Canada and more. 

Soon, my business really started to take off.

Then one day, Forbes magazine contacted me when I was 10 years old.

(Laughter) They wanted to feature me and my company in their article. 

Now a lot of people ask me, why is your business eco-friendly?

I've had a passion for protecting the environment and its creatures since I was little.

My parents taught me at an early age about giving back and being a good steward to the environment.

I feel that I can meet the needs of my customers without compromising the ability of future generations to live in a greener tomorrow. 

We live in a big, diverse and beautiful world, and that makes me even more passionate to save it.

But it's never enough to just to get it through your heads about the things that are happening in our world.

