But first, what do we call complexity?

What is complex?

Well, complex is not complicated.

Something complicated comprises many small parts, all different, and each of them has its own precise role in the machinery.

On the opposite, a complex system is made of many, many similar parts, and it is their interaction that produces a globally coherent behavior.

Complex systems have many interacting parts which behave according to simple, individual rules, and this results in emergent properties.

The behavior of the system as a whole cannot be predicted from the individual rules only.

These are Scottish terriers.

In the beginning, the system is disorganized.

Then comes a perturbation: milk.

The pinwheel is an emergent property of the interactions between puppies whose only rule is to try to keep access to the milk and therefore to push in a random direction. 

So it's all about finding the simple rules from which complexity emerges.

I call this simplifying complexity, and it's what we do at the chair of systems design at ETH Zurich.

We collect data on animal populations, analyze complex patterns, try to explain them.

It requires physicists who work with biologists, with mathematicians and computer scientists, and it is their interaction that produces cross-boundary competence to solve these problems.

So again, the whole is greater than the sum of the parts.

In a way, collaboration is another example of a complex system. 

So we took ER-1 to the evaluation room.

It turned out, the light in that room was slightly different.

The robot's vision system got confused.

At the first bend in the line, it left its course, and crashed into a wall.

So I study roosting associations in bats, and this is what it looks like.

During the day, the bats roost in a number of sub-groups in different boxes.

It turns out this is a very interesting picture.

This bat colony is organized in two different communities which cannot be predicted from the daily fission-fusion dynamics.

We call them cryptic social units.

So these bats remember their friends for a really long time.

We knew that primates and elephants and dolphins could do that, but compared to bats, they have huge brains.

So how could it be that the bats maintain this complex, stable social structure with such limited cognitive abilities? 

And this is where complexity brings an answer.

To understand this system, we built a computer model of roosting, based on simple, individual rules, and simulated thousands and thousands of days in the virtual bat colony.

It's a mathematical model, but it's not complicated.

What the model told us is that, in a nutshell, each bat knows a few other colony members as her friends, and is just slightly more likely to roost in a box with them.

Simple, individual rules.

This is all it takes to explain the social complexity of these bats. 

But it gets better.

Between 2010 and 2011, the colony lost more than two thirds of its members, probably due to the very cold winter.

Instead, it formed a single, cohesive social unit, which allowed the colony to survive that season and thrive again in the next two years.

What we know is that the bats are not aware that their colony is doing this.

All they do is follow simple association rules, and from this simplicity emerges social complexity which allows the colony to be resilient against dramatic changes in the population structure.

And I find this incredible. 

This is where meerkats live.

I'm sure you know meerkats.

They're fascinating creatures.

They live in groups with a very strict social hierarchy.

What we do is put very small GPS collars on these animals to study how they move together, and what this has to do with their social structure.

And there's a very interesting example of collective movement in meerkats.

In the middle of the reserve which they live in lies a road.

On this road there are cars, so it's dangerous.

So I built a model, a model of simulated meerkats crossing a simulated road.

It's a simplistic model.

Moving meerkats are like random particles whose unique rule is one of alignment.

They simply move together.

George Box, who was an English statistician, once wrote, "All models are false, but some models are useful."

So again, that's simplifying complexity. 

I would like to conclude on what this means for the whole species.

If she dies on the road, the whole group is at risk.

So this behavior of risk avoidance is a very old evolutionary response.

They adapt very simple rules, and the resulting complex behavior allows them to resist human encroachment into their natural habitat. 

In the end, it may be bats which change their social structure in response to a population crash, or it may be meerkats who show a novel adaptation to a human road, or it may be another species.

In three words, in the animal kingdom, simplicity leads to complexity which leads to resilience. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Are there stereotypes you can confirm in this regard that can be valid across all species?

For examples, in sea horses or in koalas, in fact, it is the males who take care of the young always.

And the lesson is that it's often difficult, and sometimes even a bit dangerous, to draw parallels between humans and animals.

