I write to you because at present, this quaking world we share scares me.

I gather it scares you, too.

Some of what we fear, I suspect, we fear in common.

But much of what we fear seems to be each other.

You fear the world I want to live in, and I fear your visions in turn. 

Do you know that feeling you get when you know it's going to storm before it storms?

In this round, I sense that your fears of me, of the world that I have insisted is right for us both, has gathered over a generation.

It took time for your fears to trigger my fears, not least because at first, I never thought I needed to fear you. 

I have walked through your towns and, while looking, failed to see.

I did notice in Stephenville, Texas, that the town square was dominated by one lawyer's office after another, because of all the people rotating in and out of the prison.

I did notice the barren shops in Wagner, South Dakota, and the VFW gathering hall that stood in mockery of a community's dream to endure.

And I heard that the fabric of your life was tearing.

You used to be able to count on work, and now you couldn't.

You used to be able to nourish your children, and guarantee that they would climb a little bit further in life than you had, and now you couldn't.

You used to be made to feel dignity in your work, and now you didn't.

It used to be normal for people like you to own a home, and now it wasn't. 

I heard all of these things, but I didn't listen.

I looked but didn't see.

I read, didn't understand. 

I paid attention only when you began to vote and shout, and when your voting and shouting, when the substance of it, began to threaten me. 

I listened only when you moved toward shattering continental unions and electing vulgar demagogues. 

Only then did your pain become of interest to me. 

I know that feeling hurt is often prologue to dealing hurt.

I wonder now if you would be less eager to deal it if I had stood with you when you merely felt it. 

One reason is that I became entranced by the gurus of change, became a worshiper of the religion of the new for novelty's sake, and of globalization and open borders and kaleidoscopic diversity. 

Once change became my totalizing faith, I could be blind.

I could fail to see change's consequences.

I could overlook the importance of roots, traditions, rituals, stability -- and belonging. 

I will not concede for a moment that old privileges should not dwindle.

They cannot dwindle fast enough.

It is for you to learn to live in a new century in which there are no bonuses for showing up with the right skin and right organs.

If and when your anger turns to hate, please know that there is no space for that in our shared home.

But I will admit, fellow citizen, that I have discounted the burden of coping with the loss of status.

I have forgotten that what is socially necessary can also be personally gruelling. 

A similar thing happened with the economy that you and I share.

Just as I cannot and don't wish to turn back to the clock on equality and diversity, and yet must understand the sense of loss they can inspire, so, too, I refuse and could not if I wished turn back the clock on an ever more closely knit, interdependent world, and on inventions that won't stop being invented.

And yet I must understand your experience of these things. 

You have for years been telling me that your experience of these things is not as good as my theories forecast. 

That is just my dogmatic economism talking.

So here we are, in a scary but not inexplicable moment of demagoguery, fracture, xenophobia, resentment and fear. 

I worry when each of us is seduced by visions of the future that have no place for the other. 

If this goes on, if this goes on, there may be blood.

There are already hints of this blood in newspapers every day.

There may be roundups, raids, deportations, camps, secessions.

And no, I do not think that I exaggerate.

There may be even talk of war in places that were certain they were done with it. 

There is always the hope of redemption.

This will take more. 

It will take accepting that we both made choices to be here. 

We create our "others."

As parents, as neighbors, as citizens, we witness and sometimes ignore each other into being. 

You were not born vengeful.

We face, then, a problem not of these large, impersonal forces.

We face a problem of your and my relations.

We chose ways of relating to each other that got us here.

We can choose ways of relating that get us out. 

We can do this only if we first accept that we have neglected each other.

If there is hope to summon in this ominous hour, it is this.

Let us dare. 

