In 2007, I became the attorney general of the state of New Jersey.

But when I became the attorney general, two things happened that changed the way I see criminal justice.

The first is that I asked what I thought were really basic questions.

I wanted to understand who we were arresting, who we were charging, and who we were putting in our nation's jails and prisons.

I also wanted to understand if we were making decisions in a way that made us safer.

And I couldn't get this information out.

It turned out that most big criminal justice agencies like my own didn't track the things that matter.

They were trying to get the information I was looking for by going through case by case for the past five years.

And as you can imagine, when we finally got the results, they weren't good.

It turned out that we were doing a lot of low-level drug cases on the streets just around the corner from our office in Trenton. 

The second thing that happened is that I spent the day in the Camden, New Jersey police department.

Now, at that time, Camden, New Jersey, was the most dangerous city in America.

I ran the Camden Police Department because of that.

I spent the day in the police department, and I was taken into a room with senior police officials, all of whom were working hard and trying very hard to reduce crime in Camden.

And what I saw in that room, as we talked about how to reduce crime, were a series of officers with a lot of little yellow sticky notes.

And they would take a yellow sticky and they would write something on it and they would put it up on a board.

We weren't using data-driven policing.

We were essentially trying to fight crime with yellow Post-it notes. 

Now, both of these things made me realize fundamentally that we were failing.

And for the first time, I started to think about how we made decisions.

When I was an assistant D.A., and when I was a federal prosecutor, I looked at the cases in front of me, and I generally made decisions based on my instinct and my experience.

And what I learned very quickly is that we weren't doing a good job.

So I wanted to do things differently.

I wanted to introduce data and analytics and rigorous statistical analysis into our work.

In short, I wanted to moneyball criminal justice. 

It worked for the Oakland A's, and it worked in the state of New Jersey.

We took Camden off the top of the list as the most dangerous city in America.

We also changed the way we did criminal prosecutions.

If we're not safe, we can't be educated, we can't be healthy, we can't do any of the other things we want to do in our lives.

The vast majority of those arrests are for low-level crimes, like misdemeanors, 70 to 80 percent.

Less than five percent of all arrests are for violent crime.

Right now, today, we have 2.3 million people in our jails and prisons.

And we face unbelievable public safety challenges because we have a situation in which two thirds of the people in our jails are there waiting for trial.

They haven't yet been convicted of a crime.

They're just waiting for their day in court.

And 67 percent of people come back.

Our recidivism rate is amongst the highest in the world.

Almost seven in 10 people who are released from prison will be rearrested in a constant cycle of crime and incarceration. 

So when I started my job at the Arnold Foundation, I came back to looking at a lot of these questions, and I came back to thinking about how we had used data and analytics to transform the way we did criminal justice in New Jersey.

It impacts whether someone gets drug treatment.

It impacts crime and violence.

They mean it and they believe it.

We find low-risk offenders, which makes up 50 percent of our entire criminal justice population, we find that they're in jail.

He was arrested, and he was kept in jail on 3,500 dollars bail, an amount that he could not afford to pay.

And he stayed in jail for eight months until his case came up for trial, at a cost to taxpayers of more than 9,000 dollars.

And at the other end of the spectrum, we're doing an equally terrible job.

The reason for this is the way we make decisions.

They're like the baseball scouts 20 years ago who were using their instinct and their experience to try to decide what risk someone poses.

What we need in this space are strong data and analytics. 

What I decided to look for was a strong data and analytic risk assessment tool, something that would let judges actually understand with a scientific and objective way what the risk was that was posed by someone in front of them.

So basically, they couldn't be scaled or transferred to other places. 

In the tool that we've built, what we did was we collected 1.5 million cases from all around the United States, from cities, from counties, from every single state in the country, the federal districts.

And with those 1.5 million cases, which is the largest data set on pretrial in the United States today, we were able to basically find that there were 900-plus risk factors that we could look at to try to figure out what mattered most.

And so we built a universal risk assessment tool.

And it looks like this.

And with this tool, we can predict three things.

And that's the single most important thing that judges say when you talk to them.

And third, we can predict whether someone will come back to court.

And every single judge in the United States of America can use it, because it's been created on a universal data set. 

What judges see if they run the risk assessment tool is this -- it's a dashboard.

What that says is that this person is someone who has an elevated risk of violence that the judge should look twice at.

Now I want to say something really important.

It's not that I think we should be eliminating the judge's instinct and experience from this process.

I don't.

I actually believe the problem that we see and the reason that we have these incredible system errors, where we're incarcerating low-level, nonviolent people and we're releasing high-risk, dangerous people, is that we don't have an objective measure of risk.

But what I believe should happen is that we should take that data-driven risk assessment and combine that with the judge's instinct and experience to lead us to better decision making.

The tool went statewide in Kentucky on July 1, and we're about to go up in a number of other U.S. jurisdictions.

Our goal, quite simply, is that every single judge in the United States will use a data-driven risk tool within the next five years.

Now, the great news about all this, and we have a ton of work left to do, and we have a lot of culture to change, but the great news about all of it is that we know it works.

The great news for us as well is that it's the way that we can transform the American criminal justice system.

It's how we can make our streets safer, we can reduce our prison costs, and we can make our system much fairer and more just.

Thank you. 

