Many organizations are offering these online courses to students all over the world, in the millions, for free.

Anybody who has an Internet connection and the will to learn can access these great courses from excellent universities and get a credential at the end of it.

Now, in this discussion today, I'm going to focus on a different aspect of MOOCs.

We are taking what we are learning and the technologies we are developing in the large and applying them in the small to create a blended model of education to really reinvent and reimagine what we do in the classroom. 

Now, our classrooms could use change.

So, here's a classroom at this little three-letter institute in the Northeast of America, MIT.

What's changed?

The seats are in color.

Whoop-de-do.

Education really hasn't changed in the past 500 years.

The last big innovation in education was the printing press and the textbooks.

Everything else has changed around us.

You know, from healthcare to transportation, everything is different, but education hasn't changed. 

It's also been a real issue in terms of access.

So what you see here is not a rock concert.

And the person you see at the end of the stage is not Madonna.

This is a classroom at the Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria.

Now, I really believe that we can transform education, both in quality and scale and access, through technology.

Given education has been calcified for 500 years, we really cannot think about reengineering it, micromanaging it.

We really have to completely reimagine it.

It's like going from ox carts to the airplane.

Even the infrastructure has to change.

Everything has to change.

We need to go from lectures on the blackboard to online exercises, online videos.

We have to go to interactive virtual laboratories and gamification.

We have to go to completely online grading and peer interaction and discussion boards.

Everything really has to change. 

So at edX and a number of other organizations, we are applying these technologies to education through MOOCs to really increase access to education.

And we had no marketing budget.

Now, 155,000 is a big number.

7,200 is also a big number.

Now these large numbers are just one part of the story.

So today, I want to discuss a different aspect, the other side of MOOCs, take a different perspective.

But before I go into that, let me tell you a story.

I call it teen-lish.

It's a digital language.

It's got two sounds: a grunt and a silence. 

"Honey, come over for dinner."

I said, no, that must have been by accident.

I said, this is great.

And so since then, our life has changed.

I text her, she responds.

So our millennial generation is built differently.

Now, I'm older, and my youthful looks might belie that, but I'm not in the millennial generation.

But our kids are really different.

The millennial generation is completely comfortable with online technology.

So here's what we can do.

Then they come into the classroom for some in-person interaction.

They can have discussions amongst themselves.

They can solve problems together.

In fact, with edX, when we were teaching our first course on circuits and electronics around the world, this was happening unbeknownst to us.

We were also doing other pilots.

Now don't take these results to the bank just yet.

Just wait a little bit longer as we experiment with this some more, but the early results are incredible.

With this blended class late last year, the failure rate fell to nine percent.

So the results can be extremely, extremely good. 

Now before we go too far into this, I'd like to spend some time discussing some key ideas.

What are some key ideas that makes all of this work? 

One idea is active learning.

The idea here is, rather than have students walk into class and watch lectures, we replace this with what we call lessons.

Lessons are interleaved sequences of videos and interactive exercises.

So a student might watch a five-, seven-minute video and follow that with an interactive exercise.

Think of this as the ultimate Socratization of education.

You teach by asking questions.

The second idea is self-pacing.

Now, when I went to a lecture hall, and if you were like me, by the fifth minute I would lose the professor.

I wasn't all that smart, and I would be scrambling, taking notes, and then I would lose the lecture for the rest of the hour.

They can hit the pause button.

They can rewind the professor.

Heck, they can even mute the professor.

So this form of self-pacing can be very helpful to learning. 

The third idea that we have is instant feedback.

With instant feedback, the computer grades exercises.

I mean, how else do you teach 150,000 students?

Some are never graded.

So with instant feedback, students can try to apply answers.

If they get it wrong, they can get instant feedback.

Learners are telling us that they go to bed at night dreaming of the green check mark.

The next big idea is gamification.

You know, all learners engage really well with interactive videos and so on.

Fifth is peer learning.

Let me tell you a story.

How do you do that for 150,000?

Now this is all not just in the future.

This is happening today.

Finally, I would like to have you dream with me for a little bit.

I would like us to really reimagine education.

We will have to move from lecture halls to e-spaces.

We have to move from bricks-and-mortar school buildings to digital dormitories. 

But I think at the end of the day, I think we will still need one lecture hall in our universities.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you.

