Joe Kowan: I have stage fright.

And it didn't even matter until I was 27.

Just knowing my roommates were in the same house made me uncomfortable. 

But after a couple of years, just writing songs wasn't enough.

I had this irrational fear.

But the more I wrote, and the more I practiced, the more I wanted to perform. 

(Laughter) And they all looked angry.

But I took a deep breath, and I signed up to play, and I felt pretty good. 

Pretty good, until about 10 minutes before my turn, when my whole body rebelled, and this wave of anxiety just washed over me.

Now, when you experience fear, your sympathetic nervous system kicks in.

(Laughter) So your mouth gets dry, and blood is routed away from your extremities, so your fingers don't work anymore.

(Laughter) That condition is not conducive to performing folk music.

(Laughter) I mean, your nervous system is an idiot.

(Laughter) I mean, your nervous system is an idiot.

(Laughter) I mean, your nervous system is an idiot.

And this is not the good kind of vibrato, like an opera singer has, this is my whole body just convulsing with fear.

I mean, it's a nightmare.

It was so bad.

But that was my first real experience as a solo singer-songwriter. 

And something good did happen -- I had the tiniest little glimpse of that audience connection that I was hoping for.

(Laughter) I couldn't shake it. 

(Laughter) All I had to do was write a song that exploits my nervousness.

So I started writing a song about having stage fright.

First, fessing up to the problem, the physical manifestations, how I would feel, how the listener might feel.

And then accounting for things like my shaky voice, and I knew I would be singing about a half-octave higher than normal, because I was nervous.

By having a song that explained what was happening to me, while it was happening, that gave the audience permission to think about it.

(Laughter) 

And having the stage fright song let me get past that biggest issue right in the beginning of a performance.

And then I could move on, and play the rest of my songs with just a little bit more ease.

(Laughter) 

♫ I'm not joking, you know, ♫ ♫ this stage fright is real.

