I have worked with more than 500 companies.

Why do people feel so miserable, even actively disengaged?

Despite all the affiliation events, the celebration, the people initiatives, the leadership development programs to train managers on how to better motivate their teams. 

Or vice versa, because they are less productive, we put more pressure and they are less engaged.

The way we organize is based on two pillars.

And whenever a company reorganizes, restructures, reengineers, goes through a cultural transformation program, it chooses these two pillars.

Now, we try to refine them, we try to combine them.

Everything you read in business books is based either on one or the other or their combination.

They are obsolete.

I forgot all the metrics, incentives, committees, middle offices and interfaces.

We create dedicated structure processed systems, basically to deal with the new complexity of business.

The hard approach creates just complicatedness in the organization. 

Let's take an example.

An automotive company, the engineering division is a five-dimensional matrix.

What happens when the new requirement emerges?

So therefore the new requirement is repairability, making cars easy to repair.

Otherwise when you bring the car to the garage to fix the light, if you have to remove the engine to access the lights, the car will have to stay one week in the garage instead of two hours, and the warranty budget will explode.

So, what was the solution using the hard approach?

And Mr. Repairability creates the repairability process.

With a repairability scorecard, with a repairability metric and eventually repairability incentive.

That came on top of 25 other KPIs.

What difference did it make in their actions, their choices to simplify?

How the parts work together.

The connections, the interactions, the synapses.

It is not the skeleton of boxes, it is the nervous system of adaptiveness and intelligence.

You know, you could call it cooperation, basically.

Whenever people cooperate, they use less resources.

You know, the repairability issue is a cooperation problem.

We need -- When procurement, supply chain, manufacturing don't cooperate we need more stock, more inventories, more working capital.

Stress, burnout, they are overwhelmed, accidents.

No wonder they disengage.

How do the hard and the soft try to foster cooperation?

They create a middle office.

What happens one year later?

Instead of one problem between the back and the front, now I have two problems.

Between the back and the middle and between the middle and the front.

Plus I have to pay for the middle office.

The soft approach: To make people cooperate, we need to make them like each other.

It is totally wrong.

Precisely not to have to cooperate with my wife.

(Laughter) Not to have to impose tradeoffs to my wife.

And why I try not to impose tradeoffs to my wife is precisely because I love my wife.

And we go for a second TV or we escalate the decision above for arbitration.

Definitely, these approaches are obsolete. 

Simple rule number one: Understand what others do.

What is their real work?

We need to go beyond the boxes, the job descriptions, beyond the surface of the container, to understand the real content.

Me, designer, if I put a wire here, I know that it will mean that we will have to remove the engine to access the lights.

Second, you need to reenforce integrators.

How can you reinforce your managers as integrators?

By removing layers.

And we end up with the Encyclopedia Britannica of rules.

You need to increase the quanitity of power so that you can empower everybody to use their judgment, their intelligence.

These rules, they come from game theory and organizational sociology.

You can increase the shadow of the future.

Create feedback loops that expose people to the consequences of their actions.

This is what the automotive company did when they saw that Mr. Repairability had no impact.

When you remove these buffers, you hold me by the nose, I hold you by the ear.

We will cooperate.

Remove the second TV.

You need to reward those who cooperate and blame those who don't cooperate.

The CEO of The Lego Group, Jorgen Vig Knudstorp, has a great way to use it.

He says, blame is not for failure, it is for failing to help or ask for help.

It changes everything.

When you do this, it has a lot of implications on organizational design.

You stop drawing boxes, dotted lines, full lines; you look at their interplay.

It has a lot of implications on financial policies that we use.

On human resource management practices.

You create more value with lower cost.

Complicatedness: This is your battle, business leaders.

The real battle is not against competitors.

This is rubbish, very abstract.

When do we meet competitors to fight them?

