It's a pleasure to be here in Edinburgh, Scotland, the birthplace of the needle and syringe.

Less than a mile from here in this direction, in 1853 a Scotsman filed his very first patent on the needle and syringe.

His name was Alexander Wood, and it was at the Royal College of Physicians.

This is the patent.

What blows my mind when I look at it even today is that it looks almost identical to the needle in use today.

Yet, it's 160 years old. 

So we turn to the field of vaccines.

Most vaccines are delivered with the needle and syringe, this 160-year-old technology.

And credit where it's due -- on many levels, vaccines are a successful technology.

After clean water and sanitation, vaccines are the one technology that has increased our life span the most.

That's a pretty hard act to beat. 

I share that view.

However, 20 percent of the population have a thing called needle phobia.

And that's problematic in terms of the rollout of vaccines. 

These are early deaths that take place. 

One is it could be holding back the next generation of vaccines in terms of their immune responses.

And the second is that it could be responsible for the problem of the cold chain that I'll tell you about as well. 

I'm going to tell you about some work that my team and I are doing in Australia at the University of Queensland on a technology designed to tackle those four problems.

And that technology is called the Nanopatch.

Now, this is a specimen of the Nanopatch.

And there's about 4,000 projections on this particular square compared to the needle.

And I've designed those projections to serve a key role, which is to work with the skin's immune system.

So that's a very important function tied in with the Nanopatch. 

Now we make the Nanopatch with a technique called deep reactive ion etching.

Now we dry-coat vaccines to the projections of the Nanopatch and apply it to the skin.

It's a spring-operated device.

What we do is when we apply the Nanopatch to the skin as so -- (Click) -- immediately a few things happen.

Then we can take the Nanopatch off and discard it.

And indeed we can make a reuse of the applicator itself. 

So let's start with the first one, this immunogenicity idea.

It takes a little while to get our heads around, but I'll try to explain it in simple terms.

So I'll take a step back and explain to you how vaccines work in a simple way.

Now that safe germ, that antigen, tricks our body into mounting an immune response, learning and remembering how to deal with intruders.

When the real intruder comes along the body quickly mounts an immune response to deal with that vaccine and neutralizes the infection.

So it does that well. 

Now, the way it's done today with the needle and syringe, most vaccines are delivered that way -- with this old technology and the needle.

And we see this kind of data.

It would be 10 times bigger than the size of that screen, going 10 times deeper as well.

It's off the grid entirely.

You can see immediately that we have those projections in the skin.

We target thousands upon thousands of these particular cells just residing within a hair's width of the surface of the skin. 

So what if you've targeted cells?

In the world of vaccines, what does that mean?

The world of vaccines is getting better.

It's getting more systematic.

However, you still don't really know if a vaccine is going to work until you roll your sleeves up and vaccinate and wait.

It's a gambler's game even today. 

So, we had to do that gamble.

We waited a month, and this is what we found out.

If we're above that line it's considered protective; if we're below that line it's not.

But notice immediately the distinctly different curve that we achieve with the blue line.

That's a real fresh opportunity.

We can push it one way, where we can take a vaccine that works but is too expensive and can get protection with a hundredth of the dose compared to the needle.

But there's another angle to this as well -- you can take vaccines that currently don't work and get them over that line and get them protective.

And certainly in the world of vaccines that can be important.

Let's consider the big three: HIV, malaria, tuberculosis.

They're responsible for about 7 million deaths per year, and there is no adequate vaccination method for any of those.

So potentially, with this new lever that we have with the Nanopatch, we can help make that happen.

We can push that lever to help get those candidate vaccines over the line.

I'd like to now switch to talk about another key shortcoming of today's vaccines, and that is the need to maintain the cold chain.

As the name suggests -- the cold chain -- it's the requirements of keeping a vaccine right from production all the way through to when the vaccine is applied, to keep it refrigerated.

Now, that presents some logistical challenges but we have ways to do it.

Now, the stakes are very high.

A key attribute of our Nanopatch is that the vaccine is dry, and when it's dry it doesn't need refrigeration.

Within my lab we've shown that we can keep the vaccine stored at 23 degrees Celsius for more than a year without any loss in activity at all.

That's an important improvement.

(Applause) We're delighted about it as well.

And the thing about it is that we have well and truly proven the Nanopatch within the laboratory setting.

And as a scientist, I love that and I love science.

So we've commenced this particular journey, and we've commenced this journey in an unusual way.

We've started with Papua New Guinea. 

Now, Papua New Guinea is an example of a developing world country.

It's about the same size as France, but it suffers from many of the key barriers existing within the world of today's vaccines.

That's a challenge.

But also, Papua New Guinea has the world's highest incidence of HPV, human papillomavirus, the cervical cancer [risk factor].

So for those two reasons, with the attributes of the Nanopatch, we've got into the field and worked with the Nanopatch, and taken it to Papua New Guinea and we'll be following that up shortly. 

Now, doing this kind of work is not easy.

And it's a historical footnote that has been achieved by improved, radically improved vaccines.

