The entire model of capitalism and the economic model that you and I did business in, and, in fact, continue to do business in, was built around what probably Milton Friedman put more succinctly.

And it is this that has to become a very important part of creating value.

Of not just creating economic value but creating social value.

They have to begin to play their role in terms of serving the communities which actually sustain them.

How do we make sure that we have a great business but we also have a great environment around us?

And that model is all about doing well and doing good. 

But the question is easier said than done.

But how do we actually get that done?

And I do believe that the answer to that is going to be leadership.

It is going to be to redefine the new business models which understand that the only license to operate is to combine these things.

And for that you need businesses that can actually define their role in society in terms of a much larger purpose than the products and brands that they sell.

Values and purpose are going to be the two drivers of software that are going to create the companies of tomorrow. 

And I'm going to now shift to talking a little bit about my own experiences.

I joined Unilever in 1976 as a management trainee in India.

We are a company that sells soap and soup.

What are we doing about changing lives?

We run the largest hand-washing program in the world.

We are running a program on hygiene and health that now touches half a billion people.

And brands indeed can be at the forefront of social change.

And the reason for that is, when two billion people use your brands that's the amplifier.

Small actions can make a big difference. 

Now those of you who have done this will realize that this is no walk in the park.

We have 60,000 such women now in India. 

Small actions, big difference. 

Our R&amp;D folks are not only working to give us some fantastic detergents, but they're working to make sure we use less water.

A product that we've just launched recently, One Rinse product that allows you to save water every time you wash your clothes.

And if we can convert all our users to using this, that's 500 billion liters of water.

By the way, that's equivalent to one month of water for a whole huge continent.

So just think about it.

There are small actions that can make a big difference. 

And I can go on and on.

And the point I'm making here is that companies like yours, companies like mine have to define a purpose which embraces responsibility and understands that we have to play our part in the communities in which we operate. 

There are plenty of you and plenty of us who understand this.

