This is an image of the planet Earth.

It looks very much like the Apollo pictures that are very well known.

For instance, this is a bird's-eye view of the EPFL campus.

In many cases, you can also see how a building looks from a nearby street.

This is pretty amazing.

i'm not really sure when this picture was taken.

I'm not even sure it was taken at the same moment as the bird's-eye view.

In my lab, we develop tools to travel not only in space but also through time.

The kind of question we're asking is Is it possible to build something like Google Maps of the past?

Can I add a slider on top of Google Maps and just change the year, seeing how it was 100 years before, 1,000 years before?

Is that possible?

Can I reconstruct social networks of the past?

Can I make a Facebook of the Middle Ages?

So, can I build time machines?

This is what I call the information mushroom.

If we want to build something like Google Maps of the past, or Facebook of the past, we need to enlarge this space, we need to make that like a rectangle.

How do we do that?

One way is digitization.

There's a lot of material available -- newspaper, printed books, thousands of printed books.

I can digitize all these.

I can extract information from these.

Of course, the more you go in the past, the less information you will have.

This is what we call, in computer science, simulation.

If I take a log book, I can consider, it's not just a log book of a Venetian captain going to a particular journey.

I can consider it is actually a log book which is representative of many journeys of that period.

I'm extrapolating.

If I have a painting of a facade, I can consider it's not just that particular building, but probably it also shares the same grammar of buildings where we lost any information. 

So if we want to construct a time machine, we need two things.

We need very large archives, and we need excellent specialists.

The Venice Time Machine, the project I'm going to talk to you about, is a joint project between the EPFL and the University of Venice Ca'Foscari. 

There's something very peculiar about Venice, that its administration has been very, very bureaucratic.

They've been keeping track of everything, almost like Google today.

At the Archivio di Stato, you have 80 kilometers of archives documenting every aspect of the life of Venice over more than 1,000 years.

This is all there.

We are setting up a 10-year digitization program which has the objective of transforming this immense archive into a giant information system.

The type of objective we want to reach is 450 books a day that can be digitized.

In particular, traditional optical character recognition method that can be used for printed manuscripts, they do not work well on the handwritten document.

This is a domain of something that seems impossible, which can actually be done, simply by putting additional constraints.

If you have a very good model of a language which is used, if you have a very good model of a document, how well they are structured.

And these are administrative documents.

They are well structured in many cases.

If you divide this huge archive into smaller subsets where a smaller subset actually shares similar features, then there's a chance of success. 

Actually probably 10 billion events can be extracted from this archive.

And this giant information system can be searched in many ways.

You can ask even bigger questions because it will be semantically coded.

And then what you can do is put that in space, because much of this information is spatial.

And from that, you can do things like reconstructing this extraordinary journey of that city that managed to have a sustainable development over a thousand years, managing to have all the time a form of equilibrium with its environment.

You can reconstruct that journey, visualize it in many different ways.

But of course, you cannot understand Venice if you just look at the city.

You have to put it in a larger European context.

So the idea is also to document all the things that worked at the European level.

We can reconstruct also the journey of the Venetian maritime empire, how it progressively controlled the Adriatic Sea, how it became the most powerful medieval empire of its time, controlling most of the sea routes from the east to the south. 

"If I am in Corfu in June 1323 and want to go to Constantinople, where can I take a boat?"

Probably we can answer this question with one or two or three days' precision. 

Of course, you understand, the central scientific challenge of a project like this one is qualifying, quantifying and representing uncertainty and inconsistency at each step of this process.

There are errors in translation, interpretative biases, and on top of that, if you add algorithmic processes, you're going to have errors in recognition, errors in extraction, so you have very, very uncertain data. 

So how can we detect and correct these inconsistencies?

That will not guarantee that we actually converge toward a single story of Venice, but probably we can actually reconstruct a fully documented potential story of Venice.

The system should allow for that, because we have to deal with a new form of uncertainty, which is really new for this type of giant databases. 

And how should we communicate this new research to a large audience?

Again, Venice is extraordinary for that.

On the contrary, imagine actually that you start from a document, a Venetian manuscript, and you show, actually, what you can construct out of it, how it is decoded, how the context of that document can be recreated.

This is an image from an exhibit which is currently conducted in Geneva with that type of system. 

So to conclude, we can say that research in the humanities is about to undergo an evolution which is maybe similar to what happened to life sciences 30 years ago.

It's really a question of scale.

When you visit the Archivio di Stato, you feel this is beyond what any single team can do, and that should be a joint and common effort.

So what we must do for this paradigm shift is actually foster a new generation of "digital humanists" that are going to be ready for this shift. 

I thank you very much. 

