Good morning!

Are you awake?

Once upon a time, not long ago, I was sitting in a restaurant with my friend, ordering food.

Two words made a Lebanese young man judge a girl as being backward and ignorant.

Where could this happen?

Should I forget all my culture, thoughts, intellect and all my memories?

To be one of them?

Where's the logic in that?

Despite all that, I tried to understand him.

But we have another more important reality that we ought to think about.

How?

Gibran Khalil Gibran, when he first started writing, he used Arabic.

You can imagine that that's him writing in English, the same boy who came from the mountain.

The Germans, French, Japanese and Chinese, all these nations are aware of this.

That's why they use it in production, they pay a lot of money to develop it.

They kept it close to them.

Because if you get any product from Turkey or elsewhere and it's not labeled in Turkish, then it isn't a local product.

You wouldn't believe it's a local product.

They'd go back to being consumers, clueless consumers, like we are most of the time.

So, in order for them to innovate and produce, they had to protect their language.

Language isn't one, two or three words or letters put together.

I have a francophone friend who's married to a French man.

I asked her once how things were going.

We turned this into a concern of the civil society, and we launched a campaign to preserve the Arabic language.

After that, we launched another campaign with scenes of letters on the ground.

We really shouldn't kill our language.

We'd have to find an existence.

We'd go back to the beginning.

After that we released photos of guys and girls wearing the Arabic letter.

Photos of "cool" guys and girls.

Creativity is the idea.

Creativity in your mother tongue is the path.

Let's start from this moment.

Let's write a novel or produce a short film.

A single novel could make us global again.

You'd be entering a virtual world with a virtual language.

It's not easy to come back from such a place and rise.

Now I will tell you a secret.

