How many of you have not been to Oklahoma City and have no idea who I am?

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Oklahoma City started in the most unique way imaginable.

Back on a spring day in 1889, the federal government held what they called a land run.

(Laughter) That's not really all that funny -- (Laughter) -- but it allows me to see what type of audience I'm dealing with, so I appreciate the feedback. 

(Laughter) That's not really all that funny -- (Laughter) -- but it allows me to see what type of audience I'm dealing with, so I appreciate the feedback. 

The 20th century was fairly kind to Oklahoma City.

Our economy was based on commodities, so the price of cotton or the price of wheat, and ultimately the price of oil and natural gas.

And along the way, we became a city of innovation.

The shopping cart was invented in Oklahoma City.

(Applause) The parking meter, invented in Oklahoma City.

In the 1970s, when it appeared that the price of energy would never retreat, our economy was soaring, and then in the early 1980s, it cratered quickly.

Before the end of the decade, 100 banks had failed in the state of Oklahoma.

There was no bailout on the horizon.

Our banking industry, our oil and gas industry, our commercial real estate industry, were all at the bottom of the economic scale.

But along at the end of the '80s came an enterprising businessman who became mayor named Ron Norick.

Ron Norick eventually figured out that the secret to economic development wasn't incentivizing companies up front, it was about creating a place where businesses wanted to locate, and so he pushed an initiative called MAPS that basically was a penny-on-the-dollar sales tax to build a bunch of stuff.

It built a new sports arena, a new canal downtown, it fixed up our performing arts center, a new baseball stadium downtown, a lot of things to improve the quality of life.

Now the city I inherited was just on the verge of coming out of its slumbering economy, and for the very first time, we started showing up on the lists.

Now you know the lists I'm talking about.

The media and the Internet love to rank cities.

And in Oklahoma City, we'd never really been on lists before.

So I thought it was kind of cool when they came out with these positive lists and we were on there.

We weren't anywhere close to the top, but we were on the list, we were somebody.

Now I like to point out that we were on that list with a lot of really cool places.

And about that time, I got on the scales.

And I weighed 220 pounds.

(Laughter) "I'm not obese.

(Laughter) "I'm not obese.

(Laughter) "I'm not obese.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

People were signing up, and so the pounds started to add up, and the conversation that I thought was so important to have was starting to take place.

It was taking place in churches.

Churches were starting their own running groups and their own support groups for people who were dealing with obesity.

Suddenly, it was a topic worth discussing at schools and in the workplace.

It was time to push what I called MAPS 3.

We're building a downtown streetcar to try and help the walkability formula for people who choose to live in the inner city and help us create the density there.

We're building senior health and wellness centers throughout the community.

We hosted the Olympic trials last spring.

We have Olympic-caliber events coming to Oklahoma City, and athletes from all over the world moving in, along with inner city programs to get kids more engaged in these types of recreational activities that are a little bit nontraditional.

We're even going back into some inner city situations where we had built neighborhoods and we had built schools but we had not connected the two.

We had built libraries and we had built neighborhoods, but we had never really connected the two with any sort of walkability.

Through yet another funding source, we're redesigning all of our inner city streets to be more pedestrian-friendly.

Our streets were really wide, and you'd push the button to allow you to walk across, and you had to run in order to get there in time.

We're completing our bicycle trail master plan.

And so you see this culture starting to shift in Oklahoma City.

And lo and behold, the demographic changes that are coming with it are very inspiring.

And I went into the lobby of Men's Fitness magazine, the same magazine that had put us on that list five years before.

We were on the list as the 22nd fittest city in the United States.

Our state health statistics are doing better.

Granted, we have a long way to go.

We have the lowest unemployment in the United States, probably the strongest economy in the United States.

Oklahomans leaving for California in large numbers for a better future.

(Laughter) (Applause) The grandchildren are coming home. 

(Laughter) (Applause) The grandchildren are coming home. 

You've been a great audience and very attentive.

Thank you very much for having me here. 

