(Laughter) 

(Laughter) And the team is expert, and the team is courageous, and brimming with innovation and scientific discovery, as is true with any major expedition on the planet. 

And we've been on a journey.

And the debate has raged, hasn't it, since the Greeks, of isn't it what it's all about?

Isn't life about the journey, not really the destination?

What are we going to do as we go forward to have no regrets looking back?

And all this past year in training, I had that Teddy Roosevelt quote to paraphrase it, floating around in my brain, and it says, "You go ahead, you go ahead and sit back in your comfortable chair and you be the critic, you be the observer, while the brave one gets in the ring and engages and gets bloody and gets dirty and fails over and over and over again, but yet isn't afraid and isn't timid and lives life in a bold way."

And so of course I want to make it across.

(Laughter) (Applause) But the journey itself was worthwhile taking.

And now we're there.

You've never seen black this black.

And I'm out there kind of tripping out on my little playlist.

(Laughter) I've got a tight rubber cap, so I don't hear a thing.

I've got goggles and I'm turning my head 50 times a minute, and I'm singing, ♪ Imagine there's no heaven ♪ ♪ doo doo doo doo doo ♪ ♪ It's easy if you try ♪ ♪ doo doo doo doo doo ♪ And I can sing that song a thousand times in a row.

(Laughter) Now there's a talent unto itself.

It's causing abrasions on the inside of the mouth, but the tentacles can't get you.

(Laughter) (Applause) You have no idea how many 15-hour training swims I had done. 

That's the discipline, and it's the preparation, and there's a pride in that.

But I decided to think, as I went along, about, the phrase usually is reaching for the stars, and in my case, it's reaching for the horizon.

And when you reach for the horizon, as I've proven, you may not get there, but what a tremendous build of character and spirit that you lay down.

What a foundation you lay down in reaching for those horizons. 

And now the shore is coming, and there's just a little part of me that's sad.

The epic journey is going to be over. 

And so there won't be another epic journey in the ocean. 

When Bonnie thought that the back of my throat was swelling up, and she brought the medical team over to our boat to say that she's really beginning to have trouble breathing.

(Laughter) 

It was a very real moment, with that crowd, with my team.

To be is to do.

(Laughter) 

Bonnie, where are you?

(Applause) My buddy. 

And yeah, I stand before you now.

In the three months since that swim ended, I've sat down with Oprah and I've been in President Obama's Oval Office.

I've been invited to speak in front of esteemed groups such as yourselves.

I'm proud of it all, but the truth is, I'm walking around tall because I am that bold, fearless person, and I will be, every day, until it's time for these days to be done. 

(Applause) 

