And I was there, and I worked in that job because I believe that technology can improve people's lives.

At the time, the U.S. government had spent more than two billion dollars on electricity reconstruction.

How do you ensure technology reaches users?

How do you put it in their hands so that it is useful? 

So those are the questions that my colleagues and I at D-Rev ask ourselves.

And D-Rev is short for Design Revolution.

One of the key areas we've been working on recently is medical devices, and while it may not be obvious that medical devices have something in common with Iraq's electricity grid then, there are some commonalities.

Despite the advanced technology, it's not reaching the people who need it most. 

Chances are, if you're living on less than four dollars a day, and you're an amputee, you've lost your limb in a vehicle accident.

Most people think it's land mines, but it's a vehicle accident.

You're walking by the side of the road and you're hit by a truck, or you're trying to to jump on a moving train, you're late for work, and your pant leg gets caught.

And the reality is that if you don't have much money, like this young named Kamal right here, the option you really have is a bamboo staff to get around.

And how big a problem is this?

It's got a microprocessor inside.

This is a low-end titanium knee.

It's a polycentric knee, and all that that means is the mechanism, is a four-bar mechanism, that mimics a natural human knee.

But at 1,400 dollars, it's still too expensive for people like Kamal.

And while you have affordability, you've lost on functionality.

The mechanism here is a single axis, and a single axis is like a door hinge.

But the key is, you can have this great invention, you can have this great design, but how do you get it to the people who most need it?

How do you ensure it gets to them and it improves their lives? 

And the first thing is that the product needs to be world class.

It needs to perform on par or better than the best products on the market.

Regardless of your income level, you want the most beautiful, the best product that there is.

And he's doing a 10-meter walk test.

And you'll notice that he's struggling with stability as he's walking.

And something that's not obvious, that you can't see, is that it's psychologically draining to walk and to be preventing yourself from falling.

Now this is a video of Kamal.

You remember Kamal earlier, holding the bamboo staff.

He's wearing one of the earlier versions of our knee, and he's doing that same 10-meter walk test.

And you can see his stability is much better. 

And most medical devices, we've learned, as we've dug in, are really designed for Westerners, for wealthier economies.

And we designed our knee to have the greatest range of motion of almost any other knee on the market. 

So the second thing we learned, and this leads into my second point, which is that we believe that products need to be designed to be user-centric.

And at D-Rev, we go one step further and we say you need to be user-obsessed.

(Clicking) Notice anything about it?

It clicks.

We'd seen that users had actually modified it.

So do you see that black strip right there?

That's a homemade noise dampener.

We also saw that our users had modified it in other ways.

You can see there that that particular amputee, he had wrapped bandages around the knee.

He'd made a cosmesis.

And if you look at the knee, it's got those pointy edges, right?

So I'm going to show you some of the modifications we did.

We did a lot of iterations, not just around this, but some other things.

The other thing we did is that we smoothed the profile.

We made it thinner.

And something that's not obvious is that we designed it for mass production. 

Our product needs to be designed to offer value to the end user.

It also has to be designed to be very affordable.

But a product that is valued by a customer is used by a customer, and use is what creates impact.

And we believe that as designers, it holds us accountable to our customers.

And with centralized manufacturing, you can control the quality control, and you can hit that $80 price point with profit margins built in.

And now, those profit margins are critical, because if you want to scale, if you want to reach all the people in the world who possibly need a knee, it needs to be economically sustainable. 

Well, the standard is, is someone still wearing their knee six months later?

The industry average is about 65 percent.

Right now, our knees are worn in 12 countries.

This is where we want to get, though, in the next three years.

We'll double the impact in 2015, and we'll double it each of the following years after that.

But then we hit a new challenge, and that's the number of skilled prosthetists who are able to fit knees. 

So I want to end with a story of Pournima.

So thank you. 

