Einstein said that "I never think about the future — it comes soon enough."

And he was right, of course.

So today, I'm here to ask you to think of how the future is happening now.

Over the past 200 years, the world has experienced two major waves of innovation.

First, the Industrial Revolution brought us machines and factories, railways, electricity, air travel, and our lives have never been the same.

It brings together intelligent machines, advanced analytics, and the creativity of people at work.

It's the marriage of minds and machines.

And our lives will never be the same. 

In my current role, I see up close how technology is beginning to transform industrial sectors that play a huge role in our economy and in our lives: energy, aviation, transportation, health care.

So what is this industrial Internet?

And not just individual machines, but fleets of locomotives, airplanes, entire systems like power grids, hospitals.

It is asset optimization and system optimization.

Why does any of this matter at all?

Let's start with aviation.

Today, 10 percent of all flights cancellations and delays are due to unscheduled maintenance events.

Something goes wrong unexpectedly.

So how can the industrial Internet help here?

We've developed a preventive maintenance system which can be installed on any aircraft.

The aircraft, while in flight, will communicate with technicians on the ground.

By the time it lands, they will already know if anything needs to be serviced.

Just in the U.S., a system like this can prevent over 60,000 delays and cancellations every year, helping seven million passengers get to their destinations on time. 

Or take healthcare.

Today, nurses spend an average of 21 minutes per shift looking for medical equipment.

That seems trivial, but it's less time spent caring for patients.

If you need surgery, one hour matters.

It means more patients can be treated, more lives can be saved.

If all of them can have instantaneous and simultaneous access to scans and images as they are taken, they will be able to deliver better healthcare faster.

So all of this translates into better health outcomes, but it can also deliver substantial economic benefits.

Ten years ago, that cost was 30 cents, six times as much. 

By 2020, they will account for over 50 percent of all digital information. 

Imagine a field engineer arriving at the wind farm with a handheld device telling her which turbines need servicing.

She already has all the spare parts, because the problems were diagnosed in advanced.

And their interaction gets documented and stored in a searchable database. 

This new wave of innovation is fundamentally changing the way we work.

And I know that many of you will be concerned about the impact that innovation might have on jobs.

Unemployment is already high, and there is always a fear that innovation will destroy jobs.

And innovation is disruptive.

But let me stress two things here.

The worker of the future will be more like Iron Man than the Charlie Chaplin of "Modern Times."

But now let's take a step back.

Let's look at the big picture.

There are people who argue that today's innovation is all about social media and silly games, with nowhere near the transformational power of the Industrial Revolution.

They say that all the growth-enhancing innovations are behind us.

This technological revolution is as inspiring and transformational as anything we have ever seen.

Human creativity and innovation have always propelled us forward.

They've created jobs.

They've raised living standards.

They've made our lives healthier and more rewarding.

And the new wave of innovation which is beginning to sweep through industry is no different.

That is the size of the entire U.S. economy today. 

But this is not a foregone conclusion.

We will need to adapt organizations and managerial practices.

We will need a robust cybersecurity approach that protects sensitive information and intellectual property and safeguards critical infrastructure from cyberattacks.

And the education system will need to evolve to ensure students are equipped with the right skills.

Thank you. 

