By 2010, Detroit had become the poster child for an American city in crisis.

By 2010, I had also been asked by the Kresge Foundation and the city of Detroit to join them in leading a citywide planning process for the city to create a shared vision for its future.

All of these cities, to me, still had a number of unresolved issues related to urban justice, issues of equity, inclusion and access. 

Now by 2010, as well, popular design magazines were also beginning to take a closer look at cities like Detroit, and devoting whole issues to "fixing the city."

So we began our process in September of 2010.

We had planned to hold a number of community meetings in rooms like this to introduce the planning process, and people came out from all over the city, including areas that were stable neighborhoods, as well as areas that were beginning to see a lot of vacancy.

And most of our audience was representative of the 82 percent African-American population in the city at that time.

So obviously, we have a Q&amp;A portion of our program, and people line up to mics to ask questions.

Many of them step very firmly to the mic, put their hands across their chest, and go, "I know you people are trying to move me out of my house, right?"

So that question is really powerful, and it was certainly powerful to us in the moment, when you connect it to the stories that some Detroiters had, and actually a lot of African-Americans' families have had that are living in Midwestern cities like Detroit.

Many of them told us the stories about how they came to own their home through their grandparents or great-grandparents, who were one of 1.6 million people who migrated from the rural South to the industrial North, as depicted in this painting by Jacob Lawrence, "The Great Migration."

They came to Detroit for a better way of life.

Many found work in the automobile industry, the Ford Motor Company, as depicted in this mural by Diego Rivera in the Detroit Institute of Art.

The fruits of their labors would afford them a home, for many the first piece of property that they would ever know, and a community with other first-time African-American home buyers.

The first couple of decades of their life in the North is quite well, up until about 1950, which coincides with the city's peak population at 1.8 million people.

The audience members who come and talk to us that night tell us the stories of what it's like to live in a city with such depleted population.

Many tell us that they're one of only a few homes on their block that are occupied, and that they can see several abandoned homes from where they sit on their porches.

Citywide, there are 80,000 vacant homes.

They can also see vacant property.

Citywide, there are about 100,000 vacant parcels. 

So the city is 139 square miles.

You can fit Boston, San Francisco, and the island of Manhattan within its footprint.

So it's a lot of vacancy. 

Similarly, we have small manufacturing companies making conscious decisions to relocate to the city.

And they also knew that they can tap into a workforce that was still very skilled in how to make things.

Now we have community stewardship happening in neighborhoods, we have cultural entrepreneurs making decisions to move to the city and create enterprises, and we have businesses relocating, and this is all in the context of what is no secret to us all, a city that's under the control of an emergency manager, and just this July filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy. 

Three key imperatives were really important to our work.

One was that the city itself wasn't necessarily too large, but the economy was too small.

There are only 27 jobs per 100 people in Detroit, very different from a Denver or an Atlanta or a Philadelphia that are anywhere between 35 to 70 jobs per 100 people.

Secondly, there had to be an acceptance that we were not going to be able to use all of this vacant land in the way that we had before and maybe for some time to come.

So they, too, could take businesses that they maybe were doing out of their home and grow them to more prosperous industries and actually acquire property so they were actually property owners as well as business owners in the communities with which they resided.

Or we could use it as research plots, where we can use it to remediate contaminated soils, or we could use it to generate energy. 

So the descendants of the Great Migration could either become precision watchmakers at Shinola, like Willie H., who was featured in one of their ads last year, or they can actually grow a business that would service companies like Shinola.

The good news is, there is a future for the next generation of Detroiters, both those there now and those that want to come. 

So no thank you, Mayor Menino, who recently was quoted as saying, "I'd blow up the place and start over."

So while Detroit might not be what it was, Detroit will not die. 

Thank you. 

