I'm glad we're all here.

And by "here," I don't mean here.

Or here.

But here.

I mean Earth.

from complex to single-celled, from mold to mushrooms to flying bears. 

Is Earth special?

To understand whether there are any planets -- out there in our solar system or beyond -- that can support life, the first step is to understand what life here requires. 

It turns out, of all of those 8.7 million species, life only needs three things.

On one side, all life on Earth needs energy.

There are a number of different energy sources available on all planets.

Not moose, but water. 

Although moose would be pretty cool. 

And not frozen water, and not water in a gaseous state, but liquid water.

This is what life needs to survive, all life.

So that leaves a few bodies that we should think about.

So let's make the problem simpler for ourselves.

Let's think only about liquid water on the surface of a planet.

You want to have an atmosphere for water to be liquid.

You have to be very careful with that atmosphere.

But if you have too little atmosphere and it's too thin and too cold, you end up like Mars, too cold.

So Venus is too hot, Mars is too cold, and Earth is just right.

You can look at these images behind me and you can see automatically where life can survive in our solar system.

Or could it have been just right at some other time?

When Goldilocks walks into the room determines the answer that we get in the story.

And atmospheres do the same.

So let me give you an example. 

Here's one of my favorite pictures of Mars.

This can't happen on Mars today.

The atmosphere of Mars today is too thin and too cold for water to be stable as a liquid.

This one image tells you that the atmosphere of Mars changed, and it changed in big ways.

Where did that atmosphere go that allowed water to be liquid at the surface? 

Well, one idea is it escaped away to space.

Atmospheric particles got enough energy to break free from the gravity of the planet, escaping away to space, never to return.

And this happens with all bodies with atmospheres.

Comets have tails that are incredibly visible reminders of atmospheric escape.

But Venus also has an atmosphere that escapes with time, and Mars and Earth as well.

It's just a matter of degree and a matter of scale.

So we'd like to figure out how much escaped over time so we can explain this transition. 

How do atmospheres get their energy for escape?

How do particles get enough energy to escape?

Oh my God, not even at my wedding. 

They get enough energy to escape and break free from the gravity of the planet just by warming.

A second way they can get energy is from the solar wind.

This is something that I'm interested in, because it relates to habitability.

This thing that you've accepted your entire life, when you think about it a little bit more, may not be so simple.

And of course, distance of a planet from the sun determines its temperature.

This has to play into habitability.

I would like to talk for just a minute or two about magnetic fields.

Earth has one; Venus and Mars do not.

If you have a compass, you know which way north is.

Venus and Mars don't have that.

If you have a compass on Venus and Mars, congratulations, you're lost. 

Does this influence habitability?

Well, how might it?

I like to think of it instead as a salad bar sneeze guard for planets. 

And yes, my colleagues who watch this later will realize this is the first time in the history of our community that the solar wind has been equated with mucus. 

OK, so the effect, then, is that Earth may have been protected for billions of years, because we've had a magnetic field.

Atmosphere hasn't been able to escape.

Mars, on the other hand, has been unprotected because of its lack of magnetic field, and over billions of years, maybe enough atmosphere has been stripped away to account for a transition from a habitable planet to the planet that we see today. 

The sails may gather energy from the solar wind.

It's an idea that has to be tested, but the effect and how it works seems apparent.

If you've ever experienced them, it's magnificent.

We know the energy is getting in.

We're trying to measure how many particles are getting out and if the magnetic field is influencing this in any way. 

So I've posed a problem for you here, but I don't have a solution yet.

Well, we've sent spacecraft to all three planets.

It's designed to measure atmospheric escape.

We have similar measurements from Venus and Earth.

Once we have all our measurements, we can combine all these together, and we can understand how all three planets interact with their space environment, with the surroundings.

And we can decide whether magnetic fields are important for habitability or not. 

Once we have that answer, why should you care?

It will teach us about atmospheres that surround us and that are close.

We've gone, in 20 years, from knowing of zero planets outside of our solar system, to now having so many, that we don't know which ones to investigate first.

Any lever will help.

In fact, based on observations that Kepler's taken and other similar observations, we now believe that, of the 200 billion stars in the Milky Way galaxy alone, on average, every star has at least one planet.

In the end, and for now, at least, this is our red spot, right here.

I'm really glad we're here. 

Thanks. 

