Would we see 544 airline pilots held captive in their jumbo jets on a runway for months, or a year?

Would we see 544 Greyhound bus drivers?

It wouldn't happen. 

So I started to get intrigued.

That is how fundamentally we still depend on shipping.

Because perhaps the general public thinks of shipping as an old-fashioned industry, something brought by sailboat with Moby Dicks and Jack Sparrows.

But shipping isn't that.

Shipping is as crucial to us as it has ever been.

Shipping brings us 90 percent of world trade.

Shipping has quadrupled in size since 1970.

We are more dependent on it now than ever.

And yet, for such an enormous industry -- there are a 100,000 working vessels on the sea — it's become pretty much invisible. 

(Laughter) But elsewhere in the world, if you ask the general public what they know about shipping and how much trade is carried by sea, you will get essentially a blank face.

Now why is this?

We are blind to the sea as a place of industry or of work.

It's just something we fly over, a patch of blue on an airline map.

Nothing to see, move along. 

And it was a revelation.

We traveled through five seas, two oceans, nine ports, and I learned a lot about shipping. 

And one of the first things that surprised me when I got on board Kendal was, where are all the people?

Now that's because shipping is very efficient.

Containerization has made it very efficient.

So most seafarers now working on container ships often have less than two hours in port at a time.

They don't have time to relax.

So that was a normal working ship. 

Now how is that possible?

So we have these very multinational, global, mobile crews on ships.

And that was a surprise to me.

And when we got to pirate waters, down the Bab-el-Mandeb strait and into the Indian Ocean, the ship changed.

And that was also shocking, because suddenly, I realized, as the captain said to me, that I had been crazy to choose to go through pirate waters on a container ship.

What else does our sea blindness mask?

Well, if you go out to sea on a ship or on a cruise ship, and look up to the funnel, you'll see very black smoke.

And shipping is the greenest method of transport.

So shipping emissions are about three to four percent, almost the same as aviation's.

It was calculated in 2009 that the 15 largest ships pollute in terms of particles and soot and noxious gases as much as all the cars in the world.

And the good news is that people are now talking about sustainable shipping.

There are interesting initiatives going on.

But why has it taken so long?

When are we going to start talking and thinking about shipping miles as well as air miles? 

And a North Atlantic right whale can transmit across hundreds of miles.

A humpback can transmit a sound across a whole ocean.

And when I arrived in Singapore, and I apologize for this, but I didn't want to get off my ship.

I'd really loved being on board Kendal.

I want to salute the 100,000 ships that are at sea that are doing that work, coming in and out every day, bringing us what we need.

But I also want to see shipping, and us, the general public, who know so little about it, to have a bit more scrutiny, to be a bit more transparent, to have 90 percent transparency.

Thank you. 

