I have a question: Who here remembers when they first realized they were going to die? 

Could that hole in reality open up and swallow me?

Would it open up beneath my bed and swallow me as I slept?

Well, at some point, all children become aware of death.

Our idea of death develops as we grow older.

And this development in childhood reflects the development of our species.

This is, if you like, our curse.

It's the price we pay for being so damn clever.

We have to live in the knowledge that the worst thing that can possibly happen one day surely will, the end of all our projects, our hopes, our dreams, of our individual world.

We each live in the shadow of a personal apocalypse. 

And so we look for a way out.

And in my case, as I was about five years old, this meant asking my mum.

Now this didn't sound very plausible.

There were always rockets going up into the sky, up into space, going up there.

But none of the astronauts when they came back ever mentioned having met my granddad or any other dead people.

But I was scared, and the idea of taking the existential elevator to see my granddad sounded a lot better than being swallowed by the void while I slept.

Now we can see this as the biggest bias of all.

They work like this.

You take two groups of people who are similar in all relevant respects, and you remind one group that they're going to die but not the other, then you compare their behavior.

So you're observing how it biases behavior when people become aware of their mortality.

They were then asked again about their religious beliefs.

Those who had been asked to think about being dead were afterwards twice as likely to express faith in God and Jesus.

Twice as likely.

This is a bias that has shaped the course of human history. 

We develop our worldviews, that is, the stories we tell ourselves about the world and our place in it, in order to help us manage the terror of death.

And these immortality stories have thousands of different manifestations, but I believe that behind the apparent diversity there are actually just four basic forms that these immortality stories can take.

Now, the first story is the simplest.

Ancient Egypt had such myths, ancient Babylon, ancient India.

But betting everything on the idea of finding the elixir and staying alive forever is a risky strategy.

When we look back through history at all those who have sought an elixir in the past, the one thing they now have in common is that they're all dead. 

So we need a backup plan, and exactly this kind of plan B is what the second kind of immortality story offers, and that's resurrection.

It accepts that I'm going to have to die but says, despite that, I can rise up and I can live again.

In other words, I can do what Jesus did.

Jesus died, he was three days in the [tomb], and then he rose up and lived again.

That's the idea that when you die, you can have yourself frozen, and then, at some point when technology has advanced enough, you can be thawed out and repaired and revived and so resurrected.

But for others, the whole idea of resurrection, of climbing out of the grave, it's just too much like a bad zombie movie.

But of course there are skeptics who say if we look at the evidence of science, particularly neuroscience, it suggests that your mind, your essence, the real you, is very much dependent on a particular part of your body, that is, your brain.

And the fact that they recur in this way, in such a similar form but in such different belief systems, suggests, I think, that we should be skeptical of the truth of any particular version of these stories.

The fact that some people believe an omnipotent god will resurrect them to live again and others believe an omnipotent scientist will do it suggests that neither are really believing this on the strength of the evidence.

So the question is, are we doomed to lead the one life we have in a way that is shaped by fear and denial, or can we overcome this bias?

Well the Greek philosopher Epicurus thought we could.

He argued that the fear of death is natural, but it is not rational.

"Death," he said, "is nothing to us, because when we are here, death is not, and when death is here, we are gone."

And even though a book is limited by beginning and end, the characters within it know no horizons.

And so the characters of a book are not afraid of reaching the last page.

Long John Silver is not afraid of you finishing your copy of "Treasure Island."

And so it should be with us.

You can only know the moments in between, the moments that make up your life.

And you needn't worry how long the book is, or whether it's a comic strip or an epic.

The only thing that matters is that you make it a good story. 

Thank you. 

