So how many of you have ever been in a cave before?

Okay, a few of you.

Around this half of the country, most of your caves are made of limestone.

Back where I'm from, most of our caves are made of lava rock, because we have a lot of volcanoes out there.

But the caves I want to share with you today are made completely of ice, specifically glacier ice that's formed in the side of the tallest mountain in the state of Oregon, called Mount Hood. 

Now the most exciting thing for a cave explorer is to find a new cave and be the first human to ever go into it.

The second most exciting thing for a cave explorer is to be the first one to make a map of a cave.

So what is a glacier?

If you squish a handful of snow to make a snowball, it gets really small, hard and dense.

Well, on a mountain like Hood, where it snows over 20 feet a year, it crushes the air out of it and gradually forms it into hard blue ice.

When ice packed like that starts to move, we call it a glacier, and we give it a name.

The name of the glacier these caves are formed in is the Sandy Glacier.

Now the crazy thing about glacier caves is that each year, new tunnels form.

Different waterfalls pop up or move around from place to place inside the cave.

Warm water from the top of the ice is boring its way down, and warm air from below the mountain actually rises up, gets into the cave, and melts the ceilings back taller and taller.

He and I have both been exploring caves a long time and we've been climbing mountains a long time, but neither one of us had ever really explored a glacier cave before.

Back in 2011, Brent saw a YouTube video of a couple of hikers that stumbled across the entrance to one of these caves.

So in July of that year, we went out on the glacier, and we found a big crack in the ice.

This is me looking into the entrance crevasse.

At the end of this hole, we found a huge tunnel going right up the mountain underneath thousands of tons of glacier ice.

So how do you map a cave?

Then you use a compass and an inclinometer to measure the direction the cave is headed and measure the slope of the floor and the ceilings.

We named this cave Snow Dragon Cave because it was like a big dragon sleeping under the snow.

Now later this summer, as more snow melted off the glacier, we found more caves, and we realized they were all connected. 

Not long after we mapped Snow Dragon, Brent discovered this new cave not very far away.

This cave was amazing.

The ice in the ceiling was glowing blue anad green because the sunlight from far above was shining through the ice and lighting it all up.

And we couldn't understand why this cave was so much colder than Snow Dragon until we got to the end and we found out why.

There was a huge pit or shaft called a moulin going 130 feet straight up to the surface of the glacier.

Cold air from the top of the mountain was flowing down this hole and blasting through the cave, freezing everything inside of it.

It was so cold outside, we actually had to sleep inside the cave.

There's our camp on the left side of this entrance room.

So besides really cool ice, what else is inside these caves?

But there are some really cool things in there.

As these caves form and melt their way up into the ice, they make these artifacts rain down from the ceiling and fall onto the cave floor, where we end up finding them.

For example, this is a noble fir seed we found.

This mallard duck feather was found over 1,800 feet in the back of Snow Dragon Cave.

This duck died on the surface of the glacier long, long ago, and its feathers have finally made it down through over 100 feet of ice before falling inside the cave.

And this beautiful quartz crystal was also found in the back of Snow Dragon. 

Every year, new caves get discovered that no one has ever been in before.

So it's actually not too late for one of you to become a discoverer yourself.

Thank you very much. 

