I would like to show you how architecture has helped to change the life of my community and has opened opportunities to hope. 

I am a native of Burkina Faso.

According to the World Bank, Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world, but what does it look like to grow up in a place like that?

I am an example of that.

I was born in a little village called Gando.

In Gando, there was no electricity, no access to clean drinking water, and no school.

In this time, it just happened to me to come to school to realize that my classmate died. 

Today, not so much has changed.

But I was lucky.

So now, I suppose, I don't need to explain to you how great a privilege it is for me to be standing before you today.

From Gando, my home village in Burkina Faso, to Berlin in Germany to become an architect is a big, big step.

But what to do with this privilege?

Since I was a student, I wanted to open up better opportunities to other kids in Gando.

I just wanted to use my skills and build a school.

Fundraising was not an easy task.

I even asked my classmates to spend less money on coffee and cigarettes, but to sponsor my school project.

In real wonder, two years later, I was able to collect 50,000 U.S. dollars. 

So I had to convince everybody.

And the women, the men, everybody from the village, was part of this building process.

And then the polishers come.

They start polishing it with a stone for hours.

(Laughter) It's not photoshopped.

(Laughter) This is the school, built with the community.

And the classroom, the ceiling is made out of both of them used together. 

And the kids, they love it. 

And for me and my community, this project was a huge success.

It has opened up opportunities to do more projects in Gando.

So I could do a lot of projects, and here I am going to share with you only three of them. 

The first one is the school extension, of course.

How do you explain drawings and engineering to people who are neither able to read nor write?

I started to build a prototype like that.

The innovation was to build a clay vault.

(Laughter) And we kept building, and that is the result.

The next project is the library in Gando.

Something we have in Gando are clay pots.

We wanted to use them to create openings.

So we just bring them like you can see to the building site.

we start cutting them, and then we place them on top of the roof before we pour the concrete, and you have this result.

The openings are letting the hot air out and light in.

Very simple. 

My most recent project in Gando is a high school project.

I would like to share with you this.

The innovation in this project is to cast mud like you cast concrete.

How do you cast mud?

And sometimes I can leave.

They will do it themselves.

I came to speak to you like that. 

Another factor in Gando is rain.

When the rains come, we hurry up to protect our fragile walls against the rain.

Don't confound with Christo and Jeanne-Claude.

It is simply how we protect our walls.

But for us, the rain is good.

It brings sand and gravel to the river we need to use to build.

We just wait for the rain to go.

We take the sand, we mix it with clay, and we keep building.

That is it. 

And my people now can use their skills to earn money themselves.

But now they can stay in the country and work on different building sites and earn money to feed their family.

There's a new quality in this work. 

Yes, you know it.

I have won a lot of awards through this work.

For sure, it has opened opportunities.

I have become myself known.

But the reason why I do what I do is my community. 

When I was a kid, I was going to school, I was coming back every holiday to Gando.

By the end of every holidays, I had to say goodbye to the community, going from one compound to another one.

All women in Gando will open their clothes like that and give me the last penny.

In my culture, this is a symbol of deep affection.

As a seven-year-old guy, I was impressed.

