Nelson Mandela has come to the end of his long walk to freedom.

And so this talk is going to be for him. 

I grew up in wonder.

I grew up amongst those animals.

I grew up in the wild eastern part of South Africa at a place called Londolozi Game Reserve.

It's a place where my family has been in the safari business for four generations.

When I was nine years old, President Mandela came to stay with my family.

He had just been released from his 27 years of incarceration, and was in a period of readjustment to his sudden global icon status.

(Laughter) But it was a defining time for me as a young boy.

I would take him breakfast in bed, and then, in an old track suit and slippers, he would go for a walk around the garden.

At night, I would sit with my family around the snowy, bunny-eared TV, and watch images of that same quiet man from the garden surrounded by hundreds and thousands of people as scenes from his release were broadcast nightly.

Through this act of immense open-heartedness, he was to become the embodiment of what in South Africa we call "ubuntu."

Ubuntu: I am because of you.

Or, people are not people without other people.

It's not a new idea or value but it's one that I certainly think at these times is worth building on.

In fact, it is said that in the collective consciousness of Africa, we get to experience the deepest parts of our own humanity through our interactions with others.

Ubuntu is at play right now.

You are holding a space for me to express the deepest truth of who I am.

(Laughter) 

Solly was born under a tree 60 kilometers from where I grew up in Mozambique.

He would never have a lot of money, but he was to be one of the richest men I would ever meet.

Solly grew up tending to his father's cattle.

Now, I can tell you, I don't know what it is about people who grow up looking after cattle, but it makes for über-resourcefulness.

The first job that he ever got in the safari business was fixing the safari trucks.

Where he had learned to do that out in the bush I have no idea, but he could do it.

He then moved across into what we called the habitat team.

These were the people on the reserve who were responsible for its well-being.

He fixed roads, he mended wetlands, he did some anti-poaching.

If you drove past Solly somewhere out on the reserve, you look up in your rearview mirror, you'd see he'd stopped the car 20, 50 meters down the road just in case you need help with something.

(Laughter) 

When I started professionally guiding people out into this environment, Solly was my tracker.

We worked together as a team.

(Laughter) And there was something so beautifully African about it to me, this small house with a huge heart in it. 

Now on the day that Solly saved my life, he was already my hero.

It was a hot day, and we found ourselves down by the river.

Because of the heat, I took my shoes off, and I rolled up my pants, and I walked into the water.

Solly remained on the bank.

The water was clear running over sand, and we turned and we began to make our way upstream.

It's shaking me violently.

The croc again continues to shake me.

It goes to bite me a second time.

I notice a slick of blood in the water around me that gets washed downstream.

I pull myself up into the branches, and as I come out of the water, I look over my shoulder.

My leg from the knee down is mangled beyond description.

I make an instant decision that I'll never look at that again.

He wades in to above his waist.

I'm still in a vulnerable position.

He picks me and puts me on his shoulder.

Now I don't know how many people you know that go into a deep channel of water that they know has a crocodile in it to come and help you, but for Solly, it was as natural as breathing.

And he is one amazing example of what I have experienced all over Africa.

Now although the root word is about people, I thought that maybe ubuntu was only about people.

And then I met this young lady.

Her name was Elvis.

She was born with very badly deformed back legs and pelvis.

She arrived at our reserve from a reserve east of us on her migratory route.

When I first saw her, I thought she would be dead in a matter of days.

And yet, for the next five years she returned in the winter months.

And we would be so excited to be out in the bush and to come across this unusual track.

And that outpouring of emotion from people on our safari trucks as they saw her, it was this sense of kinship.

And it reminded me that even people who grow up in cities feel a natural connection with the natural world and with animals.

And yet still I remained amazed that she was surviving.

And on the third attempt, an amazing thing happened.

Halfway up the bank, a young teenage elephant came in behind her, and he propped his trunk underneath her, and he began to shovel her up the bank.

And it occurred to me that the rest of the herd was in fact looking after this young elephant.

The next day I watched again as the matriarch broke a branch and she would put it in her mouth, and then she would break a second one and drop it on the ground.

And it is not only through other people that we get to experience our humanity but through all the creatures that live on this planet.

If Africa has a gift to share, it's a gift of a more collective society.

And while it's true that ubuntu is an African idea, what I see is the essence of that value being invented here. 

Thank you. 

He was suffering.

And so of course there's the mixed emotions.

But I just think of so many occurrences like the time he went on the Oprah show and asked her what the show would be about.

(Laughter) And she was like, "Well, it'll be about you."

(Laughter) 

He was the father of our nation and we've got a road to walk in South Africa.

And everything, they used to call it Madiba magic.

You know, he used to go to a rugby match and we would win.

Anywhere he went, things went well.

