Clearly, a unsustainable model.

Mobility, as most other developing country problems, more than a matter of money or technology, is a matter of equality, equity.

There is a conflict in developing world cities for money, for government investment.

There is a conflict for space between those with cars and those without them.

Most of us accept today that private property and a market economy is the best way to manage most of society's resources.

And the second kind of equality is one which we could call "democratic equality."

The first article in every constitution states that all citizens are equal before the law.

That is not just poetry.

It's a very powerful principle.

For example, if that is true, a bus with 80 passengers has a right to 80 times more road space than a car with one. 

We have been so used to inequality, sometimes, that it's before our noses and we do not see it.

In fact, when I became mayor, applying that democratic principle that public good prevails over private interest, that a bus with 100 people has a right to 100 times more road space than a car, we implemented a mass transit system based on buses in exclusive lanes.

We called it TransMilenio, in order to make buses sexier.

In fact, it's not just a matter of equity.

It doesn't take Ph.D.'s.

A committee of 12-year-old children would find out in 20 minutes that the most efficient way to use scarce road space is with exclusive lanes for buses.

They also have great capacity.

Cities are human habitats, and we humans are pedestrians.

Just as fish need to swim or birds need to fly or deer need to run, we need to walk.

There is a really enormous conflict, when we are talking about developing country cities, between pedestrians and cars.

Here, what you see is a picture that shows insufficient democracy.

What this shows is that people who walk are third-class citizens while those who go in cars are first-class citizens.

This is prevailing all over the world.

Not even schoolchildren are more important than cars. 

First of all, I had black hair before that.

(Laughter) And I was almost impeached in the process.

It is a very difficult battle.

However, it was possible, finally, after very difficult battles, to make a city that would reflect some respect for human dignity, that would show that those who walk are equally important to those who have cars.

Indeed, a very important ideological and political issue anywhere is how to distribute that most valuable resource of a city, which is road space.

A city could find oil or diamonds underground and it would not be so valuable as road space.

How to distribute it between pedestrians, bicycles, public transport and cars?

I don't think protected bicycle ways are a cute architectural feature.

And we are living in a unique moment in history.

In the next 50 years, more than half of those cities which will exist in the year 2060 will be built.

In many developing country cities, more than 80 and 90 percent of the city which will exist in 2060 will be built over the next four or five decades. 

But this is not just a matter for developing country cities.

In the United States, for example, more than 70 million new homes must be built over the next 40 or 50 years.

That's more than all the homes that today exist in Britain, France and Canada put together.

What is wrong with our cities today?

We have had cities for 8,000 years, and children could walk out of home and play.

In fact, only very recently, towards 1900, there were no cars.

Cars have been here for really less than 100 years.

They completely changed cities.

In 1900, for example, nobody was killed by cars in the United States.

Only 20 years later, between 1920 and 1930, almost 200,000 people were killed by cars in the United States.

Only in 1925, almost 7,000 children were killed by cars in the United States.

Hundreds of kilometers of greenways criss-crossing cities in all directions.

Children will walk out of homes into safe spaces.

In new cities which are going to be built, this would not be particularly difficult.

Of course, I would love to pave this street for cars.

But what do we do first?

Ninety-nine percent of the people in those neighborhoods don't have cars.

But you see, when a city is only being created, it's very easy to incorporate this kind of infrastructure.

Then the city grows around it.

And of course this is just a glimpse of something which could be much better if we just create it, and it changes the way of life. 

But unfortunately, reality is not as good as my dreams.

Because of private property of land and high land prices, all developing country cities have a large problem of slums.

In my country of Colombia, almost half the homes in cities initially were illegal developments.

And of course it's very difficult to have mass transit or to use bicycles in such environments.

In this way, their cities could grow in the right places with the right spaces, with the parks, with the greenways, with the busways. 

The cities we are going to build over the next 50 years will determine quality of life and even happiness for billions of people towards the future.

