We have a global health challenge in our hands today, and that is that the way we currently discover and develop new drugs is too costly, takes far too long, and it fails more often than it succeeds.

It really just isn't working, and that means that patients that badly need new therapies are not getting them, and diseases are going untreated.

We seem to be spending more and more money.

So what's going on here?

And we have two main tools available at our disposal.

They are cells in dishes and animal testing. 

Now let's talk about the first one, cells in dishes.

So, cells are happily functioning in our bodies.

What about animal testing?

Well, animals do and can provide extremely useful information.

They teach us about what happens in the complex organism.

We learn more about the biology itself.

However, more often than not, animal models fail to predict what will happen in humans when they're treated with a particular drug. 

So we need better tools.

We need human cells, but we need to find a way to keep them happy outside the body. 

Our bodies are dynamic environments.

They're in dynamic environments in our body.

They're under constant mechanical forces.

So if we want to make cells happy outside our bodies, we need to become cell architects.

We need to design, build and engineer a home away from home for the cells. 

And at the Wyss Institute, we've done just that.

We call it an organ-on-a-chip.

Right here in my hand is a breathing, living human lung on a chip. 

We have living cells in that little chip, cells that are in a dynamic environment interacting with different cell types.

There's been many people trying to grow cells in the lab.

They've tried many different approaches.

They've even tried to grow little mini-organs in the lab.

We're not trying to do that here.

We use techniques from the computer chip manufacturing industry to make these structures at a scale relevant to both the cells and their environment.

We have three fluidic channels.

And they experience them how they did in the body.

There's air flowing through the top channel, and then we flow a liquid that contains nutrients through the blood channel.

We can get incredible functionality inside these little chips.

Let me show you.

White blood cells are our body's defense against bacterial invaders, and when they sense this inflammation due to infection, they will enter from the blood into the lung and engulf the bacteria.

Well now you're going to see this happening live in an actual human lung on a chip.

We've labeled the white blood cells so you can see them flowing through, and when they detect that infection, they begin to stick.

In that tiny chip, you just witnessed one of the most fundamental responses our body has to an infection.

It's the way we respond to -- an immune response.

It's pretty exciting. 

Now I want to share this picture with you, not just because it's so beautiful, but because it tells us an enormous amount of information about what the cells are doing within the chips.

It tells us that these cells from the small airways in our lungs, actually have these hairlike structures that you would expect to see in the lung.

Mucus traps particulates, viruses, potential allergens, and these little cilia move and clear the mucus out.

When they get damaged, say, by cigarette smoke for example, they don't work properly, and they can't clear that mucus out.

And that can lead to diseases such as bronchitis.

Cilia and the clearance of mucus are also involved in awful diseases like cystic fibrosis.

But now, with the functionality that we get in these chips, we can begin to look for potential new treatments. 

Now we can begin to create models of diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome.

This is a disease that affects a large number of individuals.

It's really debilitating, and there aren't really many good treatments for it. 

Now we have a whole pipeline of different organ chips that we are currently working on in our labs.

Now, the true power of this technology, however, really comes from the fact that we can fluidically link them.

There's fluid flowing across these cells, so we can begin to interconnect multiple different chips together to form what we call a virtual human on a chip.

Now we're really getting excited.

For example, now we can begin to explore what happens when we put a drug like an aerosol drug.

Those of you like me who have asthma, when you take your inhaler, we can explore how that drug comes into your lungs, how it enters the body, how it might affect, say, your heart.

We can begin to study the dynamic response of the body to a drug. 

We can potentially use the skin on a chip that we're currently developing in the lab to test whether the ingredients in those products that you're using are actually safe to put on your skin without the need for animal testing.

We could test the safety of chemicals that we are exposed to on a daily basis in our environment, such as chemicals in regular household cleaners.

We could also use the organs on chips for applications in bioterrorism or radiation exposure.

We could use them to learn more about diseases such as ebola or other deadly diseases such as SARS. 

Organs on chips could also change the way we do clinical trials in the future.

Tends to be middle aged, tends to be female.

Children are not adults.

They may not respond in the same way adults do.

There are other things like genetic differences in populations that may lead to at-risk populations that are at risk of having an adverse drug reaction.

Now imagine if we could take cells from all those different populations, put them on chips, and create populations on a chip.

This could really change the way we do clinical trials.

And this is the team and the people that are doing this.

We have engineers, we have cell biologists, we have clinicians, all working together.

We're really seeing something quite incredible at the Wyss Institute.

It's pretty exciting. 

We're establishing important industry collaborations such as the one we have with a company that has expertise in large-scale digital manufacturing.

They're going to help us make, instead of one of these, millions of these chips, so that we can get them into the hands of as many researchers as possible.

And this is key to the potential of that technology. 

Now let me show you our instrument.

This is an instrument that our engineers are actually prototyping right now in the lab, and this instrument is going to give us the engineering controls that we're going to require in order to link 10 or more organ chips together.

It would be a personalized chip just for you. 

Now all of us in here are individuals, and those individual differences mean that we could react very differently and sometimes in unpredictable ways to drugs.

Now, obviously it wasn't fatal, but unfortunately, some of these adverse drug reactions can be fatal. 

So how do we prevent them?

Well, we could imagine one day having Geraldine on a chip, having Danielle on a chip, having you on a chip. 

