In Britain, 63 percent of all men who come out of short sentences from prison re-offend again within a year.

Now how many previous offenses do you think they have on average managed to commit?

Forty-three.

And how many previous times do you think they've been in prison?

Seven. 

It's got to be worth something, right?

I mean, there's prison costs, there's police costs, there's court costs, all these things that you're spending money on to deal with these guys.

Now, of course, we care about the social value.

Social Finance, the organization I helped set up, cares about social stuff.

And if we can agree on both a value and a way of measuring whether we've been successful at reducing that re-offending, then we can do something we think rather interesting. 

The idea is called the social impact bond.

Now, the social impact bond is simply saying, if we can get the government to agree, that we can create a contract where they only pay if it worked.

So we have to raise some money.

We use the contract to raise money from socially motivated investors.

Socially motivated investors: there's an interesting idea, right?

And here's the opportunity.

And the investors do not just get their money back, but they make a return. 

So in March 2010, we signed the first social impact bond with the Ministry of Justice around Peterborough Prison.

It was to work with 3,000 offenders split into three cohorts of 1,000 each.

Now, each of those cohorts would get measured over the two years that they were coming out of prison.

So we get paid for crimes saved.

So everyone wins here, right?

The service providers, well, for the first time, they've got an opportunity to provide services and grow the evidence for what they're doing in a really constructive way and learn and demonstrate the value of what they're doing over five or six years, not just one or two as often happens at the moment.

Society wins: fewer crimes, fewer victims.

Now, the offenders, they also benefit.

Social impact bonds work great for any area where there is at the moment very expensive provision that produces poor outcomes for people.

So children in the state care tend to do very badly.

More troublingly, 27 percent of offenders in prison have spent some time in care.

And even more worryingly, and this is a Home Office statistic, 70 percent of prostitutes have spent some time in care.

The state is not a great parent.

So we set up a program with Essex County Council to test out intensive family therapeutic support for those families with adolescents on the edge of the care system.

Essex only pays in the event that it's saving them care costs.

Others, around homelessness in London, around youth and employment and education elsewhere in the country.

There are now 13 social impact bonds in Britain, and amazing levels of interest in this idea all over the world.

So David Cameron's put 20 million pounds into a social outcomes fund to support this idea.

So what's caused this excitement?

Why is this so different for people?

Well, the first piece, which we've talked about, is innovation.

It enables testing of new ideas in a way that's less difficult for everybody. 

The second piece it brings is rigor.

By working to outcomes, people really have to test and bring data into the situation that one's dealing with.

And we learn and adapt the program accordingly. 

And this leads to the third element, which is new, and that's flexibility.

Now any entrepreneur in the room knows that version 1.0, the business plan, is not the one that generally works.

The last element is partnership.

There is, at the moment, a stale debate going on very often: state's better, public sector's better, private sector's better, social sector's better, for a lot of these programs.

Actually, for creating social change, we need to bring in the expertise from all of those parties in order to make this work.

And this creates a structure through which they can combine. 

So where does this leave us?

This leaves us with a way that people can invest in social change.

We've met thousands, possibly millions of people, who want the opportunity to invest in social change.

We've met champions all over the public sector keen to make these kinds of differences.

With this kind of model, we can help bring them together. 

Thank you. 

