Whenever I get to travel for work, I try to find out where my drinking water comes from, and where my poop and pee go. 

This has earned me the nickname "The Poo Princess" in my family, and it's ruined many family vacations, because this is not normal.

But thinking about where it all goes is the first step in activating what are actually superpowers in our poop and pee. 

Yeah.

And if we use them well, we can live healthier and more beautifully. 

This landscape was watered with treated sewage water.

Does that change anything for you?

And that's OK. How we feel about this is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be. 

I'll use a mix. 

It looks more like a park than a treatment plant.

And the clean, clear water that comes out the other end is traveling underground to water each person's yard.

So even though they're in a desert, they get their own personal oasis. 

But in this approach, we're doing one step better.

And often, that makes for really beautiful spaces.

But the most important thing about this system isn't the technicals of how it works.

It's how you feel about it.

Do you want this in your yard?

Why not? 

I got really curious about this question.

Why don't we see more innovation in sanitation?

Why isn't that kind of thing the new normal?

And I care so much about this question, that I work for a nonprofit called Recode.

We want more innovation.

But innovation isn't always incremental.

So, that's the first reason we don't innovate in sanitation.

We're kind of uncomfortable talking about sanitation, that's why I've gotten called "The Poo Princess" so much.

But not so.

Here in the US we still get sick from drinking shit in our sewage water.

Seven million people get sick every year, 900 die annually.

And we're not taking a holistic approach to making it better.

So we're not solving it. 

Our rainwater and our sewage go to the same treatment plant.

Too much rain overflows into the river.

And Portland is not alone here.

Forty percent of municipalities self-report dumping raw or partially treated sewage into our waterways. 

The other bummer going on here with our status quo is that half of all of your poop and pee is going to fertilize farmland.

The other half is being incinerated or land-filled.

Think of your poo and pee as a health smoothie for a tree. 

The other half goes right out the other side.

Consider what a cocktail of pharmaceuticals -- hormones, steroids, Vicodin -- does to a fish, to a dog, to a child. 

But this isn't just some problem that we need to contain.

If we flip this around, we can create a resource that can solve so many of our other problems.

I think you're ready for it.

I think we as a culture are ready for advanced potty training.

And there are three great reasons to enroll today.

Number one: we can fertilize our food.

That dark brown poo in the toilet is dark brown because of what?

Dead stuff, bacteria.

That's carbon.

Chemical fertilizers by definition don't have carbon in them.

Imagine how much energy we could save. 

That can be addressed.

Remember that carbon in the poop?

If we can get that into our soil bank, it's going to start to absorb carbon dioxide that we put into the air.

And that could help slow down global warming. 

Here's an average house in Portland, Oregon.

And all that was cheaper than updating the surrounding sewer infrastructure. 

This was the first permit of its kind in Oregon.

You know? 

I keep showing examples where everyone's reusing everything on-site.

So as we build anew, as we renovate, it might make more sense to treat and reuse everything on-site. 

But why were all these projects so innovative?

Think about it -- solar power used to be uncommon and unaffordable.

Now it's more a part of our web of power than ever before.

And it's creating resiliency.

We now have sources of power like the sun that don't vary with our earthly dramas.

What's driving all that innovation?

It's us.

We're talking about energy.

It's cool to talk about energy.

So let's talk about where our drinking water is coming from, where our poo and pee are actually going.

If we can get over this discomfort with this entire topic, we could create something that creates our future goldmine.

If you don't know, find out.

How all of you feel is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be. 

Thank you so much. 

