And that is that all of us want to be happy.

In this, we are all together.

How we imagine our happiness, that differs from one another, but it's already a lot that we have all in common, that we want to be happy. 

Many people would say, well, that's very easy.

When you are happy, you are grateful.

It's gratefulness that makes you happy. 

I appeal to your own experience.

We all know from experience how it goes.

That's how gratefulness happens. 

Now the key to all this is that we cannot only experience this once in a while.

We cannot only have grateful experiences.

We can be people who live gratefully.

Now, we say the gift within this gift is really the opportunity.

Behold the master key to our happiness in our own hands.

Moment by moment, we can be grateful for this gift. 

Does that mean that we can be grateful for everything?

I said we can be grateful in every given moment for the opportunity, and even when we are confronted with something that is terribly difficult, we can rise to this occasion and respond to the opportunity that is given to us.

It isn't as bad as it might seem.

Actually, when you look at it and experience it, you find that most of the time, what is given to us is the opportunity to enjoy, and we only miss it because we are rushing through life and we are not stopping to see the opportunity. 

Learning patience, for instance.

It may be to stand up for your opinion, to stand up for your conviction.

That's the wonderful richness of life. 

So how can we find a method that will harness this?

In Africa where I was, I didn't have drinkable water.

Every time I turned on the faucet, I was overwhelmed.

But after a while, this wears off.

So leave it up to your own imagination.

And that little stop, look, go, is such a potent seed that it can revolutionize our world.

If you're grateful, you act out of a sense of enough and not of a sense of scarcity, and you are willing to share.

A grateful world is a world of joyful people.

We have a network for grateful living, and it has mushroomed.

Thank you. 

