What is so special about the human brain?

Why is it that we study other animals instead of them studying us?

What does a human brain have or do that no other brain does?

When I became interested in these questions about 10 years ago, scientists thought they knew what different brains were made of.

Though it was based on very little evidence, many scientists thought that all mammalian brains, including the human brain, were made in the same way, with a number of neurons that was always proportional to the size of the brain.

This means that two brains of the same size, like these two, with a respectable 400 grams, should have similar numbers of neurons.

Now, if neurons are the functional information processing units of the brain, then the owners of these two brains should have similar cognitive abilities.

And yet, one is a chimp, and the other is a cow.

But let's play along.

If all brains were made the same way and you were to compare animals with brains of different sizes, larger brains should always have more neurons than smaller brains, and the larger the brain, the more cognitively able its owner should be.

So the largest brain around should also be the most cognitively able.

It seems quite vexing.

It must be really extraordinary, an exception to the rule.

So that would give us extra cortex to do more interesting things than just operating the body.

That's because the size of the brain usually follows the size of the body.

So the main reason for saying that our brain is larger than it should be actually comes from comparing ourselves to great apes.

Gorillas can be two to three times larger than we are, so their brains should also be larger than ours, but instead it's the other way around.

Our brain is three times larger than a gorilla brain. 

The human brain also seems special in the amount of energy that it uses.

Although it weighs only two percent of the body, it alone uses 25 percent of all the energy that your body requires to run per day.

That's 500 calories out of a total of 2,000 calories, just to keep your brain working. 

So the human brain is larger than it should be, it uses much more energy than it should, so it's special.

And this is where the story started to bother me.

Maybe the problem was with the basic assumption that all brains are made in the same way.

Maybe two brains of a similar size can actually be made of very different numbers of neurons.

Maybe a very large brain does not necessarily have more neurons than a more modest-sized brain.

Maybe the human brain actually has the most neurons of any brain, regardless of its size, especially in the cerebral cortex.

But nobody did.

I've been digging through the literature for the original reference for that number, and I could never find it.

It seems that nobody had actually ever counted the number of neurons in the human brain, or in any other brain for that matter. 

This soup contains all the nuclei that once were a mouse brain.

So we've used that method to count neurons in dozens of different species so far, and it turns out that all brains are not made the same way.

The result is that a primate brain will always have more neurons than a rodent brain of the same size, and the larger the brain, the larger this difference will be.

Well, what about our brain then?

But just as important is what the 86 billion neurons mean.

Because we found that the relationship between the size of the brain and its number of neurons could be described mathematically, we could calculate what a human brain would look like if it was made like a rodent brain.

So, a rodent brain with 86 billion neurons would weigh 36 kilos.

That's not possible.

A brain that huge would be crushed by its own weight, and this impossible brain would go in the body of 89 tons.

I don't think it looks like us. 

The human brain is not a large rat brain.

Compared to a rat, we might seem special, yes, but that's not a fair comparison to make, given that we know that we are not rodents.

We are primates, so the correct comparison is to other primates.

And all of you are primates. 

And so was Darwin.

I love to think that Darwin would have really appreciated this.

His brain, like ours, was made in the image of other primate brains. 

It is just a large primate brain.

I think that's a very humbling and sobering thought that should remind us of our place in nature. 

Why does it cost so much energy, then?

Well, other people have figured out how much energy the human brain and that of other species costs, and now that we knew how many neurons each brain was made of, we could do the math.

So the total energetic cost of a brain is a simple, linear function of its number of neurons, and it turns out that the human brain costs just as much energy as you would expect.

When we realized how much expensive it is to have a lot of neurons in the brain, I figured, maybe there's a simple reason.

They just can't afford the energy for both a large body and a large number of neurons.

So we did the math.

And what we found is that because neurons are so expensive, there is a tradeoff between body size and number of neurons.

So a primate that eats eight hours per day can afford at most 53 billion neurons, but then its body cannot be any bigger than 25 kilos.

When you eat like a primate, you can't afford both. 

One way out of this metabolic limitation would be to spend even more hours per day eating, but that gets dangerous, and past a certain point, it's just not possible.

Nine hours of feeding per day seems to be the practical limit for a primate. 

What about us?

With our 86 billion neurons and 60 to 70 kilos of body mass, we should have to spend over nine hours per day every single day feeding, which is just not feasible.

If we ate like a primate, we should not be here. 

How did we get here, then?

Well, if our brain costs just as much energy as it should, and if we can't spend every waking hour of the day feeding, then the only alternative, really, is to somehow get more energy out of the same foods.

To cook is to use fire to pre-digest foods outside of your body.

So because of cooking, what once was a major liability, this large, dangerously expensive brain with a lot of neurons, could now become a major asset, now that we could both afford the energy for a lot of neurons and the time to do interesting things with them.

With this large brain now affordable by cooking, we went rapidly from raw foods to culture, agriculture, civilization, grocery stores, electricity, refrigerators, all of those things that nowadays allow us to get all the energy we need for the whole day in a single sitting at your favorite fast food joint.

So what once was a solution now became the problem, and ironically, we look for the solution in raw food. 

So what is the human advantage?

What is it that we have that no other animal has?

My answer is that we have the largest number of neurons in the cerebral cortex, and I think that's the simplest explanation for our remarkable cognitive abilities.

And I think that's how we got to become human. 

Studying the human brain changed the way I think about food.

I now look at my kitchen, and I bow to it, and I thank my ancestors for coming up with the invention that probably made us humans.

