I'm going to talk about growing older in traditional societies.

Those tribal societies, which constituted all human societies for most of human history, are far more diverse than are our modern, recent, big societies.

All big societies that have governments, and where most people are strangers to each other, are inevitably similar to each other and different from tribal societies.

Tribes constitute thousands of natural experiments in how to run a human society.

They constitute experiments from which we ourselves may be able to learn.

In which tribal societies do children abandon or kill their parents?

It happens mainly under two conditions.

The other condition is in societies living in marginal or fluctuating environments, such as the Arctic or deserts, where there are periodic food shortages, and occasionally there just isn't enough food to keep everyone alive.

Whatever food is available has to be reserved for able-bodied adults and for children.

They face a cruel situation of no choice.

Their old people had to do it to their own parents, and the old people know what now is going to happen to them. 

There are two main sets of reasons for this variation among societies in their treatment of old people.

The variation depends especially on the usefulness of old people and on the society's values. 

First, as regards usefulness, older people continue to perform useful services.

One use of older people in traditional societies is that they often are still effective at producing food.

Another traditional usefulness of older people is that they are capable of babysitting their grandchildren, thereby freeing up their own adult children, the parents of those grandchildren, to go hunting and gathering food for the grandchildren.

Still another traditional value of older people is in making tools, weapons, baskets, pots and textiles.

In fact, they're usually the people who are best at it.

Older people usually are the leaders of traditional societies, and the people most knowledgeable about politics, medicine, religion, songs and dances. 

Finally, older people in traditional societies have a huge significance that would never occur to us in our modern, literate societies, where our sources of information are books and the Internet.

In contrast, in traditional societies without writing, older people are the repositories of information.

It's their knowledge that spells the difference between survival and death for their whole society in a time of crisis caused by rare events for which only the oldest people alive have had experience.

Those, then, are the ways in which older people are useful in traditional societies.

Their usefulness varies and contributes to variation in the society's treatment of the elderly. 

The other set of reasons for variation in the treatment of the elderly is the society's cultural values.

For example, there's particular emphasis on respect for the elderly in East Asia, associated with Confucius' doctrine of filial piety, which means obedience, respect and support for elderly parents.

Cultural values that emphasize respect for older people contrast with the low status of the elderly in the U.S.

Our hospitals have an explicit policy called age-based allocation of healthcare resources.

Still a third reason is our American cult of youth, which shows up even in our advertisements.

Instead, the only American ads featuring white-haired old people are ads for retirement homes and pension planning. 

Well, what has changed in the status of the elderly today compared to their status in traditional societies?

There have been a few changes for the better and more changes for the worse.

Big changes for the better include the fact that today we enjoy much longer lives, much better health in our old age, and much better recreational opportunities.

Another change for the better is that we now have specialized retirement facilities and programs to take care of old people.

Changes for the worse begin with the cruel reality that we now have more old people and fewer young people than at any time in the past.

That means that all those old people are more of a burden on the few young people, and that each old person has less individual value.

We Americans move on the average every five years.

Hence our older people are likely to end up living distant from their children and the friends of their youth.

Perhaps the biggest change for the worse is that our elderly are objectively less useful than in traditional societies.

Widespread literacy means that they are no longer useful as repositories of knowledge.

When we want some information, we look it up in a book or we Google it instead of finding some old person to ask.

And conversely, we older people are not fluent in the technologies essential for surviving in modern society.

Conversely, I at age 75 am incompetent at skills essential for everyday life.

Today, just to watch a program on the TV set in my own house, I have to operate a 41-button TV remote that utterly defeats me.

I have to telephone my 25-year-old sons and ask them to talk me through it while I try to push those wretched 41 buttons. 

What can we do to improve the lives of the elderly in the U.S., and to make better use of their value?

That's a huge problem.

In my remaining four minutes today, I can offer just a few suggestions.

Compared to the usual alternatives of paid babysitters and day care centers, grandparents offer superior, motivated, experienced child care.

Unlike other caregivers, grandparents don't quit their job because they found another job with higher pay looking after another baby.

A second value of older people is paradoxically related to their loss of value as a result of changing world conditions and technology.

For example, only Americans now in their 70s or older today can remember the experience of living through a great depression, the experience of living through a world war, and agonizing whether or not dropping atomic bombs would be more horrible than the likely consequences of not dropping atomic bombs.

Most of our current voters and politicians have no personal experience of any of those things, but millions of older Americans do.

Unfortunately, all of those terrible situations could come back.

Even if they don't come back, we have to be able to plan for them on the basis of the experience of what they were like.

Older people have that experience.

Younger people don't. 

The remaining value of older people that I'll mention involves recognizing that while there are many things that older people can no longer do, there are other things that they can do better than younger people.

A challenge for society is to make use of those things that older people are better at doing.

Some abilities, of course, decrease with age.

Hence older people are much better than younger people at supervising, administering, advising, strategizing, teaching, synthesizing, and devising long-term plans.

In short, many traditional societies make better use of their elderly and give their elderly more satisfying lives than we do in modern, big societies. 

Paradoxically nowadays, when we have more elderly people than ever before, living healthier lives and with better medical care than ever before, old age is in some respects more miserable than ever before.

The lives of the elderly are widely recognized as constituting a disaster area of modern American society.

We can surely do better by learning from the lives of the elderly in traditional societies.

But what's true of the lives of the elderly in traditional societies is true of many other features of traditional societies as well.

Of course, I'm not advocating that we all give up agriculture and metal tools and return to a hunter-gatherer lifestyle.

There are many obvious respects in which our lives today are far happier than those in small, traditional societies.

To mention just a few examples, our lives are longer, materially much richer, and less plagued by violence than are the lives of people in traditional societies.

But there are also things to be admired about people in traditional societies, and perhaps to be learned from them.

Their lives are usually socially much richer than our lives, although materially poorer.

Their children are more self-confident, more independent, and more socially skilled than are our children.

Features of the modern lifestyle predispose us to those diseases, and features of the traditional lifestyle protect us against them. 

Those are just some examples of what we can learn from traditional societies.

I hope that you will find it as fascinating to read about traditional societies as I found it to live in those societies. 

Thank you. 

