When the person in front of me slows down.

And so I'm watching him, and he slows down, and finally he stops.

Well, that wasn't fast enough for me, so I put on my turn signal, and I walked around him, and as I walked, I looked to see what he was doing, and he was doing this.

Now we could approach this from a working memory perspective or from a multitasking perspective.

We're going to do working memory today. 

Now, working memory is that part of our consciousness that we are aware of at any given time of day.

You're going it right now.

It's not something we can turn off.

If you turn it off, that's called a coma, okay?

So right now, you're doing just fine. 

Now working memory has four basic components.

Now the current goal isn't something like, I want to be president or the best surfer in the world.

Now working memory capacity has a fairly long history, and it's associated with a lot of positive effects.

They're able to have high levels of writing ability.

They're also able to reason at high levels. 

So what we're going to do here is play a little bit with some of that.

So I'm going to ask you to perform a couple tasks, and we're going to take your working memory out for a ride.

Five words.

While you're hanging on to them, I'm going to ask you to answer three questions.

I want to see what happens with those words.

(Mumbling) (Laughter) In fact it's -- (Mumbling) -- exactly.

All right, now what I want you to do is to recite the last five letters of the English alphabet backwards.

What we know is this is really important to the way we function, right?

Now don't get me wrong, working memory is awesome.

Working memory allows us to investigate our current experience as we move forward.

It allows us to make sense of the world around us.

But it does have certain limits. 

It allows us to problem-solve, critical think.

We can be in the middle of a meeting, listen to somebody's presentation, evaluate it, decide whether or not we like it, ask follow-up questions.

All of that occurs within working memory.

(Laughter) Gotta make sure we're getting what we're looking for.

Now, a central issue with working memory is that it's limited.

It's limited in capacity, limited in duration, limited in focus.

When we think about working memory, we have to realize that this limited capacity has lots of different impacts on us.

(Laughter) Have you ever forgotten your keys?

You ever forgotten your car?

You ever forgotten your kids?

Have you ever been involved in a conversation, and you realize that the conversation to your left is actually more interesting?

All of that talks about working memory, what we can do and what we can't do.

We negotiate that through strategies. 

Now the first part of this that we need to think about and we need to process our existence, our life, immediately and repeatedly.

Practice for some reason became a very negative thing.

It's very positive. 

The next thing is, we need to think elaboratively and we need to think illustratively.

We need to take advantage of that.

Think about things in images, write things down that way.

If you read a book, pull things up.

If we are providing knowledge and experience, we need to structure that. 

And the last one is support.

We all started as novices.

Now, the final piece of this, the take-home message from a working memory capacity standpoint is this: what we process, we learn.

If we're not processing life, we're not living it.

