Sarge Salman: All the way from Los Altos Hills, California, Mr. Henry Evans. 

Henry Evans: Hello.

I grew up in a typical American town near St. Louis.

My six siblings and I were good kids, but caused our fair share of trouble.

After high school, I left home to study and learn more about the world.

I went to Notre Dame University and graduated with degrees in accounting and German, including spending a year of study in Austria.

I am lucky to have her.

It took me several years, but with the help of an incredibly supportive family, I finally decided life was still worth living.

I can surf the web, exchange email with people, and routinely destroy my friend Steve Cousins in online word games.

This technology allows me to remain engaged, mentally active, and feel like I am a part of the world. 

One day, I was lying in bed watching CNN, when I was amazed by Professor Charlie Kemp of the Healthcare Robotics Lab at Georgia Tech demonstrating a PR2 robot.

I emailed Charlie and Steve Cousins of Willow Garage, and we formed the Robots for Humanity project.

For about two years, Robots for Humanity developed ways for me to use the PR2 as my body surrogate.

I shaved myself for the first time in 10 years.

From my home in California, I shaved Charlie in Atlanta.

I saw new and previously unthinkable possibilities to live and contribute, both for myself and others in my circumstance. 

All of us have disabilities in one form or another.

For example, if either of us wants to go 60 miles an hour, both of us will need an assistive device called a car.

(Laughter) Since birth, we have both suffered from the inability to fly on our own. 

(Laughter) Since birth, we have both suffered from the inability to fly on our own. 

Last year, Kaijen Hsiao of Willow Garage connected with me Chad Jenkins.

Chad showed me how easy it is to purchase and fly aerial drones.

Using a mouse cursor I control with my head, these web interfaces allow me to see video from the robot and send control commands by pressing buttons in a web browser.

With a little practice, I became good enough with this interface to drive around my home on my own.

(Laughter) One of my challenges as a pilot is to land the drone on our basketball hoop.

I went even further by seeing if I could use a head-mounted display, the Oculus Rift, as modified by Fighting Walrus, to have an immersive experience controlling the drone.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Okay, Henry, have you been to D.C. lately? 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Are you excited to be at TEDxMidAtlantic? 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

What we're trying to do is democratize robotics, so that anybody can be a part of this.

Back to you, Henry. 

One hundred years ago, I would have been treated like a vegetable.

With the help of people like you, we can make this dream a reality. 

Thank you. 

