For about a year now, my colleagues and I have been building drones for Nepal and training the park protection personnel on the use of these drones.

Not only does a drone give you a bird's-eye view of the landscape, but it also allows you to capture detailed, high-resolution images of objects on the ground.

This, for example, is a pair of rhinoceros taking a cooling bath on a hot summer day in the lowlands of Nepal.

So what is a drone?

It also requires a software that allows the user to program a mission, to tell the drone where to go. 

Well, actually, you don't, because the drone flies itself.

All you have to do is to program a mission to tell the drone where to fly.

But you simply do that by clicking on a few way points on the Google Maps interface using the open-source software.

Those missions could be as simple as just a few way points, or they could be slightly longer and more complicated, to fly along a river system.

Other researchers might want to fly the drone along the boundaries of a forest to watch out for poachers or people who might be trying to enter the forest illegally. 

Now whatever your mission is, once you've programmed it, you simply upload it to the autopilot system, bring your drone to the field, and launch it simply by tossing it in the air.

So what can we do with a conservation drone?

The reason we wanted to do that was because we needed to know how many individuals of this species are still left in that forest.

Now the traditional method of surveying for orangutans is to walk the forest on foot carrying heavy equipment and to use a pair of binoculars to look up in the treetops where you might find an orangutan or its nest.

But nests are not the only objects these drones can detect.

Sometimes, we zoom out a little and look at other things that might be happening in the landscape.

This is an oil palm plantation in Sumatra.

Now oil palm is a major driver of deforestation in that part of the world, so we wanted to use this new drone technology to keep track of the spread of these plantations in Southeast Asia.

But drones could also be used to keep track of illegal logging activities.

This is a recently logged forest, again in Sumatra.

You could even still see the processed wooden planks left on the ground. 

Aerial images could also be processed to produce three-dimensional computer models of forests.

Recently, we've also begun experimenting with thermal imaging cameras.

Now these cameras can detect heat-emitting objects from the ground, and therefore they are very useful for detecting poachers or their campfires at night. 

So I've told you quite a lot about what conservation drones are, how you might operate one of these drones, and what a drone could do for you.

We brought a few of these to Indonesia for the first few test flights.

Building drones for us is a constant work in progress.

We are constantly trying to improve them in terms of their range, their ruggedness, and the amount of payload they can carry.

We also work with collaborators to discover new ways of using these drones.

For example, camera traps are a common tool used by biologists to take pictures of shy animals hiding in the forests, but these are motion-activated cameras, so they snap a picture every time an animal crosses their path.

Now a drone could be designed to perform the task much more efficiently.

This drone, carrying a special sensor, could be flown over the forest and remotely download these images from wi-fi–enabled cameras. 

Radio collars are another tool that's commonly used by biologists.

Now these collars are put onto animals.

They transmit a radio signal which allows the researcher to track the movements of these animals across the landscape.

A drone could be used to do the same job much more efficiently.

That would give us biologists a pretty good idea of what animals might be living in those forests. 

And finally, I would like to show you the latest version of our conservation drone.

The MAJA drone has a wingspan of about two meters.

It weighs only about two kilograms, but it can carry half its weight.

It is a fully autonomous system.

During its mission, it can even transmit a live video feed back to a ground station laptop, which allows the user to see what the drone is seeing in real time.

It carries a variety of sensors, and the photo quality of some of these sensors can be as high as one to two centimeters per pixel.

This drone can stay in the air for 40 to 60 minutes, which gives it a range of up to 50 kilometers.

That is quite sufficient for most of our conservation applications. 

Now, conservation drones began as a crazy idea from two biologists who are just deeply passionate about this technology.

And we believe, strongly believe, that drones can and will be a game changer for conservation research and applications.

We've had our fair share of skeptics and critics who thought that we were just fooling around with toy planes.

And in a way, they are right.

I mean, let's be honest, drones are the ultimate toys for boys.

To us, it is obvious that conservation biologists and practitioners should make full use of every available tool, including drones, in our fight to save the last remaining forests and wildlife of this planet. 

Thank you. 

