In order to teach you this game, I'm going to need some volunteers to come up onstage really quickly, and we're going to do a little hands-on demo.

Sunni, let's just remind them.

One, two, three, four, I declare a thumb war, and we wrestle, and of course Sunni beats me because she's the best. 

Now the first thing about massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling, we're the gamer generation.

There are a billion gamers on the planet now, so we need more of a challenge.

So the first thing we need is more thumbs.

So Eric, come on over.

We can really go for it.

So you can see up here.

Now the only other rule you need to remember is, gamer generation, we like a challenge.

I happen to notice you all have some thumbs you're not using.

So I think we should kind of get some more involved.

Perfect. 

Now, if we had more people in the room, instead of just wrestling in a closed node, we might reach out and try and grab some other people.

And in fact, that's what we're going to do right now.

We're going to try and get all, something like, I don't know, 1,500 thumbs in this room connected in a single node.

And we have to connect both levels, so if you're up there, you're going to be reaching down and reaching up. 

So this is the kind of simple level, right?

Any Star Wars fans?

And this one's called the Möbius Strip.

Any science geeks, you get that one.

Everybody, up up up up up!

Stand up, my friends.

All right.

Don't start wrestling yet.

If you have a free thumb, wave it around to make sure.

(Applause) Well done.

Creativity: it took creativity to solve the problem of getting all the thumbs into the node.

We had some contentment.

And it's truly awesome and wondrous.

And speaking of physical connection, you guys know I love the hormone oxytocin, you release oxytocin, you feel bonded to everyone in the room.

You guys know that the best way to release oxytocin quickly is to hold someone else's hand for at least six seconds.

You guys were all holding hands for way more than six seconds, so we are all now biochemically primed to love each other.

You lost both your thumbs.

So congratulations.

How many of you won just won thumb?

According to the official rules of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling, this makes you a grandmaster of the game.

Get ready to update your Twitter or Facebook status.

I will just leave you with this tip, if you want to play again.

Focus on that one and do something crazy with this arm.

That's how you become a legendary grandmaster of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling.

(Applause) 

