There were two things that surprised me during the month I spent.

So with this focus on cost-cutting, I asked myself, are we forgetting the patient? 

Many countries that you represent and where I come from struggle with the cost of healthcare.

It's a big part of the national budgets.

And many different reforms aim at holding back this growth.

In some countries, we have long waiting times for patients for surgery.

In other countries, new drugs are not being reimbursed, and therefore don't reach patients.

In several countries, doctors and nurses are the targets, to some extent, for the governments.

After all, the costly decisions in health care are taken by doctors and nurses.

You choose an expensive lab test, you choose to operate on an old and frail patient.

So, by limiting the degrees of freedom of physicians, this is a way to hold costs down.

And ultimately, some physicians will say today that they don't have the full liberty to make the choices they think are right for their patients.

So no wonder that some of my old colleagues are frustrated. 

We call this value-based healthcare.

On this picture, you have my father-in-law surrounded by his three beautiful daughters.

You compare hospitals in a country, you'll find some that are extremely good, but you'll find a large number that are vastly much worse.

The differences were dramatic.

Now living in Europe, he can choose to go to Germany that has a well-reputed healthcare system.

If he instead would go to Hamburg, and to a clinic called the Martini-Klinik, the risk would be only one in 20.

When we look at many hospitals for many different diseases, we see these huge differences. 

And often, the data actually doesn't exist.

Nobody knows.

So going the hospital is a lottery. 

To the left of this slide, you see a variety of metal pieces, artificial hips that you would use for somebody who needs a new hip.

They all realized they had their individual way of operating.

So they said, "We probably need to measure quality so we know and can learn from what's best."

They published the data, and it actually transformed clinical practice in the country.

Everybody saw this makes a lot of sense.

Since then, they publish every year.

Once a year, they publish the league table: who's best, who's at the bottom?

Now I found this principle really exciting.

Continuous improvement. 

Now, that's not the only exciting part.

So if you look at the hip surgery story again, there was a study done a couple years ago where they compared the U.S. and Sweden.

They looked at how many patients have needed to be re-operated on seven years after the first surgery.

In the United States, the number was three times higher than in Sweden.

So many unnecessary surgeries, and so much unnecessary suffering for all the patients who were operated on in that seven year period.

Now, you can imagine how much savings there would be for society. 

We did a study where we looked at OECD data.

OECD does, every so often, look at quality of care where they can find the data across the member countries.

The United States has, for many diseases, actually a quality which is below the average in OECD.

Now, if the American healthcare system would focus a lot more on measuring quality, and raise quality just to the level of average OECD, it would save the American people 500 billion U.S. dollars a year.

That's 20 percent of the budget, of the healthcare budget of the country. 

Now you may say that these numbers are fantastic, and it's all logical, but is it possible?

This would be a paradigm shift in healthcare, and I would argue that not only can it be done, but it has to be done.

The agents of change are the doctors and nurses in the healthcare system. 

In my practice as a consultant, I meet probably a hundred or more than a hundred doctors and nurses and other hospital or healthcare staff every year.

The one thing they have in common is they really care about what they achieve in terms of quality for their patients.

Physicians are, like most of you in the audience, very competitive.

But most of them don't know.

But physicians have another characteristic.

They actually thrive from peer recognition.

If a cardiologist calls another cardiologist in a competing hospital and discusses why that other hospital has so much better results, they will share.

They will share the information on how to improve.

Now, you may say this is a nice idea, but this isn't only an idea.

This is happening in reality.

We're creating a global community, and a large global community, where we'll be able to measure and compare what we achieve.

Together with two academic institutions, Michael Porter at Harvard Business School, and the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, BCG has formed something we call ICHOM.

You may think that's a sneeze, but it's not a sneeze, it's an acronym.

It stands for the International Consortium for Health Outcome Measurement.

The four groups will publish their data in November of this year.

That's the first time we'll be comparing apples to apples, not only within a country, but between countries.

Next year, we're planning to do eight diseases, the year after, 16.

Why is that? 

Five months ago, I led a workshop at the largest university hospital in Northern Europe.

They have a new CEO, and she has a vision: I want to manage my big institution much more on quality, outcomes that matter to patients.

This particular day, we sat in a workshop together with physicians, nurses and other staff, discussing leukemia in children.

Can we measure it better than we do?

There was an enormous energy in the room.

There were so many ideas, so much enthusiasm.

At the end of the meeting, the chairman of the department, he stood up.

Thank you.

By measuring value in healthcare, that is not only costs but outcomes that matter to patients, we will make staff in hospitals and elsewhere in the healthcare system not a problem but an important part of the solution.

Thank you. 

