So this is my niece.

Her mum is a doctor, and her dad is a lawyer.

By the time Yahli goes to college, the jobs her parents do are going to look dramatically different. 

In 2013, researchers at Oxford University did a study on the future of work.

They concluded that almost one in every two jobs have a high risk of being automated by machines.

Machine learning is the technology that's responsible for most of this disruption.

It's the most powerful branch of artificial intelligence.

It allows machines to learn from data and mimic some of the things that humans can do.

My company, Kaggle, operates on the cutting edge of machine learning.

We bring together hundreds of thousands of experts to solve important problems for industry and academia.

This gives us a unique perspective on what machines can do, what they can't do and what jobs they might automate or threaten. 

Machine learning started making its way into industry in the early '90s.

It started with relatively simple tasks.

It started with things like assessing credit risk from loan applications, sorting the mail by reading handwritten characters from zip codes.

Over the past few years, we have made dramatic breakthroughs.

Machine learning is now capable of far, far more complex tasks.

Last year, we issued an even more difficult challenge.

Can you take images of the eye and diagnose an eye disease called diabetic retinopathy?

Again, the winning algorithms were able to match the diagnoses given by human ophthalmologists. 

Now, given the right data, machines are going to outperform humans at tasks like this.

A machine can read millions of essays or see millions of eyes within minutes.

We have no chance of competing against machines on frequent, high-volume tasks. 

But there are things we can do that machines can't do.

Where machines have made very little progress is in tackling novel situations.

They can't handle things they haven't seen many times before.

The fundamental limitations of machine learning is that it needs to learn from large volumes of past data.

Now, this is a particularly remarkable example of creativity.

But this sort of cross-pollination happens for each of us in small ways thousands of times per day.

So what does this mean for the future of work?

Over coming years, they're going to conduct our audits, and they're going to read boilerplate from legal contracts.

Accountants and lawyers are still needed.

Now, as mentioned, machines are not making progress on novel situations.

Business strategy means finding gaps in the market, things that nobody else is doing.

It will be humans that are creating the copy behind our marketing campaigns, and it will be humans that are developing our business strategy. 

So Yahli, whatever you decide to do, let every day bring you a new challenge.

If it does, then you will stay ahead of the machines. 

Thank you. 

