I would like to talk to you about a story about a small town kid.

I don't know his name, but I do know his story.

He lives in a small village in southern Somalia.

His village is near Mogadishu.

Drought drives the small village into poverty and to the brink of starvation.

He ends up living in a tent city on the outskirts of Mogadishu.

Maybe a year passes, nothing.

One day, he's approached by a gentleman who offers to take him to lunch, then to dinner, to breakfast.

He meets this dynamic group of people, and they give him a break.

He's given a bit of money to buy himself some new clothes, money to send back home to his family.

He starts this new life.

He has a purpose in life. 

One beautiful day in Mogadishu, under an azure blue sky, a car bomb goes off.

So how does the story of a small town kid just trying to make it big in the city end up with him blowing himself up?

He was waiting.

This was the first thing that pulled him out of what we call waithood. 

And his story repeats itself in urban centers around the world.

For young people, the promise of the city, the big city dream is that of opportunity, of jobs, of wealth, but young people are not sharing in the prosperity of their cities.

Often it's youth who suffer from the highest unemployment rates.

By 2030, three out of five people living in cities will be under the age of 18.

If we do not include young people in the growth of our cities, if we do not provide them opportunities, the story of waithood, the gateway to terrorism, to violence, to gangs, will be the story of cities 2.0.

And in my city of birth, Mogadishu, 70 percent of young people suffer from unemployment.

70 percent don't work, don't go to school.

They pretty much do nothing. 

What if I had been forced into that same state of waithood?

Would I have become a terrorist?

I'm not really sure about the answer. 

My reason for being in Mogadishu that month was actually to host a youth leadership and entrepreneurship summit.

I brought together about 90 young Somali leaders.

We sat down and brainstormed on solutions to the biggest challenges facing their city. 

They sought people like him out. 

But his story takes a different route.

In Mogadishu, the biggest barrier to getting from point A to point B are the roads.

Twenty-three years of civil war have completely destroyed the road system, and a motorbike can be the easiest way to get around.

Aden saw an opportunity and seized it.

He started a motorbike company.

He began renting out motorbikes to local residents who couldn't normally afford them.

How is this story different?

What makes his story different?

I believe it is his ability to identify and seize a new opportunity.

And you can train young people to be entrepreneurs.

He was helping me train some of the young people at the summit in entrepreneurship and how to be innovative and how to create a culture of entrepreneurship.

He's actually the first florist Mogadishu has seen in over 22 years, and until recently, until Mohamed came along, if you wanted flowers at your wedding, you used plastic bouquets shipped from abroad.

So Mohamed saw an opportunity.

He started a landscaping and design floral company.

There's no public park in Mogadishu.

He wants to create a space where families, young people, can come together, and, as he says, smell the proverbial roses.

They had never really thought about starting up a business.

They've thought about working for an NGO, working for the government, but his story, his innovation, really had a strong impact on them.

He forced them to look at their city as a place of opportunity.

He empowered them to believe that they could be entrepreneurs, that they could be change makers.

By the end of the day, they were coming up with innovative solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing their city.

They came up with entrepreneurial solutions to local problems. 

They need expertise and mentorship to guide them in developing and launching their businesses.

For me, entrepreneurship is more than just starting up a business.

It's about creating a social impact.

Mohamed is not simply selling flowers.

I believe he is selling hope.

His Peace Park, and that's what he calls it, when it's created, will actually transform the way people see their city.

Aden hired street kids to help rent out and maintain those bikes for him.

He gave them the opportunity to escape the paralysis of waithood.

These young entrepreneurs are having a tremendous impact in their cities. 

Thank you. 

