Things were going pretty well.

Safely reaching the other side, I turned to the left, pushed the auto-button for the audible pedestrian signal, and waited my turn.

As it went off, I took off and safely got to the other side.

Stepping onto the sidewalk, I then heard the sound of a steel chair slide across the concrete sidewalk in front of me.

As I did, so slid the chair.

Now I was getting a little anxious.

I went back to the left, and so slid the chair, blocking my path of travel.

Now, I was officially freaking out.

(Laughter) 

So let me step back and set the stage a little bit.

The surgery was successful.

Two days later, my sight started to fail.

On the third day, it was gone. 

But as I had time to stop and think, I actually started to realize I had a lot to be grateful for.

So although I had every reason to be fearful of what was ahead, and had no clue quite what was going to happen, I was alive.

My son still had his dad.

And besides, it's not like I was the first person ever to lose their sight.

I knew there had to be all sorts of systems and techniques and training to have to live a full and meaningful, active life without sight. 

It was a lot of hard work. 

These outsights ranged from the trival to the profound, from the mundane to the humorous.

Paramount amongst those was the realization that, actually, cities are fantastic places for the blind.

And then I was also surprised by the city's propensity for kindness and care as opposed to indifference or worse.

That was a little curious to me. 

Let me step back and take a look at why the city is so good for the blind.

It's like a whole new world of sensory information opens up to you.

Similarly, just through the grip of the cane, you can feel contrasting textures in the floor below, and over time you build a pattern of where you are and where you're headed.

Similarly, just the sun warming one side of your face or the wind at your neck gives you clues about your alignment and your progression through a block and your movement through time and space.

But also, the sense of smell.

What struck me also was how much the city was changing around me.

Lose your sight, though, and it's a whole other story.

And I don't know who's watching who, but I have a suspicion that a lot of people are watching me.

You've got to figure out what they actually meant.

Some of it's kind of wrong and not helpful.

But it's all good in the grand scheme of things. 

What could I do?

It's a perfectly great city.

But once I lost my sight and was walking along Broadway, I was blessed every block of the way. 

I didn't get that sighted.

And I know it bothers some of my blind friends, it's not just me.

Often it's thought that that's an emotion that comes up out of pity.

In fact, if I'm feeling down, I just go to Broadway in downtown Oakland, I go for a walk, and I feel better like that, in no time at all. 

But also that it illustrates how disability and blindness sort of cuts across ethnic, social, racial, economic lines.

Disability is an equal-opportunity provider.

Everybody's welcome.

So my final takeaway for you is that not only is the city good for the blind, but the city needs us.

It's too late then.

The space between buildings will be well-balanced between people and cars.

(Laughter) They don't like it when you drive.

Blind people want to work too.

They want to earn a living. 

So, in designing a city for the blind, I hope you start to realize that it actually would be a more inclusive, a more equitable, a more just city for all.

So thank you. 

