"Give me liberty or give me death."

When Patrick Henry, the governor of Virginia, said these words in 1775, he could never have imagined just how much they would come to resonate with American generations to come.

Who could blame them?

Over the past hundred years, the combination of liberal democracy and private capitalism has helped to catapult the United States and Western countries to new levels of economic development.

In the United States over the past hundred years, incomes have increased 30 times, and hundreds of thousands of people have been moved out of poverty.

Meanwhile, American ingenuity and innovation has helped to spur industrialization and also helped in the creation and the building of things like household appliances such as refrigerators and televisions, motor vehicles and even the mobile phones in your pockets.

This schism has only grown wider.

What if you had to choose between a roof over your head and the right to vote? 

Of course they would.

However, I am saying that on balance, they worry more about where their living standard improvements are going to come from, and how it is their governments can deliver for them, than whether or not the government was elected by democracy. 

And rather than have private capitalism, they have state capitalism.

Instead of liberal democracy, they have de-prioritized the democratic system.

And they have also decided to prioritize economic rights over political rights.

If you will indulge me, I will spend a few moments explaining to you first why economically they've come to this belief. 

First of all, it's China's economic performance over the past 30 years.

It's not just in economics, but it's also in terms of living standards.

We see that in China, 28 percent of people had secondary school access.

Today, it's closer to 82 percent.

So in its totality, economic improvement has been quite significant. 

Second, China has been able to meaningfully improve its income inequality without changing the political construct.

Today, the United States and China are the two leading economies in the world.

Perhaps what is more disturbing is that China's income equality has been improving in recent times, whereas that of the United States has been declining. 

Thirdly, people in the emerging markets look at China's amazing and legendary infrastructure rollout.

Now this is something that people can see and point to.

Perhaps it's no surprise that in a 2007 Pew survey, when surveyed, Africans in 10 countries said they thought that the Chinese were doing amazing things to improve their livelihoods by wide margins, by as much as 98 percent. 

Finally, China is also providing innovative solutions to age-old social problems that the world faces.

If you travel to Mogadishu, Mexico City or Mumbai, you find that dilapidated infrastructure and logistics continue to be a stumbling block to the delivery of medicine and healthcare in the rural areas.

However, through a network of state-owned enterprises, the Chinese have been able to go into these rural areas, using their companies to help deliver on these healthcare solutions. 

I'm here to also tell you that there are lots of shifts occurring around what China is doing in the democratic stance.

In particular, there is growing doubt among people in the emerging markets, when people now believe that democracy is no longer to be viewed as a prerequisite for economic growth.

In fact, countries like Taiwan, Singapore, Chile, not just China, have shown that actually, it's economic growth that is a prerequisite for democracy.

In a recent study, the evidence has shown that income is the greatest determinant of how long a democracy can last.

What this is telling us is that we need to first establish a middle class that is able to hold the government accountable.

The evidence around illiberal democracies is quite depressing.

Freedom House finds that although 50 percent of the world's countries today are democratic, 70 percent of those countries are illiberal in the sense that people don't have free speech or freedom of movement.

But also, we're finding from Freedom House in a study that they published last year that freedom has been on the decline every year for the past seven years. 

What this says is that for people like me who care about liberal democracy, is we've got to find a more sustainable way of ensuring that we have a sustainable form of democracy in a liberal way, and that has its roots in economics.

But it also says that as China moves toward being the largest economy in the world, something that is expected to happen by experts in 2016, that this schism between the political and economic ideologies of the West and the rest is likely to widen. 

What might that world look like?

Well, the world could look like more state involvement and state capitalism; greater protectionisms of nation-states; but also, as I just pointed out a moment ago, ever-declining political rights and individual rights. 

And I suggest that they have two options.

The West can either compete or cooperate.

Now the fact of the matter is, if the West decides to compete, it will create a wider schism.

The fact of the matter is that instead of going around the world and haranguing countries for engaging with China, the West should be encouraging its own businesses to trade and invest in these regions.

Instead of criticizing China for bad behavior, the West should be showing how it is that their own system of politics and economics is the superior one.

And instead of shoehorning democracy around the world, perhaps the West should take a leaf out of its own history book and remember that it takes a lot of patience in order to develop the models and the systems that you have today.

Indeed, the Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer reminds us that it took the United States nearly 170 years from the time that the Constitution was written for there to be equal rights in the United States.

Some people would argue that today there is still no equal rights.

In fact, there are groups who would argue that they still do not have equal rights under the law. 

At its very best, the Western model speaks for itself.

It's the model that put food on the table.

It's the refrigerators.

It put a man on the moon.

Today, generations are looking at China and saying, "China can produce infrastructure, China can produce economic growth, and we like that."

People who care and will pivot towards the model of politics and economics in a very rational way, to those models that will ensure that they can have better living standards in the shortest period of time. 

Just to illustrate, I went into my annals of myself.

That's a picture of me. 

I was born and raised in Zambia in 1969.

This is an affidavit from the Zambian government.

I bring this to you to tell you that in 40 years, I've gone from not being recognized as a human being to standing in front of the illustrious TED crowd today to talk to you about my views.

In this vein, we can increase economic growth.

We can meaningfully put a dent in poverty.

We might have to tear those books up and start to look at other options and be open-minded to seek the truth.

Ultimately, it's about transforming the world and making it a better place. 

Thank you very much. 

