So why do we learn mathematics?

Essentially, for three reasons: calculation, application, and last, and unfortunately least in terms of the time we give it, inspiration. 

But wouldn't it be great if every once in a while we did mathematics simply because it was fun or beautiful or because it excited the mind?

That's great. 

Now these numbers can be appreciated in many different ways.

Let me show you one of my favorites.

Let's look at the squares of the first few Fibonacci numbers.

So one squared is one, two squared is four, three squared is nine, five squared is 25, and so on.

Now, it's no surprise that when you add consecutive Fibonacci numbers, you get the next Fibonacci number.

That's how they're created.

But you wouldn't expect anything special to happen when you add the squares together.

But check this out.

In fact, here's another one.

Now look at those numbers.

Those are not Fibonacci numbers, but if you look at them closely, you'll see the Fibonacci numbers buried inside of them. 

Why should the squares of one, one, two, three, five and eight add up to eight times 13?

I'll show you by drawing a simple picture.

Beneath that, I'll put a two-by-two square, and next to that, a three-by-three square, beneath that, a five-by-five square, and then an eight-by-eight square, creating one giant rectangle, right? 

Well, on the one hand, it's the sum of the areas of the squares inside it, right?

Just as we created it.

It's one squared plus one squared plus two squared plus three squared plus five squared plus eight squared.

That's the area.

On the other hand, because it's a rectangle, the area is equal to its height times its base, and the height is clearly eight, and the base is five plus eight, which is the next Fibonacci number, 13.

So the area is also eight times 13.

Since we've correctly calculated the area two different ways, they have to be the same number, and that's why the squares of one, one, two, three, five and eight add up to eight times 13. 

Now, if we continue this process, we'll generate rectangles of the form 13 by 21, 21 by 34, and so on. 

Now check this out.

If you divide 13 by eight, you get 1.625.

If I could summarize this in one sentence, it would be this: Mathematics is not just solving for x, it's also figuring out why. 

Thank you very much. 

