The two most likely largest inventions of our generation are the Internet and the mobile phone.

They've changed the world.

However, largely to our surprise, they also turned out to be the perfect tools for the surveillance state.

We've heard about these starting with the revelations from June 6.

Edward Snowden started leaking information, top secret classified information, from the U.S. intelligence agencies, and we started learning about things like PRISM and XKeyscore and others.

And these are examples of the kinds of programs U.S. intelligence agencies are running right now, against the whole rest of the world. 

(Laughter) We are right now seeing a much larger scale of tracking of individual citizens than he could have ever imagined. 

And this here is the infamous NSA data center in Utah.

Due to be opened very soon, it will be both a supercomputing center and a data storage center.

You could basically imagine it has a large hall filled with hard drives storing data they are collecting.

Maybe it's better to imagine it as a comparison.

You think about the largest IKEA store you've ever been in.

This is five times larger.

We estimate that just the electricity bill for running this data center is going to be in the tens of millions of dollars a year.

And this kind of wholesale surveillance means that they can collect our data and keep it basically forever, keep it for extended periods of time, keep it for years, keep it for decades.

And this opens up completely new kinds of risks to us all.

And what this is is that it is wholesale blanket surveillance on everyone. 

They can monitor foreigners when foreigners' data connections end up in the United States or pass through the United States.

In fact, 96 percent of the planet are foreigners. 

(Laughter) 

Right? 

But don't get me wrong: There are actually types of surveillance that are okay.

If the law enforcement is trying to find a murderer, or they're trying to catch a drug lord or trying to prevent a school shooting, and they have leads and they have suspects, then it's perfectly fine for them to tap the suspect's phone, and to intercept his Internet communications.

They are not about doing surveillance on people that they have reason to suspect of some wrongdoings.

They're about doing surveillance on people they know are innocent. 

Our worst fears might have been something like this, but we didn't know this was happening.

We didn't know about DoubleArrow.

But now we do. 

And we did not know that U.S. intelligence agencies go to extremes such as infiltrating standardization bodies to sabotage encryption algorithms on purpose.

And what that means is that you take something which is secure, an encryption algorithm which is so secure that if you use that algorithm to encrypt one file, nobody can decrypt that file.

Even if they take every single computer on the planet just to decrypt that one file, it's going to take millions of years.

So that's basically perfectly safe, uncrackable.

You take something which is that good and then you weaken it on purpose, making all of us less secure as an end result.

Backdooring encryption algorithms just boggles the mind.

But of course, these intelligence agencies are doing their job.

One way is to sabotage encryption algorithms, which is a great example about how U.S. intelligence agencies are running loose.

They are completely out of control, and they should be brought back under control. 

So what do we actually know about the leaks?

Everything is based on the files leaked by Mr. Snowden.

They even have a specific date on when the collection of data began for each of the service providers.

And every single one of these companies denies.

They all say that this simply isn't true, that they are not giving backdoor access to their data.

Yet we have these files.

So is one of the parties lying, or is there some other alternative explanation?

In this case, they've been hacked by their own government.

And there's more evidence supporting this theory as well.

Der Spiegel, from Germany, leaked more information about the operations run by the elite hacker units operating inside these intelligence agencies.

Inside NSA, the unit is called TAO, Tailored Access Operations, and inside GCHQ, which is the U.K. equivalent, it's called NAC, Network Analysis Centre.

And what this really means is that an E.U.

Here's the primary target, here's the secondary target, here's the teaming.

They probably have a team building on Thursday evening in a pub.

They even use cheesy PowerPoint clip art like, you know, "Success," when they gain access to services like this.

What the hell? 

All countries spy.

And maybe that's true.

Many countries spy, not all of them, but let's take an example.

Let's take, for example, Sweden.

I'm speaking of Sweden because Sweden has a little bit of a similar law to the United States.

And the answer is, every single Swedish business leader does that every single day.

And then we turn it around.

How many American leaders use Swedish webmails and cloud services?

And the answer is zero.

So this is not balanced.

It's not balanced by any means, not even close. 

And when we do have the occasional European success story, even those, then, typically end up being sold to the United States.

Like, Skype used to be secure.

It used to be end-to-end encrypted.

Then it was sold to the United States.

Today, it no longer is secure.

So once again, we take something which is secure and then we make it less secure on purpose, making all of us less secure as an outcome. 

Are the Americans ready to throw away the Constituion and throw it in the trash just because there are terrorists?

And the same thing with the Bill of Rights and all the amendments and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the E.U.

Do we really think terrorism is such an existential threat, we are ready to do anything at all? 

Feel free to survey me if that helps.

And whoever tells you that they have nothing to hide simply hasn't thought about this long enough. 

And if we indeed need a Big Brother, I would much rather have a domestic Big Brother than a foreign Big Brother.

And when the leaks started, the very first thing I tweeted about this was a comment about how, when you've been using search engines, you've been potentially leaking all that to U.S. intelligence.

Privacy is nonnegotiable.

It should be built in to all the systems we use. 

And one thing we should all understand is that we are brutally honest with search engines.

You show me your search history, and I'll find something incriminating or something embarrassing there in five minutes.

We are more honest with search engines than we are with our families.

Search engines know more about you than your family members know about you.

And this is all the kind of information we are giving away, we are giving away to the United States. 

And surveillance changes history.

We know this through examples of corrupt presidents like Nixon.

Imagine if he would have had the kind of surveillance tools that are available today.

And let me actually quote the president of Brazil, Ms. Dilma Rousseff.

She was one of the targets of NSA surveillance.

That's what it's about.

Privacy is the building block of our democracies.

So we are back to the age of colonization, and we, the foreign users of the Internet, we should think about Americans as our masters. 

So Mr. Snowden, he's been blamed for many things.

(Laughter) 

But that's not going to really change the situation.

What's going to change the situation for the rest of the world is to try to steer away from systems built in the United States.

And that's much easier said than done.

How do you do that?

A single country, any single country in Europe cannot replace and build replacements for the U.S.-made operating systems and cloud services. 

But maybe you don't have to do it alone.

Maybe you can do it together with other countries.

The solution is open source.

By building together open, free, secure systems, we can go around such surveillance, and then one country doesn't have to solve the problem by itself.

It only has to solve one little problem.

Thank you very much. 

