I still remember this decisive moment.

It was just at the end of a regular day of work with the foundation.

And for this purpose, we placed two hemisections on opposite sides of the body.

They completely interrupt the communication between the brain and the spinal cord, thus leading to complete and permanent paralysis of the leg.

But, as observed, after most injuries in humans, there is this intervening gap of intact neural tissue through which recovery can occur.

Well, the classical approach consists of applying intervention that would promote the growth of the severed fiber to the original target.

And while this certainly remained the key for a cure, this seemed extraordinarily complicated to me.

To reach clinical fruition rapidly, it was obvious: I had to think about the problem differently. 

(Laughter) I was afraid to talk to my new boss, but decided to muster up my courage.

He listened to me carefully, and responded with a grin.

Imagine that the locomotor system is a car.

How could we re-engage the engine?

It turned out that there are known neural pathways coming from the brain that play this very function during locomotion.

So here imagine an electrode implanted on the back of the spinal cord to deliver painless stimulation.

Immediately, the paralyzed rat can stand.

This was amazing.

I was completely fascinated by this locomotion without the brain, but at the same time so frustrated.

This locomotion was completely involuntary.

The animal had virtually no control over the legs.

Clearly, the steering system was missing.

The robot is transparent, just like you would hold a young child during the first insecure steps. 

The electrochemical neuroprosthesis enabled a highly functional state of the spinal locomotor networks.

The robot provided the safe environment to allow the rat to attempt anything to engage the paralyzed legs.

I can promise you this was such an emotional moment in my laboratory.

And here, what we found was completely unexpected.

This novel training paradigm encouraged the brain to create new connections, some relay circuits that relay information from the brain past the injury and restore cortical control over the locomotor networks below the injury.

This blue neuron is connected with the locomotor center, and what this constellation of synaptic contacts means is that the brain is reconnected with the locomotor center with only one relay neuron.

But the remodeling was not restricted to the lesion area.

And there is a very important message hidden behind this discovery.

This is truly a trans-disciplinary team.

They are working so close to each other that there is horizontal transfer of DNA.

And me?

Me too, every day.

The truth is that we don't know enough yet.

I would like you all to take a moment and dream with me.

Imagine a person just suffered a spinal cord injury.

After a few weeks of recovery, we will implant a programmable pump to deliver a personalized pharmacological cocktail directly to the spinal cord.

This defines a personalized electrochemical neuroprosthesis that will enable locomotion during training with a newly designed supporting system.

And my hope is that after several months of training, there may be enough remodeling of residual connection to allow locomotion without the robot, maybe even without pharmacology or stimulation.

My hope here is to be able to create the personalized condition to boost the plasticity of the brain and the spinal cord.

And remember, we are only as great as our imagination, as big as our dream. 

