It was a beautiful day.

We got to our campsite.

It was a lean-to on a bluff looking over a crystal, beautiful lake, when I discovered a horror.

And I was astonished, I was very angry, and I was deeply confused.

The campers who were too lazy to take out what they had brought in, who did they think would clean up after them? 

That question stayed with me, and it simplified a little.

Who cleans up after us?

However you configure or wherever you place the us, who cleans up after us in Istanbul?

Here in New York, the Department of Sanitation cleans up after us, to the tune of 11,000 tons of garbage and 2,000 tons of recyclables every day.

I wanted to get to know them as individuals.

I wanted to understand who takes the job.

What's it like to wear the uniform and bear that burden? 

So I started a research project with them.

I needed to go deeper. 

And I operated the mechanical brooms and I plowed the snow.

It was a remarkable privilege and an amazing education. 

Everyone asks about the smell.

The weight takes a long time to get used to.

I knew people who were several years on the job whose bodies were still adjusting to the burden of bearing on your body tons of trash every week. 

Then there's the danger.

You're in and out of traffic all day, and it's zooming around you.

It just wants to get past you, so it's often the motorist is not paying attention.

That's really bad for the worker.

I also learned about the relentlessness of trash.

When you step off the curb and you see a city from behind a truck, you come to understand that trash is like a force of nature unto itself.

It never stops coming.

And then there's the stigma.

They are the first guardians of public health.

If they're not taking away trash efficiently and effectively every day, it starts to spill out of its containments, and the dangers inherent to it threaten us in very real ways.

Diseases we've had in check for decades and centuries burst forth again and start to harm us.

The economy needs them.

By that I simply mean how fast we're used to moving in the contemporary day and age.

We usually don't care for, repair, clean, carry around our coffee cup, our shopping bag, our bottle of water.

We use them, we throw them out, we forget about them, because we know there's a workforce on the other side that's going to take it all away. 

So I want to suggest today a couple of ways to think about sanitation that will perhaps help ameliorate the stigma and bring them into this conversation of how to craft a city that is sustainable and humane.

Their work, I think, is kind of liturgical.

You know when to expect them.

And their work lets us do our work.

They are almost a form of reassurance.

The flow that they maintain keeps us safe from ourselves, from our own dross, our cast-offs, and that flow must be maintained always no matter what. 

On the day after September 11 in 2001, I heard the growl of a sanitation truck on the street, and I grabbed my infant son and I ran downstairs and there was a man doing his paper recycling route like he did every Wednesday.

And I tried to thank him for doing his work on that day of all days, but I started to cry.

His name is Paulie, and we worked together many times, and we became good friends. 

I want to believe that Paulie was right.

We are going to be okay.

But in our effort to reconfigure how we as a species exist on this planet, we must include and take account of all the costs, including the very real human cost of the labor.

Municipal waste, what we think of when we talk about garbage, accounts for three percent of the nation's waste stream.

It's a remarkable statistic. 

