In December of 2010, the city of Apatzingán in the coastal state of Michoacán, in Mexico, awoke to gunfire.

After these two days, and during a particularly intense encounter, it was presumed that the leader of La Familia Michoacana, Nazario Moreno, was killed. 

In response to this terrifying violence, the mayor of Apatzingán decided to call the citizens to a march for peace.

The idea was to ask for a softer approach to criminal activity in the state.

And so, the day of the scheduled procession, thousands of people showed up.

As the mayor was preparing to deliver the speech starting the march, his team noticed that, while half of the participants were appropriately dressed in white, and bearing banners asking for peace, the other half was actually marching in support of the criminal organization and its now-presumed-defunct leader.

Shocked, the mayor decided to step aside rather than participate or lead a procession that was ostensibly in support of organized crime.

And so his team stepped aside.

The two marches joined together, and they continued their path towards the state capital. 

If you decided to spend 30 minutes trying to figure out what's going on with drug violence in Mexico by, say, just researching online, the first thing you would find out is that while the laws state that all Mexican citizens are equal, there are some that are more and there are some that are much less equal than others, because you will quickly find out that in the past six years anywhere between 60 and 100,000 people have lost their lives in drug-related violence.

To put these numbers in perspective, this is eight times larger than the number of casualties in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined.

This is happening just south of the border. 

And so clearly they were criminals because of the way they died.

And so the narrative is that somehow these people got what they were deserved.

However, while it's easier to think of us, the citizens, the police, the army, as the good guys, and them, the narcos, the carteles, as the bad guys, if you think about it, the latter are only providing a service to the former.

Whether we like it or not, the U.S. is the largest market for illegal substances in the world, accounting for more than half of global demand.

The U.N. estimates that there are 55 million users of illegal drugs in the United States.

Using very, very conservative assumptions, this yields a yearly drug market on the retail side of anywhere between 30 and 150 billion dollars.

And it so happens that this is a product that, because of its nature, a business model to address this market requires you to guarantee to your producers that their product will be reliably placed in the markets where it is consumed.

And the only way to do this, because it's illegal, is to have absolute control of the geographic corridors that are used to transport drugs.

Hence the violence.

The only thing that the cartels are doing is that they're trying to protect their business. 

It's not only a multi-billion dollar market, but it's also a complex one.

And so that means they need to secure production and quality control in the south, and you need to ensure that you have efficient and effective distribution channels in the markets where these drugs are consumed.

Think about this for a second.

Think about the complexity of the distribution network that I just described.

This leads me to the second thing that you would learn in your 30-minute exploration of drug violence in Mexico.

But this is the result of a very careful branding and business strategy.

And so because they didn't have access to the more profitable drug markets, this pushed them and gave them the opportunity to diversify into other forms of crime.

That includes kidnapping, prostitution, local drug dealing and human trafficking, including of migrants that go from the south to the U.S.

So what they currently run is truly and quite literally a franchise business.

They focus most of their recruiting on the army, and they very openly advertise for better salaries, better benefits, better promotion paths, not to mention much better food, than what the army can deliver.

In contrast to them, the Knights Templar that arose in Michoacán emerged in reaction to the incursion of the Zetas into the state of Michoacán.

The Knights Templar realized very quickly that they couldn't face the Zetas on violence alone, and so they developed a strategy as a social enterprise.

And so we're actually here to protect you.

And here you have the types of explanations that they provide for some of their actions.

Finally, the Sinaloa Federation.

They started as just sort of a transport organization that specialized in smuggling between the U.S. and the Mexican borders, but now they have grown into a truly integrated multinational that has partnerships in production in the south and partnerships in global distribution across the planet.

They have cultivated a brand of professionalism, business acumen and innovation.

They have designed new drug products and new drug processes.

They have designed narco-tunnels that go across the border, and you can see that these are not "The Shawshank Redemption" types.

They have invented narco-submarines and boats that are not detected by radar.

They have invented drones to transport drugs, catapults, you name it.

One of the leaders of the Sinaloa Federation actually made it to the Forbes list. 

Like any traditional Latin American multinational would, the way they control their operations is through family ties.

They have created extremely coherent structures that they use to show the inconsistencies in government policies. 

And so what I want you to remember from this talk are three things.

The first one is that drug violence is actually the result of a huge market demand and an institutional setup that forces the servicing of this market to necessitate violence to guarantee delivery routes.

The second thing I want you to remember is that these are sophisticated, coherent organizations that are business organizations, and analyzing them and treating them as such is probably a much more useful approach.

And so to me the question is not whether these dynamics will continue the way they have.

We see that the nature of this phenomenon guarantees that they will.

Thank you. 

