And through all of this, I had to hold a torch between my teeth.

But these were not the major preoccupations of my day.

It was just as critical for me to be the first person in at a cafe nearby with extension cords and chargers to juice my multiple devices.

I started to prospect under the benches of bakeries and the entrances of pastry shops for plug points.

I wasn't the only one.

Even in the rain, people stood between Madison and 5th Avenue under their umbrellas charging their cell phones from outlets on the street.

They're both stories, interpretations.

You and I can experience things without a story.

We might run up the stairs too quickly and we might get breathless.

But the larger sense that we have of our lives, the slightly more abstract one, is indirect.

It's the whole book.

Without it, we would have no music.

I think that technology has altered that flow of time.

The overall time that we have for our narrative, our lifespan, has been increasing, but the smallest measure, the moment, has shrunk.

All of this to say that the gap between what we can perceive and what we can measure is only going to widen.

Science can do things with and in a picosecond, but you and I are never going to have the inner experience of a millionth of a millionth of a second.

What happens when that arrow goes awry?

What happens when time warps? 

This is because time doesn't flow in the digital world in the same way that it does in the natural one.

Far away over there is now here.

News from India is a stream on my smartphone app whether I'm in New York or New Delhi.

Just how can we prioritize in the landscape of the digital now?

This isn't the now of a shooting pain in your foot or the second that you bite into a pastry or the three hours that you lose yourself in a great book.

This now bears very little physical or psychological reference to our own state.

Its focus, instead, is to distract us at every turn on the road.

Every digital landmark is an invitation to leave what you are doing now to go somewhere else and do something else.

Are you reading an interview by an author?

Find other people reading those books.

Travel can be liberating, but when it is incessant, we become permanent exiles without repose.

Choice is freedom, but not when it's constantly for its own sake. 

Not just are we absent from it, but so is everyone else.

And therein lies its greatest convenience and horror.

I can order foreign language books in the middle of the night, shop for Parisian macarons, and leave video messages that get picked up later.

There were those with power and water, and those without.

There are those who went back to their lives, and those who are still displaced after so many months.

For example, it's said that there are more people in India with access to cell phones than toilets.

How does one live inside distraction? 

Night after night, he took me up on the terrace, on his shoulders, and pointed out Jupiter and Saturn and the Great Bear to me.

We want to clutch, and we are left instead clutching at a series of static moments.

They're like soap bubbles that disappear when we touch them. 

By archiving everything, we think that we can store it, but time is not data.

It cannot be stored.

You and I know exactly what it means like to be truly present in a moment.

It might have happened while we were playing an instrument, or looking into the eyes of someone we've known for a very long time.

At such moments, our selves are complete.

The self that lives in the long narrative arc and the self that experiences the moment become one.

The present encapsulates the past and a promise for the future.

I first experienced these feelings with my grandmother.

I wanted to learn to skip, and she found an old rope and she tucked up her sari and she jumped over it.

I wanted to learn to cook, and she kept me in the kitchen, cutting, cubing and chopping for a whole month.

Attention is time.

It threatens the flow of love.

But we don't need to let it.

We can choose otherwise.

We can slow down and we can tune in to the ebb and flow of time.

We can choose to take time back. 

