Okay, so most of you are.

I think we can all agree it's a serious issue.

Nobody wants to drink blue algae-contaminated water, or swim in a blue algae-infested lake.

Right? 

I hope you won't be disappointed, but today, I won't be talking about blue algae.

For the simple reason that nobody else is talking about it.

And by the end of my presentation, I hope that the general public will be more aware of this crisis and this issue. 

Now, the problem is that if I ask, why do we find ourselves in this situation with blue algae?

The answer is that it comes from how we farm.

We use fertilizers in our farming, chemical fertilizers.

Why do we use chemical fertilizers in agriculture?

Basically, to help plants grow and to produce a better yield.

The issue is that this is set to engender an environmental problem that is without precedent. 

Before going further, let me give you a crash course in plant biology.

So, what does a plant need in order to grow?

Several of these nutrients are essential chemical elements: phosphorus, nitrogen and calcium.

So, the plant’s roots will extract these resources. 

Today I'll be focusing on a major problem that is linked to phosphorus.

Why phosphorus in particular?

Because it is the most problematic chemical element.

By the end of my presentation, you will have seen what these problems are, and where we are today. 

I’d like everyone to understand precisely what the phosphorus issue is.

Phosphorus is a key component in several molecules, in many of our molecules of life.

Cell membranes are phosphorus-based: These are called phospholipids.

The energy in all living things, ATP, is phosphorus-based.

DNA is our genetic heritage.

It is extremely important, and once again, phosphorus is a key player. 

Now, where do we find this phosphorus?

As humans, where do we find it?

As I explained earlier, plants extract phosphorus from the soil, through water.

It’s true that some humans eat better than others.

Some are happier than others.

And now, looking at this picture, which speaks for itself, we see modern agriculture, which I also refer to as intensive agriculture.

Intensive agriculture is based on the use of chemical fertilizers.

Without them, we would not manage to produce enough to feed the world's population.

Speaking of humans, there are currently 7 billion of us on Earth.

So, in order to understand these issues, where do we find our phosphorus?

Let me explain.

A hundred percent of the phosphorus is used, but only 15 percent goes to the plant.

Eighty percent of each dose of phosphorus is lost.

Modern agriculture depends on phosphorus.

And because in order to get 15 percent of it to the plant, all the rest is lost, we have to add more and more. 

Now, where will we get this phosphorus from?

Basically, we get it out of mines.

So that really puts it into perspective.

So, we get phosphorus from mines.

To come back to the oil problem, oil is something we can replace.

We can use biofuels, or solar power, or hydropower, but phosphorus is an essential element, indispensable to life, and we can’t replace it. 

What is the current state of the world's phosphorus reserves?

This graph gives you a rough idea of where we are today.

The black line represents predictions for phosphorus reserves.

The dotted line shows where we are today.

As you can see, they meet in 2030, I’ll be retired by then.

So, we will have less phosphorus, but we'll need to produce more food.

What should we do?

It truly is a paradoxical situation.

Do we have a solution, or an alternative which will allow us to optimize phosphorus use? 

I've been fascinated by this little mushroom for over 16 years now.

It has led me to further my research and to use it as a model for my laboratory research. 

This mushroom exists in symbiosis with the roots.

By symbiosis, I mean a bidirectional and mutually beneficial association which is also called mycorrhiza.

This slide illustrates the elements of a mycorrhiza.

You’re looking at the root of wheat, one of the world’s most important plants.

Normally, a root will find phosphorus all by itself.

It will go in search of phosphorus, but only within the one millimeter which surrounds it.

Beyond one millimeter, the root is ineffective.

It cannot go further in its search for phosphorus.

Now, imagine this tiny, microscopic mushroom.

It grows much faster, and is much better designed to seek out phosphorus.

It can go beyond the root’s one-millimeter scope to seek out phosphorus. 

And over time, this mushroom has evolved and adapted to seek out even the tiniest trace of phosphorus, and to put it to use, to make it available to the plant.

What you’re seeing here, in the real world, is a carrot root, and the mushroom with its very fine filaments.

Looking closer, we can see that this mushroom is very gentle in its penetration.

And it is through this structure that mutual exchanges will occur.

Now let's add a mycorrhiza plant into the diagram I used earlier.

And instead of using a 100 percent dose, I’m going to reduce it to 25 percent.

A very small amount of phosphorus will remain in the soil.

That's completely natural.

What's more is that in certain cases, we don't even need to add phosphorus. 

If you recall the graphs I showed you earlier, 85 percent of phosphorus is lost in the soil, and the plants are unable to access it.

Even though it is present in the soil, it is in insoluble form.

The plant is only able to seek out soluble forms.

The mushroom is capable of dissolving this insoluble form and making it available for the plant to use.

To further support my argument, here is a picture that speaks for itself.

These are trials in a field of sorghum.

On the left side, you see the yield produced using conventional agriculture, with a 100 percent phosphorus dose.

On the other side, the dose was reduced to 50 percent, and just look at the yield.

With only a half-dose, we achieved a better yield. 

This is to show you that this method works.

This is an example of soy production in Canada.

Mycorrhiza was used in one field but not in the other.

And here, where blue indicates a better yield, and yellow a weaker yield.

The black rectangle is the plot from which the mycorrhiza was added.

In other words, as I already said, I have invented nothing.

Mycorrhiza has existed for 450 million years, and it has even helped modern-day plant species to diversify. 

So, this it isn't something that is still undergoing lab tests.

The problem is that people are not aware of it.

People like food producers and farmers are still not aware of this problem.

We have a technology that works, and one that, if used correctly, will alleviate some of the pressure we are putting on the world's phosphorus reserves. 

In conclusion, I am a scientist and a dreamer.

I'm passionate about this topic.

So if you were to ask me what my retirement dream is, which will be at the moment we reach that phosphorus peak, it would be that we use one label, "Made with mycorrhiza," and that my children and grandchildren buy products bearing that label too. 

Thank you for your attention. 

