Usually when I say this, someone says, "Spotify!

It has not had the impact that these other companies have had. 

And what is interesting is that often, even if we're in the 21st century, we kind of come down in the end to these ideas of market versus state.

So we often are presented with the kind of words like that the private sector is also much more innovative because it's able to think out of the box.

They are more dynamic.

It's a bit too big, and it hasn't actually allowed these things like dynamic venture capital and commercialization to actually be able to really be as fruitful as it could.

This monster with big tentacles.

They're very explicit in these editorials.

Those colorful, out-of-the-box kind of thinkers.

Ask who actually funded the really cool, revolutionary thinking-out-of-the-box things in the iPhone.

What actually makes your phone a smartphone, basically, instead of a stupid phone?

And the point is that the Internet was funded by DARPA, U.S. Department of Defense.

GPS was funded by the military's Navstar program.

Even Siri was actually funded by DARPA.

The touchscreen display was funded by two public grants by the CIA and the NSF to two public university researchers at the University of Delaware.

So the new molecular entities with priority rating are the revolutionary new drugs, whereas the slight variations of existing drugs -- Viagra, different color, different dosage -- are the less revolutionary ones.

And it turns out that a full 75 percent of the new molecular entities with priority rating are actually funded in boring, Kafka-ian public sector labs.

It was actually shaping and creating markets.

It was even, God forbid, being a venture capitalist.

They want their returns in three to five years.

Innovation takes a much longer time than that, 15 to 20 years.

And so this whole notion -- I mean, this is the point, right?

Who's actually funding the hard stuff?

Of course, it's not just the state.

The private sector does a lot.

But the narrative that we've always been told is the state is important for the basics, but not really providing that sort of high-risk, revolutionary thinking out of the box.

In all these sectors, from funding the Internet to doing the spending, but also the envisioning, the strategic vision, for these investments, it was actually coming within the state.

The nanotechnology sector is actually fascinating to study this, because the word itself, nanotechnology, came from within government. 

And so there's huge implications of this.

First of all, of course I'm not someone, this old-fashioned person, market versus state.

What we all know in dynamic capitalism is that what we actually need are public-private partnerships.

It's actually been the one thinking out of the box.

Well, there's a self-fulfilling prophecy.

By talking about the state as kind of irrelevant, boring, it's sometimes that we actually create those organizations in that way.

So what we have to actually do is build these entrepreneurial state organizations.

You will fail when you innovative.

If the state is more than just a market fixer, if it actually is a market shaper, and in doing that has had to take on this massive risk, what happened to the reward?

Let the jobs go where they have to go, perhaps.

I mean, one can take a position on that.

It could happen perhaps through equity.

So to put it provocatively, had the U.S. government thought about this, and maybe just brought back just something called an innovation fund, you can bet that, you know, if even just .05 percent of the profits from what the Internet produced had come back to that innovation fund, there would be so much more money to spend today on green technology.

Instead, many of the state budgets which in theory are trying to do that are being constrained.

But perhaps even more important, we heard before about the one percent, the 99 percent.

Thank you. 

