Today I brought two recent projects as an example of this.

And also they have in common that the different analyses from different perspectives becomes an essential part of the final piece of architecture. 

The first example started with an invitation to design a multistory shopping mall in Ethiopia's capital city Addis Ababa.

And this is the type of building we were shown as an example, to my team and myself, of what we had to design.

At first, the first thing I thought was, I want to run away. 

Second, they need tons of energy to perform because of the skin treatment with glass that creates heat in the inside, and then you need a lot of cooling.

In a city where this shouldn't happen because they have really mild weather that ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year.

And third is that their image has nothing to do with Africa and with Ethiopia.

It is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions. 

And also it has this idea of the public space that uses the outdoors to create activity.

So I thought, this is what I really want to design, not a shopping mall.

But the question was how we could do a multistory, contemporary building with these principles. 

And it's also between two parallel streets that don't have any connection for hundreds of meters. 

So the first thing we did was to create a connection between these two streets, putting all the entrances of the building.

And this extends with an inclined atrium that creates an open-air space in the building that self-protects itself with its own shape from the sun and the rain.

I also thought, how to close the building?

And I really wanted to find a solution that would respond to the local climate conditions.

And I started thinking about the textile like a shell made of concrete with perforations that would let the air in, and also the light, but in a filtered way.

And then the inspiration came from these beautiful patterns of the Ethiopian women's dresses.

That they have fractal geometry properties and this helped me to shape the whole facade.

And we are building that with these small prefabricated pieces that are the windows that let the air and the light in a controlled way inside the building.

And this is complemented by these small colored glasses that use the light from the inside of the building to light up the building at night. 

And also that the idea of the facade was much, much cheaper, not only because of the material compared with the glass, but also because we didn't need to have air conditioning anymore.

So we created some budget savings that we used to implement the project. 

And the first implementation was to think about how we could make the building self-sufficient in terms of energy in a city that has electricity cuts almost every day.

So we created a huge asset by placing photovoltaics there on the roof.

And then under those panels we thought about the roof like a new public space with gathering areas and bars that would create this urban oasis.

And these porches on the roof, all together they collect the water to reuse for sanitation on the inside.

Hopefully by the beginning of next year, because we are already on the fifth floor of the construction. 

The second example is a master plan of 2,000 apartments and facilities in the city of Tunis.

And for doing such a big project, the biggest project I've ever designed, I really needed to understand the city of Tunis, but also its surroundings and the tradition and culture. 

On top of that, we selected some strategic points reminded of this idea of the gates and connecting them by straight lines, and this modified this initial pattern. 

So we overlap a pattern that makes sure that most of the apartments are perfectly oriented in that direction. 

It has these blocks with courtyards, and then on the ground floor you have all these connections for the pedestrians.

And also it responds to the local regulations that establish a higher density on the upper levels and a lower density on the ground floor.

And it also reinforces this idea of the gates. 

The roof, which is my favorite space of the project is almost like giving back to the community the space taken by the construction.

These two examples, they have a common approach in the design process.

And also, they are in emerging countries where you can see the cities literally growing.

In these cities, the impact of architecture in people's lives of today and tomorrow changes the local communities and economies at the same speed as the buildings grow.

For this reason, I see even more importance to look at architecture finding simple but affordable solutions that enhance the relationship between the community and the environment and that aim to connect nature and people. 

Thank you very much. 

