She had vast quantities of very shiny hair and a cute little pencil case, super strong on state capitals, just a great speller.

And I just curdled with jealousy that year, until I hatched my devious plan.

So one day I stayed a little late after school, a little too late, and I lurked in the girls' bathroom.

When the coast was clear, I emerged, crept into the classroom, and took from my teacher's desk the grade book.

And then I did it.

And I am still baffled by my behavior.

I don't understand where the idea came from.

I don't understand why I felt so great doing it.

I felt great.

I don't understand why I was never caught.

I mean, it should have been so blatantly obvious.

I was never caught.

Jealousy baffles me.

It's so mysterious, and it's so pervasive.

We know that jealousy is the number one cause of spousal murder in the United States.

And yet, I have never read a study that can parse to me its loneliness or its longevity or its grim thrill.

In fact, I don't know if it's an exaggeration to say that if we didn't have jealousy, would we even have literature?

Well no faithless Helen, no "Odyssey."

We think about a little boy trying to get to sleep.

We think about a madeleine moistened in lavender tea.

We forget how harsh his vision was.

We forget how pitiless he is.

I mean, these are books that Virginia Woolf said were tough as cat gut.

When we feel jealous, we tell ourselves a story.

Jealousy makes us all amateur novelists, and this is something Proust understood. 

And what does jealousy like?

Jealousy likes information.

Jealousy likes details.

Jealousy likes the vast quantities of shiny hair, the cute little pencil case.

(Laughter) Proust actually links the language of scholarship and jealousy.

And does any other emotion crack us open in this particular way?

Does any other emotion reveal to us our aggression and our hideous ambition and our entitlement?

Does any other emotion teach us to look with such peculiar intensity? 

Freud would write about this later.

One day, Freud was visited by this very anxious young man who was consumed with the thought of his wife cheating on him.

But he's looking for things that his wife is doing without noticing, unintentional behaviors.

The novel is very good on this point.

The novel is very good at describing how jealousy trains us to look with intensity but not accuracy.

Now I'm thinking of myself at eight, I concede, but I'm also thinking of this story I heard on the news.

This is something from a novel.

This is something from a Patricia Highsmith novel. 

Take Tom Ripley, her most famous character.

That's one way to go. 

I can't give the world D's, as much as I would really like to, some days.

And it's a pity, because we live in envious times.

We live in jealous times.

I mean, we're all good citizens of social media, aren't we, where the currency is envy? 

Let's go to 221B Baker Street and ask for Sherlock Holmes.

But I've always preferred [Inspector] Lestrade, who is the rat-faced head of Scotland Yard who needs Holmes desperately, needs Holmes' genius, but resents him.

Oh, it's so familiar to me.

So Lestrade needs his help, resents him, and sort of seethes with bitterness over the course of the mysteries.

It seems to treat jealousy as a problem of geometry, not emotion.

You know, one minute Holmes is on the other side from Lestrade.

The next minute they're on the same side.

Suddenly, Lestrade is letting himself admire this mind that he's resented.

Could it be so simple though?

What if jealousy really is a matter of geometry, just a matter of where we allow ourselves to stand in relation to another?

Well, maybe then we wouldn't have to resent somebody's excellence.

We could align ourselves with it. 

But I like contingency plans.

So while we wait for that to happen, let us remember that we have fiction for consolation.

Fiction alone demystifies jealousy.

Fiction alone domesticates it, invites it to the table.

