Africa is booming.

Per capita incomes since the year 2000 have doubled, and this boom is impacting on everyone.

Life expectancy has increased by one year every three years for the last decade.

That means if an African child is born today, rather than three days ago, they will get an extra day of life at the end of their lifespan.

It's that quick.

And HIV infection rates are down 27 percent: 600,000 less people a year are getting HIV in sub-Saharan Africa.

The battle against malaria is being won, with deaths from malaria down 27 percent, according to the latest World Bank data.

And malaria nets actually are playing a role in that.

It doesn't matter if this is the jungles of Singapore or the tundra of northern Finland.

Among the reasons I think it's happening right now is the quality of the leadership across Africa.

And the West is engaging with that.

The West has given debt forgiveness programs which have halved sub-Saharan debt from about 70 percent of GDP down to about 40.

At the same time, our debt level's gone up to 120 and we're all feeling slightly miserable as a result.

Politics gets weaker when debt is high.

When public sector debt is low, governments don't have to choose between investing in education and health and paying interest on that debt you owe.

And it's not just the public sector which is looking so good.

The private sector as well.

Africa, many African countries, are sitting at 10 to 30 percent of GDP.

If there's any continent that can do what China has done -- China's at about 130 percent of GDP on that chart -- if anyone can do what China has done in the last 30 years, it'll be Africa in the next 30. 

Foreign direct investment has poured into Africa in the last 15 years.

Back in the '70s, no one touched the continent with a barge pole.

And this investment is actually Western-led.

Ten percent's come from India.

And they're investing in energy.

Africa produces 10 million barrels a day of oil now.

It's the same as Saudi Arabia or Russia.

And they're investing in telecoms, shopping malls.

And this very encouraging story, I think, is partly demographic-led.

And it's not just about African demographics.

I'm showing you the number of 15- to 24-year-olds in various parts of the world, and the blue line is the one I want you to focus on for a second.

Ten years ago, say you're Foxconn setting up an iPhone factory, by chance.

A bit dangerous, sometimes.

I think one of the crucial factors is how educated is that demographic?

If you look at the red line here, what you're going to see is that in 1975, just nine percent of kids were in secondary school education in sub-Saharan Africa.

Would you set up a factory in sub-Sahara in the mid-1970s?

Nobody else did.

They chose instead Turkey and Mexico to set up the textiles factories, because their education levels were 25 to 30 percent.

Today, sub-Sahara is at the levels that Turkey and Mexico were at in 1975.

They will get the textiles jobs that will take people out of rural poverty and put them on the road to industrialization and wealth. 

So what's Africa looking like today?

Each little box is about a billion dollars, and you see that I pay an awful lot of attention to Nigeria sitting there in the middle.

South Africa is playing a role.

But when I'm thinking about the future, I'm actually most interested in Central, Western and Southern Africa.

If I look at Africa by population, East Africa stands out as so much potential. 

And I'm showing you something else with these maps.

I'm showing you democracy versus autocracy.

Fragile democracies is the beige color.

Strong democracies are the orange color.

And what you'll see here is that most Africans are now living in democracies.

Why does that matter?

Because what people want is what politicians try, they don't always succeed, but they try and deliver.

And what you've got is a reinforcing positive circle going on.

In Ghana in the elections, in December 2012, the battle between the two candidates was over education.

He won by a margin.

So democracy is encouraging governments to invest in education.

It's a positive, virtuous circle. 

And what makes me sad about it is that this graph here is showing you that the biggest correlation with corruption is wealth.

When you're poor, corruption is not your biggest priority.

Every poor country is corrupt.

Every rich country is relatively uncorrupt.

How do you get from poverty and corruption to wealth and less corruption?

Now, I don't want to be an apologist for corruption.

Now I'm going to let you in on a little not-so-secret.

Economists aren't great at forecasting.

People got poorer in Africa in the 1990s.

That new cover shows, well, Africa rising, because the growth over the last 10 years has been about five and a half percent. 

No offense. 

What I like to do is try and find the countries that are doing exactly what Africa has already done, and it means that jump from 1,800 years of nothing to whoof, suddenly shooting through the roof.

India is one of those examples.

This is Indian growth from 1960 to 2010.

And if I lay sub-Saharan growth on top of the Indian growth story, it's remarkably similar.

Twenty years of not much growth and a trend line which is actually telling you that sub-Saharan African growth is slightly better than India.

And that tells me this: that Africa is going to go from a $2 trillion economy today to a $29 trillion economy by 2050.

Now that's bigger than Europe and America put together in today's money.

And you know what?

Actually, I think they've got a point.

Am I really saying that there can be nothing learned, yes from the positives in Asia and India, but also the negatives?

Perhaps Africa can avoid some of the mistakes that have been made.

Surely, the technologies that we're talking about here this last week, surely some of these can perhaps help Africa grow even faster?

And I think here we can play a role.

Because technology does let you help.

You can go and buy some of the great tunes.

My iPod's full of them.

And then you and I can help make sure that for Africa, the 21st century is their century. 

Thank you very much. 

