I've spent my life working on sustainability.

I set up a climate change NGO called The Climate Group.

I worked on forestry issues in WWF.

I worked on development and agriculture issues in the U.N. system.

About 25 years in total, and then three years ago, I found myself talking to IKEA's CEO about joining his team.

Like many people here, well, I want to maximize my personal impact in the world, so I'm going to explain why I joined the team there. 

But first, let's just take three numbers. 

The second number is six: This is six degrees centigrade, what we're heading towards in terms of global warming.

We're not heading towards one degree or three degrees or four degrees, we're heading toward six degrees.

It's not inevitable, but we need to act decisively. 

The third number is 12: That's the number of cities in the world that had a million or more people when my grandmother was born.

You can see my grandmother there.

Now there are 500 cities, nearly, with a million people or more in them.

And if you look at the century from 1950 to 2050, that's the century when we build all the world's cities, the century that we're in the middle of right now.

Every other century was kind of practice, and this lays down a blueprint for how we live. 

So think about it.

We're building cities like never before, bringing people out of poverty like never before, and changing the climate like never before.

Sustainability has gone from a nice-to-do to a must-do.

it's about what we do right here, right now, and for the rest of our working lives. 

Why would we not want to have a positive impact on the world as a business?

Other companies have sustainability strategies.

But first, let's think of customers.

Then they care about big issues like climate change.

So take your mind back and think of the first sustainable products.

We had detergents that could wash your whites grayer.

We had the early energy-efficient light bulbs that took five minutes to warm up and then you were left looking a kind of sickly color.

And we had the rough, recycled toilet paper.

So every time you pulled on a t-shirt, or switched the light on, or went to the bathroom, or sometimes all three together, you were reminded sustainability was about compromise.

It wasn't a great start. 

Today we have choices.

We can make products that are beautiful or ugly, sustainable or unsustainable, affordable or expensive, functional or useless.

So let's make beautiful, functional, affordable, sustainable products. 

Let's take the LED.

The LED is the next best thing to daylight.

They were mis-sold for more than a hundred years.

They produced heat and a little bit of light on the side.

Now we have lights that produce light and a little bit of heat on the side.

You save 85 percent of the electricity with an LED that you would have done in an old incandescent.

And the best thing is, they'll also last for more than 20 years.

So think about that.

You'll change your smartphone seven or eight times, probably more if you're in this audience.

You'll change your car, if you have one, three or four times.

Your kids could go to school, go to college, go away and have kids of their own, come back, bring the grandkids, you'll have the same lightbulb saving you energy.

So LEDs are fantastic.

What we decided to do was not to sell LEDs on the side marked up high and continue to push all the old bulbs, the halogens and the CFLs.

And this is what business needs to do: go all-in, go 100 percent, because then you stop investing in the old stuff, you invest in the new stuff, you lower costs, you use your supply chain and your creativity and you get the prices down so everybody can afford the best lights so they can save energy. 

It's not just about products in people's homes.

We've got to think about the raw materials that produce our products.

And there's opportunities in a circular economy.

But we're still dependent on natural, raw materials.

It's a brilliant textile in use.

It's really dirty in production.

It uses lots of pesticides, lots of fertilizer, lots of water.

Already hundreds of thousands of farmers have been reached, and now we've got 60 percent better cotton in our business.

Again, we're going all-in.

By 2015, we'll be 100 percent Better Cotton. 

Take the topic of 100 percent targets, actually.

If you have a 90 percent target, everyone in the business finds a reason to be in the 10 percent.

So hundreds of others, of NGOs, of forest workers' unions, and of businesses, have helped create the Forest Stewardship Council, which sets standards for forestry and then checks the forestry's good on the ground.

Now together, through our supply chain, with partners, we've managed to certify 35 million hectares of forestry.

That's about the size of Germany.

And we've decided in the next three years, we will double the volume of certified material we put through our business.

So be decisive on these issues.

Use your supply chain to drive good. 

But then it comes to your operations.

Some things are certain, I think.

We know we'll use electricity in 20 or 30 years' time.

We know the sun will be shining somewhere, and the wind will still be blowing in 20 or 30 years' time.

So why not make our energy out of the sun and the wind?

And why not take control of it ourselves?

So we're going 100 percent renewable.

By 2020, we'll produce more renewable energy than the energy we consume as a business.

But think of a solar panel.

Every time the sun comes out after that, the electricity is free.

So this is a good thing for the CFO, not just the sustainability guy.

Every business can do things like this. 

And this came in IKEA actually in the '90s.

We found there was a risk of child labor in the supply chain, and people in the business were shocked.

And it was clearly totally unacceptable, so then you have to act.

So a code of conduct was developed, and now we have 80 auditors out in the world every day making sure all our factories secure good working conditions and protect human rights and make sure there is no child labor. 

But it's not just as simple as making sure there's no child labor.

You've got to say that's not enough today.

I think we'd all agree that children are the most important people in the world and the most vulnerable.

So what can a business do today to actually use your total value chain to support a better quality of life and protect child rights?

We've worked with UNICEF and Save the Children on developing some new business principles with children's rights.

We also have a foundation that's committed to work through partners and help improve the lives and protect the rights of 100 million children by 2015. 

You know the phrase, you can manage what you measure?

Well, you should measure what you care about.

If you're not measuring things, you don't care and you don't know.

Isn't it about time that businesses were led equally by men and women? 

And we do not want to wait another hundred years.

It's still nice to do, but it's a must-do.

And everybody can do something on this as an individual.

Be a discerning consumer.

Vote with your wallets.

Search out the companies that are acting on this.

But also, there are other businesses already acting.

I mentioned renewable energy.

You go to Google or Lego, they're going 100 percent renewable too, in the same way that we are.

On having really good sustainability strategies, there are companies like Nike, Patagonia, Timberland, Marks &amp; Spencer.

We'll make mistakes going forward, but it's about setting a clear direction, being transparent, having a dialogue with the right partners, and choosing to lead on the issues that really count. 

So if you're a business leader, if you're not already weaving sustainability right into the heart of your business model, I'd urge you to do so.

Thank you. 

