I have asked her to translate for me. 

YR: If I may, I would like to tell you a little bit about myself and my artwork. 

(Laughter) 

YR: The only problem with masking it with Chinese Mandarin is I can only speak this paragraph, which I have learned by heart when I was visiting in China.

(Laughter) So all I can do is keep repeating it in different tones and hope you won't notice. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

YR: Needless to say, I would like to apologize to any Mandarin speakers in the audience. 

Okay.

What makes us who we are anyway? 

You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle.

Put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.

I have been wondering recently, if he were alive today, what advice he would give me about making this TED Talk. 

HP: Don't imitate my voice.

It offends me. 

(Laughter) 

Who here hasn't imitated their childhood hero in the playground, or mum or father?

I have. 

He had a side parting and a neat mustache. 

At first, it was going very well.

I even started to get discounts in Indian shops. 

(Laughter) 

It didn't look Indian anymore.

Instead, people from across the road, they would shout things like -- 

(Laughter) 

HP: Actually, I don't know why I am even talking like this.

My dad doesn't even have an Indian accent anymore.

He talks like this now. 

So it's not just my father that I've imitated.

When I had learned this phrase, I had an artist over there hear me out to see how accurate it sounded. 

I spoke the phrase, and then he laughed and told me, "Oh yeah, that's great, only it kind of sounds like a woman."

He said, "Yeah, you learned from a woman?"

He then explained the tonal differences between male and female voices are very different and distinct, and that I had learned it very well, but in a woman's voice. 

(Laughter) 

So every time I fail to become more like my father, I become more like myself.

Every time I fail to become Bruce Lee, I become more authentically me. 

This is my art.

It's only recently that I've started to understand that I didn't learn to sit like this through being Indian.

I learned this from Spider-Man. 

(Laughter) 

Thank you. 

