I would like to tell you a story connecting the notorious privacy incident involving Adam and Eve, and the remarkable shift in the boundaries between public and private which has occurred in the past 10 years. 

You know the incident.

Adam and Eve one day in the Garden of Eden realize they are naked.

They freak out.

And the rest is history. 

Nowadays, Adam and Eve would probably act differently. 

We do reveal so much more information about ourselves online than ever before, and so much information about us is being collected by organizations.

Now there is much to gain and benefit from this massive analysis of personal information, or big data, but there are also complex tradeoffs that come from giving away our privacy.

And my story is about these tradeoffs. 

In 2010, only on Facebook, in a single month, 2.5 billion photos were uploaded, most of them identified.

In the same span of time, computers' ability to recognize people in photos improved by three orders of magnitude.

Well, we conjecture that the result of this combination of technologies will be a radical change in our very notions of privacy and anonymity. 

To test that, we did an experiment on Carnegie Mellon University campus.

We asked students who were walking by to participate in a study, and we took a shot with a webcam, and we asked them to fill out a survey on a laptop.

While they were filling out the survey, we uploaded their shot to a cloud-computing cluster, and we started using a facial recognizer to match that shot to a database of some hundreds of thousands of images which we had downloaded from Facebook profiles.

By the time the subject reached the last page on the survey, the page had been dynamically updated with the 10 best matching photos which the recognizer had found, and we asked the subjects to indicate whether he or she found themselves in the photo. 

Do you see the subject?

But a few years back, we did something else.

We started from social media data, we combined it statistically with data from U.S. government social security, and we ended up predicting social security numbers, which in the United States are extremely sensitive information. 

Do you see where I'm going with this?

And the answer is, yes, we can, and we did.

Of course, the accuracy keeps getting worse.

In fact, we didn't develop the app to make it available, just as a proof of concept. 

In fact, take these technologies and push them to their logical extreme.

What will this future without secrets look like?

And should we care? 

We may like to believe that the future with so much wealth of data would be a future with no more biases, but in fact, having so much information doesn't mean that we will make decisions which are more objective.

Now interestingly, among our subjects, some had posted comparable information, and some had not.

Which group do you think was more likely to judge harshly our subject?

Now you may be thinking, this does not apply to me, because I have nothing to hide.

Or in a parallel universe, you find this information.

Do you think that you would be equally likely to call either candidate for an interview?

Discrimination was happening through social media for equally skilled candidates. 

In a movie which came out a few years ago, "Minority Report," a famous scene had Tom Cruise walk in a mall and holographic personalized advertising would appear around him.

So as an example, this is another experiment actually we are running, not yet completed.

And then they create, in real time, a facial composite of these two friends.

Now studies prior to ours have shown that people don't recognize any longer even themselves in facial composites, but they react to those composites in a positive manner.

So next time you are looking for a certain product, and there is an ad suggesting you to buy it, it will not be just a standard spokesperson.

Now the problem is that the current policy mechanisms we have to protect ourselves from the abuses of personal information are like bringing a knife to a gunfight.

And in principle, that's a very good thing.

It's necessary, but it is not sufficient.

Transparency can be misdirected.

You can tell people what you are going to do, and then you still nudge them to disclose arbitrary amounts of personal information. 

But then we added the misdirection.

We repeated the experiment with the same two groups, this time adding a delay between the time we told subjects how we would use their data and the time we actually started answering the questions. 

How long a delay do you think we had to add in order to nullify the inhibitory effect of knowing that faculty would see your answers?

Now I have to admit that this talk so far may sound exceedingly gloomy, but that is not my point.

In fact, I want to share with you the fact that there are alternatives.

The way we are doing things now is not the only way they can done, and certainly not the best way they can be done.

When someone tells you that privacy is incompatible with the benefits of big data, consider that in the last 20 years, researchers have created technologies to allow virtually any electronic transactions to take place in a more privacy-preserving manner.

We can browse the Internet anonymously.

We can have even privacy-preserving data mining.

In other words, we can have the benefits of big data while protecting privacy.

Which brings me back to the Garden of Eden.

You can find echoes of this interpretation in John Milton's "Paradise Lost."

However, they also lack knowledge and self-awareness.

The price to pay, however, is leaving the garden.

So privacy, in a way, is both the means and the price to pay for freedom. 

Again, marketers tell us that big data and social media are not just a paradise of profit for them, but a Garden of Eden for the rest of us.

Even more so than George Orwell, the author is, of course, Aldous Huxley.

In "Brave New World," he imagines a society where technologies that we created originally for freedom end up coercing us.

And at the risk of playing the serpent, I will tell you that the tools for the fight are here, the awareness of what is going on, and in your hands, just a few clicks away. 

Thank you. 

