But over the course of several years, I've been documenting Rem Koolhaas's CCTV building in Beijing and the olympic stadium in the same city by the architects Herzog and de Meuron.

As the length of the construction takes years, workers end up forming a rather rough-and-ready informal city, making for quite a juxtaposition against the sophisticated structures that they're building. 

Over the past seven years, I've been following my fascination with the built environment, and for those of you who know me, you would say that this obsession has led me to live out of a suitcase 365 days a year.

The building was under construction until the collapse of the Venezuelan economy and the death of the developer in the early '90s.

About eight years ago, people started moving into the abandoned tower and began to build their homes right in between every column of this unfinished tower.

There's only one little entrance to the entire building, and the 3,000 residents come in and out through that single door.

Together, the inhabitants created public spaces and designed them to feel more like a home and less like an unfinished tower.

But when you look up closely, you see massive holes where elevators and services would have run through. 

Within the tower, people have come up with all sorts of solutions in response to the various needs which arise from living in an unfinished tower.

And with each inhabitant finding their own unique way of coming by, this tower becomes like a living city, a place which is alive with micro-economies and small businesses.

When a new inhabitant moves into the tower, they already have a roof over their head, so they just typically mark their space with a few curtains or sheets.

They typically make the best out of their conditions, and try to make their spaces look nice and homey, or at least up until as far as they can reach.

And you even find a church.

And on the 30th floor, there is a gym where all the weights and barbells are made out of the leftover pulleys from the elevators which were never installed.

From the outside, behind this always-changing facade, you see how the fixed concrete beams provide a framework for the inhabitants to create their homes in an organic, intuitive way that responds directly to their needs. 

While it may appear to be a completely chaotic place, when you see it from above, there seems to be a whole grid of waterways and canals connecting each and every home.

From the main dock, people board long wooden canoes which carry them out to their various homes and shops located in the expansive area.

When out on the water, it's clear that life has been completely adapted to this very specific way of living.

The population growth in Nigeria, and especially in these areas like Makoko, are painful reminders of how out of control things really are. 

In Makoko, very few systems and infrastructures exist.

Electricity is rigged and freshest water comes from self-built wells throughout the area.

This entire economic model is designed to meet a specific way of living on the water, so fishing and boat-making are common professions.

There is even a photo studio where you see the sort of aspiration to live in a real house or to be associated with a faraway place, like that hotel in Sweden. 

On this particular evening, I came across this live band dressed to the T in their coordinating outfits.

They were floating through the canals in a large canoe with a fitted-out generator for all of the community to enjoy. 

Another place I'd like to share with you is the Zabbaleen in Cairo.

Today, they live in this area, approximately 50,000 to 70,000 people, who live in this community of self-built multi-story houses where up to three generations live in one structure.

While to most of us, living amongst these piles and piles of garbage may seem totally uninhabitable, to those in the Zabbaleen, this is just a different type of normal.

In this tradition, the bride-to-be displays all of their belongings, which they soon bring to their new husband.

Like Makoko and the Torre David, throughout the Zabbaleen you'll find all the same facilities as in any typical neighborhood.

Visiting the homes of the Zabbaleen is also full of surprises.

While from the outside, these homes look like any other informal structure in the city, when you step inside, you are met with all manner of design decisions and interior decoration.

Despite having limited access to space and money, the homes in the area are designed with care and detail.

Every apartment is unique, and this individuality tells a story about each family's circumstances and values.

Many of these people take their homes and interior spaces very seriously, putting a lot of work and care into the details.

The shared spaces are also treated in the same manner, where walls are decorated in faux marble patterns. 

But then in the apartment across the hall from this cow shed lives a newly married couple in what locals describe as one of the nicest apartments in the area. 

But if it weren't for the strangely familiar stomach-churning odor that constantly passes through the apartment, it would be easy to forget that you are standing next to a cow shed and on top of a landfill.

What moved me the most was that despite these seemingly inhospitable conditions, I was welcomed with open arms into a home that was made with love, care, and unreserved passion. 

In a region famous for the soft, porous Loess Plateau soil, there lived until recently an estimated 40 million people in these houses underground.

These dwellings are called the yaodongs.

Through this architecture by subtraction, these yaodongs are built literally inside of the soil.

When I asked people why they were digging their houses from the ground, they simply replied that they are poor wheat and apple farmers who didn't have the money to buy materials, and this digging out was their most logical form of living. 

From Makoko to Zabbaleen, these communities have approached the tasks of planning, design and management of their communities and neighborhoods in ways that respond specifically to their environment and circumstances.

Created by these very people who live, work and play in these particular spaces, these neighborhoods are intuitively designed to make the most of their circumstances.

What makes places like the Torre David particularly remarkable is this sort of skeleton framework where people can have a foundation where they can tap into.

Now imagine what these already ingenious communities could create themselves, and how highly particular their solutions would be, if they were given the basic infrastructures that they could tap into. 

Today, you see these large residential development projects which offer cookie-cutter housing solutions to massive amounts of people.

From China to Brazil, these projects attempt to provide as many houses as possible, but they're completely generic and simply do not work as an answer to the individual needs of the people. 

Thank you. 

