It was a city so long ago that it was still called Peking. 

So I went to a party.

What a gift it was to the eager, young foreign correspondent that I was then.

Only months later, I discover who he really was.

He was the China representative for the American Soybean Association. 

(Laughter) 

And he said, "Let's get married."

(Laughter) 

And what an alive man Terence Bryan Foley turned out to be.

He was a Chinese scholar who later, in his 60s, got a Ph.D. in Chinese history.

We followed my job, and it seemed like there was nothing that we couldn't do. 

And for years, it seemed like we were succeeding.

It turned out to be a rare, exceedingly aggressive type, with a diagnosis that was almost universally fatal in several weeks at most.

And yet, he did not die.

Mysteriously, he lived on.

And meanwhile, I'm burying myself in the Internet looking for specialists.

I'm looking for a cure. 

So a year goes by before the cancer, as cancers do, reappears, and with it comes another death sentence, this time nine months.

So we try another treatment, aggressive, nasty.

It makes him so sick, he has to quit it, yet still he lives on.

We take the kids to Australia. 

And then more years pass, and the cancer begins to grow.

They're going to attack the cancer in new ways.

So he enters a clinical trial, and it works.

The cancer begins to shrink, and for the third time, we've dodged death. 

This time it's on the intensive care ward when a twentysomething resident that I've never met before tells me that Terence is dying, perhaps tonight. 

So what do I say? 

And Terence died six days later. 

So we fought, we struggled, we triumphed.

It was an exhilarating fight, and I'd repeat the fight today without a moment's hesitation.

We fought together, we lived together.

It turned what could have been seven of the grimmest years of our life into seven of the most glorious.

It was also an expensive fight.

We never thought it was the end.

We always had hope. 

So what do we make of all of this? 

Being a journalist, after Terence died, I wrote a book, "The Cost Of Hope."

And what did I discover?

Well, one of the things I discovered is that experts think that one answer to what I did at the end was a piece of paper, the advance directive, to help families get past the seemingly irrational choices.

And they were readily available.

I knew Terence's wishes as clearly and as surely as I knew my own. 

Yet we never got to no further hope.

Even with that clear-cut paper in our hands, we just kept redefining hope.

I believed I could keep him from dying, and I'd be embarrassed to say that if I hadn't seen so many people and have talked to so many people who have felt exactly the same way.

Right up until days before his death, I felt strongly and powerfully, and, you might say, irrationally, that I could keep him from dying ever. 

Now, what do the experts call this?

Yet I will tell you that denial isn't even close to a strong enough word to describe what those of us facing the death of our loved ones go through. 

Now, I think this maybe isn't a very useful way of thinking.

You've succeeded in everything you've done, and having a patient die, well, that must feel like failure. 

I saw it firsthand.

Yet Ira Byock, the director of palliative medicine at Dartmouth said, "You know, the best doctor in the world has never succeeded in making anyone immortal."

(Laughter) 

So we need to think more constructively about this very common, very profound and very powerful human emotion.

It's part of the human condition, and yet our system and our thinking isn't built to accommodate it. 

So Terence told me a story on that long-ago night, and I believed it.

Maybe I wanted to believe it.

And during Terence's illness, I, we, we wanted to believe the story of our fight together too.

So what do we need? 

Maybe we don't need a new piece of paper.

People did mention hospice, but I wouldn't listen.

Hospice was for people who were dying, and Terence wasn't dying.

We have a noble path to curing the disease, patients and doctors alike, but there doesn't seem to be a noble path to dying.

Terence loved poetry, and the Greek poet Constantine Cavafy is one of my favorite poets.

So I'll give you a couple lines from him.

This is a poem about Mark Antony.

You know Mark Antony, the conquering hero, Cleopatra's guy?

Actually, one of Cleopatra's guys.

And he's been a pretty good general.

They're singing.

And suddenly he knows he's been defeated.

And the poet tells him what to do.

And isn't that what we're missing?

How can we learn that people's decisions about their loved ones are often based strongly, powerfully, many times irrationally, on the slimmest of hopes?

The overwhelming presence of hope isn't denial.

It's part of our DNA as humans, and maybe it's time our healthcare system -- doctors, patients, insurance companies, us, started accounting for the power of that hope.

Thank you. 

