And the worst idea we've ever had is suburban sprawl.

It's being emulated in many places as we speak.

And there's an alternative.

You know, we say, half the world is living in cities.

Well, in America, that living in cities, for many of them, they're living in cities still where they're dependent on that automobile.

And what I work for, and to do, is to make our cities more walkable.

But I can't give design arguments for that that will have as much impact as the arguments that I've learned from the economists, the epidemiologists and the environmentalists.

So these are the three arguments that I'm going to give you quickly today. 

When I was growing up in the '70s, the typical American spent one tenth of their income, American family, on transportation.

Since then, we've doubled the number of roads in America, and we now spend one fifth of our income on transportation.

And these are the neighborhoods, for example, in the Central Valley of California that weren't hurt when the housing bubble burst and when the price of gas went up; they were decimated.

And in fact, these are many of the half-vacant communities that you see today.

Imagine putting everything you have into your mortgage, it goes underwater, and you have to pay twice as much for all the driving that you're doing. 

So we know what it's done to our society and all the extra work we have to do to support our cars.

What happens when a city decides it's going to set other priorities?

And probably the best example we have here in America is Portland, Oregon.

While most other cities were growing an undifferentiated spare tire of sprawl, they instituted an urban growth boundary.

While most cities were reaming out their roads, removing parallel parking and trees in order to flow more traffic, they instituted a skinny streets program.

And while most cities were investing in more roads and more highways, they actually invested in bicycling and in walking.

The typical Portland citizen drives four miles less, and 11 minutes less per day than they did before.

The economist Joe Cortright did the math and he found out that those four miles plus those 11 minutes adds up to fully three and a half percent of all income earned in the region. 

So if they're not spending that money on driving -- and by the way, 85 percent of the money we spend on driving leaves the local economy -- if they're not spending that money on driving, what are they spending it on?

Well, Portland is reputed to have the most roof racks per capita, the most independent bookstores per capita, the most strip clubs per capita.

These are all exaggerations, slight exaggerations of a fundamental truth, which is Portlanders spend a lot more on recreation of all kinds than the rest of America.

So the best economic strategy you can have as a city is not the old way of trying to attract corporations and trying to have a biotech cluster or a medical cluster, or an aerospace cluster, but to become a place where people want to be.

And millennials, certainly, these engines of entrepreneurship, 64 percent of whom decide first where they want to live, then they move there, then they look for a job, they will come to your city. 

Twenty-five percent of young men and 40 percent of young women are too heavy to enlist in our own military forces.

According to the Center for Disease Control, fully one third of all children born after 2000 will get diabetes.

We have the first generation of children in America who are predicted to live shorter lives than their parents. 

I believe that this American healthcare crisis that we've all heard about is an urban design crisis, and that the design of our cities lies at the cure.

Because we've talked a long time about diet, and we know that diet impacts weight, and weight of course impacts health.

And we finally have the studies, one in Britain called "Gluttony versus sloth" that tracked weight against diet and tracked weight against inactivity, and found a much higher, stronger correlation between the latter two.

Dr. James Levine at, in this case, the aptly-named Mayo Clinic put his test subjects in electronic underwear, held their diet steady, and then started pumping the calories in.

Some people gained weight, some people didn't gain weight.

If you lived in a less walkable neighborhood, you were 60 percent likely to be overweight.

And I learned a new word last week.

They call these neighborhoods "obesageneric."

I may have that wrong, but you get the idea. 

Now that's one thing, of course.

Briefly mentioning, we have an asthma epidemic in this country.

And then finally, in terms of driving, there's the issue of the single-largest killer of healthy adults, and one of the largest killers of all people, is car crashes.

And we take car crashes for granted.

We figure it's a natural risk of being on the road.

But in fact, here in America, 12 people out of every 100,000 die every year from car crashes.

Do you know where it's three per 100,000?

Oh, so cities make us safer because we're driving less?

Was it designed around cars or around people?

Because if your city is designed around cars, it's really good at smashing them into each other. 

That's part of a much larger health argument. 

Finally, the environmental argument is fascinating, because the environmentalists turned on a dime about 10 years ago.

The environmental movement in America has historically been an anti-city movement from Jefferson on. 

He apparently had a sense of humor. 

And then the American environmental movement has been a classically Arcadian movement.

But, of course, we've seen what that does. 

The carbon mapping of America, where is the CO2 being emitted, for many years only hammered this argument in more strongly.

Until some economists said, you know, is that the right way to measure CO2?

There are only so many people in this country at any given time, and we can choose to live where perhaps we would have a lighter impact.

So the average Manhattanite is consuming gasoline at the rate the rest of the nation hasn't seen since the '20s, consuming half of the electricity of Dallas.

But of course, we can do better.

Canadian cities, they consume half the gasoline of American cities.

European cities consume half as much again.

So I'm not immune to this.

We've got the solar photovoltaic system, solar hot water heater, dual-flush toilets, bamboo floors.

A log burning in my German high-tech stove apparently, supposedly, contributes less carbon to the atmosphere than were it left alone to decompose in the forest.

Yet all of these innovations -- That's what they said in the brochure.

(Laughter) All of these innovations together contribute a fraction of what we contribute by living in a walkable neighborhood three blocks from a metro in the heart of a city.

You don't want to tell Americans, God forbid, that they have to change their lifestyle.

But what if lifestyle was really about quality of life and about perhaps something that we would all enjoy more, something that would be better than what we have right now? 

Well, the gold standard of quality of life rankings, it's called the Mercer Survey.

You may have heard of it.

And it's very interesting to see that the highest-ranking American city, Honolulu, number 28, is followed by kind of the usual suspects of Seattle and Boston and all walkable cities.

The driving cities in the Sun Belt, the Dallases and the Phoenixes and, sorry, Atlanta, these cities are not appearing on the list.

But who's doing even better?

The Canadian cities like Vancouver, where again, they're burning half the fuel.

And then it's usually won by cities where they speak German, like Dusseldorf or Vienna, where they're burning, again, half as much fuel.

And you see this alignment, this strange alignment. 

Is being more sustainble what gives you a higher quality of life?

So sustainability, which includes our wealth and our health may not be a direct function of our sustainability.

Thank you. 

