And in my job at Twitter, I actually spent a little bit of time working with authors and storytellers as well, helping to expand out the bounds of what people are experimenting with.

But I want to start and go back to the 1930s.

Long before a little thing called Twitter, radio brought us broadcasts and connected millions of people to single points of broadcast.

And from those single points emanated stories.

And for a while they were familiar formats, but then radio began to evolve its own unique formats specific to that medium.

Think about episodes that happened live on radio. 

Combining the live play and the serialization of written fiction, you get this new format.

And the reason why I bring up radio is that I think radio is a great example of how a new medium defines new formats which then define new stories. 

I believe this starts with an evolution of existing methods.

I think Howey was able to do all of this because he had the quick feedback system of e-books.

He was able to write and publish in relatively short order.

There was no mediator between him and the audience.

It was just him directly connected with his audience and building on the feedback and enthusiasm that they were giving him.

So this whole project was an experiment.

And that's something that this medium enabled, was experimentation being a part of the format itself. 

This is a short story by the author Jennifer Egan called "Black Box."

It was originally written specifically with Twitter in mind.

Egan convinced The New Yorker to start a New Yorker fiction account from which they could tweet all of these lines that she created.

Now Twitter, of course, has a 140-character limit.

Every night, at 8 p.m., you could tune in to a short story from The New Yorker's fiction account.

I think that's pretty exciting: tune-in literary fiction.

The experience of Egan's story, of course, like anything on Twitter, there were multiple ways to experience it.

You could scroll back through it, but interestingly, if you were watching it live, there was this suspense that built because the actual tweets, you had no control over when you would read them.

These three characters brought an authentic vision from multiple perspectives.

One reviewer called Elliott's story "Twitter fiction done right," because she did.

She captured that voice and she had multiple characters and it happened in real time.

Interestingly, though, it wasn't just Twitter as a distribution mechanism.

It was also Twitter as a production mechanism.

Elliott told me later she wrote the whole thing with her thumbs.

She laid on the couch and just went back and forth between different characters tweeting out each line, line by line.

I think that this kind of spontaneous creation of what was coming out of the characters' voices really lent an authenticity to the characters themselves, but also to this format that she had created of multiple perspectives in a single story on Twitter. 

As you begin to play with flexible identity online, it gets even more interesting as you start to interact with the real world.

All of these are rapid iterations on a theme.

They are creative people experimenting with the bounds of what is possible in this medium.

You look at something like "West Wing" Twitter, in which you have these fictional characters that engage with the real world.

They comment on politics, they cry out against the evils of Congress.

Keep in mind, they're all Democrats.

And they engage with the real world.

They respond to it.

So once you take flexible identity, anonymity, engagement with the real world, and you move beyond simple homage or parody and you put these tools to work in telling a story, that's when things get really interesting. 

So during the Chicago mayoral election there was a parody account.

It was Mayor Emanuel.

This foul-mouthed account followed the daily activities of the race, providing commentary as it went.

It followed all of the natural tropes of a good, solid Twitter parody account, but then started to get weird.

I double checked the newspapers. 

And then, very interestingly, it came to an end.

This is something that doesn't usually happen with a Twitter parody account.

It ended, a true narrative conclusion.

And there are all these times where Crimer, the supercriminal, does all of these TV things.

He's always taking off his sunglasses or turning to the camera, but these things just happen in text.

I think borrowing all of these tropes from television and additionally presenting each Crimer Show as an episode, spelled E-P-P-A-S-O-D, "eppasod," presenting them as episodes really, it creates something new.

And I think this is an interesting experiment in format.

Something totally new has been created here out of parodying something on television. 

I think in nonfiction real-time storytelling, there are a lot of really excellent examples as well.

And the author Teju Cole has done a lot of experimentation with putting a literary twist on events of the news.

In this particular case, he's talking about drone strikes.

I think that in both of these examples, you're beginning to see ways in which people are telling stories with nonfiction content that can be built into new types of fictional storytelling. 

Thank you. 

