And my goodbye greeting from the chief of infectious diseases at San Francisco General was, "Gary, this is the biggest mistake you'll ever make."

But I landed in a refugee situation that had a million refugees in 40 camps, and there were six of us doctors.

So it was the spread of tuberculosis and the spread of cholera that I was responsible for inhibiting.

And in order to do this work, we, of course, because of the limitation in health workers, had to recruit refugees to be a specialized new category of health worker.

Following three years of work in Somalia, I got picked up by the World Health Organization, and got assigned to the epidemics of AIDS.

My primary responsibility was Uganda, but also I worked in Rwanda and Burundi and Zaire, now Congo, Tanzania, Malawi, and several other countries.

After 10 years of working overseas, I was exhausted.

I really had very little left.

I wanted to come home.

I'd seen a lot of death, in particular epidemic death, and epidemic death has a different feel to it.

It's full of panic and fear, and I'd heard the women wailing and crying in the desert.

And I wanted to come home and take a break and maybe start over. 

I was not aware of any epidemic problems in America.

In fact, I wasn't aware of any problems in America.

How many of you have such a situation?

(Laughter) And some of them, many of them actually, had water that came into more than one room.

And I noticed that they would move this little thermoregulatory device to change the temperature in their home by one degree or two degrees.

And now I do that. 

And one was punishment.

And this I had heard about before.

We who had worked in behavior knew that punishment was something that was discussed but also that it was highly overvalued.

It was not a main driver of behavior, nor was it a main driver of behavior change.

The other explanation or, in a way, the solution suggested, is please fix all of these things: the schools, the community, the homes, the families, everything.

And I'd heard this before as well.

But we'd also realized in treating other processes and problems that sometimes you don't need to treat everything. 

And so the sense that I had was there was a giant gap here.

The problem of violence was stuck, and this has historically been the case in many other issues.

Frequently, a strategy has to be rethought.

It's not as if I had any idea what it would look like, but there was a sense that we would have to do something with new categories of workers and something having to do with behavior change and something having to do with public education. 

What do the graphs look like?

What does the data look like?

And the maps of violence in most U.S. cities looked like this.

There was clustering.

And it also looked like infectious epidemics.

And it turns out that the greatest predictor of a case of violence is a preceding case of violence.

And so we see that violence is, in a way, behaving like a contagious disease.

We're aware of this anyway even in our common experiences or our newspaper stories of the spread of violence from fights or in gang wars or in civil wars or even in genocides. 

Make sense?

And there's special workers for doing that.

And that combination of factors is how the AIDS epidemic in Uganda was very successfully reversed. 

And so what we decided to do in the year 2000 is kind of put this together in a way by hiring in new categories of workers, the first being violence interruptors.

So violence interruptors hired from the same group, credibility, trust, access, just like the health workers in Somalia, but designed for a different category, and trained in persuasion, cooling people down, buying time, reframing.

Just like T.B., but the object is behavior change.

And then a bunch of community activities for changing norms. 

But of course, the funders said, "Wait a second, do it again."

And so we had to then, fortunately, get the funds to repeat this experience, and this is one of the next four neighborhoods that had a 45-percent drop in shootings and killings.

And since that time, this has been replicated 20 times.

In fact, there have been three independent evaluations of this now. 

The Economist in 2009 said this is "the approach that will come to prominence."

We got a lot of criticism, a lot of opposition, and a lot of opponents.

In other words, what do you mean, health problem?

What do you mean, epidemic?

What do you mean, no bad guys?

And there's whole industries designed for managing bad people.

What do you mean, hiring people who have backgrounds?

My musician friends added the word "dude."

So what's actually happened is, although there is still some opposition, the movement is clearly growing.

Many of the major cities in the U.S., including New York City and Baltimore and Kansas City, their health departments are running this now.

Chicago and New Orleans, the health departments are having a very large role in this.

This is being embraced more by law enforcement than it had been years ago.

Trauma centers and hospitals are doing their part in stepping up.

And the U.S. Conference of Mayors has endorsed not only the approach but the specific model.

So violence is responding as a disease even as it behaves as a disease.

So the theory, in a way, is kind of being validated by the treatment.

And recently, the Institute of Medicine came out with a workshop report which went through some of the data, including the neuroscience, on how this problem is really transmitted. 

And moving away from emotions is the most important part of the solution to science as a more important part of the solution. 

So I didn't mean to come up with this at all.

For myself, I tried to get away from infectious diseases, and I didn't. 

Thank you. 

