It's actually from Yitzhak Rabin.

The year is 1987.

Ayatollah Khomeini is still alive, and much like Ahmadinejad today, he's using the worst rhetoric against Israel.

Yet, Rabin referred to Iran as a geostrategic friend. 

A third of the Jewish population stayed in Babylonia.

They're today's Iraqi Jews.

And a third returned to historic Palestine, did the second rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem, financed, incidentally, by Persian tax money. 

But even in modern times, relations have been close at times.

Both states feared the Soviet Union and strong Arab states such as Egypt and Iraq.

And, in addition, the Israeli doctrine of the periphery, the idea that Israel's security was best achieved by creating alliances with the non-Arab states in the periphery of the region in order to balance the Arab states in its vicinity.

The Iranians built a special tarmac at the airport in Tehran, far away from the central terminal, so that no one would notice the large number of Israeli planes shuttling between Tel Aviv and Tehran. 

Now, did all of this end with the Islamic revolution in 1979?

In spite of the very clear anti-Israeli ideology of the new regime, the geopolitical logic for their collaboration lived on, because they still had common threats.

In fact, back in the 1980s, it was Israel that lobbied Washington to talk to Iran, to sell arms to Iran, and not pay attention to Iran's anti-Israeli ideology.

And this, of course, climaxed in the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s. 

But with the end of the Cold War came also the end of the Israeli-Iranian cold peace.

Suddenly, the two common threats that had pushed them closer together throughout decades, more or less evaporated.

Without Iraq balancing Iran, Iran could now become a threat, some in Israel argued.

Ironically, this was happening at a time when Iran was more interested in peacemaking with Washington than to see to Israel's destruction.

The more Iran got isolated, the more peace there would be.

So according to Indyk, and these are his words, the Iranians had an interest to do us in on the peace process in order to defeat our policy of containment.

To defeat our policy of containment, not about ideology. 

But throughout even the worst times of their entanglement, all sides have reached out to each other.

Netanyahu, when he got elected in 1996, reached out to the Iranians to see if there were any ways that the doctrine of the periphery could be resurrected.

Tehran was not interested.

The Bush administration did not even respond.

All sides have never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity. 

But this is not an ancient conflict.

This is not even an ideological conflict.

When Iran and Israel's security imperatives dictated collaboration, they did so in spite of lethal ideological opposition to each other.

But some want war.

If we accept this to be true, that indeed it is 1938, Iran is Germany, Ahmadinejad is Hitler, then the question we have to ask ourself is, who wishes to play the role of Neville Chamberlain?

Who will risk peace?

In an ideological conflict, there can be no truce, no draw, no compromise, only victory or defeat. 

But rather than making war inevitable by viewing this as ideological, we would be wise to seek ways to make peace possible.

Thank you. 

