Today, there are very few things that money can't buy.

What would you guess?

If you go to an amusement park and don't want to stand in the long lines for the popular rides, there is now a solution.

In many theme parks, you can pay extra to jump to the head of the line.

They call them Fast Track or VIP tickets. 

And this isn't only happening in amusement parks.

In Washington, D.C., long lines, queues sometimes form for important Congressional hearings.

Paid line standing. 

Take the way we fight our wars.

Did you know that, in Iraq and Afghanistan, there were more private military contractors on the ground than there were U.S. military troops?

Over the past three decades, we have lived through a quiet revolution.

We've drifted almost without realizing it from having a market economy to becoming market societies.

For two reasons, I think.

One of them has to do with inequality.

The more things money can buy, the more affluence, or the lack of it, matters.

If the only thing that money determined was access to yachts or fancy vacations or BMWs, then inequality wouldn't matter very much.

But when money comes increasingly to govern access to the essentials of the good life -- decent health care, access to the best education, political voice and influence in campaigns -- when money comes to govern all of those things, inequality matters a great deal.

And so the marketization of everything sharpens the sting of inequality and its social and civic consequence.

That's one reason to worry. 

They've tried this, actually.

They've done some experiments in some major American cities.

In Dallas, Texas, they have a program that offers eight-year-olds two dollars for each book they read. 

So let's see what -- Some people are in favor, some people are opposed to this cash incentive to motivate achievement.

Let's see what people here think about it.

You don't have to take it out of your budget.

Let's see by a show of hands. 

First, how many think it might at least be worth a try to see if it would work?

Let's have a discussion.

What would be your reason?

What is, or should be, the intrinsic motivation? 

HM: Well, the intrinsic motivation should be to learn. 

And then, if you stop paying them, what happens then?

Then they stop reading? 

MS: Now, let's see if there's someone who favors, who thinks it's worth trying this. 

You'd measure how many -- EL: How many books they read and how many books they continued to read after you stopped paying them. 

HM: To be frank, I just think this is, not to offend anyone, a very American way. 

I should tell you what's happened with these experiments.

The cash for good grades has had very mixed results, for the most part has not resulted in higher grades.

The two dollars for each book did lead those kids to read more books.

It also led them to read shorter books. 

But the real question is, what will become of these kids later?

Will they have learned that reading is a chore, a form of piecework to be done for pay, that's the worry, or may it lead them to read maybe for the wrong reason initially but then lead them to fall in love with reading for its own sake? 

Now, what this, even this brief debate, brings out is something that many economists overlook.

Economists often assume that markets are inert, that they do not touch or taint the goods they exchange.

Market exchange, they assume, doesn't change the meaning or value of the goods being exchanged.

If you sell me a flat screen television or give me one as a gift, it will be the same good.

In those domains, bringing market mechanisms and cash incentives may undermine or crowd out nonmarket values and attitudes worth caring about.

In fact, during the past three decades, when market reasoning and market thinking have gathered force and gained prestige, our public discourse during this time has become hollowed out, empty of larger moral meaning.

For fear of disagreement, we shrink from these questions.

But once we see that markets change the character of goods, we have to debate among ourselves these bigger questions about how to value goods. 

Against the background of rising inequality, marketizing every aspect of life leads to a condition where those who are affluent and those who are of modest means increasingly live separate lives.

We live and work and shop and play in different places.

Our children go to different schools. 

Here's why.

Democracy does not require perfect equality, but what it does require is that citizens share in a common life.

And this is how we come to care for the common good. 

Thank you very much. 

