I think we're all aware that the world today is full of problems.

We've been hearing them today and yesterday and every day for decades.

Serious problems, big problems, pressing problems.

We're all very aware. 

Why are we having so much trouble dealing with these problems?

I'm not a social problem guy.

I'm a guy that works with business, helps business make money.

God forbid.

I think that in order to address that question, we have to step back and think about how we've understood and pondered both the problems and the solutions to these great social challenges that we face. 

You know, think of the fast food industry, the drug industry, the banking industry.

You know, this is a low point in the respect for business.

Business is not seen as the solution.

It's seen as the problem now, for most people.

And rightly so, in many cases.

There's a lot of bad actors out there that have done the wrong thing, that actually have made the problem worse.

So this perspective is perhaps justified. 

How have we tended to see the solutions to these social problems, these many issues that we face in society?

Well, we've tended to see the solutions in terms of NGOs, in terms of government, in terms of philanthropy.

Indeed, the kind of unique organizational entity of this age is this tremendous rise of NGOs and social organizations.

This is a unique, new organizational form that we've seen grown up.

Enormous innovation, enormous energy, enormous talent now has been mobilized through this structure to try to deal with all of these challenges.

And many of us here are deeply involved in that. 

I'm a business school professor, but I've actually founded, I think, now, four nonprofits.

That was the way we've thought about how to deal with these issues.

Even a business school professor has thought about it that way. 

But I think at this moment, we've been at this for quite a while.

The awkward reality is we're not making fast enough progress.

We're not winning.

These problems still seem very daunting and very intractable, and any solutions we're achieving are small solutions.

We're making incremental progress. 

What's the fundamental problem we have in dealing with these social problems?

If we cut all the complexity away, we have the problem of scale.

We can't make a large-scale impact on these problems.

Why is that?

Because we don't have the resources.

And that's really clear now.

And that's clearer now than it's been for decades.

There's simply not enough money to deal with any of these problems at scale using the current model.

We've got to confront that reality.

And the scarcity of resources for dealing with these problems is only growing, certainly in the advanced world today, with all the fiscal problems we face. 

So if it's fundamentally a resource problem, where are the resources in society?

How are those resources really created, the resources we're going to need to deal with all these societal challenges?

All wealth is actually created by business.

Business creates wealth when it meets needs at a profit.

That's how all wealth is created.

It's meeting needs at a profit that leads to taxes and that leads to incomes and that leads to charitable donations.

That's where all the resources come from.

Only business can actually create resources.

Other institutions can utilize them to do important work, but only business can create them.

And business creates them when it's able to meet a need at a profit.

The resources are overwhelmingly generated by business.

The question then is, how do we tap into this?

How do we tap into this?

Business generates those resources when it makes a profit.

That profit is that small difference between the price and the cost it takes to produce whatever solution business has created to whatever problem they're trying to solve.

Because if we can make a profit, we can do it for 10, 100, a million, 100 million, a billion.

The solution becomes self-sustaining.

That's what business does when it makes a profit. 

Now what does this all have to do with social problems?

Well, one line of thinking is, let's take this profit and redeploy it into social problems.

Business should give more.

Business should be more responsible.

And that's been the path that we've been on in business.

But again, this path that we've been on is not getting us where we need to go. 

Now, I started out as a strategy professor, and I'm still a strategy professor.

I'm proud of that.

But I've also, over the years, worked more and more on social issues.

I've worked on healthcare, the environment, economic development, reducing poverty, and as I worked more and more in the social field, I started seeing something that had a profound impact on me and my whole life, in a way. 

The conventional wisdom in economics and the view in business has historically been that actually, there's a tradeoff between social performance and economic performance.

The conventional wisdom has been that business actually makes a profit by causing a social problem.

The classic example is pollution.

If business pollutes, it makes more money than if it tried to reduce that pollution.

Reducing pollution is expensive, therefore businesses don't want to do it.

It's profitable to have an unsafe working environment.

That's been the conventional wisdom.

A lot of companies have fallen into that conventional wisdom.

That's a very simplistic view.

The deeper we get into these issues, the more we start to understand that actually business profits from solving from social problems.

That's where the real profit comes.

Let's take pollution.

We've learned today that actually reducing pollution and emissions is generating profit.

It saves money.

It makes the business more productive and efficient.

It doesn't waste resources.

Accidents are expensive and costly.

Issue by issue by issue, we start to learn that actually there's no trade-off between social progress and economic efficiency in any fundamental sense.

Another issue is health.

We could tap into this enormous resource pool and this organizational capacity. 

We see organizations like Dow Chemical leading the revolution away from trans fat and saturated fat with innovative new products.

This is an example of Jain Irrigation.

This is a company that's brought drip irrigation technology to thousands and millions of farmers, reducing substantially the use of water.

You see companies like Cisco that are training so far four million people in I.T.

There's a fundamental opportunity for business today to impact and address these social problems, and this opportunity is the largest business opportunity we see in business. 

And the question is, how can we get business thinking to adapt this issue of shared value?

That's shared value.

Shared value is capitalism, but it's a higher kind of capitalism.

Shared value is when we can create social value and economic value simultaneously.

We can address shared value at multiple levels.

But in order to get this solution working, we have to now change how business sees itself, and this is thankfully underway.

Businesses got trapped into the conventional wisdom that they shouldn't worry about social problems, that this was sort of something on the side, that somebody else was doing it.

We're now seeing companies embrace this idea.

But we also have to recognize business is not going to do this as effectively as if we have NGOs and government working in partnership with business.

The new NGOs that are really moving the needle are the ones that have found these partnerships, that have found these ways to collaborate.

And government has many ways in which it could impact the willingness and the ability of companies to compete in this way. 

I'm feeling it.

Young people, I think, my Harvard Business School students, are getting it.

If we can break down this sort of divide, this unease, this tension, this sense that we're not fundamentally collaborating here in driving these social problems, we can break this down, and we finally, I think, can have solutions. 

Thank you. 

