So, we used to solve big problems.

On July 21st, 1969, Buzz Aldrin climbed out of Apollo 11's lunar module and descended onto the Sea of Tranquility.

Armstrong and Aldrin were alone, but their presence on the moon's gray surface was the culmination of a convulsive, collective effort. 

The Apollo program was the greatest peacetime mobilization in the history of the United States.

To get to the moon, NASA spent around 180 billion dollars in today's money, or four percent of the federal budget.

Apollo employed around 400,000 people and demanded the collaboration of 20,000 companies, universities and government agencies.

People died, including the crew of Apollo 1.

But before the Apollo program ended, 24 men flew to the moon.

Twelve walked on its surface, of whom Aldrin, following the death of Armstrong last year, is now the most senior. 

So why did they go?

But Kennedy's own words at Rice University in 1962 provide a better clue. 

Jason Pontin: To contemporaries, Apollo wasn't only a victory of West over East in the Cold War.

Landing on the moon occurred in the context of a long series of technological triumphs.

The first half of the 20th century produced the assembly line and the airplane, penicillin and a vaccine for tuberculosis.

In the middle years of the century, polio was eradicated and smallpox eliminated.

Technology itself seemed to possess what Alvin Toffler in 1970 called "accelerative thrust."

Since 1970, no human beings have been back to the moon.

I remember watching the liftoff of Apollo 17.

I was five years old, and my mother told me not to stare at the fiery exhaust of a Saturn V rocket.

I vaguely knew this was to be the last of the moon missions, but I was absolutely certain there would be Mars colonies in my lifetime. 

So "Something happened to our capacity to solve big problems with technology" has become a commonplace.

You hear it all the time.

We've heard it over the last two days here at TED.

It feels as if technologists have diverted us and enriched themselves with trivial toys, with things like iPhones and apps and social media, or algorithms that speed automated trading.

There's nothing wrong with most of these things.

They've expanded and enriched our lives.

But they don't solve humanity's big problems. 

What happened?

So there is a parochial explanation in Silicon Valley, which admits that it has been funding less ambitious companies than it did in the years when it financed Intel, Microsoft, Apple and Genentech.

But I don't think that explanation is good enough.

It mostly explains what's wrong with Silicon Valley.

Even when venture capitalists were at their most risk-happy, they preferred small investments, tiny investments that offered an exit within 10 years.

No, the reasons we can't solve big problems are more complicated and more profound. 

Sometimes we choose not to solve big problems.

We could go to Mars if we want.

NASA even has the outline of a plan.

But going to Mars would follow a political decision with popular appeal, and that will never happen.

Coal and natural gas are cheaper than solar and wind, and petroleum is cheaper than biofuels.

Sometimes, big problems that had seemed technological turn out not to be so.

Famines were long understood to be caused by failures in food supply.

Hard problems are hard. 

It's not true that we can't solve big problems through technology.

The Apollo mission, which has become a kind of metaphor for technology's capacity to solve big problems, met these criteria.

But it is an irreproducible model for the future.

It is not 1961.

There is no galvanizing contest like the Cold War, no politician like John Kennedy who can heroize the difficult and the dangerous, and no popular science fictional mythology such as exploring the solar system.

Most of all, going to the moon turned out to be easy.

It was just three days away.

And arguably it wasn't even solving much of a problem. 

Thank you very much. 

