So by now, my talk is already 6,000 words long, and I feel like I should stop here. 

At the same time, I probably owe you some explanation about the images that you just saw.

What I am trying to do as a photographer, as an artist, is to bring the world of art and science together.

And yet, they do it in a very different way.

Let me demonstrate this based on three projects. 

The first one has to do with making sound visible.

So I came up with the following setup.

I took a speaker, I placed a thin foil of plastic on top of that speaker, and then I added tiny little crystals on top of that speaker.

And now, if I would play a sound through that speaker, it would cause the crystals to move up and down.

Let me show you what this looks like. 

Thank you very much.

I agree, it looks pretty amazing. 

But I have to tell you a funny story.

I got an indoor sunburn doing this while shooting in Los Angeles.

What was so funny about it was that the speaker was only coming from the right side, so the right side of my face was completely red and I looked like the Phantom of the Opera for the rest of the week. 

Should I skip that part? 

Ferrofluid has a very strange behavior.

And it's got tiny little particles of metal in it, which makes it magnetic.

So if I now put this liquid into a magnetic field, it would change its appearance. 

Now I've got a live demonstration over here to show this to you.

So I've got a camera pointing down at this plate, and underneath that plate, there is a magnet.

Now I'm going to add some of that ferrofluid to that magnet. 

Let's just slightly move it to the right and maybe focus it a little bit more.

So what you can see now is that the ferrofluid has formed spikes.

This is due to the attraction and the repulsion of the individual particles inside the liquid.

Now this looks already quite interesting, but let me now add some watercolors to it.

Those are just standard watercolors that you would paint with.

You wouldn't paint with syringes, but it works just the same.

So what happened now is, when the watercolor was flowing into the structure, the watercolors do not mix with the ferrofluid.

That's because the ferrofluid itself is hydrophobic.

So that was the second project. 

This image, and also this one, were made using whiskey.

Did he drink half a bottle of whiskey and then draw the hallucination he got from being drunk onto paper?

I can assure you I was fully conscious while I was taking those pictures. 

Now, whiskey contains 40 percent of alcohol, and alcohol has got some very interesting properties.

And it was with those two properties that I was able to create the images that you're seeing right now. 

Let me demonstrate this over here.

And now I'm going to fill it with oxygen and whiskey.

Add some more.

Now we just wait for a few seconds for the molecules to spread inside the bottle.

And now, let's set that on fire. 

So that's all that happens.

It goes really fast, and it's not that impressive.

I could do it again to show it one more time, but some would argue that this is a complete waste of the whiskey, and that I should rather drink it. 

So that's how those images were made. 

Thank you. 

