I think it's safe to say that all humans will be intimate with death at least once in their lives.

But what if that intimacy began long before you faced your own transition from life into death?

What would life be like if the dead literally lived alongside you? 

In my husband's homeland in the highlands of Sulawesi island in eastern Indonesia, there is a community of people that experience death not as a singular event but as a gradual social process.

In Tana Toraja, the most important social moments in people's lives, the focal points of social and cultural interaction are not weddings or births or even family dinners, but funerals.

So this cultural complex surrounding death, the ritual enactment of the end of life, has made death the most visible and remarkable aspect of Toraja's landscape.

And it's a transition that's just as much about the identity of the living as it is about remembrance of the dead. 

So even as we share death as a universal experience, it's not experienced the same way the world over.

So again, the physical cessation of life is not the same as death.

And this ceremony has to take place in front of the eyes of the whole community with everyone's participation. 

And the tongkonan is symbolic not only of the family's identity but also of the human life cycle from birth to death.

So essentially, the shape of the building that you're born into is the shape of the structure which carries you to your ancestral resting place.

So I know what some of you must be thinking right now.

Is she really saying that these people live with the bodies of their dead relatives?

And that's exactly what I'm saying. 

These are called tau tau. 

So the funeral ceremony itself embodies this relational perspective on death.

It ritualizes the impact of death on families and communities.

And it's also a moment of self-awareness.

It's a moment when people think about who they are, their place in society, and their role in the life cycle in accordance with Torajan cosmology. 

So essentially, we all become grandparents to the generations of human children that come after us.

So all of this focus on death doesn't mean that Torajans don't aspire to the ideal of a long life.

It's said in Toraja that everybody has sort of a predetermined amount of life.

It's called the sunga'.

And like a thread, it should be allowed to unspool to its natural end. 

So by having death as a part of the cultural and social fabric of life, people's everyday decisions about their health and healthcare are affected.

The patriarch of my husband's maternal clan, Nenet Katcha, is now approaching the age of 100, as far as we can tell.

And there are increasing signs that he is about to depart on his own journey for Puya.

His story is their story.

His funeral songs will sing them a song about themselves.

And it's a story that has no discernible beginning, no foreseeable end.

It's a story that goes on long after his body no longer does. 

People ask me if I'm frightened or repulsed by participating in a culture where the physical manifestations of death greet us at every turn.

But I see something profoundly transformative in experiencing death as a social process and not just a biological one.

We, like the Torajans, base our decisions about life on the meanings and the definitions that we ascribe to death. 

So I'm not suggesting that anyone in this audience should run out and adopt the traditions of the Torajans.

It might be a little bit difficult to put into play in the United States.

But I want to ask what we can gain from seeing physical death not only as a biological process but as part of the greater human story.

What would it be like to look on the expired human form with love because it's so intimately a part of who we all are?

If we could expand our definition of death to encompass life, we could experience death as part of life and perhaps face death with something other than fear.

It might help us recognize that the way we limit our conversation about death to something that's medical or biological is reflective of a larger culture that we all share of avoiding death, being afraid of talking about it.

If we could entertain and value other kinds of knowledge about life, including other definitions of death, it has the potential to change the discussions that we have about the end of life.

It could change the way that we die, but more importantly, it could transform the way that we live. 

