And the reason the story obsessed me is that I thought I understood it, and then I went back over it and I realized that I didn't understand it at all. 

Ancient Palestine had a -- along its eastern border, there's a mountain range.

Still same is true of Israel today.

And in the mountain range are all of the ancient cities of that region, so Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Hebron.

And then there's a coastal plain along the Mediterranean, where Tel Aviv is now.

And the Shephelah, if you've been to Israel, you'll know it's just about the most beautiful part of Israel.

It's gorgeous, with forests of oak and wheat fields and vineyards. 

And 3,000 years ago, that's exactly what happens.

This was a tradition in ancient warfare called single combat.

It was a way of settling disputes without incurring the bloodshed of a major battle.

And the Philistine who is sent down, their mighty warrior, is a giant.

He's 6 foot 9.

And he's so terrifying that none of the Israelite soldiers want to fight him.

And finally the only person who will come forward is this young shepherd boy, and he goes up to Saul and he says, "I'll fight him."

So he reaches down instead on the ground and picks up five stones and puts them in his shepherd's bag and starts to walk down the mountainside to meet the giant.

And the shepherd draws closer and closer, and the giant sees that he's carrying a staff.

That's all he's carrying.

Instead of a weapon, just this shepherd's staff, and he says -- he's insulted -- "Am I a dog that you would come to me with sticks?"

So David, in that story, is supposed to be the underdog, right?

In fact, that term, David and Goliath, has entered our language as a metaphor for improbable victories by some weak party over someone far stronger.

Now why do we call David an underdog?

Well, we call him an underdog because he's a kid, a little kid, and Goliath is this big, strong giant.

We also call him an underdog because Goliath is an experienced warrior, and David is just a shepherd.

But most importantly, we call him an underdog because all he has is -- it's that Goliath is outfitted with all of this modern weaponry, this glittering coat of armor and a sword and a javelin and a spear, and all David has is this sling. 

In ancient warfare, there are three kinds of warriors.

It's in fact an incredibly devastating weapon.

That's substantially faster than a baseball thrown by even the finest of baseball pitchers.

If you do the calculations on the ballistics, on the stopping power of the rock fired from David's sling, it's roughly equal to the stopping power of a [.45 caliber] handgun.

This is an incredibly devastating weapon.

Accuracy, we know from historical records that slingers -- experienced slingers could hit and maim or even kill a target at distances of up to 200 yards.

From medieval tapestries, we know that slingers were capable of hitting birds in flight.

They were incredibly accurate.

If you go back over the history of ancient warfare, you will find time and time again that slingers were the decisive factor against infantry in one kind of battle or another. 

When he says, "Come to me that I might feed your flesh to the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field," the key phrase is "Come to me."

Come up to me because we're going to fight, hand to hand, like this.

Saul has the same expectation.

That's where his strength lies.

So why do we keep calling David an underdog, and why do we keep referring to his victory as improbable? 

There's a second piece of this that's important.

Goliath is not what he seems to be.

So to begin with, the Bible says that Goliath is led onto the valley floor by an attendant.

Now that is weird, right?

And then there's this whole weird thing about how long it takes Goliath to react to the sight of David.

There is nothing about him that says, "I am about to fight you like this."

He's not even carrying a sword.

Why does Goliath not react to that?

It's as if he's oblivious to what's going on that day.

There have been many articles written.

The first one was in 1960 in the Indiana Medical Journal, and it started a chain of speculation that starts with an explanation for Goliath's height.

So the most common form of giantism is a condition called acromegaly, and acromegaly is caused by a benign tumor on your pituitary gland that causes an overproduction of human growth hormone.

And throughout history, many of the most famous giants have all had acromegaly.

So the tallest person of all time was a guy named Robert Wadlow who was still growing when he died at the age of 24 and he was 8 foot 11.

He had acromegaly.

There's even speculation that Abraham Lincoln had acromegaly.

Anyone who's unusually tall, that's the first explanation we come up with.

And acromegaly has a very distinct set of side effects associated with it, principally having to do with vision.

Why does he move so slowly and have to be escorted down into the valley floor by an attendant?

Because he can't make his way on his own.

Why is he so strangely oblivious to David that he doesn't understand that David's not going to fight him until the very last moment?

Come to me because I can't see you.

So the Israelites up on the mountain ridge looking down on him thought he was this extraordinarily powerful foe.

What they didn't understand was that the very thing that was the source of his apparent strength was also the source of his greatest weakness. 

And there is, I think, in that, a very important lesson for all of us.

Giants are not as strong and powerful as they seem.

And sometimes the shepherd boy has a sling in his pocket. 

Thank you. 

