As you all know, the cars that people drove in 1900 have altered because the roads are better and because of technology.

And our minds have altered, too.

We've gone from people who confronted a concrete world and analyzed that world primarily in terms of how much it would benefit them to people who confront a very complex world, and it's a world where we've had to develop new mental habits, new habits of mind.

That is, we don't just get a few more questions right on I.Q.

Indeed, if you score the people a century ago against modern norms, they would have an average I.Q.

If you score us against their norms, we would have an average I.Q.

Now this has raised all sorts of questions.

Were our immediate ancestors on the verge of mental retardation?

Because 70 is normally the score for mental retardation.

Or are we on the verge of all being gifted?

Because 130 is the cutting line for giftedness. 

And this Martian was an archaeologist, and they found scores, target scores, that people had used for shooting.

And first they looked at 1865, and they found that in a minute, people had only put one bullet in the bullseye.

And then they found, in 1898, that they'd put about five bullets in the bullseye in a minute.

And then about 1918 they put a hundred bullets in the bullseye.

If that Martian looked at battlefields, they would find that people had only muskets at the time of the Civil War and that they had repeating rifles at the time of the Spanish-American War, and then they had machine guns by the time of World War I.

And, in other words, it was the equipment that was in the hands of the average soldier that was responsible, not greater keenness of eye or steadiness of hand. 

Luria looked at people just before they entered the scientific age, and he found that these people were resistant to classifying the concrete world.

They wanted to break it up into little bits that they could use.

He found that they were resistant to deducing the hypothetical, to speculating about what might be, and he found finally that they didn't deal well with abstractions or using logic on those abstractions. 

Now let me give you a sample of some of his interviews.

He talked to the head man of a person in rural Russia.

They'd only had, as people had in 1900, about four years of schooling.

Now, these three categories -- classification, using logic on abstractions, taking the hypothetical seriously -- how much difference do they make in the real world beyond the testing room?

And let me give you a few illustrations. 

First, almost all of us today get a high school diploma.

Now, not only do we have much more education, and much of that education is scientific, and you can't do science without classifying the world.

And even down in grade school, things have changed.

In 1910, they looked at the examinations that the state of Ohio gave to 14-year-olds, and they found that they were all for socially valued concrete information.

They were things like, what are the capitals of the 44 or 45 states that existed at that time?

When they looked at the exams that the state of Ohio gave in 1990, they were all about abstractions.

So the tenor of education has changed.

We are educating people to take the hypothetical seriously, to use abstractions, and to link them logically. 

What about employment?

Well, in 1900, three percent of Americans practiced professions that were cognitively demanding.

Only three percent were lawyers or doctors or teachers.

And we can only meet the terms of employment in the modern world by being cognitively far more flexible.

Compare the doctor in 1900, who really had only a few tricks up his sleeve, with the modern general practitioner or specialist, with years of scientific training.

Compare the banker in 1900, who really just needed a good accountant and to know who was trustworthy in the local community for paying back their mortgage.

Well, the merchant bankers who brought the world to their knees may have been morally remiss, but they were cognitively very agile.

They went far beyond that 1900 banker.

And they also, of course, had to get people to accept these so-called assets and pay money for them even though they were highly vulnerable.

Or take a farmer today.

I take the farm manager of today as very different from the farmer of 1900.

I'm primarily a moral philosopher.

My father was born in 1885, and he was mildly racially biased.

As an Irishman, he hated the English so much he didn't have much emotion for anyone else.

(Laughter) But he did have a sense that black people were inferior.

They're just inherited mores.

Well you, today, universalize your principles.

You state them as abstractions and you use logic on them.

If you have a principle such as, people shouldn't suffer unless they're guilty of something, then to exclude black people you've got to make exceptions, don't you?

Some of you may have taken Raven's Progressive Matrices, and it's all about analogies.

And in 1900, people could do simple analogies.

But by 1960, people could attack Raven's on a much more sophisticated level.

Just as a triangle is half of a square, a semicircle is half of a circle.

That is, they had moved so far from the concrete world that they could even ignore the appearance of the symbols that were involved in the question. 

Now, I should say one thing that's very disheartening.

We haven't made progress on all fronts.

They live in the bubble of the present.

(Laughter) And that is, they had barely left, and there wasn't a trace in the sand.

Or imagine how different things would be if most Americans knew that we had been lied into four of our last six wars.

But I don't want to end on a pessimistic note.

