I think these are so commonplace, they've become clichés of our society.

The second is an aim: we should have more trust.

And the third is a task: we should rebuild trust. 

I think that the claim, the aim and the task are all misconceived.

First the claim: Why do people think trust has declined?

And if I really think about it on the basis of my own evidence, I don't know the answer.

I'm inclined to think it may have declined in some activities or some institutions and it might have grown in others.

When you actually look at opinion polls across time, there's not much evidence for that.

That's to say, the people who were mistrusted 20 years ago, principally journalists and politicians, are still mistrusted.

And the people who were highly trusted 20 years ago are still rather highly trusted: judges, nurses.

But is that good evidence?

What opinion polls record is, of course, opinions.

What else can they record?

So they're looking at the generic attitudes that people report when you ask them certain questions.

In short, in our real lives, we seek to place trust in a differentiated way.

We don't make an assumption that the level of trust that we will have in every instance of a certain type of official or office-holder or type of person is going to be uniform.

I might, after all, know that she wasn't a good driver.

I might trust my most loquacious friend to keep a conversation going but not -- but perhaps not to keep a secret.

Simple. 

Secondly, what about the aim?

The aim is to have more trust.

Well frankly, I think that's a stupid aim.

It's not what I would aim at.

I would aim to have more trust in the trustworthy but not in the untrustworthy.

In fact, I aim positively to try not to trust the untrustworthy.

More trust is not an intelligent aim in this life.

It's judging how trustworthy people are in particular respects. 

But if, on the other hand, they're unreliable, we might not.

I have friends who are very confident they can do certain things, but I realize that they overestimate their own competence.

And I'm very glad to say, I don't think I have many friends who are competent and reliable but extremely dishonest.

(Laughter) If so, I haven't yet spotted it. 

Trustworthiness is what we have to judge.

And, of course, it's difficult.

A lot of these systems have the converse effect.

They don't work as they're supposed to.

It is distracting people who have to do difficult tasks, like midwives, from doing them by requiring them to tick the boxes, as we say.

You can all give your own examples there. 

So so much for the aim.

Now thirdly, the task.

Calling the task rebuilding trust, I think, also gets things backwards.

It suggests that you and I should rebuild trust.

Well, we can do that for ourselves.

We can rebuild a bit of trustworthiness.

We can do it two people together trying to improve trust.

But trust, in the end, is distinctive because it's given by other people.

You can't rebuild what other people give you.

You have to give them the basis for giving you their trust.

So you have to, I think, be trustworthy.

And that, of course, is because you can't fool all of the people all of the time, usually.

But you also have to provide usable evidence that you are trustworthy.

How to do it?

Let me give you a simple commercial example.

The shop where I buy my socks says I may take them back, and they don't ask any questions.

I think there's a big lesson in that.

So in the end, I think what we are aiming for is not very difficult to discern.

It is relationships in which people are trustworthy and can judge when and how the other person is trustworthy. 

Thanks. 

