I find this a particularly apt description of science and how science works -- bumbling around in a dark room, bumping into things, trying to figure out what shape this might be, what that might be, there are reports of a cat somewhere around, they may not be reliable, they may be, and so forth and so on. 

Now I know this is different than the way most people think about science.

I'd like to tell you that's not the case.

And it's going on kind of like that. 

So what is the difference, then, between the way I believe science is pursued and the way it seems to be perceived?

So what was the difference?

This book comes in at 1,414 pages, it weighs a hefty seven and a half pounds.

Just to put that in some perspective, that's the weight of two normal human brains. 

And that's not really the case either.

We talk about what we don't know.

(Laughter) That's the real thing.

Nonetheless, this is what I think we were leaving out of our courses and leaving out of the interaction that we have with the public as scientists, the what-remains-to-be-done.

This is the stuff that's exhilarating and interesting.

It is, if you will, the ignorance.

That's what was missing. 

And it's been really quite an interesting time for me to meet up with other scientists who come in and talk about what it is they don't know. 

So I don't mean stupidity, I don't mean a callow indifference to fact or reason or data.

The ignorant are clearly unenlightened, unaware, uninformed, and present company today excepted, often occupy elected offices, it seems to me.

That's another story, perhaps. 

I mean a different kind of ignorance.

So it is true that science piles up at an alarming rate.

How can you ever know all of this?

And indeed, the scientific literature grows at an alarming rate.

In 2006, there were 1.3 million papers published.

Divide that by the number of minutes in a year, and you wind up with three new papers per minute.

But knowing a lot of stuff doesn't make you a scientist.

You need to know a lot of stuff to be a lawyer or an accountant or an electrician or a carpenter.

But in science, knowing a lot of stuff is not the point.

Knowing a lot of stuff is there to help you get to more ignorance.

So knowledge is a big subject, but I would say ignorance is a bigger one. 

We don't have any such guarantee.

Indeed, there are many of us who aren't so sure about the manufacturer. 

So I think the puzzle model doesn't work. 

I don't think that's the way it works either.

So if you think of knowledge being this ever-expanding ripple on a pond, the important thing to realize is that our ignorance, the circumference of this knowledge, also grows with knowledge.

So the knowledge generates ignorance.

This is really well said, I thought, by George Bernard Shaw.

So I'd say the model we want to take is not that we start out kind of ignorant and we get some facts together and then we gain knowledge.

It's rather kind of the other way around, really.

What do we use this knowledge for?

What are we using this collection of facts for?

We're using it to make better ignorance, to come up with, if you will, higher-quality ignorance.

Scientists argue about this all the time.

Sometimes we call them bull sessions.

Sometimes we call them grant proposals.

It's what makes a good question. 

So how do we think about these questions?

I'm going to show you a graph that shows up quite a bit on happy hour posters in various science departments.

This graph asks the relationship between what you know and how much you know about it.

Doesn't know much but they have a lot of interest.

They're interested in almost everything.

That's where you find people like me, I'm afraid. 

So the important thing here is that this can all be changed.

This whole view can be changed by just changing the label on the x-axis.

Because it's not always quite so straightforward.

So, for example, we could say, well what is it that the brain does?

Well, one thing the brain does, it moves us around.

We walk around on two legs.

So that maybe is not that interesting.

So instead maybe we want to choose something a little more complicated to look at.

But now here's the thing: Our technology has actually been pretty good at replicating what the visual system does.

They work differently than our visual systems in some cases, but nonetheless we've been pretty good at making a technology work like our visual system.

A hundred years of robotics, and we can't get a robot that can move more than a couple steps one way or the other.

So what is it that's the most difficult thing for a brain to do?

What ought we to be studying?

Perhaps it ought to be walking on two legs, or the motor system.

These are just plain old molecules, but if you sniff those molecules up these two little holes in the front of your face, you will have in your mind the distinct impression of a rose.

If there's a real rose there, those molecules will be the ones, but even if there's no rose there, you'll have the memory of a molecule.

How do we turn molecules into perceptions?

What's the process by which that could happen?

Here's another example: two very simple molecules, again in this kind of chemical notation.

So there are two really interesting questions here, it seems to me.

One is, how can a simple little molecule like that create a perception in your brain that's so clear as a pear or a banana?

And secondly, how the hell can we tell the difference between two molecules that differ by a single carbon atom?

And you don't even think about it, do you? 

So this is a favorite quote of mine that takes us back to the ignorance and the idea of questions.

I like to quote because I think dead people shouldn't be excluded from the conversation.

And I also think it's important to realize that the conversation's been going on for a while, by the way.

And it's this abiding by ignorance that I think we have to learn how to do.

We just can't sell facts for a living anymore.

How do we do that?

Well, one of the problems, of course, turns out to be testing.

We currently have an educational system which is very efficient but is very efficient at a rather bad thing.

They're interested.

So we have this remarkably efficient system for beating any interest in science out of everybody's head. 

Is this what we want?

And that's meant as a warning.

Or, "You know what, I'll look it up, I'll ask someone, I'll phone someone.

Because that's what we want people to do, and that's how you evaluate them.

And maybe for the advanced placement classes, it could be, "Here's the answer.

That's the one I like in particular. 

So let me end with a quote from William Butler Yeats, who said "Education is not about filling buckets; it is lighting fires."

So I'd say, let's get out the matches.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

