Titus was a restaurant manager.

And one night, the couple went out for a romantic restaurant meal.

They were on their way home, and they were pulled over by a police officer.

She said, "That one's the closest."

So what would you do at this point?

What would you do?

Well, Titus lost complete faith in the legal system, and yet he got an idea.

And really, that's where this case should have ended.

It should have been over.

It didn't end that way.

He lost his fiancée.

She couldn't put up with his persistent anger.

Well, Titus was consumed with his civil case.

He spent every waking moment thinking about it, and just days before he was to have his day in court, he woke up in the morning, doubled over in pain, and died of a stress-related heart attack.

He was 35 years old. 

I study the opposite: when they remember, when they remember things that didn't happen or remember things that were different from the way they really were.

I study false memories. 

Unhappily, Steve Titus is not the only person to be convicted based on somebody's false memory.

They spent 10, 20, 30 years in prison for these crimes, and now DNA testing has proven that they are actually innocent.

And when those cases have been analyzed, three quarters of them are due to faulty memory, faulty eyewitness memory. 

Well, why?

Like the jurors who convicted those innocent people and the jurors who convicted Titus, many people believe that memory works like a recording device.

But decades of work in psychology has shown that this just isn't true.

Our memories are constructive.

They're reconstructive.

Memory works a little bit more like a Wikipedia page: You can go in there and change it, but so can other people.

I did my experiments that involved showing people simulated crimes and accidents and asking them questions about what they remember.

And we asked other people, how fast were the cars going when they smashed into each other?

Would the same kind of mistakes be made with a really stressful event?

And as part of this training exercise, these soldiers are interrogated in an aggressive, hostile, physically abusive fashion for 30 minutes and later on they have to try to identify the person who conducted that interrogation.

And when we feed them suggestive information that insinuates it's a different person, many of them misidentify their interrogator, often identifying someone who doesn't even remotely resemble the real interrogator. 

And so what these studies are showing is that when you feed people misinformation about some experience that they may have had, you can distort or contaminate or change their memory. 

Well out there in the real world, misinformation is everywhere.

We get misinformation not only if we're questioned in a leading way, but if we talk to other witnesses who might consciously or inadvertently feed us some erroneous information, or if we see media coverage about some event we might have experienced, all of these provide the opportunity for this kind of contamination of our memory. 

In the 1990s, we began to see an even more extreme kind of memory problem.

Extreme memories for horrific brutalizations, sometimes in satanic rituals, sometimes involving really bizarre and unusual elements.

One woman came out of psychotherapy believing that she'd endured years of ritualistic abuse, where she was forced into a pregnancy and that the baby was cut from her belly.

But there were no physical scars or any kind of physical evidence that could have supported her story.

And what I found is that most of these situations involved some particular form of psychotherapy.

And I designed some experiments to try to study the processes that were being used in this psychotherapy so I could study the development of these very rich false memories. 

You were ultimately rescued by an elderly person and reunited with the family.

And we succeeded in planting this memory in the minds of about a quarter of our subjects.

But we and other investigators have planted rich false memories of things that were much more unusual and much more stressful.

So in a study done in Tennessee, researchers planted the false memory that when you were a kid, you nearly drowned and had to be rescued by a life guard.

And in a study done in Canada, researchers planted the false memory that when you were a kid, something as awful as being attacked by a vicious animal happened to you, succeeding with about half of their subjects.

And in a study done in Italy, researchers planted the false memory, when you were a kid, you witnessed demonic possession. 

I had sometimes armed guards at speeches that I was invited to give, people trying to drum up letter-writing campaigns to get me fired.

But probably the worst was I suspected that a woman was innocent of abuse that was being claimed by her grown daughter.

She accused her mother of sexual abuse based on a repressed memory.

And this accusing daughter had actually allowed her story to be filmed and presented in public places.

I published an exposé on the case, and a little while later, the accusing daughter filed a lawsuit.

Even though I'd never mentioned her name, she sued me for defamation and invasion of privacy.

When I got back to my work, I asked this question: if I plant a false memory in your mind, does it have repercussions?

Does it affect your later thoughts, your later behaviors?

Our first study planted a false memory that you got sick as a child eating certain foods: hard-boiled eggs, dill pickles, strawberry ice cream.

And we found that once we planted this false memory, people didn't want to eat the foods as much at an outdoor picnic.

The false memories aren't necessarily bad or unpleasant.

And so what these studies are showing is that you can plant false memories and they have repercussions that affect behavior long after the memories take hold. 

And when I suggested this publicly, it created an outcry again.

I know what I would choose for a kid of mine. 

But maybe my work has made me different from most people.

But I know from my work how much fiction is already in there.

If I've learned anything from these decades of working on these problems, it's this: just because somebody tells you something and they say it with confidence, just because they say it with lots of detail, just because they express emotion when they say it, it doesn't mean that it really happened.

We can't reliably distinguish true memories from false memories.

We need independent corroboration.

Such a discovery has made me more tolerant of the everyday memory mistakes that my friends and family members make.

