It's increasingly irrelevant to the kinds of decisions we face that have to do with global pandemics, a cross-border problem; with HIV, a transnational problem; with markets and immigration, something that goes beyond national borders; with terrorism, with war, all now cross-border problems. 

Twenty-first-century, transnational world of problems and challenges, 17th-century world of political institutions.

In that dilemma lies the central problem of democracy.

Because I think you will find, when we talk about cities, we are talking about the political institutions in which civilization and culture were born.

We are talking about the cradle of democracy. 

We are talking about the venues in which those public spaces where we come together to create democracy, and at the same time protest those who would take our freedom, take place.

Think of some great names: the Place de la Bastille, Zuccotti Park, Tahrir Square, Taksim Square in today's headlines in Istanbul, or, yes, Tiananmen Square in Beijing. 

Those are the public spaces where we announce ourselves as citizens, as participants, as people with the right to write our own narratives.

Cities are not only the oldest of institutions, they're the most enduring.

Cities endure the ages.

They are the places where we are born, grow up, are educated, work, marry, pray, play, get old, and in time, die.

They are home.

Very different than nation-states, which are abstractions.

We pay taxes, we vote occasionally, we watch the men and women we choose rule rule more or less without us.

Not so in those homes known as our towns and cities where we live.

Moreover, today, more than half of the world's population live in cities.

In the developed world, it's about 78 percent.

More than three out of four people live in urban institutions, urban places, in cities today.

I say we are an urban animal.

We are an urban species, at home in our cities.

When I say if mayors ruled the world, when I first came up with that phrase, it occurred to me that actually, they already do.

And then all the things we know a little better, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the Mexican Conference of Mayors, the European Conference of Mayors.

Mayors are where this is happening. 

And so the question is, how can we create a world in which mayors and the citizens they represent play a more prominent role?

To be a prime minister or a president, you have to have an ideology, you have to have a meta-narrative, you have to have a theory of how things work, you have to belong to a party.

Independents, on the whole, don't get elected to office.

But mayors are just the opposite.

Mayors are pragmatists, they're problem-solvers.

Their job is to get things done, and if they don't, they're out of a job.

They were arguing with one another about access to the holy sites.

That's what mayors do.

They fix sewers, they get the trains running.

There isn't a left or a right way of doing.

Boris Johnson in London calls himself an anarcho-Tory.

He rides to work on a bike, but at the same time, he's in some ways a conservative.

Luzhkov, 20 years mayor in Moscow, though he helped found a party, United Party with Putin, in fact refused to be defined by the party and finally, in fact, lost his job not under Brezhnev, not under Gorbachev, but under Putin, who wanted a more faithful party follower.

So mayors are pragmatists and problem-solvers.

They get things done. 

He could ask that because he knew New Yorkers and they knew him.

Mayors are usually from the places they govern.

It's pretty hard to be a carpetbagger and be a mayor.

You can run for the Senate out of a different state, but it's hard to do that as a mayor. 

And as a result, mayors and city councillors and local authorities have a much higher trust level, and this is the third feature about mayors, than national governing officials.

And even with a relatively popular president like Obama, the figures for the Presidency run about 40, 45, sometimes 50 percent at best.

The Supreme Court has fallen way down from what it used to be.

When states face each other, China and the U.S., they face each other like this.

When cities interact, they interact like this.

China and the U.S., despite the recent meta-meeting in California, are locked in all kinds of anger, resentment, and rivalry for number one.

We heard more about who will be number one.

Cities don't worry about number one.

They have to work together, and they do work together.

They work together in climate change, for example.

Organizations like the C40, like ICLEI, which I mentioned, have been working together many, many years before Copenhagen.

They came, they stayed, and they found ways and are still finding ways to work together, city-to-city, and through inter-city organizations.

And they are doing it.

Los Angeles cleaned up its port, which was 40 percent of carbon emissions, and as a result got rid of about 20 percent of carbon.

Bogota, where Mayor Mockus, when he was mayor, he introduced a transportation system that saved energy, that allowed surface buses to run in effect like subways, express buses with corridors.

It helped unemployment, because people could get across town, and it had a profound impact on climate as well as many other things there.

They are sharing what they do, and they are making a difference by shared best practices.

Now it's in hundreds of cities around the world.

So what's the bottom line here?

The bottom line is, we still live politically in a world of borders, a world of boundaries, a world of walls, a world where states refuse to act together.

It runs through cities.

Democracy was born in the ancient polis.

I believe it can be reborn in the global cosmopolis.

In that journey from polis to cosmopolis, we can rediscover the power of democracy on a global level.

We can create not a League of Nations, which failed, but a League of Cities, not a United or a dis-United Nations, but United Cities of the World.

Mayors are considering that idea of how you can actually constitute a global parliament of mayors, and I love that idea, because a parliament of mayors is a parliament of citizens and a parliament of citizens is a parliament of us, of you and of me. 

And the only question is, are you? 

