Imagine you are a part of a crew of astronauts traveling to Mars or some distant planet.

The travel time could take a year or even longer.

Well, the scientists at NASA actually figured out a way to do this.

And they also used hydrogen from water.

The types of microbes that they used were called hydrogenotrophs, and with these hydrogenotrophs, you can create a virtuous carbon cycle that would sustain life onboard a spacecraft.

Astronauts would breathe out carbon dioxide, that carbon dioxide would then be captured by the microbes and converted into a nutritious, carbon-rich crop.

So why is this important?

We need carbon to survive as humans, and we get our carbon from food.

On a long space journey, you simply wouldn't be able to pick up any carbon along the way, so you'd have to figure out how to recycle it on board. 

This is a clever solution, right?

And this was actually done in the '60s and '70s.

So a colleague of mine, Dr. John Reed, and I, were interested, actually, in carbon recycling here on Earth.

We wanted to come up with technical solutions to address climate change.

And we thought it was a really good idea.

So we said, well, Earth is actually like a spaceship.

We have limited space and limited resources, and on Earth, we really do need to figure out how to recycle our carbon better. 

Could we cultivate these NASA-type microbes in order to make valuable products here on Earth?

We started a company to do it.

And in that company, we discovered that these hydrogenotrophs -- which I'll actually call nature's supercharged carbon recyclers -- we found that they are a powerful class of microbes that had been largely overlooked and understudied, and that they could make some really valuable products. 

And we even made a protein-rich meal that has an amino acid profile similar to what you might find in some animal proteins.

We began cultivating them even further, and we found that we can make oil.

Oils are used to manufacture many products.

And we made an oil that's similar to palm oil.

Palm oil is used to manufacture a wide range of consumer and industrial goods. 

We believe that this type of technology can actually help us address an issue with agriculture and allow us to create a type of agriculture that's sustainable, that will allow us to scale to meet the demands of tomorrow. 

And why might we need a sustainable agriculture?

So how will we scale to meet that demand? 

Well, modern agriculture simply cannot sustainably scale to meet that demand.

There are a number of reasons why.

One of them is that modern agriculture is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases.

In fact, it emits more greenhouse gases than our cars, our trucks, our planes and our trains combined.

Another reason is that modern ag simply takes up a whole lot of land.

We have cleared 19.4 million square miles for crops and livestock.

What does that look like?

Well, that's roughly the size of South America and Africa combined. 

Let me give you a specific example.

And a natural carbon sink was also removed. 

So let me make this real for you.

This clearing happened primarily to make room for palm plantations.

And as I mentioned before, palm oil is used to manufacture many products.

In fact, it is estimated that over 50 percent of consumer products are manufactured using palm oil.

So you and I are direct beneficiaries of removed rainforests. 

Modern ag has some problems, and we need solutions if we want to scale sustainably.

In those ecosystems, they take carbon and recycle it into the nutrients needed for those ecosystems.

And actually, microbes are already an integral part of our everyday lives.

If you enjoy a glass of pinot noir on a Friday night, after a long, hard work week, then you are enjoying a product of microbes.

If you enjoy a beer from your local microbrewery -- a product of microbes.

But the beauty and power associated with these supercharged carbon recyclers lies in the fact that they can actually produce in a matter of hours versus months.

That means we can make crops much faster than we're making them today.

They grow in the dark, so they can grow in any season and in any geography and any location.

They can grow in containers that require minimal space.

And we can get to a type of vertical agriculture.

So this is what I mean by a new type of agriculture.

And this is what I mean by developing a system that allows us to sustainably scale to meet the demands of 10 billion. 

And what would be the products of this new type of agriculture?

Well, we've already made a protein meal, so you can imagine something similar to a soybean meal, or even cornmeal, or wheat flour.

We've already made oils, so you can imagine something similar to coconut oil or olive oil or soybean oil.

Furthermore, since oil is used to manufacture multiple other goods, industrial products and consumer products, you can imagine being able to make detergents, soaps, lotions, etc., using these types of crops. 

Not only are we running out of space, but if we continue to operate under the status quo with modern agriculture, we run the risk of robbing our progeny of a beautiful planet.

But it doesn't have to be this way.

We can imagine a future of abundance.

Let us create systems that keep planet Earth, our spaceship, not only from not crashing, but let us also develop systems and ways of living that will be beneficial to the lives of ourselves and the 10 billion that will be on this planet by 2050. 

Thank you very much. 

