And then we thought, you know, there are thousands of other talks out there, especially TEDx Talks, that are popping up all over the world.

How are they connected, and what does that global conversation look like?

So Sean's going to tell you a little bit about how we did that. 

And we wanted to do that so we could see how they connected with each other. 

And so, of course, if you're going to do this kind of stuff, you need a lot of data.

So that's theory, that's great.

Let's see how it works in actual practice.

And what we did on this is we analyzed the top 25 percent of these, and we started to see where the connections occurred, where they connected with each other.

Cameron Russell talking about image and beauty connected over into Europe.

We've got a bigger conversation about Israel and Palestine radiating outwards from the Middle East.

So from this, we kind of run up against the limits of what we can actually do with a geographic projection, but luckily, computer technology allows us to go out into multidimensional space.

We've got education connected to storytelling triangulated next to social media.

You've got, of course, the human brain right next to healthcare, which you might expect, but also you've got video games, which is sort of adjacent, as those two spaces interface with each other. 

But I want to take you into one cluster that's particularly important to me, and that's the environment.

And I want to kind of zoom in on that and see if we can get a little more resolution.

What you're getting is a range of smaller conversations, each connected to each other through the ideas and the language they share, creating a broader concept of the environment.

And they're looking at energy technology and nuclear fusion.

This is their kind of resonance for the conversation around the environment.

If we split along gender lines, we can see females resonating heavily with food economy, but also out there in hope and optimism. 

EB: Yeah, I mean, just to point out here, you cannot get this kind of perspective from a simple tag search on YouTube.

Let's now zoom back out to the entire global conversation out of environment, and look at all the talks together.

Now often, when we're faced with this amount of content, we do a couple of things to simplify it.

And we can see that the new, emerging, top trending topic is about digital privacy. 

Well, we can go back to the network structure of ideas to do that.

And that's -- Essentially, this kind of creative remix is one of the hallmarks of innovation.

Well here's one by Jessica Green about the microbial ecology of buildings.

It's literally defining a new field.

And we could go back to those topics and say, well, what talks are central to those conversations?

In the cities cluster, one of the most central was one by Mitch Joachim about ecological cities, and in the genetics cluster, we have a talk about synthetic biology by Craig Venter.

These are talks that are linking many talks within their discipline.

We could go the other direction and say, well, what are talks that are broadly synthesizing a lot of different kinds of fields.

I wouldn't know.

And all of this comes from the architecture of complexity, or the patterns of how things are connected. 

