Bees are the most important pollinators of our fruits and vegetables and flowers and crops like alfalfa hay that feed our farm animals.

More than one third of the world's crop production is dependent on bee pollination. 

But the ironic thing is that bees are not out there pollinating our food intentionally.

They're out there because they need to eat.

In parts of the world where there are no bees, or where they plant varieties that are not attractive to bees, people are paid to do the business of pollination by hand.

These people are moving pollen from flower to flower with a paintbrush.

Now this business of hand pollination is actually not that uncommon.

So there's other, maybe more personal reasons, to care about bees.

There's over 20,000 species of bees in the world, and they're absolutely gorgeous.

Now honeybees tend to be the charismatic representative for the other 19,900-plus species because there's something about honeybees that draws people into their world.

I got drawn into the honeybee world completely by a fluke.

I was 18 years old and bored, and I picked up a book in the library on bees and I spent the night reading it.

I had never thought about insects living in complex societies.

It was like the best of science fiction come true.

So I went to work for a commercial beekeeper, a family that owned 2,000 hives of bees in New Mexico.

And I was permanently hooked. 

Now this society has no central authority.

Nobody's in charge.

So how they come to collective decisions, and how they allocate their tasks and divide their labor, how they communicate where the flowers are, all of their collective social behaviors are mindblowing.

My personal favorite, and one that I've studied for many years, is their system of healthcare.

So bees have social healthcare.

So in my lab, we study how bees keep themselves healthy.

And more recently, we've been studying resins that bees collect from plants.

We've found that propolis is a natural disinfectant.

It's a natural antibiotic.

Humans have known about the power of propolis since biblical times.

We've been harvesting propolis out of bee colonies for human medicine, but we didn't know how good it was for the bees.

So honeybees have these remarkable natural defenses that have kept them healthy and thriving for over 50 million years. 

So seven years ago, when honeybee colonies were reported to be dying en masse, first in the United States, it was clear that there was something really, really wrong.

In our collective conscience, in a really primal way, we know we can't afford to lose bees.

So what's going on?

The bottom line is, bees dying reflects a flowerless landscape and a dysfunctional food system. 

Now we have the best data on honeybees, so I'll use them as an example.

In the United States, bees in fact have been in decline since World War II.

We have half the number of managed hives in the United States now compared to 1945.

We're down to about two million hives of bees, we think.

Clover and alfalfa are highly nutritious food plants for bees.

And after World War II, we started using herbicides to kill off the weeds in our farms.

Many of these weeds are flowering plants that bees require for their survival.

And we started growing larger and larger crop monocultures.

Since World War II, we have been systematically eliminating many of the flowering plants that bees need for their survival.

And these monocultures extend even to crops that are good for bees, like almonds.

Now, the scale of almond monoculture demands that most of our nation's bees, over 1.5 million hives of bees, be transported across the nation to pollinate this one crop.

Bees have been dying over the last 50 years, and we're planting more crops that need them.

There has been a 300 percent increase in crop production that requires bee pollination. 

And then there's pesticides.

This small bee is holding up a large mirror.

How much is it going to take to contaminate humans? 

One of these class of insecticides, the neonicontinoids, is making headlines around the world right now.

You've probably heard about it.

This is a new class of insecticides.

It moves through the plant so that a crop pest, a leaf-eating insect, would take a bite of the plant and get a lethal dose and die.

In most agricultural settings, on most of our farms, it's only the seed that's coated with the insecticide, and so a smaller concentration moves through the plant and gets into the pollen and nectar, and if a bee consumes this lower dose, either nothing happens or the bee becomes intoxicated and disoriented and she may not find her way home.

And on top of everything else, bees have their own set of diseases and parasites.

Public enemy number one for bees is this thing.

It's this big, blood-sucking parasite that compromises the bee's immune system and circulates viruses. 

Let me put this all together for you.

But what if I lived in a food desert?

And this is what we mean by multiple and interacting causes of death. 

And it's not just our honeybees.

These bees are providing backup for our honeybees.

They're providing the pollination insurance alongside our honeybees.

We need all of our bees. 

So what are we going to do?

Every one of you out there can help bees in two very direct and easy ways.

So go online and search for flowers that are native to your area and plant them.

Plant them in a pot on your doorstep.

Campaign to have them planted in public gardens, community spaces, meadows.

Set aside farmland.

And we need to think carefully about putting back in cover crops to nourish our soil and nourish our bees.

And we need to diversify our farms.

So maybe it seems like a really small countermeasure to a big, huge problem -- just go plant flowers -- but when bees have access to good nutrition, we have access to good nutrition through their pollination services.

So let the small act of planting flowers and keeping them free of pesticides be the driver of large-scale change. 

On behalf of the bees, thank you. 

The latest numbers on the die-off of bees, is there any sign of things bottoming out?

What's your hope/depression level on this? 

About 20 years ago, we were at a 15-percent loss.

So it's getting precarious. 

We're kind of at a tipping point.

We can't really afford to lose that many more.

We need to be really appreciative of all the beekeepers out there.

CA: Thank you. 

CA: Thank you. 

