I'm going to be showing some of the cybercriminals' latest and nastiest creations.

So basically, please don't go and download any of the viruses that I show you. 

Some of you might be wondering what a cybersecurity specialist looks like, and I thought I'd give you a quick insight into my career so far.

It's a pretty accurate description.

This is what someone that specializes in malware and hacking looks like. 

So today, computer viruses and trojans, designed to do everything from stealing data to watching you in your webcam to the theft of billions of dollars.

Some malicious code today goes as far as targeting power, utilities and infrastructure. 

Let me give you a quick snapshot of what malicious code is capable of today.

Right now, every second, eight new users are joining the Internet.

(Laughter) Actually, about 80 percent of these are small business websites getting infected. 

Today's cybercriminal, what do they look like?

Well, many of you have the image, don't you, of the spotty teenager sitting in a basement, hacking away for notoriety.

But actually today, cybercriminals are wonderfully professional and organized.

In fact, they have product adverts.

You can go online and buy a hacking service to knock your business competitor offline.

Check out this one I found. 

Well you, my friend, you've came to the right place.

James Lyne: Now, I did actually pay one of these cybercriminals to attack my own website.

Things got a bit tricky when I tried to expense it at the company.

Turns out that's not cool.

But regardless, it's amazing how many products and services are available now to cybercriminals.

For example, this testing platform, which enables the cybercriminals to test the quality of their viruses before they release them on the world.

For a small fee, they can upload it and make sure everything is good. 

But it goes further.

Cybercriminals now have crime packs with business intelligence reporting dashboards to manage the distribution of their malicious code.

This is the market leader in malware distribution, the Black Hole Exploit Pack, responsible for nearly one third of malware distribution in the last couple of quarters.

It comes with technical installation guides, video setup routines, and get this, technical support.

You can email the cybercriminals and they'll tell you how to set up your illegal hacking server. 

So let me show you what malicious code looks like today.

Now, there are many ways you can get infected.

Now there are many ways you can get infected.

I want to show you a couple of my favorites.

This is a little USB key.

Now how do you get a USB key to run in a business?

Well, you could try looking really cute.

So let's have a look here on my victim computer.

What I'm going to do is plug in the USB key.

This would, of course, normally happen in a couple of seconds, really, really quickly, but I've kind of slowed it down so you can actually see the attack occurring.

Malware is very boring otherwise.

That can be very embarrassing.

Or just to really prove a point, we can launch programs like my personal favorite, the Windows Calculator. 

So isn't it amazing how much control the attackers can get with such a simple operation?

Let me show you how most malware is now distributed today.

And it's got a comments section here where we can submit comments to the website.

Many of you will have used something a bit like this before.

Unfortunately, when this was implemented, the developer was slightly inebriated and managed to forget all of the secure coding practices he had learned.

This is a script.

It's code which will be interpreted on the webpage.

Notice that after a couple of seconds, I get redirected.

It creates some very serious alerts.

What's really insulting about this is not only does it provide the attackers with access to your data, but when the scan finishes, they tell you in order to clean up the fake viruses, you have to register the product.

Now I liked it better when viruses were free.

(Laughter) People now pay cybercriminals money to run viruses, which I find utterly bizarre. 

So anyway, let me change pace a little bit.

So here we have a couple of documents which our cybercriminals had uploaded to a cloud service, kind of like Dropbox or SkyDrive, like many of you might use.

At the top, you'll notice a section of source code.

If you look closely, you'll notice a series of what are Russian telephone numbers.

Down below, highlighted in red, in the other section of source code, is this bit "leded:leded."

So let's take this a little further.

There are a few other interesting pieces the cybercriminals had uploaded.

Lots of you here will use smartphones to take photos and post them from the conference.

An interesting feature of lots of modern smartphones is that when you take a photo, it embeds GPS data about where that photo was taken.

So here's a photo which resolves to St. Petersburg.

We then deploy the incredibly advanced hacking tool.

We used Google.

One of these was more stereotypical for me.

A little more searching, and here's our cybercriminal.

Imagine what you could find about each of the people in this room.

A bit more searching through the profile and there's a photo of their office.

They were working on the third floor.

It turns out he's a member of the Russian Adult Webmasters Federation. 

But this is where our investigation starts to slow down.

The cybercriminals have locked down their profiles quite well.

And herein is the greatest lesson of social media and mobile devices for all of us right now.

Our friends, our families and our colleagues can break our security even when we do the right things.

That's right, cybercriminals do have Christmas parties, as it turns out.

Now you're probably wondering what happened to these guys.

Let me come back to that in just a minute. 

This is normally when people start kind of shuffling in their pockets trying to turn their phones onto airplane mode desperately. 

Many of you all know about the concept of scanning for wireless networks.

So I ran a little scan.

This is how geeks party. 

So let's make this a little bit more interesting.

Let's talk about you.

Twenty-three percent of you have been to Starbucks recently and used the wireless network.

Things get more interesting.

Forty-six percent of you I could link to a business, XYZ Employee network.

This isn't an exact science, but it gets pretty accurate.

Seven hundred and sixty-one of you I could identify a hotel you'd been to recently, absolutely with pinpoint precision somewhere on the globe.

Two hundred and thirty-four of you, well, I know where you live.

Your wireless network name is so unique that I was able to pinpoint it using data available openly on the Internet with no hacking or clever, clever tricks.

And two percent of you have a tendency to extreme profanity. 

We also need to think very carefully about how we develop our future talent pool.

You see, technology's changing at a staggering rate, and that 250,000 pieces of malware won't stay the same for long.

There's a very concerning trend that whilst many people coming out of schools now are much more technology-savvy, they know how to use technology, fewer and fewer people are following the feeder subjects to know how that technology works under the covers.

We also need to think about the legal issues in this area.

The cybercriminals I talked about, despite theft of millions of dollars, actually still haven't been arrested, and at this point possibly never will.

But my biggest ask is this: You see, you're going to leave here and you're going to see some astonishing stories in the news.

You're going to read about malware doing incredible and terrifying, scary things.

However, 99 percent of it works because people fail to do the basics.

Get a secure password.

The Internet is a fantastic resource for business, for political expression, for art and for learning.

Help me and the security community make life much, much more difficult for cybercriminals. 

Thank you. 

