So over the long course of human history, the infectious disease that's killed more humans than any other is malaria.

It's carried in the bites of infected mosquitos, and it's probably our oldest scourge.

We may have had malaria since we evolved from the apes.

And to this day, malaria takes a huge toll on our species.

We've got 300 million cases a year and over half a million deaths. 

Now this really makes no sense.

We've known how to cure malaria since the 1600s.

So we've known how to cure malaria for centuries.

We've known how to prevent malaria since 1897.

So malaria should be a relatively simple disease to solve, and yet to this day, hundreds of thousands of people are going to die from the bite of a mosquito.

Why is that? 

This is a question that's personally intrigued me for a long time.

And I really hated the mosquitos for that.

So Jains are not supposed to eat meat.

We're certainly not supposed to swat mosquitos.

And I think there's three main reasons why.

The first reason is certainly scientific.

This little parasite that causes malaria, it's probably one of the most complex and wily pathogens known to humankind.

It lives half its life inside the cold-blooded mosquito and half its life inside the warm-blooded human.

These two environments are totally different, but not only that, they're both utterly hostile.

It's a shape-shifter, for one thing.

Just as a caterpillar turns into a butterfly, the malaria parasite transforms itself like that seven times in its life cycle.

And each of those life stages not only looks totally different from each other, they have totally different physiology.

It can hide in our bodies, undetected, unbeknownst to us, for days, for weeks, for months, for years, in some cases even decades. 

So it's not easy for us to extricate ourselves from these insects.

We kind of create places that they love to live just by living our own lives. 

So there's a huge scientific challenge, but there's a huge economic challenge too.

If you're poor, you're more likely to get malaria.

If you're poor, you're more likely to live in rudimentary housing on marginal land that's poorly drained.

These are places where mosquitos breed.

You're less likely to have door screens or window screens.

But it also predisposes people to death from all other causes.

So this has happened historically.

We've been able to take malaria out of a society.

But just if you take malaria out, deaths from everything else go down.

And the economist Jeff Sachs has actually quantified what this means for a society.

So there's a huge economic challenge in taming malaria. 

And it's the paradox that the people who have the most malaria in the world tend to care about it the least.

This has been the finding of medical anthropologists again and again.

And that was certainly my personal experience.

When I told my relatives in India that I was writing a book about malaria, they kind of looked at me like I told them I was writing a book about warts or something.

And it's simple risk perception, really.

And so in her lived experience, malaria is something that comes and goes.

And that's actually true for most of the world's malaria.

Most of the world's malaria comes and goes on its own.

It's just, there's so much malaria that this tiny fraction of cases that end in death add up to this big, huge number.

So I think people in malarious parts of the world must think of malaria the way those of us who live in the temperate world think of cold and flu.

This is a huge cultural challenge in taming this disease. 

How do you get a political leader to do anything about a problem like this?

But this, I think, introduces a whole host of other kinds of difficulties. 

The first concerted attack against malaria started in the 1950s.

It was the brainchild of the U.S. State Department.

And this effort well understood the economic challenge.

They understood the cultural challenge.

In fact, their rather patronizing view was that people at risk of malaria shouldn't be asked to do anything at all.

Everything should be done to them and for them.

But they greatly underestimated the scientific challenge.

They had so much faith in their tools that they stopped doing malaria research.

And so when those tools started to fail, and public opinion started to turn against those tools, they had no scientific expertise to figure out what to do.

One WHO official at the time actually called that whole campaign "one of the greatest mistakes ever made in public health."

The latest effort to tame malaria started in the late 1990s.

It's similarly directed and financed primarily from outside of malarious societies.

Now this effort well understands the scientific challenge.

They are doing tons of malaria research.

And they understand the economic challenge too.

They're focusing on very cheap, very easy-to-use tools.

But now, I think, the dilemma is the cultural challenge.

The centerpiece of the current effort is the bed net.

It's treated with insecticides.

And when you think about the bed net, it's sort of a surgical intervention.

You know, it doesn't really have any value to a family with malaria except that it helps prevent malaria.

And yet we're asking people to use these nets every night.

They have to sleep under them every night.

That's the only way they are effective.

Now that's no big deal if you're fighting a killer disease.

I mean, these are minor inconveniences.

But that's not how people with malaria think of malaria.

So for them, the calculus must be quite different. 

Would we do that? 

And I wonder if that's how people in the malarious world thought of those nets when they first received them?

Indeed, we know from studies that only 20 percent of the bed nets that were first distributed were actually used.

But that's not an insurmountable problem.

And that's what happening now.

It takes all the things that that cheap, easy-to-use bed net was not supposed to be. 

We end up imposing our own priorities on the people of the malarious world.

Take the example of England and the United States.

We attacked bad roads and bad houses and bad drainage and lack of electricity and rural poverty.

Thank you so much. 

