This is Charley Williams.

He was 94 when this photograph was taken.

The idea is very, very simple.

You go into these booths, you interview your grandmother or relative, you leave with a copy of the interview and an interview goes into the Library of Congress.

I'm going to play you just a couple of quick excerpts from the project. 

You can see it in Pedro. 

Danny Perasa: See, the thing of it is, I always feel guilty when I say "I love you" to you, and I say it so often.

Michael Wolmetz: So this is the ring that my father gave to my mother, and we can leave it there.

So I'm going to share a mic with you right now, Debora.

Where's the right finger?

(Kissing) MW: So kids, this is how your mother and I got married, in a booth in Grand Central Station with my father's ring.

My grandfather was a cab driver for 40 years.

He used to pick people up here every day.

So it seems right. 

The entire project is predicated on this act of love which is listening itself.

And that motion of building an institution out of a moment of conversation and listening is actually a lot of what my firm, Local Projects, is doing with our engagements in general.

So we're a media design firm, and we're working with a broad array of different institutions building media installations for museums and public spaces. 

Our latest engagement is the Cleveland Museum of Art, which we've created an engagement called Gallery One for.

Glenn Lowry, the head of MoMA, put it best when he said, "We want visitors to actually cease being visitors.

So, for example, you can click on this individual lion head, and this is where it originated from, 1300 B.C.

And it makes you think about literally the hundreds or thousands of years of human creativity and how each individual artwork stands in for part of that story.

This is Picasso, of course embodying so much of it from the 20th century. 

And so our next interface, which I'll show you, actually leverages that idea of this lineage of creativity.

It's an algorithm that actually allows you to browse the actual museum's collection using facial recognition.

So this person's making different faces, and it's actually drawing forth different objects from the collection that connect with exactly how she's looking.

This is an interface that actually allows you to draw and then draws forth objects using those same shapes.

So more and more we're trying to find ways for people to actually author things inside of the museums themselves, to be creative even as they're looking at other people's creativity and understanding them. 

So in this wall, the collections wall, you can actually see all 3,000 artworks all at the same time, and you can actually author your own individual walking tours of the museum, so you can share them, and someone can take a tour with the museum director or a tour with their little cousin. 

But all the while that we've been working on this engagement for Cleveland, we've also been working in the background on really our largest engagement to date, and that's the 9/11 Memorial and Museum. 

So we started in 2006 as part of a team with Thinc Design to create the original master plan for the museum, and then we've done all the media design both for the museum and the memorial and then the media production.

So the memorial opened in 2011, and the museum's going to open next year in 2014.

And you can see from these images, the site is so raw and almost archaeological.

And so what we started with was really a new way of thinking about building an institution, through a project called Make History, which we launched in 2009.

But that was coupled together with this oral histories booth, really the simplest we've ever made, where you locate yourself on a map.

It's in six languages, and you can tell your own story about what happened to you on that day.

And when we started seeing the incredible images and stories that came forth from all around the world -- this is obviously part of the landing gear -- we really started to understand that there was this amazing symmetry between the event itself, between the way that people were telling the stories of the event, and how we ourselves needed to tell that story. 

This image in particular really captured our attention at the time, because it so much sums up that event.

This is a shot from the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel.

And it really made us recognize what this institution needed to be in order to actually tell that story.

And so we created this idea of an opening gallery called We Remember.

Voice 7: It was probably about 11 o'clock at night. 

Voice 8: I was driving to work at 5:45 local time in the morning. 

Voice 10: Trying to frantically get to a radio. 

Voice 12: Heard it on the radio. 

My business partner told me to turn on the television. 

Voice 15: So I switched on the television. 

Voice 16: All channels in Italy were displaying the same thing. 

JB: And you move from there into that open, cavernous space.

This is the so-called slurry wall.

It's the original, excavated wall at the base of the World Trade Center that withstood the actual pressure from the Hudson River for a full year after the event itself.

And so we thought about carrying that sense of authenticity, of presence of that moment into the actual exhibition itself.

And we tell the stories of being inside the towers through that same audio collage, so you're hearing people literally talking about seeing the planes as they make their way into the building, or making their way down the stairwells.

And so these oral histories, which we've actually been capturing already for years, are then mixed together with interviews that we're doing with people like Donald Rumsfeld, Bill Clinton, Rudy Giuliani, and you mix together these different players and these different experiences, these different reflection points about 9/11.

And suddenly the institution, once again, turns into a listening experience.

(Video) Voice 1: 9/11 was not just a New York experience. 

Voice 2: It's something that we shared, and it's something that united us. 

Voice 4: All the outpouring of affection and emotion that came from our country was something really that will forever, ever stay with me. 

And so when you go to the memorial, you can actually see the overarching organization inside of the individual pools themselves.

You can see the way that the geography of the event is reflected inside of the memorial, and you can search for an individual name, or in this case an employer, Cantor Fitzgerald, and see the way in which all of those names, those hundreds of names, are actually organized onto the memorial itself, and use that to navigate the memorial.

And more importantly, when you're actually at the site of the memorial, you can see those connections.

You can see the relationships between the different names themselves.

So suddenly what is this undifferentiated, anonymous group of names springs into reality as an individual life.

In this case, Harry Ramos, who was the head trader at an investment bank, who stopped to aid Victor Wald on the 55th floor of the South Tower.

Three generations ago, we had to actually get people to go out and capture the stories for common people.

Today, of course, there's an unprecedented amount of stories for all of us that are being captured for future generations.

And this is our hope, that's there's poetry inside of each of our stories. 

Thank you very much. 

