I was as reckless and foolish as only young men can be.

This is why wars get fought.

But I also felt more alive than I've ever done since.

And when I came home, I found the scope of my existence gradually diminishing until loading the dishwasher seemed like an interesting challenge.

And we still possess the fear and the courage and the aggression required to navigate those times.

But in our comfortable, safe, crowded lands, we have few opportunities to exercise them without harming other people.

And this was the sort of constraint that I found myself bumping up against.

Now, I don't romanticize evolutionary time.

Nor was it authenticity that I was looking for.

I don't find that a useful or even intelligible concept.

And it was only when I stumbled across an unfamiliar word that I began to understand what I was looking for.

But there are two in particular that fascinate me.

One of the most exciting scientific findings of the past half century has been the discovery of widespread trophic cascades.

It sounds strange, but just follow me for a while.

Before the wolves turned up, they'd been absent for 70 years.

But as soon as the wolves arrived, even though they were few in number, they started to have the most remarkable effects.

First, of course, they killed some of the deer, but that wasn't the major thing.

Much more significantly, they radically changed the behavior of the deer.

In some areas, the height of the trees quintupled in just six years.

Bare valley sides quickly became forests of aspen and willow and cottonwood.

And as soon as that happened, the birds started moving in.

The number of songbirds, of migratory birds, started to increase greatly.

The number of beavers started to increase, because beavers like to eat the trees.

And beavers, like wolves, are ecosystem engineers.

They create niches for other species.

And the dams they built in the rivers provided habitats for otters and muskrats and ducks and fish and reptiles and amphibians.

Ravens and bald eagles came down to feed on the carrion that the wolves had left.

But here's where it gets really interesting.

The wolves changed the behavior of the rivers.

Whales in the southern oceans have similarly wide-ranging effects.

One of the many post-rational excuses made by the Japanese government for killing whales is that they said, "Well, the number of fish and krill will rise and then there'll be more for people to eat."

But the opposite happened.

You take the whales away, and the number of krill collapses.

Why would that possibly have happened?

And when you look at it like that, you think, wait a minute, here are the wolves changing the physical geography of the Yellowstone National Park.

Here are the whales changing the composition of the atmosphere.

Trophic cascades tell us that the natural world is even more fascinating and complex than we thought it was.

They tell us that when you take away the large animals, you are left with a radically different ecosystem to one which retains its large animals.

And they make, in my view, a powerful case for the reintroduction of missing species.

Rewilding, to me, means bringing back some of the missing plants and animals.

It has no view as to what a right ecosystem or a right assemblage of species looks like.

It doesn't try to produce a heath or a meadow or a rain forest or a kelp garden or a coral reef.

Now, I mentioned that there are two definitions of rewilding that interest me.

The other one is the rewilding of human life.

And I don't see this as an alternative to civilization.

I believe we can enjoy the benefits of advanced technology, as we're doing now, but at the same time, if we choose, have access to a richer and wilder life of adventure when we want to because there would be wonderful, rewilded habitats. 

And the opportunities for this are developing more rapidly than you might think possible.

What megafauna, you say?

Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were lions in Trafalgar Square long before Nelson's Column was built.

It's not climate, largely, which has got rid of the world's megafaunas.

And even so, you can still see the shadows of these great beasts in our current ecosystems.

Why is it that so many deciduous trees are able to sprout from whatever point the trunk is broken?

Why is it that they can withstand the loss of so much of their bark?

Why do understory trees, which are subject to lower sheer forces from the wind and have to carry less weight than the big canopy trees, why are they so much tougher and harder to break than the canopy trees are?

Elephants.

They are elephant-adapted.

It was related to the Asian elephant, but it was a temperate animal, a temperate forest creature.

It was a lot bigger than the Asian elephant.

But why is it that some of our common shrubs have spines which seem to be over-engineered to resist browsing by deer?

Isn't it an amazing thought that every time you wander into a park or down an avenue or through a leafy street, you can see the shadows of these great beasts?

Paleoecology, the study of past ecosystems, crucial to an understanding of our own, feels like a portal through which you may pass into an enchanted kingdom.

In motivating people to love and defend the natural world, an ounce of hope is worth a ton of despair.

The story rewilding tells us is that ecological change need not always proceed in one direction.

Thank you. 

