So here's the most important economic fact of our time.

This shift is the most striking in the U.S. and in the U.K., but it's a global phenomenon.

It's happening in communist China, in formerly communist Russia, it's happening in India, in my own native Canada.

We're even seeing it in cozy social democracies like Sweden, Finland and Germany. 

Let me give you a few numbers to place what's happening.

In the 1970s, the One Percent accounted for about 10 percent of the national income in the United States.

Today, their share has more than doubled to above 20 percent.

But what's even more striking is what's happening at the very tippy top of the income distribution.

The 0.1 percent in the U.S. today account for more than eight percent of the national income.

They are where the One Percent was 30 years ago.

Buffett likes to point out that in 1992, the combined wealth of the people on the Forbes 400 list -- and this is the list of the 400 richest Americans -- was 300 billion dollars.

Just think about it.

You didn't even need to be a billionaire to get on that list in 1992.

One of the reasons, I think, is a sort of boiled frog phenomenon.

Think about what happened, after all, to the poor frog.

But I think there's something else going on.

Talking about income inequality, even if you're not on the Forbes 400 list, can make us feel uncomfortable.

It feels less positive, less optimistic, to talk about how the pie is sliced than to think about how to make the pie bigger.

And if you do happen to be on the Forbes 400 list, talking about income distribution, and inevitably its cousin, income redistribution, can be downright threatening. 

What's driving it, and what can we do about it? 

In practice, getting rid of crony capitalism is incredibly difficult.

But while getting rid of crony capitalism in practice is really, really hard, at least intellectually, it's an easy problem.

After all, no one is actually in favor of crony capitalism.

Indeed, this is one of those rare issues that unites the left and the right.

A critique of crony capitalism is as central to the Tea Party as it is to Occupy Wall Street. 

But if crony capitalism is, intellectually at least, the easy part of the problem, things get trickier when you look at the economic drivers of surging income inequality.

In and of themselves, these aren't too mysterious.

As a result, if you are very, very smart and very, very lucky, you can get very, very rich very, very quickly.

The latest poster boy for this phenomenon is David Karp.

The 26-year-old founder of Tumblr recently sold his company to Yahoo for 1.1 billion dollars.

It's easiest to see how the technology revolution and globalization are creating this sort of superstar effect in highly visible fields, like sports and entertainment.

We can all watch how a fantastic athlete or a fantastic performer can today leverage his or her skills across the global economy as never before.

But today, that superstar effect is happening across the entire economy.

There are superstar cooks and superstar farmers.

But while it's pretty easy to see how globalization and the technology revolution are creating this global plutocracy, what's a lot harder is figuring out what to think about it.

And that's because, in contrast with crony capitalism, so much of what globalization and the technology revolution have done is highly positive.

I love the fact that they mean that whoever chooses to will be able to watch this talk far beyond this auditorium.

I'm even more of a fan of globalization.

Think of your dishwasher or your t-shirt. 

So what's not to like?

Well, a few things.

One of the things that worries me is how easily what you might call meritocratic plutocracy can become crony plutocracy.

Imagine you're a brilliant entrepreneur who has successfully sold that idea or that product to the global billions and become a billionaire in the process.

It gets tempting at that point to use your economic nous to manipulate the rules of the global political economy in your own favor.

And that's no mere hypothetical example.

Think about Amazon, Apple, Google, Starbucks.

These are among the world's most admired, most beloved, most innovative companies.

They also happen to be particularly adept at working the international tax system so as to lower their tax bill very, very significantly.

And why stop at just playing the global political and economic system as it exists to your own maximum advantage?

Once you have the tremendous economic power that we're seeing at the very, very top of the income distribution and the political power that inevitably entails, it becomes tempting as well to start trying to change the rules of the game in your own favor.

Again, this is no mere hypothetical.

It's what the Russian oligarchs did in creating the sale-of-the-century privatization of Russia's natural resources.

It's one way of describing what happened with deregulation of the financial services in the U.S. and the U.K. 

A second thing that worries me is how easily meritocratic plutocracy can become aristocracy.

One way of describing the plutocrats is as alpha geeks, and they are people who are acutely aware of how important highly sophisticated analytical and quantitative skills are in today's economy.

That's why they are spending unprecedented time and resources educating their own children.

The middle class is spending more on schooling too, but in the global educational arms race that starts at nursery school and ends at Harvard, Stanford or MIT, the 99 percent is increasingly outgunned by the One Percent.

The result is something that economists Alan Krueger and Miles Corak call the Great Gatsby Curve.

As income inequality increases, social mobility decreases.

The plutocracy may be a meritocracy, but increasingly you have to be born on the top rung of the ladder to even take part in that race. 

Those same forces that are creating billionaires are also devouring many traditional middle-class jobs.

When's the last time you used a travel agent?

The same is true of globalization.

For all that it is raising hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in the emerging markets, it's also outsourcing a lot of jobs from the developed Western economies.

The terrifying reality is that there is no economic rule which automatically translates increased economic growth into widely shared prosperity.

That's shown in what I consider to be the most scary economic statistic of our time.

Since the late 1990s, increases in productivity have been decoupled from increases in wages and employment.

That means that our countries are getting richer, our companies are getting more efficient, but we're not creating more jobs and we're not paying people, as a whole, more. 

One scary conclusion you could draw from all of this is to worry about structural unemployment.

What worries me more is a different nightmare scenario.

After all, in a totally free labor market, we could find jobs for pretty much everyone.

The dystopia that worries me is a universe in which a few geniuses invent Google and its ilk and the rest of us are employed giving them massages. 

So when I get really depressed about all of this, I comfort myself in thinking about the Industrial Revolution.

After all, for all its grim, satanic mills, it worked out pretty well, didn't it?

We also, not coincidentally, went through an era of tremendous social and political inventions.

Today, we are living through an era of economic transformation comparable in its scale and its scope to the Industrial Revolution.

To be sure that this new economy benefits us all and not just the plutocrats, we need to embark on an era of comparably ambitious social and political change.

We need a new New Deal. 

