I had just gone through a breakup.

These ideas probably remind you of "Total Recall," "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," or of "Inception."

To do this, there's only two simple steps to follow.

But memory is not.

And also, there's way more cells in your brain than the number of straws in a typical haystack.

So yeah, this task does seem to be daunting.

But luckily, we got help from the brain itself.

SR: So the same way that building lights at night let you know that somebody's probably working there at any given moment, in a very real sense, there are biological sensors within a cell that are turned on only when that cell was just working.

So you are looking at the crystallization of the fleeting formation of fear.

XL: Now, for the switch we have been talking about, ideally, the switch has to act really fast.

It shouldn't take minutes or hours to work.

SR: So let's put all of this to the test now.

XL: When you are as small as a mouse, it feels as if the whole world is trying to get you.

So your best response of defense is trying to be undetected.

SR: All right, and here's the million-dollar experiment.

It stayed here and tried not to move any part of its body.

Clearly it's freezing.

And then we published our findings in the journal Nature.

Ever since the publication of our work, we've been receiving numerous comments from all over the Internet.

XL: So all memory is sophisticated and dynamic, but if just for simplicity, let's imagine memory as a movie clip.

SR: So how do we do this?

Now the next day, we can take our animals and place them in a red box that they've never experienced before.

So what would happen here if, while the animal is recalling the memory of the blue box, we gave it a couple of mild foot shocks?

So here we're trying to artificially make an association between the memory of the blue box and the foot shocks themselves.

XL: So, so far we are only talking about this light-controlled "on" switch.

SR: And for me personally, I see a world where we can reactivate any kind of memory that we'd like.

I also see a world where we can erase unwanted memories.

SR: For example, one group in our lab was able to find the brain cells that make up a fear memory and converted them into a pleasurable memory, just like that.

