And now we've evolved to the point where we can't survive without clothing.

And it's more than just utility, now it's a communication.

I was a lonely kid.

I didn't have an easy time finding friends to play with, and I ended up making a lot of my own play.

I made a lot of my own toys.

It began with ice cream.

They gave me one -- I went home with this beautiful cardboard tub.

I was trying to figure out what I could do with this exotic material -- metal ring, top and bottom.

I started turning it over in my head, and I realized, "Wait a minute -- my head actually fits inside this thing."

I needed a place to wear the space helmet, so I found a refrigerator box a couple blocks from home.

I pushed it home, and in my parents' guest room closet, I turned it into a spaceship.

I started with a control panel out of cardboard.

I cut a hole for a radar screen and put a flashlight underneath it to light it.

A couple years later, the movie "Jaws" came out.

This is a paper-thin shark face and a vinyl bib with the poster of "Jaws" on it. 

And I loved it. 

But it wasn't the blood and guts or the boobs that made me want to go see it again.

They helped -- 

It was the armor.

The armor in "Excalibur" was intoxicatingly beautiful to me.

These were literally knights in shining, mirror-polished armor.

And moreover, the knights in "Excalibur" wear their armor everywhere.

All the time -- they wear it at dinner, they wear it to bed. 

Now that I've oversold it, here's a picture of the armor that I made. 

Now, this is only the first suit of armor I made inspired by "Excalibur."

A couple of years later, I convinced my dad to embark on making me a proper suit of armor.

Over about a month, he graduated me from cardboard to roofing aluminum called flashing and still, one of my all-time favorite attachment materials, POP rivets.

We carefully, over that month, constructed an articulated suit of aluminum armor with compound curves.

We drilled holes in the helmet so that I could breathe, and I finished just in time for Halloween and wore it to school.

I did wear it to school, there was a yearbook photographer patrolling the halls, but he never found me, for reasons that are about to become clear. 

This is the first thing I didn't anticipate.

I also learn early on that costuming can play a key role in this storytelling. 

I use costumes to add humor, comedy, color and narrative clarity to the stories we're telling.

And then we do an episode called "Dumpster Diving," and I learn a little bit more about the deeper implications of what costuming means to me.

In the episode "Dumpster Diving," the question we were trying to answer is: Is jumping into a dumpster as safe as the movies would lead you to believe? 

The episode was going to have two distinct parts to it.

The day of the experiment shoot comes up, and I step out of my car in this costume, and my crew takes a look at me ... and start suppressing their church giggles.

I feel total embarrassment over the fact that it's so nakedly clear to my crew that I'm completely into wearing this costume. 

But the producer in my mind reminds myself that in the high-speed shot in slow-mo, that flowing coat is going to look beautiful behind me. 

Five years into the "MythBusters" run, we got invited to appear at San Diego Comic-Con.

I'd known about Comic-Con for years and never had time to go.

This was the big leagues -- this was costuming mecca.

People fly in from all over the world to show their amazing creations on the floor in San Diego.

And I wanted to participate.

I decided that I would put together an elaborate costume that covered me completely, and I would walk the floor of San Diego Comic-Con anonymously.

The costume I chose?

Hellboy.

That's not my costume, that's actually Hellboy. 

I found a guy who made a prosthetic Hellboy head and chest and I put them on.

I even had contact lenses made in my prescription.

Not just with the process of putting on this costume and walking the floor, but also with the community of other costumers.

It's not called costuming at Cons, it's called "cosplay."

These aren't just people who find a costume and put it on -- they mash them up.

They're super clever and genius.

They let their freak flag fly and it's beautiful. 

But more than that, they rehearse their costumes.

At Comic-Con or any other Con, you don't just take pictures of people walking around.

They've worked hard on their pose to make their costume look great for your camera.

And it's so beautiful to watch.

And I take this to heart.

I learned that "hrr hrr hrr" -- that head laugh that Chewbacca does. 

And then I dressed up as No-Face from "Spirited Away."

If you don't know about "Spirited Away" and its director, Hayao Miyazaki, first of all, you're welcome. 

It's about a young girl named Chihiro who gets lost in the spirit world in an abandoned Japanese theme park.

So I put together a No-Face costume, and I wore it on the floor at Comic-Con.

And I very carefully practiced No-Face's gestures.

I resolved I would not speak in this costume at all.

They would take the picture and then I would secret out from behind my robe a chocolate gold coin.

And at the end of the photo process, I'd make it appear for them.

And about 15 minutes in something happens.

Somebody grabs my hand, and they put a coin back into it.

And I think maybe they're giving me a coin as a return gift, but no, this is one of the coins that I'd given away.

Understand, I can't see anything inside this costume.

But the third time someone gives me back a coin, I want to know what's going on.

So I sort of tilt my head back to get a better view, and what I see is someone walking away from me going like this.

This isn't a performer-audience relationship; this is cosplay.

We're connecting with something important inside of us.

And the costumes are how we reveal ourselves to each other. 

Thank you. 

