1986, much, much longer before people started talking about ecological issues and environmental issues, I just started testing the paper tube in order to use this as a building structure.

It's very complicated to test the new material for the building, but this is much stronger than I expected, and also it's very easy to waterproof, and also, because it's industrial material, it's also possible to fireproof. 

Then I built the temporary structure, 1990.

This is the first temporary building made out of paper.

There are 330 tubes, diameter 55 [centimeters], there are only 12 tubes with a diameter of 120 centimeters, or four feet, wide.

As you see it in the photo, inside is the toilet.

In case you're finished with toilet paper, you can tear off the inside of the wall.

Year 2000, there was a big expo in Germany.

I was asked to design the building, because the theme of the expo was environmental issues.

So I was chosen to build the pavilion out of paper tubes, recyclable paper.

My goal of the design is not when it's completed.

After, the building was recycled.

So that was the goal of my design. 

Then I was very lucky to win the competition to build the second Pompidou Center in France in the city of Metz.

So we brought the paper tubes and the wooden joints to complete the 35-meter-long office.

We stayed there for six years without paying any rent. 

Because we were part of the exhibition, even if my friend wanted to see me, they had to buy a ticket to see me.

That was the problem. 

Then I completed the Pompidou Center in Metz.

They have money and power.

Those are invisible.

So they hire us to visualize their power and money by making monumental architecture.

That is our profession, even historically it's the same, even now we are doing the same.

So I was very disappointed that we are not working for society, even though there are so many people who lost their houses by natural disasters.

But I must say they are no longer natural disasters.

For example, earthquakes never kill people, but collapse of the buildings kill people.

That's the responsibility of architects.

1994, there was a big disaster in Rwanda, Africa.

Two tribes, Hutu and Tutsi, fought each other.

Over two million people became refugees.

But I was so surprised to see the shelter, refugee camp organized by the U.N.

But over two million people cut trees.

It just became big, heavy deforestation and an environmental problem.

We built 50 units to do that as a monitoring test for the durability and moisture and termites, so on. 

And then, year afterward, 1995, in Kobe, Japan, we had a big earthquake.

Nearly 7,000 people were killed, and the city like this Nagata district, all the city was burned in a fire after the earthquake.

So I went there and also I proposed to the priests, "Why don't we rebuild the church out of paper tubes?"

So he never trusted me, but I didn't give up.

I started commuting to Kobe, and I met the society of Vietnamese people.

I made a paper tube shelter for them, and in order to make it easy to be built by students and also easy to demolish, I used beer crates as a foundation.

The color coordination is very important.

So during the summer with my students, we built over 50 units of the shelters. 

So we spent five weeks rebuilding the church.

It was meant to stay there for three years, but actually it stayed there 10 years because people loved it.

It stayed there in Taiwan as a permanent church even now.

So this building became a permanent building. 

Even a building made in paper can be permanent as long as people love it.

Even a concrete building can be very temporary if that is made to make money. 

2001, in West India, I built also a shelter.

In 2004, in Sri Lanka, after the Sumatra earthquake and tsunami, I rebuilt Islamic fishermen's villages. 

And in 2008, in Chengdu, Sichuan area in China, nearly 70,000 people were killed, and also especially many of the schools were destroyed because of the corruption between the authority and the contractor.

I was asked to rebuild the temporary church.

I brought my Japanese students to work with the Chinese students.

In one month, we completed nine classrooms, over 500 square meters.

It's still used, even after the current earthquake in China. 

In 2009, in Italy, L'Aquila, also they had a big earthquake.

And this is a very interesting photo: former Prime Minister Berlusconi and Japanese former former former former Prime Minister Mr. Aso -- you know, because we have to change the prime minister ever year.

And they are very kind, affording my model.

So I proposed to the mayor, I'd like to rebuild the temporary auditorium.

This is what happened in Japan two years ago, in northern Japan.

People suffer mentally and physically.

However, some of the facility authority doesn't want us to do it, because, they said, simply, it's become more difficult to control them.

But it's really necessary to do it. 

They don't have enough flat area to build standard government single-story housing like this one.

So I proposed to the mayor while I was making partitions.

Finally I met a very nice mayor in Onagawa village in Miyagi.

He asked me to build three-story housing on baseball [fields].

Many of the people want to stay here forever.

I was very happy to hear that. 

Now I am working in New Zealand, Christchurch.

And I was asked to come to rebuild the temporary cathedral. 

So this is under construction.

And I'd like to keep building monuments that are beloved by people. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

