And in Libby, Montana, there's a rather unusual woman named Gayla Benefield.

Later in life, she got a job going house to house reading utility meters -- gas meters, electricity meters.

It struck her as strange.

In fact, Gayla's uncle is still alive to this day, and learning how to waltz.

And as she did, other ones came to mind.

She thought about her town.

Vermiculite was used to insulate lofts, huge amounts of it put under the roof to keep houses warm during the long Montana winters.

When she figured out the puzzle, she started telling everyone she could what had happened, what had been done to her parents and to the people that she saw on oxygen tanks at home in the afternoons.

But she was really amazed.

She thought, when everybody knows, they'll want to do something, but actually nobody wanted to know.

So now she had an ally.

Nevertheless, people still didn't want to know.

This wasn't ignorance.

It was willful blindness.

Willful blindness is a legal concept which means, if there's information that you could know and you should know but you somehow manage not to know, the law deems that you're willfully blind.

You have chosen not to know.

There's a lot of willful blindness around these days.

You could see willful blindness in the run-up to the Iraq War.

Eighty-five percent of people know there's a problem, but they won't say anything.

It's a lot of blindness.

And what's really interesting is that when I go to companies in Switzerland, they tell me, "This is a uniquely Swiss problem."

And when I go to Germany, they say, "Oh yes, this is the German disease."

And when I go to companies in England, they say, "Oh, yeah, the British are really bad at this."

And the truth is, this is a human problem.

But what I've found going around the world and talking to whistleblowers is, actually, they're very loyal and quite often very conservative people.

I think of Joe Darby.

I talked to Steve Bolsin, a British doctor, who fought for five years to draw attention to a dangerous surgeon who was killing babies.

