Adam Ockelford: I promise there won't be too much of me talking, and a lot of Derek playing, but I thought it would just be nice to recap on how Derek got to where he is today. 

And Nanny's great insight, really, was to think, here's a child who can't see.

Music must be the thing for Derek.

Here's a little picture of Derek going up now, when you were with your nanny. 

Now, not being able to see meant, of course, that you taught yourself. 

Derek Paravicini: I taught myself to play. 

AO: You did teach yourself to play, and as a consequence, playing the piano for you, Derek, was a lot of knuckles and karate chops, and even a bit of nose going on in there. 

AO: It wasn't actually "Cockles and Mussels."

This one is "English Country Garden."

AO: There you are. 

I think that's just fantastic.

And having said to your dad, Nic, that I would try to teach you, I was then slightly confused as to how I might go about that if I wasn't allowed near the piano.

Basically it was just an exciting journey, really.

Now the question is, how do you do it, Derek?

And hopefully we can show the audience now how it is you do what you do. 

I think that one of the first things that happened when you were very little, Derek, was that by the time you were two, your musical ear had already outstripped that of most adults.

Not only can you say how many notes, it's being able to play them all at the same time.

Etc. 

DP: No. 

DP: This. 

DP: "Flight of the Bumblebee" on that note. 

So you see, in your brain, Derek, is this amazing musical computer that can instantly recalibrate, recalculate, all the pieces in the world that are out there.

Fantastic chap. 

The other wonderful thing about you is memory. 

So just be thoughtful before you suggest something too outlandish. 

Would you like to hear me play? 

Now then. 

Now then. 

AO: I should really get Derek's manager to come and play it.

He's sitting there. 

DP: Let Derek play it. 

Keep up with Derek. 

The TED people will kill me, but perhaps there's time for one encore. 

And here is Derek's take on Art Tatum's take on "Tiger Rag."

