Underneath, I was actually deeply unhappy, insecure and fundamentally frightened -- frightened of other people, of the future, of failure and of the emptiness that I felt was within me.

But I was skilled at hiding it, and from the outside appeared to be someone with everything to hope for and aspire to.

So, for example, if I was angry and had to hide it, which I often did, being very adept at concealing how I really felt, then the voice would sound frustrated.

And to be fair, I was desperate for interest and help, and I began to tell him about my strange commentator.

I was referred to a psychiatrist, who likewise took a grim view of the voice's presence, subsequently interpreting everything I said through a lens of latent insanity.

It was at this point that events began to rapidly overtake me.

But having been encouraged to see the voice not as an experience but as a symptom, my fear and resistance towards it intensified.

Helplessly and hopelessly, I began to retreat into this nightmarish inner world in which the voices were destined to become both my persecutors and my only perceived companions.

Two years later, and the deterioration was dramatic.

Now looking back on the wreckage and despair of those years, it seems to me now as if someone died in that place, and yet, someone else was saved.

Many people have harmed me in my life, and I remember them all, but the memories grow pale and faint in comparison with the people who've helped me.

Fourteen minutes is not enough time to fully credit those good and generous people who fought with me and for me and who waited to welcome me back from that agonized, lonely place.

But together, they forged a blend of courage, creativity, integrity, and an unshakeable belief that my shattered self could become healed and whole.

Now at first, I would have believed them.

As Oscar Wilde has said, the only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about.

This type of society is not only possible, it's already on its way.

To paraphrase Chavez, once social change begins, it cannot be reversed.

You cannot humiliate the person who feels pride.

As Peter Levine has said, the human animal is a unique being endowed with an instinctual capacity to heal and the intellectual spirit to harness this innate capacity.

In this respect, for members of society, there is no greater honor or privilege than facilitating that process of healing for someone, to bear witness, to reach out a hand, to share the burden of someone's suffering, and to hold the hope for their recovery.

What lies within us can never be truly colonized, contorted, or taken away.

