If you're laughing, you know what I mean. 

Chris is a great friend of mine from my university days, but secretly, I hate him. 

Here's my clock.

It uses something called the dwarf sunflower, which grows to about 12 inches in height.

Now, as you know, sunflowers track the sun during the course of the day.

So in the morning, you see which direction the sunflower is facing, and you mark it on the blank area in the base.

So, in my completely unbiased, subjective opinion, it's brilliant. 

However, here's Chris's clock.

It's five magnifying glasses with a shot glass under each one.

In each shot glass is a different scented oil.

A couple of hours later, the sun will shine on the next magnifying glass, and a different smell will be emitted.

So during the course of the day, five different smells are dispersed throughout that environment.

Anyone living in that house can tell the time just by the smell.

You can see why I hate Chris.

One thing you have to know about me is I hate to lose.

All right, let's get back to the question of why sex is so good.

And when she said this, I had an epiphany.

To do this, I devised something called the five senses graph.

Here's a quick video to show you how it works. 

Bike designer: This is [unclear], custom bike designer. 

JL: And that's how the five senses graph works. 

So here are some other results.

The first is for instant noodles.

Many people told me a big part of the noodle-eating experience is the slurping noise.

OK, next, clubbing.

These people I still do hang out with. 

All right, and smoking.

OK. Now, what would the perfect experience look like on the five senses graph?

It would, of course, be a horizontal line along the top.

Now in the middle of all this five senses work, I suddenly remembered the solar-powered clocks project from my youth.

And I realized this theory also explains why Chris's clock is so much better than mine.

You see, my clock only focuses on sight, and a little bit of touch.

Here's Chris's clock.

It's the first clock ever that uses smell to tell the time.

In fact, in terms of the five senses, Chris's clock is a revolution. 

And that's what this theory taught me about my field.

We could call this "the perfumator."

All right, next.

Finally, I have a thing for the keys on a flute or a clarinet.

It's not just the way they look, but I love the way they feel when you press down on them.

Now, I realize the five senses isn't the only thing that makes life interesting.

There's also the six emotions and that elusive x-factor.

Oh, one last thing before I leave.

All right. 

