Motor racing is a funny old business.

Now, the car you see in front of you is quite complicated.

So there's about 25,000 things there that can go wrong.

The other thing about Formula 1 in particular is we're always changing the car.

We're always trying to make it faster.

So every two weeks, we will be making about 5,000 new components to fit to the car.

On the race car in front of you here there are about 120 sensors when it goes into a race.

So during a two-hour race, each car will be sending 750 million numbers.

That's twice as many numbers as words that each of us speaks in a lifetime.

But it's not enough just to have data and measure it.

You need to be able to do something with it.

It was deemed to be an unpredictable event.

This was a heart attack that no one could see coming.

But when we look at the information there, we can see that things are starting to become a little fuzzy about five minutes or so before the cardiac arrest.

We can see small changes in things like the heart rate moving.

These were all undetected by normal thresholds which would be applied to data.

So the question is, why couldn't we see it?

Was this a predictable event?

It's a patient with a heart problem.

So what we did is we took a data system which we run every two weeks of the year in Formula 1 and we installed it on the hospital computers at Birmingham Children's Hospital.

We streamed data from the bedside instruments in their pediatric intensive care so that we could both look at the data in real time and, more importantly, to store the data so that we could start to learn from it.

Now, in motor racing, we're all a little bit ambitious, audacious, a little bit arrogant sometimes, so we decided we would also look at the children as they were being transported to intensive care.

Why should we wait until they arrived in the hospital before we started to look?

And then we started looking at the data.

The blue line is an indication of when patterns start to change, and immediately, before we even started putting in clinical interpretation, we can see that the data is speaking to us.

The green is us learning what is normal for that child.

We call it the cloud of normality.

And when things start to change, when conditions start to deteriorate, we move into the red line.

There's no rocket science here.

It is displaying data that exists already in a different way, to amplify it, to provide cues to the doctors, to the nurses, so they can see what's happening.

So we have a very ambitious program.

With wireless connectivity these days, there is no reason why patients, doctors and nurses always have to be in the same place at the same time.

