So if I was to ask you what the connection between a bottle of Tide detergent and sweat was, you'd probably think that's the easiest question that you're going to be asked in Edinburgh all week.

It was founded in 2008 by this anonymous programmer using a pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto.

And I'm probably not going to do it proper service here, but my interpretation of how it works is that Bitcoins are released through this process of mining.

So there's a network of computers that are challenged to solve a very complex mathematical problem and the person that manages to solve it first gets the Bitcoins.

It's actually managed by the network.

But what it does show is that it's sort of gaining ground, it's gaining respectability.

You get services, like Reddit and Wordpress are actually accepting Bitcoin as a payment currency now.

I think there was a Gallup survey out recently that said something like, in America, trust in banks is at an all-time low, it's something like 21 percent.

And this is a global survey, so these numbers are global.

And if you look at these figures for the more developed markets like U.K., Germany, and so on, they're actually much lower.

And I find that sort of scary.

People are actually trusting businesspeople more than they're trusting governments and leaders.

So what's starting to happen, if you think about money, if you sort of boil money down to an essence, it is literally just an expression of value, an agreed value.

You know, reputations are built on trust, consistency, transparency.

So you think about loyalty.

Loyalty essentially is a micro-economy.

You think about rewards schemes, air miles.

The Economist said a few years ago that there are actually more unredeemed air miles in the world than there are dollar bills in circulation.

You know, when you are standing in line in Starbucks, 30 percent of transactions in Starbucks on any one day are actually being made with Starbucks Star points.

So that's a sort of Starbucks currency staying within its ecosystem.

And what I find interesting is that Amazon has recently launched Amazon coins.

So admittedly it's a currency at the moment that's purely for the Kindle.

So suddenly, you start thinking, well Amazon potentially could push this.

It could become a natural extension, that as well as buying stuff -- take it out of the Kindle -- you could buy books, music, real-life products, appliances and goods and so on.

And I'll get you back to Tide, the detergent now, as I promised.

So they're going into convenience stores, stealing Tide, and a $20 bottle of Tide is equal to 10 dollars of crack cocaine or weed.

It's 50 percent above the category average.

It's infused with a very complex cocktail of chemicals, so it smells very luxurious and very distinctive, and, being a Procter and Gamble brand, it's been supported by a lot of mass media advertising.

Now, what I thought was funny was the reaction from the P&amp;G spokesperson.

They said, obviously tried to dissociate themselves from drugs, but said, "It reminds me of one thing and that's the value of the brand has stayed consistent."

So that brings me back to the connection with sweat.

So you think about, these Nike shoes have got sensors in them, or you're using a Nike FuelBand that basically tracks your movement, your energy, your calorie consumption.

And what's happening here, this is where you've actually elected to join that Nike community.

So Nike is literally acting as a well-being partner, a health and fitness partner and service provider.

And we did a survey that backs up the fact that, you know, 45 percent of people in this very crucial demographic in the U.S. were saying that they're comfortable using an independent or branded currency.

And you think, corporations should start taking their assets and thinking of them in a different way and trading them.

And you think, is it much of a leap?

It seems farfetched, but when you think about it, in America in 1860, there were 1,600 corporations issuing banknotes.

There were 8,000 kinds of notes in America.

So what I'm going to ask is, basically, is history repeating itself?

Is technology making paper money feel outmoded?

Are we decoupling money from the government?

