I love paper, and I love technology, and what I do is I make paper interactive.

And I'm going to try and show that at the end, and the suspense will be as much mine if it works.

And I'm not a DJ, and I'm not a musician, so I'm a little bit scared of that.

So I think, I found the best way to describe my journey is just to mention a few little things that have happened to me throughout my life.

And I was also really interested in wireless as well.

I ended up on a farm in the middle of nowhere.

It was in far western New South Wales.

And this farm was 120,000 acres.

There were 22,000 sheep, and it was about 40 degrees, or 100 or so Fahrenheit.

And on this farm there was the farmer, his wife, and there was the four-year-old daughter.

And they kind of took me into the farm and showed me what it was like to live and work.

Another bunch of years later, I ended up at Cambridge University at the Cavendish Laboratory in the U.K. doing a Ph.D. in physics.

It really is.

It's just you do it by changing an environment.

It was about five meters long, and I covered myself and the floor with ink and made a massive mess, but I learned to print.

So I'll just describe a couple of things that we've created.

But it doesn't tell you the cake there and then.

We've worked with a bunch of universities on a project looking at interactive newsprint.

So for example, we've created a newspaper, a regular newspaper.

Something else that we created, and this was an idea that I had a couple of years ago, and so we've done a project on this.

And we wanted to try and encourage people to use energy better.

Okay.

So this is the bit I'm really scared of.

If anyone wants to try and play drums, then they can.

(Drums) And it has really good response time.

I'm not a D.J., though, but I just always wanted to do that.

(Scratching) So I have a crossfader, and I have the two decks.

So this is my niece, Charlotte.

But it's not about the technology.

It's just about, I want to create some great experiences.

