I'm going to talk about consciousness.

Why consciousness?

Now why is that curious?

So consciousness is number one.

The second reason is that when people do get interested in it, as I think they should, they tend to say the most appalling things.

When I first got interested in this, I thought, well, it's a straightforward problem in biology.

Let's get these brain stabbers to get busy and figure out how it works in the brain.

Now I've been working on this for a long time.

Okay, now why then is this curious reluctance and curious hostility to consciousness?

It belongs to the soul, and the soul is not a part of the physical world.

That's the tradition of God, the soul and immortality.

Okay, so these twin traditions are paralyzing us.

It's very hard to get out of these twin traditions.

Okay, now I promised you to tell you some of the outrageous things said about consciousness.

One: Consciousness does not exist.

It's an illusion, like sunsets.

Science has shown sunsets and rainbows are illusions.

So consciousness is an illusion.

Two: Well, maybe it exists, but it's really something else.

It's a computer program running in the brain.

Three: No, the only thing that exists is really behavior.

It begins in the morning when you wake up from a dreamless sleep, and it goes on all day until you fall asleep or die or otherwise become unconscious.

And just as the jar full of water can go from liquid to solid depending on the behavior of the molecules, so your brain can go from a state of being conscious to a state of being unconscious, depending on the behavior of the molecules.

Well, the first feature is, it's real and irreducible.

You can't get rid of it.

You see, the distinction between reality and illusion is the distinction between how things consciously seem to us and how they really are.

It consciously seems to us, but that's not really happening.

You cannot doubt the existence of your own consciousness.

Okay, the second feature is this one that has been such a source of trouble to us, and that is, all of our conscious states have this qualitative character to them.

Maybe we'll be able to build a conscious machine.

So I don't just have the sight of the people in front of me and the sound of my voice and the weight of my shoes against the floor, but they occur to me as part of one single great conscious field that stretches forward and backward.

That is the key to understanding the enormous power of consciousness.

And we have not been able to do that in a robot.

How can it be that this thought in my brain can move material objects?

Now, think of what I told you.

One and the same event, my conscious decision to raise my arm has a level of description where it has all of these touchy-feely spiritual qualities.

It's a thought in my brain, but at the same time, it's busy secreting acetylcholine and doing all sorts of other things as it makes its way from the motor cortex down through the nerve fibers in the arm.

Now, what that tells us is that our traditional vocabularies for discussing these issues are totally obsolete.

We know that actual human consciousness has something more than that.

Their existence is observer-relative.

Now, ask yourself about computation.

Is that absolute, like force and mass and gravitational attraction?

Or is it observer-relative?

Well, some computations are intrinsic.

I add two plus two to get four.

That's going on no matter what anybody thinks.

But when I haul out my pocket calculator and do the calculation, the only intrinsic phenomenon is the electronic circuit and its behavior.

That's the only absolute phenomenon.

All the rest is interpreted by us.

Computation only exists relative to consciousness.

I spent a lot of money on this hardware.

But we have this persistent confusion between objectivity and subjectivity as features of reality and objectivity and subjectivity as features of claims.

So the objection that you can't have an objective science of consciousness because it's subjective and science is objective, that's a pun.

That's a bad pun on objectivity and subjectivity.

Your mental states are identical with your behavior?

Well, think about the distinction between feeling a pain and engaging in pain behavior.

The mistake was — and you can go back and read the literature on this, you can see this over and over — they think if you accept the irreducible existence of consciousness, you're giving up on science.

