Miranda Wang: We're here to talk about accidents.

How do you feel about accidents?

But are they always that bad?

The discovery that had led to penicillin, for example, is one of the most fortunate accidents of all time.

Jeanny Yao: Miranda and I are here today because we'd like to share how our accidents have led to discoveries.

In 2011, we visited the Vancouver Waste Transfer Station and saw an enormous pit of plastic waste.

MW: However, plastics are useful because they're durable, flexible, and can be easily molded into so many useful shapes.

The downside of this convenience is that there's a high cost to this.

But that's no longer an accurate depiction of plastic pollution in the marine environment.

JY: In a plastic-dependent society, cutting down production is a good goal, but it's not enough.

And what about the waste that's already been produced?

Plastics take hundreds to thousands of years to biodegrade.

But we had a problem.

You see, plastics have very complex structures and are difficult to biodegrade.

MW: With this idea in mind, Jeanny and I read through some hundreds of scientific articles on the Internet, and we drafted a research proposal in the beginning of our grade 12 year.

We aimed to find bacteria from our local Fraser River that can degrade a harmful plasticizer called phthalates.

Phthalates are additives used in everyday plastic products to increase their flexibility, durability and transparency.

Although they're part of the plastic, they're not covalently bonded to the plastic backbone.

As a result, they easily escape into our environment.

Not only do phthalates pollute our environment, but they also pollute our bodies.

Phthalates are horrible because they're so easily taken into our bodies.

JY: Every year, at least 470 million pounds of phthalates contaminate our air, water and soil.

We read that each year, the Vancouver municipal government monitors phthalate concentration levels in rivers to assess their safety.

MW: So we presented this good idea to Dr. Lindsay Eltis at the University of British Columbia, and surprisingly, he actually took us into his lab and asked his graduate students Adam and James to help us.

JY: The first step in our project was to collect soil samples from three different sites along the Fraser River.

This implied that, if anything grew in our cultures, then they must be able to live off of phthalates.

You see, I accidentally cracked the flask that had contained our third enrichment culture, and as a result, we had to wipe down the incubator room with bleach and ethanol twice.

And this is only one of the examples of the many accidents that happened during our experimentation.

But this mistake turned out to be rather serendipitous.

We poked holes in our agar while streaking and contaminated some samples and funghi.

So Jeanny and I took three of our most efficient strains and then performed gene amplification sequencing on them and matched our data with an online comprehensive database.

JY: To better understand how this biodegradation works, we wanted to verify the catabolic pathways of our three strains.

MW: We monitored this experiment with spectrophotometry and obtained this beautiful graph.

This graph shows that our bacteria really do have a genetic pathway to biodegrade phthalates.

I know some of you in the crowd are thinking, well, carbon dioxide is horrible, it's a greenhouse gas.

JY: So Miranda and I shared this research at the Sanofi BioGENEius Challenge competition and were recognized with the greatest commercialization potential.

Although we're not the first ones to find bacteria that can break down phthalates, we were the first ones to look into our local river and find a possible solution to a local problem.

Throughout this journey, we have also discovered our passion for science, and are currently continuing research on other fossil fuel chemicals in university.

We hope that in the near future, we'll be able to create model organisms that can break down not only phthalates but a wide variety of different contaminants.

We can apply this to wastewater treatment plants to clean up our rivers and other natural resources.

