Where do you come from?

So I don't think I've really earned the right to call myself an Indian.

And they have one home associated with their parents, but another associated with their partners, a third connected maybe with the place where they happen to be, a fourth connected with the place they dream of being, and many more besides.

And their whole life will be spent taking pieces of many different places and putting them together into a stained glass whole.

Home for them is really a work in progress.

And for more and more of us, home has really less to do with a piece of soil than, you could say, with a piece of soul.

And three hours later, that fire had reduced my home and every last thing in it except for me to ash.

And when I woke up the next morning, I was sleeping on a friend's floor, the only thing I had in the world was a toothbrush I had just bought from an all-night supermarket.

And in so many ways, I think this is a terrific liberation.

Already, we represent the fifth-largest nation on Earth.

And I've always felt that the beauty of being surrounded by the foreign is that it slaps you awake.

You can't take anything for granted.

Suddenly you're alert to the secret patterns of the world.

The real voyage of discovery, as Marcel Proust famously said, consists not in seeing new sights, but in looking with new eyes.

Many of the people living in countries not their own are refugees who never wanted to leave home and ache to go back home.

But for the fortunate among us, I think the age of movement brings exhilarating new possibilities.

Certainly when I'm traveling, especially to the major cities of the world, the typical person I meet today will be, let's say, a half-Korean, half-German young woman living in Paris.

And as soon as she meets a half-Thai, half-Canadian young guy from Edinburgh, she recognizes him as kin.

They move to New York City.

(Laughter) Or Edinburgh.

And the little girl who arises out of their union will of course be not Korean or German or French or Thai or Scotch or Canadian or even American, but a wonderful and constantly evolving mix of all those places.

Where you come from now is much less important than where you're going.

More and more of us are rooted in the future or the present tense as much as in the past.

And home, we know, is not just the place where you happen to be born.

Some years ago, I noticed that I had accumulated one million miles on United Airlines alone.

This was the wrong answer.

And when I got out of my car, the air was pulsing.

It was really a presence of a kind of energy or quickening.

And at my feet was the great, still blue plate of the Pacific Ocean.

All around me were 800 acres of wild dry brush.

And by the time I got up, four hours had passed.

Night had fallen, and I went out under this great overturned saltshaker of stars, and I could see the tail lights of cars disappearing around the headlands 12 miles to the south.

And the next day, when I woke up in the absence of telephones and TVs and laptops, the days seemed to stretch for a thousand hours.

And home, in the end, is of course not just the place where you sleep.

