They get a bad rap.

If you think about it, the English language has written into it negative associations towards the clouds.

Someone who's down or depressed, they're under a cloud.

And when there's bad news in store, there's a cloud on the horizon.

I saw an article the other day.

It was about problems with computer processing over the Internet.

"A cloud over the cloud," was the headline.

And so people think of clouds as things that get in the way.

(Laughter) But most people, when you stop to ask them, will admit to harboring a strange sort of fondness for clouds.

It's like a nostalgic fondness, and they make them think of their youth.

Who here can't remember thinking, well, looking and finding shapes in the clouds when they were kids?

You know, when you were masters of daydreaming?

I think we should perhaps do a bit more of it.

I think we should be a bit more willing, perhaps, to look at the beautiful sight of the sunlight bursting out from behind the clouds and go, "Wait a minute, that's two cats dancing the salsa!"

(Laughter) (Applause) Or seeing the big, white, puffy one up there over the shopping center looks like the Abominable Snowman going to rob a bank.

(Laughter) (Applause) Or seeing the big, white, puffy one up there over the shopping center looks like the Abominable Snowman going to rob a bank.

(Laughter) They're like nature's version of those inkblot images, you know, that shrinks used to show their patients in the '60s, and I think if you consider the shapes you see in the clouds, you'll save money on psychoanalysis bills.

(Laughter) They're like nature's version of those inkblot images, you know, that shrinks used to show their patients in the '60s, and I think if you consider the shapes you see in the clouds, you'll save money on psychoanalysis bills.

(Laughter) They're like nature's version of those inkblot images, you know, that shrinks used to show their patients in the '60s, and I think if you consider the shapes you see in the clouds, you'll save money on psychoanalysis bills.

(Laughter) They're like nature's version of those inkblot images, you know, that shrinks used to show their patients in the '60s, and I think if you consider the shapes you see in the clouds, you'll save money on psychoanalysis bills.

(Laughter) Perhaps you're having a moment of existential angst.

(Laughter) Or maybe you see a topless sunbather.

(Laughter) Or maybe you see a topless sunbather.

But one thing I do know is this: The bad press that clouds get is totally unfair.

Tens of thousands of members now in almost 100 countries around the world.

And all these photographs that I'm showing, they were sent in by members.

And these winds up there can be very, very fierce.

They can be 200 miles an hour, 300 miles an hour.

These clouds are bombing along, but from all the way down here, they appear to be moving gracefully, slowly, like most clouds.

And so to tune into the clouds is to slow down, to calm down.

It's like a bit of everyday meditation.

Those are common clouds.

These clouds form in the region of mountains.

This is when a layer is made up of very, very cold water droplets, and in one region they start to freeze, and this freezing sets off a chain reaction which spreads outwards with the ice crystals cascading and falling down below, giving the appearance of jellyfish tendrils down below.

And these clouds, these rarer clouds, remind us that the exotic can be found in the everyday.

But you don't need to rush off away from the familiar, across the world to be surprised.

You just need to step outside, pay attention to what's so commonplace, so everyday, so mundane that everybody else misses it.

One cloud that people rarely miss is this one: the cumulonimbus storm cloud.

To be there is to be connected in the driving rain and the hail, to feel connected to our atmosphere.

And that connection, that visceral connection to our atmosphere feels to me like an antidote.

It's an antidote to the growing tendency we have to feel that we can really ever experience life by watching it on a computer screen, you know, when we're in a wi-fi zone.

If you close your eyes and think of a cloud, it's probably one of these that comes to mind.

All those cloud shapes at the beginning, those were cumulus clouds.

The sharp, crisp outlines of this formation make it the best one for finding shapes in.

The digital world conspires to make us feel eternally busy, perpetually busy.

You know, when you're not dealing with the traditional pressures of earning a living and putting food on the table, raising a family, writing thank you letters, you have to now contend with answering a mountain of unanswered emails, updating a Facebook page, feeding your Twitter feed.

And cloudspotting legitimizes doing nothing.

(Laughter) And sometimes we need — (Applause) Sometimes we need excuses to do nothing.

It's good for your soul.

So keep looking up, marvel at the ephemeral beauty, and always remember to live life with your head in the clouds.

