But they do.

In fact, temperate and tropical rainforests each produce a vibrant animal orchestra, that instantaneous and organized expression of insects, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals.

The soundscape is made up of three basic sources.

The second of these is the biophony.

The biophony is all of the sound that's generated by organisms in a given habitat at one time and in one place.

And the third is all of the sound that we humans generate that's called anthrophony.

There was a time when I considered wild soundscapes to be a worthless artifact.

To me, this was a little like trying to understand the magnificence of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony by abstracting the sound of a single violin player out of the context of the orchestra and hearing just that one part.

When I began recording over four decades ago, I could record for 10 hours and capture one hour of usable material, good enough for an album or a film soundtrack or a museum installation.

Now, because of global warming, resource extraction, and human noise, among many other factors, it can take up to 1,000 hours or more to capture the same thing.

The usual methods of evaluating a habitat have been done by visually counting the numbers of species and the numbers of individuals within each species in a given area.

However, by comparing data that ties together both density and diversity from what we hear, I'm able to arrive at much more precise fitness outcomes.

This is Lincoln Meadow.

This is an example of a spectrogram.

There were a lot of them.

This is after selective logging.

Well, I've returned to Lincoln Meadow 15 times in the last 25 years, and I can tell you that the biophony, the density and diversity of that biophony, has not yet returned to anything like it was before the operation.

But I can tell you that they do express themselves.

Whether or not we understand it is a different story.

The static-like sounds that are very low, that you're going to hear right now.

And when there's enough moisture in the soil in the spring, frogs will dig themselves to the surface and gather around these large, vernal pools in great numbers.

And they vocalize in a chorus that's absolutely in sync with one another.

I want to end with a story told by a beaver.

It was also formed in part by a beaver dam at one end that held that whole ecosystem together in a very delicate balance.

And one afternoon, while he was recording, there suddenly appeared from out of nowhere a couple of game wardens, who for no apparent reason, walked over to the beaver dam, dropped a stick of dynamite down it, blowing it up, killing the female and her young babies.

And where environmental sciences have typically tried to understand the world from what we see, a much fuller understanding can be got from what we hear.

Visual capture implicitly frames a limited frontal perspective of a given spatial context, while soundscapes widen that scope to a full 360 degrees, completely enveloping us.

And while a picture may be worth 1,000 words, a soundscape is worth 1,000 pictures.

