We are stealing nature from our children.

But there's a fix for this.

So let me explain. 

If you added up all the human beings, we would weigh 10 times as much as all the wild mammals put together.

We cut roads through the forest.

We have added little plastic particles to the sand on ocean beaches.

We've changed the chemistry of the soil with our artificial fertilizers.

And of course, we've changed the chemistry of the air.

So where does this put nature?

What counts as nature in a world where everything is influenced by humans? 

In fact, he called his book "The End of Nature."

And under that definition, things look a little bit different. 

Places like Yellowstone, or the Mongolian steppe, or the Great Barrier Reef or the Serengeti.

And in a way, they are less impacted by our day to day activities.

But ultimately, even these Edens are deeply influenced by humans. 

And when those animals went extinct, you know, the ecosystems didn't stand still.

Not just these prehistoric humans, but historical humans, indigenous people all the way up until the moment when the first colonizers showed up.

And the case is the same for the other continents as well.

Now, just recently, someone told me, 

People live there, and they don't just float over the jungle.

They domesticate crops.

They even make pets out of animals that we consider to be wild animals.

There's people everywhere.

Now, if we do it that way, what do we get?

Well, it's this kind of miracle.

All of a sudden, there's nature all around us.

And look at this empty lot.

This is a kind of wild nature right under our nose, that we don't even notice. 

And there's an interesting little paradox, too.

But they're managing it carefully.

One of the issues they have now is white bark pine die-off.

There's a blister rust that was introduced, bark beetle.

And this kind of thing is really much more common than you would think.

National parks are heavily managed.

The wildlife is kept to a certain population size and structure.

Fires are suppressed.

Fires are started.

Non-native species are removed.

Native species are reintroduced.

And in a further irony, these places that we love the most are the places that we love a little too hard, sometimes.

You can't climb the trees.

You can't fish the fish.

You can't make a campfire out in the middle of nowhere.

You can't take home the pinecones.

Because children don't want to hike through a beautiful landscape for five hours and then look at a beautiful view.

And only two out of five spent time outdoors at least once a week.

The other three out of five were just staying inside.

I mean, 71 percent of people in the US live within a 10-minute walk of a city park.

And I'm sure the figures are similar in other countries.

And that doesn't even count your back garden, the urban creek, the empty lot.

Everybody lives near nature.

Every kid lives near nature.

We've just somehow forgotten how to see it.

and we've forgotten how to see the nature that is literally right outside our door, the nature of the street tree. 

And it's right in the middle of the city.

And it's not just plants.

There's pollination going on.

I mean, this is really an ecosystem. 

They're just unlike anything we've ever seen before.

For so long, we dismissed all these novel ecosystems as trash.

You can make your own novel ecosystem, too.

It's really simple.

You just stop mowing your lawn. 

In a way, I feel like this is the choice that faces us.

If we dismiss these new natures as not acceptable or trashy or no good, we might as well just pave them over.

And in a world where everything is changing, we need to be very careful about how we define nature. 

In order not to steal it from our children, we have to do two things.

First, we cannot define nature as that which is untouched.

This never made any sense anyway.

Nature has not been untouched for thousands of years.

We face some pretty grim environmental challenges on this planet.

And the only way we're going to raise up a generation of people who care about nature is by letting them touch nature. 

Every ecologist I know, every conservation biologist I know, every conservation professional I know, built forts when they were kids.

If we have a generation that doesn't know how to build a fort, we'll have a generation that doesn't know how to care about nature. 

Thank you. 

