This is a dolphin that is self-aware.

This dolphin has self-awareness.

It's a young dolphin named Bayley.

I've been very interested in understanding the nature of the intelligence of dolphins for the past 30 years.

How do we explore intelligence in this animal that's so different from us?

Dolphins aren't the only animals, the only non-human animals, to show mirror self-recognition.

We used to think this was a uniquely human ability, but we learned that the great apes, our closest relatives, also show this ability.

Then we showed it in dolphins, and then later in elephants.

We are not alone.

We are not alone in these abilities.

And I hope, and one of my biggest dreams, is that, with our growing awareness about the consciousness of others and our relationship with the rest of the animal world, that we'll give them the respect and protection that they deserve.

So that's a wish I'm throwing out here for everybody, and I hope I can really engage you in this idea.

And these are real personalities.

They are not persons, but they're personalities in every sense of the word.

And you can't get more alien than the dolphin.

Look at this body.

And in every sense of making a pun here, these are true non-terrestrials.

I wondered how we might interface with these animals.

In the 1980s, I developed an underwater keyboard.

This was a custom-made touch-screen keyboard.

So the dolphins could hit a key, a symbol, they heard a computer-generated whistle, and they got an object or activity.

Now here's a little video.

And they started to quickly imitate the sounds they were hearing on the keyboard.

They imitated on their own.

Beyond that, though, they started learning associations between the symbols, the sounds and the objects.

So as an adult, when I started to read about the amazing breakthroughs with Penny Patterson and Koko, with Sue Savage-Rumbaugh and Kanzi, Panbanisha, Irene Pepperberg, Alex the parrot, I got all excited.

What was amazing to me also was they seemed a lot more adept at getting a handle on our language than we were on getting a handle on theirs.

I work with a lot of musicians from around the world, and often we don't have any common language at all, but we sit down behind our instruments, and suddenly there's a way for us to connect and emote.

Sue's encouraging her to continue a little more.

(Music) She discovers a note she likes, finds the octave.

She'd never sat at a keyboard before.

(Applause) NG: So Peter approached me.

I lost it when I saw that clip.

He approached me with a vision of doing these things not for people, for animals.

And then I was struck in the history of the Internet.

Vint Cerf: (Laughs) (Laughter) NG: Speaking as one.

Then, when I first came to TED, which was where I met Peter, I showed this.

This is a $1 web server, and at the time that was radical.

And we were happy with ourselves.

So we're going to bring you to them.

Next user group are the dolphins at the National Aquarium.

Please go ahead.

Allison Ginsburg: Good evening.

Now, here at the National Aquarium we are committed to excellence in animal care, to research, and to conservation.

The dolphins are pretty intrigued as to what's going on here tonight.

They're not really used to having cameras here at 8 o'clock at night.

In addition, we are very committed to doing different types of research.

As Diana mentioned, our animals are involved in many different research studies.

Forty years ago, Bob Kahn and I did the design of the Internet.

Thirty years ago, we turned it on.

Just last year, we turned on the production Internet.

You've been using the experimental version for the last 30 years.

The production version, it uses IP version 6.

It has 3.4 times 10 to the 38th possible terminations.

That's a number only that Congress can appreciate.

But it leads to what is coming next.

When Bob and I did this design, we thought we were building a system to connect computers together.

What we very quickly discovered is that this was a system for connecting people together.

Well, you know where this is headed.

That's the Internet of Things that's coming.

Now, what's important about what these people are doing is that they're beginning to learn how to communicate with species that are not us but share a common sensory environment.

We're beginning to explore what it means to communicate with something that isn't just another person.

Well, you can see what's coming next.

What happens after that?

Well, let's see.

So we'll need something like C3PO to become a translator between ourselves and some of the other machines we live with.

Now, there is a project that's underway called the interplanetary Internet.

It's in operation between Earth and Mars.

It's operating on the International Space Station.

It's part of the spacecraft that's in orbit around the Sun that's rendezvoused with two planets.

So the interplanetary system is on its way, but there's a last project, which the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which funded the original ARPANET, funded the Internet, funded the interplanetary architecture, is now funding a project to design a spacecraft to get to the nearest star in 100 years' time.

What that means is that what we're learning with these interactions with other species will teach us, ultimately, how we might interact with an alien from another world.

I can hardly wait.

PG: I think we want to engage as many people here as possible in helping us think of smart interfaces that will make all this possible.

Some people might have looked at the video that you showed and thought, well, that's just a webcam.

NG: So this is scalable video infrastructure, not for a few to a few but many to many, so that it scales to symmetrical video sharing and content sharing across these sites around the planet.

I know you mentioned that a keyboard is a really key part of this.

DR: We're trying to develop an interactive touch screen for dolphins.

