This is my grandfather.

And this is my son.

These are my buildings.

I build all around the world out of our office in Vancouver and New York.

And we build buildings of different sizes and styles and different materials, depending on where we are.

And part of the reason I love it is that every time people go into my buildings that are wood, I notice they react completely differently.

I've actually seen how people touch the wood, and I think there's a reason for it.

Just like snowflakes, no two pieces of wood can ever be the same anywhere on Earth.

That's a wonderful thing.

I like to think that wood gives Mother Nature fingerprints in our buildings.

Down the coast here in California, the redwood forest grows to 40 stories tall.

But the buildings that we think about in wood are only four stories tall in most places on Earth.

Cities and density mean that our buildings are going to continue to be big, and I think there's a role for wood to play in cities.

And I feel that way because three billion people in the world today, over the next 20 years, will need a new home.

That's 40 percent of the world that are going to need a new building built for them in the next 20 years.

Now, one in three people living in cities today actually live in a slum.

That's one billion people in the world live in slums.

A hundred million people in the world are homeless.

They're the materials of the last century.

But they're also materials with very high energy and very high greenhouse gas emissions in their process.

Steel represents about three percent of man's greenhouse gas emissions, and concrete is over five percent.

So if you think about that, eight percent of our contribution to greenhouse gases today comes from those two materials alone.

And although a lot of that is about energy, it's also so much about carbon.

If it burns in a forest fire, it's going to give that carbon back to the atmosphere as well.

But if you take that wood and you put it into a building or into a piece of furniture or into that wooden toy, it actually has an amazing capacity to store the carbon and provide us with a sequestration.

One cubic meter of wood will store one tonne of carbon dioxide.

Now our two solutions to climate are obviously to reduce our emissions and find storage.

Wood is the only major material building material I can build with that actually does both those two things.

Now, how are we going to do that when we're urbanizing at this rate and we think about wood buildings only at four stories?

Mass timber panels are those 24-dot bricks.

And the way I describe it is this.

Well, mass timber panels, these new products that we're using, are much like the log.

The next big issue, deforestation.

Or, the last thing we want to do is cut down the wrong trees.

We've calculated a 20-story building: We'll grow enough wood in North America every 13 minutes.

The carbon story here is a really good one.

If we built a 20-story building out of cement and concrete, the process would result in the manufacturing of that cement and 1,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide.

If we did it in wood, in this solution, we'd sequester about 3,100 tonnes, for a net difference of 4,300 tonnes.

That's the equivalent of about 900 cars removed from the road in one year.

It's really just the structure that we're talking about.

The reason we picked it is because this is a technical university, and I believe that wood is the most technologically advanced material I can build with.

It just happens to be that Mother Nature holds the patent, and we don't really feel comfortable with it.

Buildings are starting to go up around the world.

There's a building in London that's nine stories, a new building that just finished in Australia that I believe is 10 or 11.

