There's the former Soviet megalomaniacs.

Saparmurat Niyazov, he was one of them.

Until his death in 2006, he was the all-powerful leader of Turkmenistan, a Central Asian country rich in natural gas.

Now, he really loved to issue presidential decrees.

And one renamed the months of the year including after himself and his mother.

And then there's that cliché, the African dictator or minister or official.

There's Teodorín Obiang.

The vast majority of its people are living in really miserable poverty despite an income per capita that's on a par with that of Portugal.

So Obiang junior, well, he buys himself a $30 million mansion in Malibu, California.

And there's Dan Etete.

So it's easy to think that corruption happens somewhere over there, carried out by a bunch of greedy despots and individuals up to no good in countries that we, personally, may know very little about and feel really unconnected to and unaffected by what might be going on.

Well, at 22, I was very lucky.

My first job out of university was investigating the illegal trade in African ivory.

And that's how my relationship with corruption really began.

In 1993, with two friends who were colleagues, Simon Taylor and Patrick Alley, we set up an organization called Global Witness.

So a few years later, and it's now 1997, and I'm in Angola undercover investigating blood diamonds.

Well, some of that sprang from our work.

So I'm sitting in a hot and very stuffy hotel room feeling just totally overwhelmed.

But it wasn't about blood diamonds.

And for what was then a very small organization of just a few people, trying to even begin to think how we might tackle that was an enormous challenge.

So let's go back to some of those people I talked about earlier.

He did business with global banks.

And he didn't do all of this in his own name either.

He used shell companies.

And then there's Dan Etete.

So the reality is, is that the engine of corruption, well, it exists far beyond the shores of countries like Equatorial Guinea or Nigeria or Turkmenistan.

Now let's take the banks first.

So how did that happen?

Well, because an elite and its facilitators have been making millions of dollars from supporting logging on an industrial scale for many years.

And HSBC, well, we know that HSBC bankrolled the region's largest logging companies that were responsible for some of that destruction in Sarawak and elsewhere.

The bank violated its own sustainability policies in the process, but it earned around 130 million dollars.

And then there's the problem of anonymous shell companies.

But what doesn't usually come to light is how shell companies are used to steal huge sums of money, transformational sums of money, from poor countries.

A recent study by the World Bank looked at 200 cases of corruption.

It found that over 70 percent of those cases had used anonymous shell companies, totaling almost 56 billion dollars.

One striking recent case that we've investigated is how the government in the Democratic Republic of Congo sold off a series of valuable, state-owned mining assets to shell companies in the British Virgin Islands.

So we spoke to sources in country, trawled through company documents and other information trying to piece together a really true picture of the deal.

And we were alarmed to find that these shell companies had quickly flipped many of the assets on for huge profits to major international mining companies listed in London.

And will the people of Congo, will they ever get their money back?

And how about the oil, gas and mining companies?

Okay, maybe it's a bit of a cliché to talk about them.

Well, because there's a lot at stake.

Now, on the surface, the deal appeared straightforward.

Now, that's not bad going for a convicted money launderer.

And here's the thing.

Now, it just shouldn't take these sorts of efforts to find out where the money in deals like this went.

I mean, these are state assets.

They're supposed to be used for the benefit of the people in the country.

And finally, well, there are those who believe that corruption is unavoidable.

It's just how some business is done.

In the oil and mining sector, for example, there is now the beginning of a truly worldwide transparency standard that could tackle some of these problems.

In 1999, when Global Witness called for oil companies to make payments on deals transparent, well, some people laughed at the extreme naiveté of that small idea.

So this is change happening.

This is progress.

But we're not there yet, by far.

Because it really isn't about corruption somewhere over there, is it?

