Good morning.

My name is Eric Li, and I was born here.

But no, I wasn't born there.

This was where I was born: Shanghai, at the height of the Cultural Revolution.

When I was growing up, I was told a story that explained all I ever needed to know about humanity.

It went like this.

All human societies develop in linear progression, beginning with primitive society, then slave society, feudalism, capitalism, socialism, and finally, guess where we end up?

Communism!

Sooner or later, all of humanity, regardless of culture, language, nationality, will arrive at this final stage of political and social development.

The entire world's peoples will be unified in this paradise on Earth and live happily ever after.

That, of course, was the meta-narrative distilled from the theories of Karl Marx.

And the Chinese bought it.

We were taught that grand story day in and day out.

It became part of us, and we believed in it.

The story was a bestseller.

Then, the world changed overnight.

As if one big story wasn't enough, I was told another one.

This one was just as grand.

It also claims that all human societies develop in a linear progression towards a singular end.

This one went as follows: All societies, regardless of culture, be it Christian, Muslim, Confucian, must progress from traditional societies in which groups are the basic units to modern societies in which atomized individuals are the sovereign units, and all these individuals are, by definition, rational, and they all want one thing: the vote.

Because they are all rational, once given the vote, they produce good government and live happily ever after.

Paradise on Earth, again.

According to Freedom House, the number of democracies went from 45 in 1970 to 115 in 2010.

In the last 20 years, Western elites tirelessly trotted around the globe selling this prospectus: Multiple parties fight for political power and everyone voting on them is the only path to salvation to the long-suffering developing world.

Those who buy the prospectus are destined for success.

Those who do not are doomed to fail.

In just 30 years, China went from one of the poorest agricultural countries in the world to its second-largest economy.

Six hundred fifty million people were lifted out of poverty.

Eighty percent of the entire world's poverty alleviation during that period happened in China.

See, I grew up on this stuff: food stamps.

Meat was rationed to a few hundred grams per person per month at one point.

So I asked myself, what's wrong with this picture?

Middle class is expanding in speed and scale unprecedented in human history.

Yes, China is a one-party state run by the Chinese Communist Party, the Party, and they don't hold elections.

Three assumptions are made by the dominant political theories of our time.

Such a system is operationally rigid, politically closed, and morally illegitimate.

Well, the assumptions are wrong.

The opposites are true.

Now, most political scientists will tell us that a one-party system is inherently incapable of self-correction.

It won't last long because it cannot adapt.

Now here are the facts.

So the Party self-corrects in rather dramatic fashions.

Institutionally, new rules get enacted to correct previous dysfunctions.

For example, term limits.

Political leaders used to retain their positions for life, and they used that to accumulate power and perpetuate their rules.

Mao was the father of modern China, yet his prolonged rule led to disastrous mistakes.

One thing we often hear is, "Political reforms have lagged far behind economic reforms," and "China is in dire need of political reform."

But this claim is a rhetorical trap hidden behind a political bias.

See, some have decided a priori what kinds of changes they want to see, and only such changes can be called political reform.

The truth is, political reforms have never stopped.

Compared with 30 years ago, 20 years, even 10 years ago, every aspect of Chinese society, how the country is governed, from the most local level to the highest center, are unrecognizable today.

Now such changes are simply not possible without political reforms of the most fundamental kind.

The second assumption is that in a one-party state, power gets concentrated in the hands of the few, and bad governance and corruption follow.

Indeed, corruption is a big problem, but let's first look at the larger context.

Now, this may be counterintuitive to you.

The Party happens to be one of the most meritocratic political institutions in the world today.

China's highest ruling body, the Politburo, has 25 members.

In the most recent one, only five of them came from a background of privilege, so-called princelings.

The other 20, including the president and the premier, came from entirely ordinary backgrounds.

In the larger central committee of 300 or more, the percentage of those who were born into power and wealth was even smaller.

The vast majority of senior Chinese leaders worked and competed their way to the top.

The question then is, how could that be possible in a system run by one party?

Now we come to a powerful political institution, little-known to Westerners: the Party's Organization Department.

The department functions like a giant human resource engine that would be the envy of even some of the most successful corporations.

It operates a rotating pyramid made up of three components: civil service, state-owned enterprises, and social organizations like a university or a community program.

They form separate yet integrated career paths for Chinese officials.

They recruit college grads into entry-level positions in all three tracks, and they start from the bottom, called "keyuan" [clerk].

Then they could get promoted through four increasingly elite ranks: fuke [deputy section manager], ke [section manager], fuchu [deputy division manager], and chu [division manger].

The range of positions is wide, from running health care in a village to foreign investment in a city district to manager in a company.

They conduct public opinion surveys.

Then they promote the winners.

Throughout their careers, these cadres can move through and out of all three tracks.

By that point, a typical assignment will be to manage a district with a population in the millions or a company with hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue.

After the ju levels, the best few move further up several more ranks, and eventually make it to the Central Committee.

But merit remains the fundamental driver.

In essence, the Organization Department runs a modernized version of China's centuries-old mentoring system.

China's new president, Xi Jinping, is the son of a former leader, which is very unusual, first of his kind to make the top job.

Even for him, the career took 30 years.

George W. Bush, remember him?

This is not a put-down.

(Laughter) Before becoming governor of Texas, or Barack Obama before running for president, could not make even a small county manager in China's system.

Winston Churchill once said that democracy is a terrible system except for all the rest.

We all know the facts.

In 1949, when the Party took power, China was mired in civil wars, dismembered by foreign aggression, average life expectancy at that time, 41 years old.

Pew Research polls Chinese public attitudes, and here are the numbers in recent years.

Ninety-three percent of China's Generation Y are optimistic about their country's future.

In contrast, most electoral democracies around the world are suffering from dismal performance.

I don't need to elaborate for this audience how dysfunctional it is, from Washington to European capitals.

With a few exceptions, the vast number of developing countries that have adopted electoral regimes are still suffering from poverty and civil strife.

Governments get elected, and then they fall below 50 percent approval in a few months and stay there and get worse until the next election.

Democracy is becoming a perpetual cycle of elect and regret.

Now, I don't want to create the misimpression that China's hunky-dory, on the way to some kind of superpowerdom.

The country faces enormous challenges.

On the political front, the worst problem is corruption.

Corruption is widespread and undermines the system and its moral legitimacy.

But most analysts misdiagnose the disease.

Transparency International ranks China between 70 and 80 in recent years among 170 countries, and it's been moving up.

India, the largest democracy in the world, 94 and dropping.

For the hundred or so countries that are ranked below China, more than half of them are electoral democracies.

In the next 10 years, China will surpass the U.S. and become the largest economy in the world.

Income per capita will be near the top of all developing countries.

Corruption will be curbed, but not eliminated, and China will move up 10 to 20 notches to above 60 in T.I.

We live in the dusk of an era.

Meta-narratives that make universal claims failed us in the 20th century and are failing us in the 21st.

Meta-narrative is the cancer that is killing democracy from the inside.

On the contrary, I think democracy contributed to the rise of the West and the creation of the modern world.

It is the universal claim that many Western elites are making about their political system, the hubris, that is at the heart of the West's current ills.

If they would spend just a little less time on trying to force their way onto others, and a little bit more on political reform at home, they might give their democracy a better chance.

The significance of China's example is not that it provides an alternative, but the demonstration that alternatives exist.

Let us draw to a close this era of meta-narratives.

Communism and democracy may both be laudable ideals, but the era of their dogmatic universalism is over.

And worst of all, it is boring.

Let universality make way for plurality.

Perhaps a more interesting age is upon us.

I think many here, and in general in Western countries, would agree with your statement about analysis of democratic systems becoming dysfunctional, but at the same time, many would kind of find unsettling the thought that there is an unelected authority that, without any form of oversight or consultation, decides what the national interest is.

EXL: You know, Frank Fukuyama, the political scientist, called the Chinese system "responsive authoritarianism."

It's not exactly right, but I think it comes close.

So I know the largest public opinion survey company in China, okay?

Do you know who their biggest client is?

The Chinese government.

Not just from the central government, the city government, the provincial government, to the most local neighborhood districts.

They conduct surveys all the time.

Are you happy with the garbage collection?

Are you happy with the general direction of the country?

So there is, in China, there is a different kind of mechanism to be responsive to the demands and the thinking of the people.

My point is, I think we should get unstuck from the thinking that there's only one political system -- election, election, election -- that could make it responsive.

One of the features of a democratic system is a space for civil society to express itself.

And you have shown figures about the support that the government and the authorities have in China.

But then you've just mentioned other elements like, you know, big challenges, and there are, of course, a lot of other data that go in a different direction: tens of thousands of unrests and protests and environmental protests, etc.

Because, by Western definitions, a so-called civil society has to be separate or even in opposition to the political system, but that concept is alien for Chinese culture.

For thousands of years, you have civil society, yet they are consistent and coherent and part of a political order, and I think it's a big cultural difference.

