Well, Arthur C. Clarke, a famous science fiction writer from the 1950s, said that, "We overestimate technology in the short term, and we underestimate it in the long term."

And I think that's some of the fear that we see about jobs disappearing from artificial intelligence and robots.

Because the demographics are really going to leave us with lots of jobs that need doing and that we, our society, is going to have to be built on the shoulders of steel of robots in the future.

But fear of losing jobs to technology has been around for a long time.

The librarians were afraid their jobs were going to disappear.

By the way, the wages for librarians went up faster than the wages for other jobs in the U.S. over that same time period, because librarians became partners of computers.

Same thing happened in offices.

Back in the old days, people used spreadsheets.

Spreadsheets were spread sheets of paper, and they calculated by hand.

So office workers became programmers of spreadsheets.

It increased their capabilities.

Now today, we're starting to see robots in our lives.

On the left there is the PackBot from iRobot.

When soldiers came across roadside bombs in Iraq and Afghanistan, instead of putting on a bomb suit and going out and poking with a stick, as they used to do up until about 2002, they now send the robot out.

On the right are some TUGs from a company called Aethon in Pittsburgh.

In order to program them, you have to understand six-dimensional vectors and quaternions.

And ordinary people can't interact with them.

This is Chris Harbert from Rethink Robotics.

And Baxter's safe to interact with.

It puts a little icon there.

He comes over here, and he gets the fingers to grasp together, and the robot infers, ah, you want an object for me to pick up.

That puts the green icon there.

He's going to map out an area of where the robot should pick up the object from.

It just moves it around, and the robot figures out that was an area search.

That's climate change and demographics.

Demographics is really going to change our world.

This is the percentage of adults who are working age.

And turned up the other way, the people who are retirement age goes up very, very fast, as the baby boomers get to retirement age.

But more than that, as we get older we get more frail and we can't do all the tasks we used to do.

If we look at the statistics on the ages of caregivers, before our eyes those caregivers are getting older and older.

That's happening statistically right now.

And I think robotics gives people a chance to have dignity as they get older by having control of the robotic solution.

