Bob Mankoff: That's my first wife.

(Laughter) 

Now let's look at this cartoon.

One of the things I'm pointing out is that cartoons appear within the context of The New Yorker magazine, that lovely Caslon type, and it seems like a fairly benign cartoon within this context.

It's making a little bit fun of getting older, and, you know, people might like it. 

But like I said, you cannot satisfy everyone.

You couldn't satisfy this guy. 

(Laughter) 

The New Yorker is rather a sensitive environment, very easy for people to get their nose out of joint.

And one of the things that you realize is it's an unusual environment.

Let's look at this cartoon. 

(Laughter) 

Indeed, it is discouraging.

In general, that seems like a funny cartoon, but let's look what online survey I did.

But look at the individual responses. 

(Laughter) "I don't want to hurt them.

To people like this, I point out we use anesthetic ink.

Other people thought it was funny.

That actually is the true nature of the distribution of humor when you don't have the contagion of humor. 

Humor is a type of entertainment.

That's a bad zoo.

(Laughter) It's a very politically correct zoo, but it's a bad zoo.

But this is a worse one.

(Laughter) So in dealing with humor in the context of The New Yorker, you have to see, where is that tiger going to be?

Where is the danger going to exist?

How are you going to manage it?

My job is to look at 1,000 cartoons a week.

But The New Yorker only can take 16 or 17 cartoons, and we have 1,000 cartoons.

Of course, many, many cartoons must be rejected.

Now, we could fit more cartoons in the magazine if we removed the articles.

(Laughter) But I feel that would be a huge loss, one I could live with, but still huge. 

The average cartoonist who stays with the magazine does 10 or 15 ideas every week.

But they mostly are going to be rejected.

Matt Diffee is one of them.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Now I know all about rejection, because when I quit -- actually, I was booted out of -- psychology school and decided to become a cartoonist, a natural segue, from 1974 to 1977 I submitted 2,000 cartoons to The New Yorker, and got 2,000 cartoons rejected by The New Yorker.

And of course, that is not New Yorker humor. 

What is New Yorker humor?

Well, after 1977, I broke into The New Yorker and started selling cartoons.

With respect to idea drawings, nowhere in the contract is the word "cartoon" mentioned.

(Laughter) 

Here are some, generally you get my cast of cartoon mind. 

This is What Lemmings Believe. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Now these look like very different forms of humor but actually they bear a great similarity.

In each instance, our expectations are defied.

In each instance, the narrative gets switched.

He is both being polite and rude.

In here, you have the propriety of The New Yorker and the vulgarity of the language.

Basically, that's the way humor works. 

Nobody is much interested, and the frog dies.

Well, I'm going to kill a few, but there won't be any genocide.

Now here's a little video made by Matt Diffee, sort of how they imagine if we really exaggerated that. 

(Laughter) 

That's sort of an exaggeration of what I do. 

"The Rejection Collection" is not quite New Yorker kind of humor.

And you might notice the bum on the sidewalk here who is boozing and his ventriloquist dummy is puking.

See, that's probably not going to be New Yorker humor.

It's actually put together by Matt Diffee, one of our cartoonists. 

So I'll give you some examples of rejection collection humor. 

(Laughter) 

There you have an interesting -- the guilty laugh, the laugh against your better judgment. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Now, in fact, within a context of this book, which says, "Cartoons you never saw and never will see in The New Yorker," this humor is perfect.

I'm going to explain why.

There's a concept about humor about it being a benign violation.

In other words, for something to be funny, we've got to think it's both wrong and also okay at the same time.

There is no such thing as funny in and of itself.

Everything will be within the context and our expectations. 

One way to look at it is this.

It's sort of called a meta-motivational theory about how we look, a theory about motivation and the mood we're in and how the mood we're in determines the things we like or dislike.

If we're in a purposeful mood, that makes us anxious.

You want to be transgressed.

It's like this, like an amusement park. 

If you arouse people enough and get them stimulated enough, they will laugh at very, very little. 

This is another cartoon from "The Rejection Collection."

The New Yorker occupies a very different space.

How would The New Yorker attack it?

It would not be with a guy with a bomb saying, "Too snug?"

Or there was another cartoon I didn't show because actually I thought maybe people would be offended.

The great Sam Gross cartoon, this happened after the Muhammad controversy where it's Muhammad in heaven, the suicide bomber is all in little pieces, and he's saying to the suicide bomber, "You'll get the virgins when we find your penis."

(Laughter) 

Better left undrawn. 

The first week we did no cartoons.

That was a black hole for humor, and correctly so.

It's not always appropriate every time.

But the next week, this was the first cartoon. 

It basically was about, if we were alive, we were going to laugh.

The humor reflects back on us.

The easiest thing to do with humor, and it's perfectly legitimate, is a friend makes fun of an enemy.

Here's another cartoon. 

(Laughter) 

Humor does need a target.

But interestingly, in The New Yorker, the target is us.

The target is the readership and the people who do it.

That is a deeply profound cartoon.

And so The New Yorker is also trying to, in some way, make cartoons say something besides funny and something about us.

(Laughter) 

So it focuses on our obsessions, our narcissism, our foils and our foibles, really not someone else's. 

You have to bring together ideas from different frames of reference, and you have to do it quickly to understand the cartoon.

If the different frames of reference don't come together in about .5 seconds, it's not funny, but I think they will for you here.

Different frames of reference. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It's called French Army Knife. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Now there are some cartoons that are puzzling.

Like, this cartoon would puzzle many people.

How many people know what this cartoon means?

The dog is signaling he wants to go for a walk.

This is the signal for a catcher to walk the dog.

(Laughter) 

The other thing The New Yorker plays around with is incongruity, and incongruity, I've shown you, is sort of the basis of humor.

Something that's completely normal or logical isn't going to be funny.

But the way incongruity works is, observational humor is humor within the realm of reality. 

In general, people who enjoy more nonsense, enjoy more abstract art, they tend to be liberal, less conservative, that type of stuff.

But for us, and for me, helping design the humor, it doesn't make any sense to compare one to the other.

It's sort of a smorgasbord that's made all interesting. 

(Laughter) 

And now, when you look at New Yorker cartoons, I'd like you to stop and think a little bit more about them. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

