I'll never forget that day back in the spring of 2006.

I can still remember sort of that smell of rotting flesh as I pulled the curtain back to see her.

And everybody there agreed this woman was very sick and she needed to be in the hospital.

That wasn't being asked.

Now, looking back on that night, I'd love so desperately to believe that I treated that woman on that night with the same empathy and compassion I'd shown the 27-year-old newlywed who came to the E.R.

In her case, I knew there was nothing I could do that was actually going to save her life.

The cancer was too advanced.

I brought some for her parents.

So why was it that, just a few nights later, as I stood in that same E.R.

You see, unlike the woman the night before, this woman had type 2 diabetes.

She was fat.

And we all know that's from eating too much and not exercising enough, right?

I mean, how hard can it be?

As I looked down at her in the bed, I thought to myself, if you just tried caring even a little bit, you wouldn't be in this situation at this moment with some doctor you've never met about to amputate your foot. 

Why did I feel justified in judging her?

Yet when it came to a disease like diabetes that kills Americans eight times more frequently than melanoma, I never once questioned the conventional wisdom.

I actually just assumed the pathologic sequence of events was settled science. 

Three years later, I found out how wrong I was.

But this time, I was the patient.

Despite exercising three or four hours every single day, and following the food pyramid to the letter, I'd gained a lot of weight and developed something called metabolic syndrome.

Some of you may have heard of this.

I had become insulin-resistant. 

You can think of insulin as this master hormone that controls what our body does with the foods we eat, whether we burn it or store it.

This is called fuel partitioning in the lingo.

Now failure to produce enough insulin is incompatible with life.

And insulin resistance, as its name suggests, is when your cells get increasingly resistant to the effect of insulin trying to do its job.

Once you're insulin-resistant, you're on your way to getting diabetes, which is what happens when your pancreas can't keep up with the resistance and make enough insulin.

Now your blood sugar levels start to rise, and an entire cascade of pathologic events sort of spirals out of control that can lead to heart disease, cancer, even Alzheimer's disease, and amputations, just like that woman a few years earlier. 

I did this and lost 40 pounds, weirdly while exercising less.

I, as you can see, I guess I'm not overweight anymore.

More importantly, I don't have insulin resistance. 

But most important, I was left with these three burning questions that wouldn't go away: How did this happen to me if I was supposedly doing everything right?

If the conventional wisdom about nutrition had failed me, was it possible it was failing someone else?

And underlying these questions, I became almost maniacally obsessed in trying to understand the real relationship between obesity and insulin resistance. 

Now, most researchers believe obesity is the cause of insulin resistance.

Logically, then, if you want to treat insulin resistance, you get people to lose weight, right?

You treat the obesity.

In fact, what if it's a symptom of a much deeper problem, the tip of a proverbial iceberg?

What if obesity is a coping mechanism for a far more sinister problem going on underneath the cell?

And because fat cells are actually missing most of the complex cellular machinery found in other cells, it's probably the safest place to store it.

This is a really subtle distinction, but the implication could be profound.

Consider the following analogy: Think of the bruise you get on your shin when you inadvertently bang your leg into the coffee table.

Getting the cause and the effect right makes all the difference in the world.

Getting it wrong, and the pharmaceutical industry can still do very well for its shareholders but nothing improves for the people with bruised shins.

We know that 30 million obese Americans in the United States don't have insulin resistance.

And by the way, they don't appear to be at any greater risk of disease than lean people.

Now I don't know why, but it might be because, in their case, their cells haven't actually figured out the right thing to do with that excess energy.

So what if we're fighting the wrong war, fighting obesity rather than insulin resistance?

Even worse, what if blaming the obese means we're blaming the victims?

Personally, I can't afford the luxury of arrogance anymore, let alone the luxury of certainty.

I have my own ideas about what could be at the heart of this, but I'm wide open to others.

Now, my hypothesis, because everybody always asks me, is this.

If you ask yourself, what's a cell trying to protect itself from when it becomes insulin resistant, the answer probably isn't too much food.

It's more likely too much glucose: blood sugar.

Now, we know that refined grains and starches elevate your blood sugar in the short run, and there's even reason to believe that sugar may lead to insulin resistance directly.

But that doesn't mean my bias is wrong, and most important, all of this can be tested scientifically.

But step one is accepting the possibility that our current beliefs about obesity, diabetes and insulin resistance could be wrong and therefore must be tested.

I'm betting my career on this.

Today, I devote all of my time to working on this problem, and I'll go wherever the science takes me.

I've decided that what I can't and won't do anymore is pretend I have the answers when I don't.

For the past year, I've been fortunate enough to work on this problem with the most amazing team of diabetes and obesity researchers in the country, and the best part is, just like Abraham Lincoln surrounded himself with a team of rivals, we've done the same thing.

We've recruited a team of scientific rivals, the best and brightest who all have different hypotheses for what's at the heart of this epidemic.

But this team of multi-disciplinary, highly skeptical and exceedingly talented researchers do agree on two things.

First, this problem is just simply too important to continue ignoring because we think we know the answer.

Briefly, to address this, our research program is focused around three meta-themes, or questions.

Second, based on these insights, can people make the necessary changes in their diets in a way that's safe and practical to implement?

And finally, once we identify what safe and practical changes people can make to their diet, how can we move their behavior in that direction so that it becomes more the default rather than the exception?

Staying true to that path will be better for our patients and better for science.

I wish I could speak with that woman again.

You didn't need my judgment and my contempt.

If you're watching this now, I hope you can forgive me. 

