Tonight, I'm going to share with you my passion for science.

I'm not talking about science that takes baby steps.

I'm talking about science that takes enormous leaps.

In a moment, I'm going to talk about two ideas that might do this.

I say "might" because, with revolutionary ideas, most are flat wrong, and even those that are right seldom have the impact that we want them to have. 

To explain why I picked two ideas in particular, I'm going to start with a mystery.

1847, Vienna, Austria.

Ignaz Semmelweis was a somber, compulsively thorough doctor who ran two maternity clinics.

They were identical except for one thing.

Women were dying of high fevers soon after giving birth three times more often at one of the clinics than at the other.

The puzzle went unsolved until he happened to autopsy a doctor who died of an infected scalpel cut.

The doctor's symptoms were identical to those of the mothers who were dying.

How was that possible?

How could a male doctor get the same thing as new mothers?

Semmelweis reconstructed everything the doctor had done right before he got sick, and he discovered that he'd been autopsying a corpse.

Had something gotten in his wound that killed him?

With growing excitement, Semmelweis looked for any connection he could between dead bodies in the morgue and dead mothers in his delivery room, and he found it.

So he ordered the doctors to sterilize their hands, and the deaths stopped.

Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis had discovered infectious disease. 

Pasteur was an agricultural chemist who tried to figure out why milk and beer spoiled so often.

He found that bacteria were the culprits.

We now look at what I want to talk about tonight, in two ideas.

We saw it with Semmelweis, that he was a revolutionary.

He did it for two reasons.

One, he opened our eyes to a completely new world.

We'd known since the 1680s about bacteria.

We just didn't know that bacteria killed people.

So this brings me to the two ideas I want to talk about tonight.

One has opened our eyes to a completely new universe, and the other attacks long-held beliefs. 

Let's get started with Dr. Eric Betzig.

He's a physicist who has opened our eyes to an entirely new world by violating the laws of physics.

Betzig is a true rebel.

There's just one problem.

There's this thing called the law of physics, and part of the law of physics is the thing called the diffraction limit.

The diffraction limit is kind of like when you go to a doctor's office, you can only see so far down, no matter how good glasses you have. 

This was a so-called impossible problem.

So he lashed together a microscope in his friend's living room.

He had no laboratory.

This revolutionary instrument got different protein molecules to light up in different colors, and with a computer, he was able to turn very, very fuzzy blurs into very sharp dots and produce images of unprecedented and startling clarity. 

For this work, last year, Eric Betzig won the Nobel Prize.

Why?

But do you think Betzig was satisfied there?

The problem was that even the genius microscopes that he invented were just too slow.

So what did he do?

So he applied this technique to taking a really blurry image of a cell and moving lots of structured light patterns across it until this cell became crystal clear.

But when we figure it out, we'll have a better handle on life itself. 

For example, those green globs that you see?

Those things are called clathrins.

They're molecules that protect other molecules as they move through a cell.

Unfortunately, viruses sometimes hijack those to infect cells.

Also, you see those little squiggly wormlike things moving around?

Those are actin molecules.

Unfortunately, viruses also climb down those things to get into the cell nucleus to replicate themselves and make you sick. 

So when you look at a movie like this, it's very clear that Betzig has opened our eyes to a completely new world.

But he hasn't shattered any cherished beliefs. 

That leads us to Dr. Aubrey de Grey at Cambridge.

We can beat aging.

Now, most scientists think he's a crackpot.

Any Biology 101 student knows that aging is an inevitable consequence of living.

For example, when we eat, we take in food and we metabolize it, and that throws off what we call free radicals.

You might have heard of those.

Also known as oxygen ions, those bind to our DNA, cause it to mutate, and cause us to get old and lose our hair. 

So you age because you rust out. 

So if you stop aging, all of you are going to turn into giant walking malignant tumors. 

These are cherished beliefs, but could de Grey be on to something?

I think he deserves a closer look.

First of all, I have a really hard time seeing him as a crackpot.

For example, one of the reasons we age is that our mitochondrial DNA mutates, and we get kind of old and our cells lose energy.

Bristlecone pine trees live 5,000 years, and some lobsters don't age at all. 

Now, this doesn't mean that de Grey is going to revolutionize our lifespans.

I mean, after all, we're not trees, and most of us are not lobsters. 

There are four times as many people alive today as Einstein.

Thank you. 

