Writing biography is a strange thing to do.

This is the core mystical moment of Islam, and as such, of course, it defies empirical analysis.

Yet the question wouldn't let go of me.

Still, some boundaries are larger than others.

Which might be why when I looked at the earliest accounts we have of that night, what struck me even more than what happened was what did not happen.

He did not radiate light and joy.

There were no choirs of angels, no music of the spheres, no elation, no ecstasy, no golden aura surrounding him, no sense of an absolute, fore-ordained role as the messenger of God.

That is, he did none of the things that might make it easy to cry foul, to put down the whole story as a pious fable.

At worst, possession -- that he'd been seized by an evil jinn, a spirit out to deceive him, even to crush the life out of him.

So the man who fled down the mountain that night trembled not with joy but with a stark, primordial fear.

He was overwhelmed not with conviction, but by doubt.

This might be somewhat difficult to grasp now that we use the word "awesome" to describe a new app or a viral video.

With the exception perhaps of a massive earthquake, we're protected from real awe.

We do our best to ignore the fact that we don't always have it, and that not everything can be explained.

Too human for some, like conservative Muslim theologians who maintain that the account of his wanting to kill himself shouldn't even be mentioned, despite the fact that it's in the earliest Islamic biographies.

They insist that he never doubted for even a single moment, let alone despaired.

Demanding perfection, they refuse to tolerate human imperfection.

Yet what, exactly, is imperfect about doubt?

As I read those early accounts, I realized it was precisely Muhammad's doubt that brought him alive for me, that allowed me to begin to see him in full, to accord him the integrity of reality.

If this seems a startling idea at first, consider that doubt, as Graham Greene once put it, is the heart of the matter.

Abolish all doubt, and what's left is not faith, but absolute, heartless conviction.

In effect, they are the infidels.

Like fundamentalists of all religious stripes, they have no questions, only answers.

They found the perfect antidote to thought and the ideal refuge of the hard demands of real faith.

And yet we, the vast and still far too silent majority, have ceded the public arena to this extremist minority.

We've allowed Judaism to be claimed by violently messianic West Bank settlers, Christianity by homophobic hypocrites and misogynistic bigots, Islam by suicide bombers.

And we've allowed ourselves to be blinded to the fact that no matter whether they claim to be Christians, Jews or Muslims, militant extremists are none of the above.

This isn't faith.

It's fanaticism, and we have to stop confusing the two.

We have to recognize that real faith has no easy answers.

It's difficult and stubborn.

It involves an ongoing struggle, a continual questioning of what we think we know, a wrestling with issues and ideas.

And this conscious defiance is why I, as an agnostic, can still have faith.

I have faith, for instance, that peace in the Middle East is possible despite the ever-accumulating mass of evidence to the contrary.

I'm not convinced of this.

I can hardly say I believe it.

If we call something impossible, we act in such a way that we make it so.

And I, for one, refuse to live that way.

We insist on faith in the future and in each other.

Call this naive if you like.

Call it impossibly idealistic if you must.

Could Muhammad have so radically changed his world without such faith, without the refusal to cede to the arrogance of closed-minded certainty?

I think not.

After keeping company with him as a writer for the past five years, I can't see that he'd be anything but utterly outraged at the militant fundamentalists who claim to speak and act in his name in the Middle East and elsewhere today.

He'd be appalled at the repression of half the population because of their gender.

He'd be torn apart by the bitter divisiveness of sectarianism.

(Applause) 

Thank you.

(Applause) 

