I was born and raised in North Korea.

But then the great famine began in 1994.

I was four years old.

My sister and I would go searching for firewood starting at 5 in the morning and come back after midnight.

For a hungry child, politics and freedom are not even thought of.

On my ninth birthday, my parents couldn't give me any food to eat.

But even as a child, I could feel the heaviness in their hearts. 

I saw my father wither away and die.

In the same year, my mother disappeared one day, and then my sister told me that she was going to China to earn money, but that she would return with money and food soon.

Since we had never been separated, and I thought we would be together forever, I didn't even give her a hug when she left.

It was the biggest mistake I have ever made in my life.

But again, I didn't know it was going to be a long goodbye.

I have not seen my mom or my sister since then. 

Suddenly, I became an orphan and homeless.

My daily life became very hard, but very simple.

My goal was to find a dusty piece of bread in the trash.

But that is no way to survive.

Sometimes, I found small jobs in exchange for food.

Once, I even spent two months in the winter working in a coal mine, 33 meters underground without any protection for up to 16 hours a day.

I was not uncommon.

Many other orphans survived this way, or worse. 

When I could not fall asleep from bitter cold or hunger pains, I hoped that, the next morning, my sister would come back to wake me up with my favorite food.

That hope kept me alive.

But if I didn't believe it, I wouldn't even try, and then I would die.

Hope kept me alive.

After three years of waiting for my sister's return, I decided to go to China to look for her myself.

I realized I couldn't survive much longer this way.

I knew the journey would be risky, but I would be risking my life either way.

I could die of starvation like my father in North Korea, or at least I could try for a better life by escaping to China. 

I had learned that many people tried to cross the border to China in the nighttime to avoid being seen.

North Korean border guards often shoot and kill people trying to cross the border without permission.

Chinese soldiers will catch and send back North Koreans, where they face severe punishment.

I made it to China on February 15, 2006.

I was 16 years old.

I thought more people would help me.

I was always worried about being caught and sent back. 

By a miracle, some months later, I met someone who was running an underground shelter for North Koreans, and was allowed to live there and eat regular meals for the first time in many years.

Later that year, an activist helped me escape China and go to the United States as a refugee. 

I went to America without knowing a word of English, yet my social worker told me that I had to go to high school.

Even in North Korea, I was an F student.

Textbooks and the library were not my playground.

My father tried very hard to motivate me into studying, but it didn't work.

At one point, my father gave up on me.

He said, "You're not my son anymore."

I was only 11 or 12, but it hurt me deeply.

But nevertheless, my level of motivation still didn't change before he died.

So in America, it was kind of ridiculous that they said I should go to high school.

I didn't even go to middle school.

I decided to go, just because they told me to, without trying much. 

But one day, I came home and my foster mother had made chicken wings for dinner.

And during dinner, I wanted to have one more wing, but I realized there were not enough for everyone, so I decided against it.

When I looked down at my plate, I saw the last chicken wing, that my foster father had given me his.

I was so happy.

Suddenly I remembered my biological father.

I felt so suffocated that I had so much food in America, yet my father died of starvation.

And my answer was to promise to myself that I would study hard and get the best education in America to honor his sacrifice. 

You have to choose to believe in hope.

You have to make it yourself.

My foster father at that dinner gave me a direction, and he motivated me and gave me a purpose to live in America. 

I did not come here by myself.

I had hope, but hope by itself is not enough.

Many people helped me along the way to get here.

North Koreans are fighting hard to survive.

They have to force themselves to survive, have hope to survive, but they cannot make it without help. 

This is my message to you.

Have hope for yourself, but also help each other.

Life can be hard for everyone, wherever you live.

My foster father didn't intend to change my life.

In the same way, you may also change someone's life with even the smallest act of love.

A piece of bread can satisfy your hunger, and having the hope will bring you bread to keep you alive.

But I confidently believe that your act of love and caring can also save another Joseph's life and change thousands of other Josephs who are still having hope to survive. 

Thank you. 

Adrian Hong: Joseph, thank you for sharing that very personal and special story with us.

I know you haven't seen your sister for, you said, it was almost exactly a decade, and in the off chance that she may be able to see this, we wanted to give you an opportunity to send her a message. 

Joseph Kim: In Korean? 

AH: You can do English, then Korean as well. 

AH: Sure, please. 

Thank you. 

