Though many human intellectual and technological leaps had happened in Europe and the rest of the world, but Africa was sort of cut off.

And that changed, first with ships when we had the Renaissance, the Scientific Revolution and also the Industrial Revolution.

And now we've got the digital revolution.

These revolutions have not been evenly distributed across continents and nations.

Never have been. 

Now, this is a map of the undersea fiber optic cables that connect Africa to the rest of the world.

What I find amazing is that Africa is transcending its geography problem.

Africa is connecting to the rest of the world and within itself.

The connectivity situation has improved greatly, but some barriers remain.

It is with this context that Ushahidi came to be. 

In 2008, one of the problems that we faced was lack of information flow.

So we came together and we created software called Ushahidi.

This is David and Erik.

I call them brothers from another mother.

Clearly I have a German mother somewhere.

And we worked together first with building and growing Ushahidi.

And the idea of the software was to gather information from SMS, email and web, and put a map so that you could see what was happening where, and you could visualize that data.

All the while, we also wanted to give back to the local tech community that helped us grow Ushahidi and supported us in those early days.

And that's why we set up the iHub in Nairobi, an actual physical space where we could collaborate, and it is now part of an integral tech ecosystem in Kenya.

We did that with the support of different organizations like the MacArthur Foundation and Omidyar Network. 

Now, this year the Internet turns 20, and Ushahidi turned five. 

We did not imagine that there would be this many maps around the world.

There are crisis maps, election maps, corruption maps, and even environmental monitoring crowd maps.

We are humbled that this has roots in Kenya and that it has some use to people around the world trying to figure out the different issues that they're dealing with.

The day-to-day frustrations of dealing with this can be, let's just say very annoying.

Blackouts are not fun.

Now, this is the reality of Kenya, where we live now, and other parts of Africa. 

The other problem that we're facing is that communication costs are also still a challenge.

It costs me five Kenyan shillings, or .06 USD to call the U.S., Canada or China.

This is the reality that we deal with. 

Could we leverage the cloud?

We've built a crowd map, we've built Ushahidi.

Could we leverage these technologies to switch smartly whenever you travel from country to country? 

What if we could have connectivity with less friction? 

This is the BRCK.

It acts as a backup to the Internet so that, when the power goes out, it fails over and connects to the nearest GSM network.

And for rural areas, it can be the primary means of connection. 

The idea here is for you to be able to connect anywhere.

With load balancing, this can be possible. 

The other interesting thing for us -- we like sensors -- is this idea that you could have an on-ramp for the Internet of things.

Imagine a weather station that can be attached to this.

It's built in a modular way so that you can also attach a satellite module so that you could have Internet connectivity even in very remote areas. 

And for us, we begin with solving the problem in our own backyard in Kenya. 

It is not without challenge.

The idea is that the building blocks of the digital economy are connectivity and entrepreneurship.

The BRCK is our part to keep Africans connected, and to help them drive the global digital revolution. 

Thank you. 

