Once upon a time we lived in an economy of financial growth and prosperity.

But the Great Recession in 2007 and 2008, the great crash, broke this illusion.

There was no responsibility.

So, as a reflection of this, we started the Financial Crisis Observatory.

What is the underpinning, scientifically, of this financial observatory?

We developed a theory called "dragon-kings."

Consider the financial price time series, a given stock, your perfect stock, or a global index.

You have these up-and-downs.

A very good measure of the risk of this financial market is the peaks-to-valleys that represent a worst case scenario when you bought at the top and sold at the bottom.

Now, interestingly, 99 percent of the peak-to-valleys of different amplitudes can be represented by a universal power law represented by this red line here.

They are due to trenchant dependancies such that a loss is followed by a loss which is followed by a loss which is followed by a loss.

And this process, which is absolutely non-linear -- cannot be predicted by standard techniques -- is the reflection of a collective emergent behavior which is fundamentally endogenous.

Now, some of you may have come to the mind that is this not related to the black swan concept you have heard about frequently?

Nothing can be further from the dragon-king concept I propose, which is exactly the opposite, that most extreme events are actually knowable and predictable.

So we can be empowered and take responsibility and make predictions about them.

Let me just focus on one of them: the super-exponential growth with positive feedback.

What does it mean?

This is a super-exponential growth.

Perhaps more surprisingly, the same type of theory applies to biology and medicine, parturition, the act of giving birth, epileptic seizures.

So if you measure the precursor signal, you can actually identify pre- and post-maturity problems in advance.

Epileptic seizures also come in a large variety of size, and when the brain goes to a super-critical state, you have dragon-kings which have a degree of predictability and this can help the patient to deal with this illness.

But perhaps the most important application is for finance, and this theory illuminates, I believe, the deep reason for the financial crisis that we have gone through.

We had a global bubble.

The problem is that we see the same process, in particular through quantitative easing, of a thinking of a perpetual money machine nowadays to tackle the crisis since 2008 in the U.S., in Europe, in Japan.

Now, these are big claims.

Why would you believe me?

These are a few of the major bubbles that we have lived through in recent history.

Again, many interesting stories for each of them.

We all know the Chinese miracle.

This is the expression of the stock market of a massive bubble, a factor of three, 300 percent in just a few years.

You know, they had made billions just surfing this bubble until now.

The Chinese market collapsed, but it rebounded.

Maybe I am very powerful then.

Now, this is interesting.

So we invented a new way of doing science.

Let me tease you with a very recent analysis.

The next day, the market started to change regime, course.

This is not a crash.

This is just the third or fourth act of a massive bubble in the making.

Scaling up the discussion at the size of the planet, we see the same thing.

So there are bubbles everywhere.

But can we really slay the dragons?

But the dragon-king theory gives hope.

We learn that most systems have pockets of predictability.

Thank you. 

