Allow me to start this talk with a question to everyone.

You know that all over the world, people fight for their freedom, fight for their rights.

Some battle oppressive governments.

Others battle oppressive societies.

Which battle do you think is harder?

Allow me to try to answer this question in the few coming minutes. 

Let me take you back two years ago in my life.

It was the bedtime of my son, Aboody.

He was five at the time.

After finishing his bedtime rituals, he looked at me and he asked a question: "Mommy, are we bad people?"

Earlier that day, I noticed some bruises on his face when he came from school.

He wouldn't tell me what happened.

[But now] he was ready to tell. 

But those questioning eyes of my son were my moment of truth, when it all came together.

Just for giving me his car keys, my own brother was detained twice, and he was harassed to the point he had to quit his job as a geologist, leave the country with his wife and two-year-old son.

I was faced with an organized defamation campaign in the local media combined with false rumors shared in family gatherings, in the streets and in schools.

It all hit me.

It came into focus that those kids did not mean to be rude to my son.

They were just influenced by the adults around them.

And it wasn't about me, and it wasn't a punishment for taking the wheel and driving a few miles.

It was a punishment for daring to challenge the society's rules. 

But my story goes beyond this moment of truth of mine.

Allow me to give you a briefing about my story.

As long as I've known, women in Saudi Arabia have been always complaining about the ban, but it's been 20 years since anyone tried to do anything about it, a whole generation ago. 

I looked it up, and he was right.

There wasn't an actual law in Saudi Arabia.

It was just a custom and traditions that are enshrined in rigid religious fatwas and imposed on women.

That realization ignited the idea of June 17, where we encouraged women to take the wheel and go drive.

We needed proof. 

I started receiving threats to be killed, raped, just to stop this campaign. 

The Saudi authorities remained very quiet.

That really creeped us out.

I was in the campaign with other Saudi women and even men activists.

We wanted to know how the authorities would respond on the actual day, June 17, when women go out and drive.

Arrested again, he was sent to detention for one day, and I was sent to jail.

I wasn't sure why I was sent there, because I didn't face any charges in the interrogation.

But what I was sure of was my innocence.

I was released after nine days. 

June 17 comes.

The streets were packed with police cars and religious police cars, but some hundred brave Saudi women broke the ban and drove that day.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Allow me to help you answer this question. 

He claims it's done based on a UNESCO study.

And the study states, the percentage of rape, adultery, illegitimate children, even drug abuse, prostitution in countries where women drive is higher than countries where women don't drive. 

I was like, "We are the last country in the world where women don't drive."

We started a hashtag on Twitter mocking the study, and it made headlines around the world. 

This system is based on ultra-conservative traditions and customs that deal with women as if they are inferior and they need a guardian to protect them, so they need to take permission from this guardian, whether verbal or written, all their lives.

We are minors until the day we die.

And it becomes worse when it's enshrined in religious fatwas based on wrong interpretation of the sharia law, or the religious laws.

What's worst, when they become codified as laws in the system, and when women themselves believe in their inferiority, and they even fight those who try to question these rules. 

So for me, it wasn't only about these attacks I had to face.

Just to tell you, two stories happened in the last two years.

One of them is when I was in jail.

But in my home country, it was a totally different picture.

It was more like this: "Manal al-Sharif faces charges of disturbing public order and inciting women to drive."

I know. 

And it goes on, even trial and flogging me in public.

So it's a totally different picture. 

I was asked last year to give a speech at the Oslo Freedom Forum.

I was surrounded by this love and the support of people around me, and they looked at me as an inspiration.

At the same time, I flew back to my home country, they hated that speech so much.

The way they called it: a betrayal to the Saudi country and the Saudi people, and they even started a hashtag called #OsloTraitor on Twitter.

Some 10,000 tweets were written in that hashtag, while the opposite hashtag, #OsloHero, there was like a handful of tweets written.

They even started a poll.

So it's these two totally different perceptions of my personality. 

For me, I'm a proud Saudi woman, and I do love my country, and because I love my country, I'm doing this.

Because I believe a society will not be free if the women of that society are not free.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

(Applause) Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

(Applause) Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Thank you. 

But you learn lessons from these things that happen to you.

I learned to be always there.

Saudi Arabia today is taking small steps toward enhancing women's rights.

(Applause) The same time, finally, that Council, after rejecting our petition four times for women driving, they finally accepted it last February.

(Applause) The same time, finally, that Council, after rejecting our petition four times for women driving, they finally accepted it last February.

(Applause) The same time, finally, that Council, after rejecting our petition four times for women driving, they finally accepted it last February.

The Grand Mufti, who is the head of the religious establishment in Saudi Arabia, he said, it's not recommended for women to drive.

It used to be haram, forbidden, by the previous Grand Mufti. 

So for me, it's not about only these small steps.

It's about women themselves. 

So I have no clue, really, how I became an activist.

And I don't know how I became one now.

But all I know, and all I'm sure of, in the future when someone asks me my story, I will say, "I'm proud to be amongst those women who lifted the ban, fought the ban, and celebrated everyone's freedom."

I hope you find clues to answer that from my speech. 

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

