Now, I'm not referring to Predator and Reaper drones, which have a human making targeting decisions.

And actually, they're very quickly becoming a reality.

Now, in both cases, there's still a human in the loop to make that lethal firing decision, but it's not a technological requirement.

That's because the way humans resolve conflict shapes our social landscape.

Gunpowder, cannon.

And as armies grew in size, the nation-state arose as a political and logistical requirement of defense.

And as leaders had to rely on more of their populace, they began to share power.

So again, the tools we use to resolve conflict shape our social landscape.

Now, I think, knowing this, we can take decisive steps to preserve our democratic institutions, to do what humans do best, which is adapt.

But time is a factor.

Seventy nations are developing remotely-piloted combat drones of their own, and as you'll see, remotely-piloted combat drones are the precursors to autonomous robotic weapons.

The first of these is the deluge of video that drones produce.

For example, in 2004, the U.S. drone fleet produced a grand total of 71 hours of video surveillance for analysis.

And that means visual intelligence software will need to scan it for items of interest.

They'll know their mission objective, and they'll react to new circumstances without human guidance.

Now we live in a global economy.

High-tech manufacturing is occurring on most continents.

This raises the very real possibility of anonymous war.

This could tilt the geopolitical balance on its head, make it very difficult for a nation to turn its firepower against an attacker, and that could shift the balance in the 21st century away from defense and toward offense.

It could make military action a viable option not just for small nations, but criminal organizations, private enterprise, even powerful individuals.

It could create a landscape of rival warlords undermining rule of law and civil society.

But I think the truth is the exact opposite.

Cell phone geolocation, telecom metadata, social media, email, text, financial transaction data, transportation data, it's a wealth of real-time data on the movements and social interactions of people.

What you're looking at here is a link analysis map of a social group.

Lines indicate social connectedness between individuals.

Notice that certain individuals are highlighted.

These are the hubs of social networks.

These are organizers, opinion-makers, leaders, and these people also can be automatically identified from their communication patterns.

Now, if you're a marketer, you might then target them with product samples, try to spread your brand through their social group.

But if you're a repressive government searching for political enemies, you might instead remove them, eliminate them, disrupt their social group, and those who remain behind lose social cohesion and organization.

Now in a world of cheap, proliferating robotic weapons, borders would offer very little protection to critics of distant governments or trans-national criminal organizations.

Popular movements agitating for change could be detected early and their leaders eliminated before their ideas achieve critical mass.

And ideas achieving critical mass is what political activism in popular government is all about.

Anonymous lethal weapons could make lethal action an easy choice for all sorts of competing interests.

And this is why we need an international treaty on robotic weapons, and in particular a global ban on the development and deployment of killer robots.

Now in November 2012 the U.S. Department of Defense issued a directive requiring a human being be present in all lethal decisions.

This temporarily effectively banned autonomous weapons in the U.S. military, but that directive needs to be made permanent.

And it could set the stage for global action.

Autonomous robotic weapons concentrate too much power in too few hands, and they would imperil democracy itself. 

I think the secret will be transparency.

(Applause) 

And civic leaders should deploy sensors and civic drones to detect rogue drones, and instead of sending killer drones of their own up to shoot them down, they should notify humans to their presence.

But notice, this is more an immune system than a weapons system.

We must ban the deployment and development of killer robots.

Let's not succumb to the temptation to automate war.

Autocratic governments and criminal organizations undoubtedly will, but let's not join them.

(Applause) 

