The writer George Eliot cautioned us that, among all forms of mistake, prophesy is the most gratuitous.

The person that we would all acknowledge as her 20th-century counterpart, Yogi Berra, agreed.

I'm going to ignore their cautions and make one very specific forecast.

And we're creating a world where there is going to be more and more technology and fewer and fewer jobs.

The thing to keep in mind is that this is absolutely great news.

This is the best economic news on the planet these days.

Not that there's a lot of competition, right?

This is the best economic news we have these days for two main reasons.

Now, some people look at this and talk about shallow materialism, but that's absolutely the wrong way to look at it.

And there's actually a huge amount of truth here.

We are seeing an amazing flourishing taking place.

In a world where it is just about as easy to generate an object as it is to print a document, we have amazing new possibilities.

The people who used to be craftsmen and hobbyists are now makers, and they're responsible for massive amounts of innovation.

And artists who were formerly constrained can now do things that were never, ever possible for them before.

If you look over the past couple decades at the returns to capital -- in other words, corporate profits -- we see them going up, and we see that they're now at an all-time high.

So this is clearly bad news for Reuther.

We have had one of those in America for just about the entire postwar period.

But the middle class is clearly under huge threat right now.

The societal challenges that come along with that kind of inequality deserve some attention.

This is not the kind of societal problem that I am concerned about.

There is no shortage of dystopian visions about what happens when our machines become self-aware, and they decide to rise up and coordinate attacks against us.

To tell you the kinds of societal challenges that are going to come up in the new machine age, I want to tell a story about two stereotypical American workers.

And to make them really stereotypical, let's make them both white guys.

And the first one is a college-educated professional, creative type, manager, engineer, doctor, lawyer, that kind of worker.

We're going to call him "Ted."

He's at the top of the American middle class.

And if you go back about 50 years, Bill and Ted were leading remarkably similar lives.

For example, in 1960 they were both very likely to have full-time jobs, working at least 40 hours a week.

But as the social researcher Charles Murray has documented, as we started to automate the economy, and 1960 is just about when computers started to be used by businesses, as we started to progressively inject technology and automation and digital stuff into the economy, the fortunes of Bill and Ted diverged a lot.

In many cases, Bill has left the economy entirely, and Ted very rarely has.

Over time, Ted's marriage has stayed quite happy.

Bill's hasn't.

And Ted's kids have grown up in a two-parent home, while Bill's absolutely have not over time.

Other ways that Bill is dropping out of society?

He's decreased his voting in presidential elections, and he's started to go to prison a lot more often.

And what my friends in Silicon Valley and Cambridge are overlooking is that they're Ted.

And if you find yourself worried that something like a guaranteed income is going to stifle our drive to succeed and make us kind of complacent, you might be interested to know that social mobility, one of the things we really pride ourselves on in the United States, is now lower than it is in the northern European countries that have these very generous social safety nets.

The societal one is a lot more challenging.

I do know that education is a huge part of it.

I witnessed this firsthand.

With the benefit of hindsight, I now know the job was to prepare me for life as a clerk or a laborer, but at the time it felt like the job was to kind of bore me into some submission with what was going on around me.

We have to do better than this.

So we see some green shoots that things are getting better.

We see technology deeply impacting education and engaging people, from our youngest learners up to our oldest ones.

So the green shoots are out there.

I don't want to pretend for a minute that what we have is going to be enough.

We're not going to fix things for them by sending them back to Montessori.

But I actually don't think that's what we're going to do.

The realities of this new machine age and the change in the economy are becoming more widely known.

If we wanted to accelerate that process, we could do things like have our best economists and policymakers play "Jeopardy!"

We could send Congress on an autonomous car road trip.

And if we do enough of these kinds of things, the awareness is going to sink in that things are going to be different.

I started my talk with quotes from wordsmiths who were separated by an ocean and a century.

