When American producers see my film, they think that I had a big budget to do it, like 23 million.

But in fact I had 10 percent of that budget.

I did "Mars et Avril" for only 2.3 million. 

The second aspect is love.

I got tons and tons of generosity from everyone involved.

And it seems like every department had nothing, so they had to rely on our creativity and turn every problem into an opportunity. 

And that brings me to the point of my talk, actually, how constraints, big creative constraints, can boost creativity. 

But let me go back in time a bit.

In my early 20s, I did some graphic novels, but they weren't your usual graphic novels.

They were books telling a science fiction story through images and text, and most of the actors who are now starring in the movie adaptation, they were already involved in these books portraying characters into a sort of experimental, theatrical, simplistic way. 

And one of these actors is the great stage director and actor Robert Lepage.

And I just love this guy.

I've been in love with this guy since I was a kid.

His career I admire a lot.

And I wanted this guy to be involved in my crazy project, and he was kind enough to lend his image to the character of Eugène Spaak, who is a cosmologist and artist who seeks relation in between time, space, love, music and women.

And he was a perfect fit for the part, and Robert is actually the one who gave me my first chance.

He was the one who believed in me and encouraged me to do an adaptation of my books into a film, and to write, direct, and produce the film myself. 

And Robert is actually the very first example of how constraints can boost creativity.

Because this guy is the busiest man on the planet.

I mean, his agenda is booked until 2042, and he's really hard to get, and I wanted him to be in the movie, to reprise his role in the movie.

But that's kind of a big problem.

How do you get somebody who is too busy to star in a movie? 

Everybody around the table laughed, but the joke was kind of a good solution, so that's what we ended up doing. 

Six months later there was a guy on set, a mime portraying the body, the vehicle for the head.

And he was wearing a green hood so that we could erase the green hood in postproduction and replace it with Robert Lepage's head.

So he became like a renaissance man, and here's what it looks like in the movie. 

Martin Villeneuve: Now these musical instruments that you see in this excerpt, they're my second example of how constraints can boost creativity, because I desperately needed these objects in my movie.

They are objects of desire.

They are imaginary musical instruments.

And they carry a nice story with them.

Actually, I knew what these things would look like in my mind for many, many years.

So that's kind of a big problem too.

How do you get something that you can't afford? 

But who on Earth would be interested by seven not-yet-built musical instruments inspired by women's bodies?

And I thought of Cirque du Soleil in Montreal, because who better to understand the kind of crazy poetry that I wanted to put on screen?

It was kind of a perfect triangle in which the art buyer was happy because he got the instruments at a cheaper price, because they weren't even made.

He took a leap of faith.

And the artist, Dominique Engel, brilliant guy, he was happy too because he had a dream project to work on for a year.

And obviously I was happy because I got the instruments in my film for free, which was kind of what I tried to do.

So here they are. 

And my last example of how constraints can boost creativity comes from the green, because this is a weird color, a crazy color, and you need to replace the green screens eventually and you must figure that out sooner rather than later.

And this guy is another guy I admire a lot, and I wanted him to be involved in the movie as a production designer.

In other words, there was space for him to dream with me.

So here I was with one of my childhood heroes, drawing every single frame that's in the film to turn that into Montreal in the future.

And it was an amazing collaboration to work with this great artist whom I admire. 

But then, you know, eventually you have to turn all these drawings into reality.

So, again, my solution was to aim for the best possible artist that I could think of.

And there's this guy in Montreal, another Quebecois called Carlos Monzon, and he's a very good VFX artist.

So if you don't have money to offer to people, you must strike their imagination with something as nice as you can think of. 

I have experienced it.

And you might end up doing some crazy projects, and who knows, you might even end up going to Mars. 

Thank you. 

