And I'll never forget the comforting sound of water trickling down a stream.

Imagine my fear, pure fear, when, at the age of 10, I was told I was going to lose my hearing.

And over the next five years, it progressed until I was classified as profoundly deaf. 

But I believe that losing my hearing was one of the greatest gifts I've ever received.

As the leader of the NGO there, I spent most of my energy trying to convince people about the capabilities of people with disabilities.

But somewhere along the way, and after many career transitions that my parents weren't so happy about -- 

And that tool is called design thinking. 

Design thinking is a process for innovation and problem solving.

There are five steps.

The first is defining the problem and understanding its constraints.

The second is observing people in real-life situations and empathizing with them.

Design thinkers believe that everyone is creative.

They believe in bringing people from multiple disciplines together, because they want to share multiple perspectives and bring them together and ultimately merge them to form something new. 

Design thinking is such a successful and versatile tool that it has been applied in almost every industry.

I saw the potential that it had for the issues I faced, so I decided to go back to school and get my master's in social design.

This looks at how to use design to create positive change in the world.

While I was there, I fell in love with woodworking.

But what I quickly realized was that I was missing out on something.

As you're working with a tool, right before it's about to kick back at you -- which means the piece or the tool jumps back at you -- it makes a sound.

And I couldn't hear this sound.

Why hadn't tool designers thought of this before? 

I wasn't weighed down by expertise or conventional wisdom.

The second is: I was Deaf.

My unique experience of the world helped inform my solution. 

This is an OXO potato peeler.

It was originally designed for people with arthritis, but it was so comfortable, everybody loved it.

Text messaging: that was originally designed for people who are Deaf.

And as you know, everybody loves that, too. 

As you see, when we design for disability first, we often stumble upon solutions that are not only inclusive, but also are often better than when we design for the norm. 

This moves us from the mindset of trying to change the hearts and the deficiency mindset of tolerance, to becoming an alchemist, the type of magician that this world so desperately needs to solve some of its greatest problems. 

Now, I also believe that people with disabilities have great potential to be designers within this design-thinking process.

Without knowing it, from a very early age, I've been a design thinker, fine-tuning my skills.

You can't ask them to repeat every single word.

They would just get frustrated with you.

Years later, someone commented that my writing had a rhythm to it.

Well, this is because I experience conversations as rhythms.

I also became really, really good at failing. 

Quite literally.

Very few great innovations in this world have come from someone succeeding on the first try. 

I also experienced this lesson in sports.

You see, when you lose your hearing, not only do you adapt your behavior, but you also adapt your physical senses.

One example of this is that my visual attention span increased.

Imagine a soccer player, coming down the left flank.

Imagine being goalkeeper, like I was, and the ball is coming down the left flank.

So I picked up the players over here, that were moving about and coming down the field.

And I picked them up quicker, so that if the ball was passed, I could reposition myself and be ready for that shot. 

So as you can see, I've been a design thinker for nearly all my life.

My observation skills have been honed so that I pick up on things that others would never pick up on.

My constant need to adapt has made me a great ideator and problem solver.

And I've often had to do this within limitations and constraints.

This is something that designers also have to deal with frequently. 

My work most recently took me to Haiti.

And Haiti -- it was like a perfect storm. 

I lived and worked with 300 Deaf individuals that were relocated after the 2010 earthquake.

They didn't come ready to observe and to adapt based on the community's needs.

One organization gave them goats and chickens.

You don't have to be a design thinker to insert the ideas I've shared with you today.

You are creative.

Let people like me help you.

