Now I'm interested in dolphins because of their large brains and what they might be doing with all that brainpower in the wild.

And we know they use some of that brainpower for just living complicated lives, but what do we really know about dolphin intelligence? 

Well, we know a few things.

We know that their brain-to-body ratio, which is a physical measure of intelligence, is second only to humans.

But there's one big question left: do they have a language, and if so, what are they talking about? 

And they spend their daytime resting and socializing in the safety of the shallows, but at night, they go off the edge and hunt in deep water. 

Now, it's not a bad place to be a researcher, either.

And most of our work's pretty non-invasive.

We try to follow dolphin etiquette while we're in the water, since we're actually observing them physically in the water.

Now, Atlantic spotted dolphins are a really nice species to work with for a couple of reasons.

And by about the age of 15, they're fully spotted black and white. 

And like all the dolphins in our community, we photographed Mugsy and tracked her little spots and nicks in her dorsal fin, and also the unique spot patterns as she matured over time. 

Now, dolphins are natural acousticians.

They make sounds 10 times as high and hear sounds 10 times as high as we do.

But they have other communication signals they use.

So dolphins can buzz and tickle each other at a distance. 

Now, we do know some things about how sounds are used with certain behaviors.

But they can also tightly pack these clicks together into buzzes and use them socially.

For example, males will stimulate a female during a courtship chase.

You know, I've been buzzed in the water.

(Laughter) 

So dolphins are also political animals, so they have to resolve conflicts.

(Dolphin noises) And they use these burst-pulsed sounds as well as their head-to-head behaviors when they're fighting.

And these are very unstudied sounds because they're hard to measure. 

Now this is some video of a typical dolphin fight.

There's a bubble.

Now, in the Bahamas, we also have resident bottlenose that interact socially with the spotted dolphins.

And the two species actually form temporary alliances when they're chasing sharks away.

And one of the mechanisms they use to communicate their coordination is synchrony.

(Dolphin noises) You see, they're synchronizing with their partner as well as the other dyad.

I wish I was that coordinated. 

But burst-pulsed sounds is a bit of a mystery. 

Now, these are three spectragrams.

Two are human words, and one is a dolphin vocalizing.

So just take a guess in your mind which one is the dolphin.

Now, it turns out burst-pulsed sounds actually look a bit like human phonemes. 

This underwater keyboard in Orlando, Florida, at the Epcot Center, was actually the most sophisticated ever two-way interface designed for humans and dolphins to work together under the water and exchange information.

So we wanted to develop an interface like this in the Bahamas, but in a more natural setting.

And one of the reasons we thought we could do this is because the dolphins were starting to show us a lot of mutual curiosity.

They were spontaneously mimicking our vocalizations and our postures, and they were also inviting us into dolphin games.

(Dolphin noises) She's kind of teasing him and taunting him.

He really wants that sargassum.

So the original vision was to have a keyboard hanging from the boat attached to a computer, and the divers and dolphins would activate the keys on the keypad and happily exchange information and request toys from each other.

But we quickly found out that dolphins simply were not going to hang around the boat using a keyboard.

They've got better things to do in the wild.

They might do it in captivity, but in the wild -- 

(Whistle) And that's the scarf whistle, which is also associated with a visual symbol.

And the dolphins could get in on the game.

They could point at the visual object, or they could mimic the whistle. 

Let's see if they might actually understand what that means.

Okay, so here's a second toy in the water.

This is a scarf toy, and I'm trying to lead the dolphin over to the keyboard to show her the visual and the acoustic signal.

But this is the moment where everything becomes possible.

And this sometimes went on for hours.

And because of this, we really decided we needed some more sophisticated technology.

The computer can localize who requested the toy if there's a word match.

And the real power of the system is in the real-time sound recognition, so we can respond to the dolphins quickly and accurately. 

And we're at prototype stage, but this is how we hope it will play out.

So Diver A plays the scarf whistle or Diver B plays the sargassum whistle to request a toy from whoever has it.

Now, how far can this kind of communication go?

Well, CHAT is designed specifically to empower the dolphins to request things from us.

It's designed to really be two-way.

Now, will they learn to mimic the whistles functionally?

We hope so and we think so.

But as we decode their natural sounds, we're also planning to put those back into the computerized system.

For example, right now we can put their own signature whistles in the computer and request to interact with a specific dolphin.

Likewise, we can create our own whistles, our own whistle names, and let the dolphins request specific divers to interact with. 

Now it may be that all our mobile technology will actually be the same technology that helps us communicate with another species down the road.

In the case of a dolphin, you know, it's a species that, well, they're probably close to our intelligence in many ways and we might not be able to admit that right now, but they live in quite a different environment, and you still have to bridge the gap with the sensory systems. 

Thank you. 

