My journey started 14 years ago.

Then I got a scoop.

The scoop was quite a very simple story.

Police officers were taking bribes from hawkers who were hawking on the streets.

So I decided to go there and act as a seller.

As part of selling, I was able to document the hard core evidence.

The impact was great.

It was fantastic. 

This was what many call immersion journalism, or undercover journalism.

I am an undercover journalist.

Journalism is about results.

It's about affecting your community or your society in the most progressive way.

I have worked on this for over 14 years, and I can tell you, the results are very good. 

As I speak now, they are before the courts.

It was time to go undercover again.

So I went undercover as a man who was interested in this particular business, of course.

Again, a prosthetic arm was built.

For the first time, I filmed on hidden camera the guys who do this, and they were ready to buy the arm and they were ready to use it to prepare those potions for people. 

My journalism is about hard core evidence.

If I say you have stolen, I show you the evidence that you have stolen.

I show you how you stole it and when, or what you used what you had stolen to do.

What is the essence of journalism if it doesn't benefit society? 

My kind of journalism is a product of my society.

He wants to bring the cocoa and send it to Cote d'Ivoire.

So with my hidden intention, I kept quiet.

I didn't utter a word.

But my colleagues didn't know.

So after collecting the money, when he left, we were waiting for him to bring the goods.

Second official: I don't even know the place called [unclear].

I've never stepped there before.

So I'm surprised.

The officer who earlier denied involvement pecks a calculator to compute the amount of money they will charge on the cocoa to be smuggled. 

Anas Aremeyaw Anas: This was another story on anticorruption.

And here was him, denying.

But you see, when you have the hard core evidence, you are able to affect society.

AAA: That was my president. 

I have a piece, and I'm excited that I'm sharing it for the first time with you here.

I have been undercover in the prisons.

But again, I can only affect society and affect government if I bring out the hard core evidence.

Many times, the prison authorities have denied ever having issues of drug abuse, issues of sodomy, so many issues they would deny that it ever happens.

How can you obtain the hard core evidence? 

There were issues of bad food being served as I recall that some of the food I ate is just not good for a human being.

Toilet facilities: very bad.

It is something that if you narrate it to somebody, the person wouldn't believe it.

The only way that you can let the person believe is when you show hard core evidence.

Of course, drugs were abundant.

It was easier to get cannabis, heroin and cocaine, faster even, in the prison than outside the prison. 

Evil in the society is an extreme disease.

If you have extreme diseases, you need to get extreme remedies.

That is why I was particularly excited when we launched our "Africa Investigates" series where we investigated a lot of African countries.

As a result of the success of the "Africa Investigates" series, we are moving on to World Investigates.

By the end of it, a lot more bad guys on our continent will be put behind bars. 

This will not stop.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

I have some questions for you.

AAA: Yes, yes. 

AAA: Yes, yes. 

CA: Talk to me just about fear and how you manage that, because you're regularly putting your life at risk.

How do you do that? 

AAA: You see, undercover is always a last resort.

Before we go undercover, we follow the rules.

If you don't, you will end up losing your life.

I mean, everybody has their hazard.

And once you say that is yours, you've got to take it, as and when it comes. 

AAA: Thank you. 

