How many of you have checked your email today?

Come on, raise your hands.

How many of you are checking it right now? 

Now, how about your household energy use?

A few energy geeks spread out across the room.

It's good to see you guys.

But the rest of us -- this is a room filled with people who are passionate about the future of this planet, and even we aren't paying attention to the energy use that's driving climate change.

Harriet's paying attention to her energy use, and she is decidedly not an energy geek.

This is the story of how Harriet came to pay attention. 

But unfortunately, between here and here, most of that energy is lost to things like transmission leakage and heat.

In fact, only 10 percent ends up as light.

So this coal will last a little bit more than a month.

If you wanted to light this bulb for a year, you'd need this much coal.

The bad news here is that, for every unit of energy we use, we waste nine.

That means there's good news, because for every unit of energy we save, we save the other nine.

So the question is, how can we get the people in this room and across the globe to start paying attention to the energy we're using, and start wasting less of it? 

The answer comes from a behavioral science experiment that was run one hot summer, 10 years ago, and only 90 miles from here, in San Marcos, California.

Turn off your air conditioning, turn on your fans.

Another group got an environmental message.

And still a third group got a message about being good citizens, preventing blackouts.

Most people guessed that money-saving message would work best of all.

In fact, none of these messages worked.

They had zero impact on energy consumption.

It was as if the grad students hadn't shown up at all. 

So what does this tell us?

And harnessed correctly, it can be a powerful force for good.

In fact, it already is. 

Inspired by this insight, my friend Dan Yates and I started a company called Opower.

We built software and partnered with utility companies who wanted to help their customers save energy.

We deliver personalized home energy reports that show people how their consumption compares to their neighbors in similar-sized homes.

And it's working.

Ordinary homeowners and renters have saved more than 250 million dollars on their energy bills, and we're just getting started.

This year alone, in partnership with more than 80 utilities in six countries, we're going to generate another two terawatt hours of electricity savings. 

Now, the energy geeks in the room know two terawatt hours, but for the rest of us, two terawatt hours is more than enough energy to power every home in St. Louis and Salt Lake City combined for more than a year.

And we're not burning anything.

We're just motivating people to pay attention and change their behavior. 

But we're just one company, and this is just scratching the surface.

I mean we leave the lights on in empty rooms, and we leave the air conditioning on when nobody's home.

That's 40 billion dollars a year wasted on electricity that does not contribute to our well-being but does contribute to climate change.

That's 40 billion -- with a B -- every year in the U.S. alone.

That's half our coal usage right there. 

We can do it today, we know it works, and it will save us money right away. 

So what are we waiting for?

Well, in most places, utility regulation hasn't changed much since Thomas Edison.

Utilities are still rewarded when their customers waste energy.

They ought to be rewarded for helping their customers save it. 

But this story is much more than about household energy use.

The dashboard that shows drivers how much energy they're saving in real time makes former speed demons drive more like cautious grandmothers. 

She came over to meet my young daughter, and she was tickled to learn that my daughter's name is also Harriet.

She asked me what I did for a living, and I told her, I work with utilities to help people save energy.

It was then that her eyes lit up. 

We did everything that letter told us to do, and still I know there must be more.

Now I'm here with a genuine expert.

There are many experts who can help answer Harriet's question.

My goal is to make sure we are all asking it. 

Thank you. 

