And last year, the president of the United States came out in favor of gay marriage. 

And my question is, how did we get from there to here?

How did an illness become an identity? 

When I was perhaps six years old, I went to a shoe store with my mother and my brother.

And at the end of buying our shoes, the salesman said to us that we could each have a balloon to take home.

My brother wanted a red balloon, and I wanted a pink balloon.

My mother said that she thought I'd really rather have a blue balloon.

But I said that I definitely wanted the pink one.

And she reminded me that my favorite color was blue.

The fact that my favorite color now is blue, but I'm still gay -- (Laughter) -- is evidence of both my mother's influence and its limits. 

(Laughter) 

And when I was an adolescent, I thought that I'm gay, and so I probably can't have a family.

And when she said it, it made me anxious.

About 20 years ago, I was asked by my editors at The New York Times Magazine to write a piece about deaf culture.

And I was rather taken aback.

I had thought of deafness entirely as an illness.

Those poor people, they couldn't hear.

They lacked hearing, and what could we do for them?

And then I went out into the deaf world.

I even went to the Miss Deaf America contest in Nashville, Tennessee where people complained about that slurry Southern signing. 

(Laughter) 

It felt as valid perhaps even as American culture. 

Then a friend of a friend of mine had a daughter who was a dwarf.

And when her daughter was born, she suddenly found herself confronting questions that now began to seem quite resonant to me.

She was facing the question of what to do with this child.

Should she say, "You're just like everyone else but a little bit shorter?"

And I suddenly thought, most deaf children are born to hearing parents.

Those hearing parents tend to try to cure them.

Those deaf people discover community somehow in adolescence.

Most gay people are born to straight parents.

And here was this friend of mine looking at these questions of identity with her dwarf daughter.

And I hatched the idea that there are really two kinds of identity. 

There are vertical identities, which are passed down generationally from parent to child.

Those are things like ethnicity, frequently nationality, language, often religion.

Those are things you have in common with your parents and with your children.

And while some of them can be difficult, there's no attempt to cure them.

You can argue that it's harder in the United States -- our current presidency notwithstanding -- to be a person of color.

And yet, we have nobody who is trying to ensure that the next generation of children born to African-Americans and Asians come out with creamy skin and yellow hair. 

There are these other identities which you have to learn from a peer group.

And those identities, those horizontal identities, people have almost always tried to cure. 

And I wanted to look at what the process is through which people who have those identities come to a good relationship with them.

And it seemed to me that there were three levels of acceptance that needed to take place.

Love is something that ideally is there unconditionally throughout the relationship between a parent and a child.

But acceptance is something that takes time.

It always takes time. 

One of the dwarfs I got to know was a guy named Clinton Brown.

And it was suggested to them that they leave him at the hospital so that he could die there quietly. 

And even though she didn't have a lot of educational or financial advantages, she found the best doctor in the country for dealing with diastrophic dwarfism, and she got Clinton enrolled with him.

And in the course of his childhood, he had 30 major surgical procedures.

And he spent all this time stuck in the hospital while he was having those procedures, as a result of which he now can walk. 

And he ended up achieving at a level that had never before been contemplated by any member of his family.

I'm going to quote from another magazine of the '60s.

There's been a lot of ink given to the enormous progress that we've made in the treatment of gay people.

The fact that our attitude has changed is in the headlines every day.

But we forget how we used to see people who had other differences, how we used to see people who were disabled, how inhuman we held people to be.

And the change that's been accomplished there, which is almost equally radical, is one that we pay not very much attention to. 

One of the families I interviewed, Tom and Karen Robards, were taken aback when, as young and successful New Yorkers, their first child was diagnosed with Down syndrome.

And over the years, that center grew into something called the Cooke Center, where there are now thousands upon thousands of children with intellectual disabilities who are being taught. 

In the time since that Atlantic Monthly story ran, the life expectancy for people with Down syndrome has tripled.

The experience of Down syndrome people includes those who are actors, those who are writers, some who are able to live fully independently in adulthood. 

We live at a point when social acceptance for these and many other conditions is on the up and up.

And yet we also live at the moment when our ability to eliminate those conditions has reached a height we never imagined before.

A compound that has been tested in mice, BMN-111, is useful in preventing the action of the achondroplasia gene.

Achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism, and mice who have been given that substance and who have the achondroplasia gene, grow to full size.

Testing in humans is around the corner.

There are blood tests which are making progress that would pick up Down syndrome more clearly and earlier in pregnancies than ever before, making it easier and easier for people to eliminate those pregnancies, or to terminate them. 

And so we have both social progress and medical progress.

And I believe in both of them.

I believe the social progress is fantastic and meaningful and wonderful, and I think the same thing about the medical progress.

But I think it's a tragedy when one of them doesn't see the other.

And when I see the way they're intersecting in conditions like the three I've just described, I sometimes think it's like those moments in grand opera when the hero realizes he loves the heroine at the exact moment that she lies expiring on a divan. 

(Laughter) 

We have to think about how we feel about cures altogether.

And a lot of the time the question of parenthood is, what do we validate in our children, and what do we cure in them? 

One of the families I interviewed for this project was the family of Dylan Klebold who was one of the perpetrators of the Columbine massacre.

And the first weekend I spent with them -- the first of many -- I recorded more than 20 hours of conversation. 

And then she looked back up and said, "I would ask him to forgive me for being his mother and never knowing what was going on inside his head."

If some glorious angel suddenly descended through my living room ceiling and offered to take away the children I have and give me other, better children -- more polite, funnier, nicer, smarter -- I would cling to the children I have and pray away that atrocious spectacle.

(Laughter) 

Ironically, it turns out, that it's our differences, and our negotiation of difference, that unite us. 

I decided to have children while I was working on this project.

So my husband is the biological father of two children with some lesbian friends in Minneapolis.

So the shorthand is five parents of four children in three states. 

And there are people who think that the existence of my family somehow undermines or weakens or damages their family.

And there are people who think that families like mine shouldn't be allowed to exist.

And I don't accept subtractive models of love, only additive ones.

And I believe that in the same way that we need species diversity to ensure that the planet can go on, so we need this diversity of affection and diversity of family in order to strengthen the ecosphere of kindness. 

The day after our son was born, the pediatrician came into the hospital room and said she was concerned.

He wasn't extending his legs appropriately.

She said that might mean that he had brain damage.

And I wanted also to protect myself from illness.

And yet, I knew from the work I had done that if he had any of the things we were about to start testing for, that those would ultimately be his identity, and if they were his identity they would become my identity, that that illness was going to take a very different shape as it unfolded. 

We took him to the MRI machine, we took him to the CAT scanner, we took this day-old child and gave him over for an arterial blood draw.

We felt helpless.

And at the end of five hours, they said that his brain was completely clear and that he was by then extending his legs correctly.

And when I asked the pediatrician what had been going on, she said she thought in the morning he had probably had a cramp. 

(Laughter) 

But I thought how my mother was right.

I thought, the love you have for your children is unlike any other feeling in the world, and until you have children, you don't know what it feels like. 

I think children had ensnared me the moment I connected fatherhood with loss.

But I'm not sure I would have noticed that if I hadn't been so in the thick of this research project of mine.

And I saw how splendor can illuminate even the most abject vulnerabilities. 

During these 10 years, I had witnessed and learned the terrifying joy of unbearable responsibility, and I had come to see how it conquers everything else.

Thank you. 

