When I was in the first grade, the government wanted to transfer me to a school for athletes, all expenses paid.

But my tiger mother said, "No."

My parents wanted me to become an engineer like them.

After surviving the Cultural Revolution, they firmly believed there's only one sure way to happiness: a safe and well-paid job.

It is not important if I like the job or not. 

But my dream was to become a Chinese opera singer.

That is me playing my imaginary piano.

An opera singer must start training young to learn acrobatics, so I tried everything I could to go to opera school.

I even wrote to the school principal and the host of a radio show.

But no adults liked the idea.

No adults believed I was serious.

Only my friends supported me, but they were kids, just as powerless as I was.

So at age 15, I knew I was too old to be trained.

My dream would never come true.

I was afraid that for the rest of my life some second-class happiness would be the best I could hope for. 

But that's so unfair.

I satisfied my hunger for parental advice from this book by a family of writers and musicians.

I found my role model of an independent woman when Confucian tradition requires obedience.

And I was inspired to study abroad after reading these. 

Books banned in China, of course.

The Bible is interesting, but strange.

(Laughter) That's a topic for a different day.

Encountering a new culture also started my habit of comparative reading.

It offers many insights.

It had never occurred to me, China doesn't have to be at the center of the world.

A map actually carries somebody's view.

Comparative reading actually is nothing new.

It's a standard practice in the academic world.

There are even research fields such as comparative religion and comparative literature. 

Compare and contrast gives scholars a more complete understanding of a topic.

So I thought, well, if comparative reading works for research, why not do it in daily life too?

So I started reading books in pairs.

So if you know a foreign language, it's also fun to read your favorite books in two languages.

["The Way of Chuang Tzu" Thomas Merton]["Tao: The Watercourse Way" Alan Watts] Instead of lost in translation, I found there is much to gain.

Books have given me a magic portal to connect with people of the past and the present.

I know I shall never feel lonely or powerless again.

I have come to believe that coming true is not the only purpose of a dream.

So may books be always with you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

