That whole range of issues that I'll refer to in shorthand as "gender violence issues," they've been seen as women's issues that some good men help out with, but I have a problem with that frame and I don't accept it.

I don't see these as women's issues that some good men help out with.

In fact, I'm going to argue that these are men's issues, first and foremost. 

And a lot of men literally don't get beyond the first sentence as a result.

It's almost like a chip in our brain is activated, and the neural pathways take our attention in a different direction when we hear the term "women's issues."

So they think that gender issues is synonymous with women's issues.

There's some confusion about the term gender. 

And actually, let me illustrate that confusion by way of analogy.

So let's talk for a moment about race.

In the U.S., when we hear the word "race," a lot of people think that means African-American, Latino, Asian-American, Native American, South Asian, Pacific Islander, on and on.

A lot of people, when they hear the word "sexual orientation" think it means gay, lesbian, bisexual.

And I'm going to illustrate what I'm talking about by using the old tech.

I'm old school on some fundamental regards.

This is about domestic violence in particular, but you can plug in other analogues.

This comes from the work of the feminist linguist Julia Penelope. 

We've gone from "John beat Mary" to "Mary was beaten by John."

We've shifted our focus in one sentence from John to Mary, and you can see John is very close to the end of the sentence, well, close to dropping off the map of our psychic plain.

And the final sentence in this sequence, flowing from the others, is, "Mary is a battered woman."

So now Mary's very identity -- Mary is a battered woman -- is what was done to her by John in the first instance.

But we've demonstrated that John has long ago left the conversation. 

Now, those of us who work in the domestic and sexual violence field know that victim-blaming is pervasive in this realm, which is to say, blaming the person to whom something was done rather than the person who did it.

And we say things like, why do these women go out with these men?

This is victim blaming, and there are numerous reasons for it, but one of them is that our whole cognitive structure is set up to blame victims.

Our whole cognitive structure is set up to ask questions about women and women's choices and what they're doing, thinking, and wearing.

But's let's be clear: Asking questions about Mary is not going to get us anywhere in terms of preventing violence. 

We have to ask a different set of questions.

Why do so many adult men sexually abuse little girls and little boys?

Why is that a common problem in our society and all over the world today?

Why do we hear over and over again about new scandals erupting in major institutions like the Catholic Church or the Penn State football program or the Boy Scouts of America, on and on and on?

Why do so many men rape other men?

What is going on with men?

And then what is the role of the various institutions in our society that are helping to produce abusive men at pandemic rates? 

Because this isn't about individual perpetrators.

That's a naive way to understanding what is a much deeper and more systematic social problem.

Perpetrators are much more normal than that, and everyday than that.

What's the role of religious belief systems, the sports culture, the pornography culture, the family structure, economics, and how that intersects, and race and ethnicity and how that intersects?

How does all this work? 

And then, once we start making those kinds of connections and asking those important and big questions, then we can talk about how we can be transformative, in other words, how can we do something differently?

How can we change the practices?

How can we change the socialization of boys and the definitions of manhood that lead to these current outcomes?

And you know what all this is about?

It's called kill the messenger.

We don't like it when people challenge our power.

You'd better sit down and shut up, basically.

And thank goodness that women haven't done that.

Thank goodness that we live in a world where there's so much women's leadership that can counteract that. 

We live in the world together. 

And by the way, one of the things that really bothers me about some of the rhetoric against feminists and others who have built the battered women's and rape crisis movements around the world is that somehow, like I said, that they're anti-male.

What about all the boys who are profoundly affected in a negative way by what some adult man is doing against their mother, themselves, their sisters?

What about all those boys?

And if we want to talk about male victims, let's talk about male victims.

Most male victims of violence are the victims of other men's violence.

So that's something that both women and men have in common.

We are both victims of men's violence.

Now, the nature of the work that I do and my colleagues do in the sports culture and the U.S. military, in schools, we pioneered this approach called the bystander approach to gender violence prevention. 

And there are women who are perpetrators, and of course there are men who are victims.

There's a whole spectrum.

Now, when it comes to men and male culture, the goal is to get men who are not abusive to challenge men who are.

And when I say abusive, I don't mean just men who are beating women.

We're not just saying a man whose friend is abusing his girlfriend needs to stop the guy at the moment of attack.

That's a naive way of creating a social change.

Well, the bystander approach is trying to give people tools to interrupt that process and to speak up and to create a peer culture climate where the abusive behavior will be seen as unacceptable, not just because it's illegal, but because it's wrong and unacceptable in the peer culture.

And if we can get to the place where men who act out in sexist ways will lose status, young men and boys who act out in sexist and harassing ways towards girls and women, as well as towards other boys and men, will lose status as a result of it, guess what?

We'll see a radical diminution of the abuse.

Now, among the many great things that Martin Luther King said in his short life was, "In the end, what will hurt the most is not the words of our enemies but the silence of our friends."

In the end, what will hurt the most is not the words of our enemies but the silence of our friends.

There's been an awful lot of silence in male culture about this ongoing tragedy of men's violence against women and children, hasn't there?

There's been an awful lot of silence.

And all I'm saying is that we need to break that silence, and we need more men to do that. 

Now, I was at a dinner a number of years ago, and I work extensively with the U.S. military, all the services.

My argument is, he doesn't need sensitivity training.

You know, for example, I work a lot in college and university athletics throughout North America.

We know so much about how to prevent domestic and sexual violence, right?

There's no excuse for a college or university to not have domestic and sexual violence prevention training mandated for all student athletes, coaches, administrators, as part of their educational process.

But it's not the leadership of student athletes.

It's the leadership of the athletic director, the president of the university, the people in charge who make decisions about resources and who make decisions about priorities in the institutional settings.

That's a failure, in most cases, of men's leadership. 

It's scary, when you think about it, how many years.

But there's so many men who care deeply about these issues, but caring deeply is not enough.

We need more men with the guts, with the courage, with the strength, with the moral integrity to break our complicit silence and challenge each other and stand with women and not against them. 

By the way, we owe it to women.

There's no question about it.

But we also owe it to our sons.

We that have a choice have an opportunity and a responsibility to them as well. 

I hope that, going forward, men and women, working together, can begin the change and the transformation that will happen so that future generations won't have the level of tragedy that we deal with on a daily basis. 

