I'm almost like a crazy evangelical.

So I really do believe that design is the highest form of creative expression.

Or good design is digital fonts that we use all the time and that become part of our identity.

And it's interesting how so much of what we're talking about tonight is not simply design but interaction design.

But more recently, I've been trying really to go even deeper into interaction design with examples that are emotionally really suggestive and that really explain interaction design at a level that is almost undeniable.

The Wind Map, by Wattenberg and Fernanda Viégas, I don't know if you've ever seen it -- it's really fantastic.

And that's really what I find so intriguing about the reactions that we've had to the anointment of video games in the MoMA collection.

So the first was Jonathan Jones from The Guardian.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

So my knight in shining armor, John Maeda, without any prompt, came out with this big declaration on why video games belong in the MoMA.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

And it's fantastic. 

I mean, that interface is beautiful.

I've never made it into a planet, but that's it.

Or, you know, Vib-Ribbon was not distributed here in the United States.

Not to mention Eve Online.

So it's very interesting.

It's like, it's about serenity and it's about sublime.

It's about experiencing what it means to be a sea creature.

Then we have a few also side-scrollers -- classical ones.

So it's quite a hefty collection. 

You acquire the relationship with the company.

What we want, what we aspire to, is the code.

If anything, we want to show the code, and here you see Ben Fry's distellamap of Pac-Man, of the Pac-Man code. 

The controllers are, of course, part of the experience, so you cannot do away with it.

But interestingly, this choice was not condemned too vehemently by gamers.

He created this strange distance, this shock, that made people realize how gorgeous formally, and also important functionally, design pieces were.

I would like to do the same with video games.

By getting rid of the sticky carpets and the cigarette butts and everything else that we might remember from our childhood, I want people to understand that those are important forms of design.

And in a way, the video games, the fonts and everything else lead us to make people understand a wider meaning for design. 

I would like to acquire it, but without owning it.

I don't want it to be at MoMA and possessed by MoMA.

I want it to keep flying.

So it's an acquisition where MoMA makes an arrangement with an airline and keeps the Boeing 747 flying. 

And the same with the "@" sign that we acquired a few years ago.

It was the first example of an acquisition of something that is in the public domain.

So in a way, we're showing a manifestation of something that is truly important and that is part of our identity but that nobody can have.

And it's too long to explain the acquisition, but if you want to go on the MoMA blog, there's a long post where I explain why it's such a great example of design. 

I've had to do away with a few concepts of design past.

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

