That's our kind of working presumption.

In 2008, I was just about to graduate from architecture school after several years, and go out and get a job, and this happened.

The economy ran out of jobs.

And a couple of things struck me about this.

So, as a bottom-of-the-rung architecture graduate, I might expect to earn about 24,000 pounds.

That's about 36,000, 37,000 dollars.

I think the challenge facing the next generation of architects is, how are we going to turn our client from the one percent to the 100 percent?

The first is, I think we need to question this idea that architecture is about making buildings.

Architects are actually really, really good at this kind of resourceful, strategic thinking.

And a lot of people can't even afford them.

But what if, actually, it's possible now for cities to be made not just by the few with a lot but also by the many with a bit?

And when they do, they bring with them a completely different set of values about the place that they want to live.

How will we sell design services?

What would it mean for democratic societies to offer their citizens a right to build?

And that's a good thing.

Most of the work takes place outside of the monetary economy in what's called the social economy or the core economy, which is people doing it for themselves.

So the challenge we face is, how are we going to build the tools, the infrastructure and the institutions for architecture's social economy?

And that began with open-source software.

What these technologies are doing is radically lowering the thresholds of time and cost and skill.

That really is an industrial revolution.

And when we think that the major ideological conflicts that we inherited were all based around this question of who should control the means of production, and these technologies are coming back with a solution: actually, maybe no one.

And we were fascinated by what that might mean for architecture.

It uses wedge and peg connections.

And even the mallets to make it can be provided on the cutting sheets as well.

And a team of about two or three people, working together, can build this.

They don't need any traditional construction skills.

Of course, the house is never finished.

We're shifting our heads here, so the house is not a finished product.

With the CNC machine, you can make new parts for it over its life or even use it to make the house next door.

One of them is that it's always incredibly sociable.

People get confused between construction work and having fun.

But the principles of openness go right down into the really mundane, physical details.

Don't reinvent the wheel every time.

The only difference between traditional vernacular architecture and open-source architecture might be a web connection, but it's a really, really big difference.

They're self-made cities in one form or another.

If we're talking about the 21st-century city, these are the guys who are going to be making it.

So if we're serious about problems like climate change, urbanization and health, actually, our existing development models aren't going to do it.

A kind of Wikipedia for stuff?

And once something's in the commons, it will always be there.

If design's great project in the 20th century was the democratization of consumption -- that was Henry Ford, Levittown, Coca-Cola, IKEA — I think design's great project in the 21st century is the democratization of production.

And when it comes to architecture in cities, that really matters.

