This was the destruction of my dream of becoming an artist. 

The shake developed out of, really, a single-minded pursuit of pointillism, just years of making tiny, tiny dots.

And eventually these dots went from being perfectly round to looking more like tadpoles, because of the shake.

And this became a vicious cycle that ended up causing so much pain and joint issues, I had trouble holding anything.

And after spending all my life wanting to do art, I left art school, and then I left art completely. 

But after a few years, I just couldn't stay away from art, and I decided to go to a neurologist about the shake and discovered I had permanent nerve damage.

And he actually took one look at my squiggly line, and said, "Well, why don't you just embrace the shake?"

I was making all these scribble pictures.

And even though it wasn't the kind of art that I was ultimately passionate about, it felt great.

And more importantly, once I embraced the shake, I realized I could still make art.

I just had to find a different approach to making the art that I wanted. 

This was the first time I'd encountered this idea that embracing a limitation could actually drive creativity. 

At the time, I was finishing up school, and I was so excited to get a real job and finally afford new art supplies.

I had this horrible little set of tools, and I felt like I could do so much more with the supplies I thought an artist was supposed to have.

I actually didn't even have a regular pair of scissors.

I was using these metal shears until I stole a pair from the office that I worked at. 

And then when I got home, I sat down and I set myself to task to really try to create something just completely outside of the box.

But I sat there for hours, and nothing came to mind.

But as I searched around in the darkness, I realized I was actually paralyzed by all of the choices that I never had before.

And it was then that I thought back to my jittery hands.

Embrace the shake.

And I realized, if I ever wanted my creativity back, I had to quit trying so hard to think outside of the box and get back into it. 

I wondered, could you become more creative, then, by looking for limitations?

What if I could only create with a dollar's worth of supplies?

Or what if, instead of painting with a brush, I could only paint with karate chops?

Or, what if instead of relying on myself, I had to rely on other people to create the content for the art?

So for six days, I lived in front of a webcam.

I slept on the floor and I ate takeout, and I asked people to call me and share a story with me about a life-changing moment.

Their stories became the art as I wrote them onto the revolving canvas. 

(Applause) Or what if instead of making art to display, I had to destroy it?

This seemed like the ultimate limitation, being an artist without art.

(Laughter) Then I opened it up to creating art that was destroyed naturally.

The last iteration of destruction was to try to produce something that didn't actually exist in the first place.

In the course of this Goodbye Art series, I created 23 different pieces with nothing left to physically display.

It did not happen overnight.

and something really surprising came out of this.

And in return, I found a process of creating art that's perpetual and unencumbered by results.

I found myself in a state of constant creation, thinking only of what's next and coming up with more ideas than ever. 

And what if I didn't embrace the shake?

Because embracing the shake for me wasn't just about art and having art skills.

It turned out to be about life, and having life skills.

Because ultimately, most of what we do takes place here, inside the box, with limited resources.

Looking at limitations as a source of creativity changed the course of my life.

One of my most recent endeavors is to try to translate the habits of creativity that I've learned into something others can replicate. 

Limitations may be the most unlikely of places to harness creativity, but perhaps one of the best ways to get ourselves out of ruts, rethink categories and challenge accepted norms.

And instead of telling each other to seize the day, maybe we can remind ourselves every day to seize the limitation. 

Thank you. 

