There's something that I'd like you to see. 

The entire accident is caught on camera.

The driver pauses after hitting the child, his back wheels seen resting on her for over a second.

Within two minutes, three people pass two-year-old Wang Yue by.

The first walks around the badly injured toddler completely.

Others look at her before moving off. 

Raise your hands if that thought occurred to you. 

But before you give yourself too much credit, look at this.

UNICEF reports that in 2011, 6.9 million children under five died from preventable, poverty-related diseases.

But still, 6.9 million is 19,000 children dying every day.

I don't think it does make a morally relevant difference.

The fact that they're not right in front of us, the fact, of course, that they're of a different nationality or race, none of that seems morally relevant to me.

What is really important is, can we reduce that death toll?

And the answer is, yes we can.

Each of us spends money on things that we do not really need.

It's important because it combines both the heart and the head.

The heart, of course, you felt.

You felt the empathy for that child.

So I think reason is not just some neutral tool to help you get whatever you want.

It does help us to put perspective on our situation.

And I think that's why many of the most significant people in effective altruism have been people who have had backgrounds in philosophy or economics or math.

According to one estimate, the Gates Foundation has already saved 5.8 million lives and many millions more, people, getting diseases that would have made them very sick, even if eventually they survived.

Over the coming years, undoubtably the Gates Foundation is going to give a lot more, is going to save a lot more lives.

So I'm going to look at four questions that people ask that maybe stand in the way of them giving. 

They worry how much of a difference they can make.

He became an effective altruist when he calculated that with the money that he was likely to earn throughout his career, an academic career, he could give enough to cure 80,000 people of blindness in developing countries and still have enough left for a perfectly adequate standard of living.

And yes, Toby is married and he does have a mortgage. 

Many people will think, though, that charities aren't really all that effective.

So let's talk about effectiveness.

Take, for example, providing a guide dog for a blind person.

It costs about 40,000 dollars to train a guide dog and train the recipient so that the guide dog can be an effective help to a blind person.

It costs somewhere between 20 and 50 dollars to cure a blind person in a developing country if they have trachoma.

So you do the sums, and you get something like that.

You could provide one guide dog for one blind American, or you could cure between 400 and 2,000 people of blindness.

I think it's clear what's the better thing to do.

But if you want to look for effective charities, this is a good website to go to.

I'm pleased to say that there is now also a website looking at effective animal organizations.

So if you want to look for effective organizations to reduce that suffering, you can go to Effective Animal Activism.

And some effective altruists think it's very important to make sure that our species survives at all.

So they're looking at ways to reduce the risk of extinction.

Here's one risk of extinction that we all became aware of recently, when an asteroid passed close to our planet.

Possibly research could help us not only to predict the path of asteroids that might collide with us, but actually to deflect them.

So some people think that would be a good thing to give to.

There's many possibilities. 

My final question is, some people will think it's a burden to give.

I don't really believe it is.

I've enjoyed giving all of my life since I was a graduate student.

It's been something fulfilling to me.

Charlie Bresler said to me that he's not an altruist.

He thinks that the life he's saving is his own.

I think one of the reasons for this is that being an effective altruist helps to overcome what I call the Sisyphus problem.

You never get off, and you never really feel satisfied.

Becoming an effective altruist gives you that meaning and fulfillment.

It enables you to have a solid basis for self-esteem on which you can feel your life was really worth living. 

I'm going to conclude by telling you about an email that I received while I was writing this talk just a month or so ago.

It's from a man named Chris Croy, who I'd never heard of.

This is a picture of him showing him recovering from surgery.

Why was he recovering from surgery? 

So if you're feeling bad because you still have two kidneys as well, there's a way for you to get off the hook. 

Thank you. 

