Okay, it's great to be back at TED.

Why don't I just start by firing away with the video? 

Man 5: Go! 

Sergey Brin: Oh, sorry, I just got this message from a Nigerian prince.

He needs help getting 10 million dollars.

I like to pay attention to these because that's how we originally funded the company, and it's gone pretty well. 

Though in all seriousness, this position that you just saw me in, looking down at my phone, that's one of the reasons behind this project, Project Glass.

Because we ultimately questioned whether this is the ultimate future of how you want to connect to other people in your life, how you want to connect to information.

Should it be by just walking around looking down?

But that was the vision behind Glass, and that's why we've created this form factor.

In addition to potentially socially isolating yourself when you're out and about looking at your phone, it's kind of, is this what you're meant to do with your body?

You're standing around there and you're just rubbing this featureless piece of glass.

You're just kind of moving around. 

So when we developed Glass, we thought really about, can we make something that frees your hands?

You saw all of the things people are doing in the video back there.

They were all wearing Glass, and that's how we got that footage. 

And also you want something that frees your eyes.

My vision when we started Google 15 years ago was that eventually you wouldn't have to have a search query at all.

You'd just have information come to you as you needed it.

It's been really important to make it comfortable.

So our first prototypes we built were huge.

It was like cell phones strapped to your head.

But we've come a long way. 

I just never would have dug out a camera or a phone or something else to take that moment. 

And lastly I've realized, in experimenting with this device, that I also kind of have a nervous tic.

The cell phone is -- yeah, you have to look down on it and all that, but it's also kind of a nervous habit.

But it really opened my eyes to how much of my life I spent just secluding away, be it email or social posts or whatnot, even though it wasn't really -- there's nothing really that important or that pressing.

And with this, I know I will get certain messages if I really need them, but I don't have to be checking them all the time. 

Yeah, I've really enjoyed actually exploring the world more, doing more of the crazy things like you saw in the video. 

Thank you all very much. 

