Hey guys.

And -- (Drilling noise) (Laughter) And it worked really well there.

And you know, it had a profound effect on me.

What stops us from making them?

And I started in nature, because I saw these Guaymís doing it in nature, and there just seems to be less barriers. 

Here's a triangle that was being formed underneath a flowing stream, and the shape of an oak leaf being made by other small oak leaves being put together.

And the creator of this, he said, "This is fire.

And he's like, "I don't know, but I can show you."

We know how it's supposed to work, so we can't suppose all the things that could be possible. 

I didn't show him.

And so he's like, "Okay, I'll just mess around with this."

This is no different than the sticks are to the teens in the forest.

Just going to try to put them in shapes and push on them and stuff.

And before long, he's kind of got this mechanism where you can almost launch and catapult objects around, and he enlists us in helping him. 

So let me show you a little demo.

This is a little piano circuit right in here, and this is an ordinary paintbrush that I smashed it together with.

And that's awesome, right?

But this is not what's awesome.

What's awesome is what happens when you give the piano circuit to people.

A pencil is not just a pencil.

Look what it has in the middle of it.

And so you can kind of hack a pencil, just by thumbtacking into it with a little piano electrical circuit. 

And the electricity runs through your body too.

The metal in the sink is conductive.

Flowing water acts like a theremin or a violin. 

And you can even hook to the trees.

Anything in the world is either conductive or not conductive, and you can use those together. 

You can see her pointing to it in the picture.

And every time the hula hoop would smush against her body, it would connect two little pieces of copper tape, and it would make a sound, and the next sound, and it would loop the same sounds over and over again. 

I ran these workshops everywhere.

In Taiwan, at an art museum, this 12-year-old girl made a mushroom organ out of some mushrooms that were from Taiwan and some electrical tape and hot glue.

And professional designers were making artifacts with this thing strapped onto it.

And big companies like Intel or smaller design firms like Ideo or startups like Bump, were inviting me to give workshops, just to practice this idea of smashing electronics and everyday objects together.

And then we came up with this idea to not just use electronics, but let's just smash computers with everyday objects and see how that goes over. 

And so I just want to do a quick demo.

And now, if I touch this piece of pizza, the slides that I showed you before should go forward.

So we made a video to prove that there's lots of stuff you can do.

You can kind of sketch with Play-Doh and just Google for game controllers.

Just ordinary Play-Doh, nothing special.

Well, I think it's cool, but we should be doing that stuff ourselves.

It shouldn't be a set of experts engineering the way the world works.

We should all be participating in changing the way the world works together. 

Hover the mouse over the "take a photo" button, and you've got a little cat photo booth. 

And so we needed hundreds of people to buy this.

If hundreds of people didn't buy this, we couldn't put it on the market.

And so we put it up on Kickstarter, and hundreds of people bought it in the first day.

And then 30 days later, 11,000 people had backed the project. 

And then what the best part is, we started getting a flood of videos in of people doing crazy things with it.

And we actually sent this guy materials.

And these guys at the exploratorium are playing house plants as if they were drums.

And dads and daughters are completing circuits in special ways. 

And then this brother -- look at this diagram.

See where it says "sister"?

I love when people put humans on the diagram.

And this guy rounded up his dogs and he made a dog piano. 

And this is fun, and what could be more useful than feeling alive and fun?

Like this dad who wrote us, his son has cerebral palsy and he can't use a normal keyboard.

And so his dad couldn't necessarily afford to buy all these custom controllers.

And so, with the MaKey MaKey, he planned to make these gloves to allow him to navigate the web.

And a huge eruption of discussion around accessibility came, and we're really excited about that.

We didn't plan for that at all. 

And I love the carrot on the turntable. 

Maybe take some more stuff out of your pockets and throw it down, and maybe some chapstick, whatever. 

I used to want to design a utopian society or a perfect world or something like that.

But as I'm kind of getting older and kind of messing with all this stuff, I'm realizing that my idea of a perfect world really can't be designed by one person or even by a million experts.

It's really going to be seven billion pairs of hands, each following their own passions, and each kind of like a mosaic coming up and creating this world in their backyards and in their kitchens.

And that's the world I really want to live in. 

Thank you. 

