Liu Bolin: By making myself invisible, I try to question the inter-canceling relationship between our civilization and its development.

Interpreter: By making myself invisible, I try to explore and question the contradictory and often inter-canceling relationship between our civilization and its development. 

LB: This is my first work, created in November 2005.

I also want to use this work to let more people pay attention to the living condition of artists and the condition of their creative freedom.

In the meantime, from the beginning, this series has a protesting, reflective and uncompromising spirit.

(Laughter) 

This work is called Xia Gang ("leaving post").

"Xia Gang" is a Chinese euphemism for "laid off".

It refers to those people who lost their jobs during China's transition from a planned economy to a market economy.

From 1998 to 2000, 21.37 million people lost their jobs in China.

The six people in the photo are Xia Gang workers.

I made them invisible in the deserted shop wherethey had lived and worked all their lives.

We can only see six men in this picture,but in fact, those who are hidden here are all people who were laid off.

This piece is called The Studio.

I found that any culture has its irreconcilable contradictions. 

LB: I tried to disappear into JR's eye, but the problem is JR only uses models with big eyes.

LB: This one is about 9/11 memories. 

This is an aircraft carrier moored alongside the Hudson River. 

(Laughter) 

This is Venice, Italy.

Because global temperatures rise, the sea level rises, and it is said thatVenice will disappear in the coming decades.

This is the ancient city of Pompeii.

Interpreter: This is the ancient city of Pompeii.

LB: This is the Borghese Gallery in Rome. 

When I work on a new piece, I pay more attention to the expression of ideas.

For instance, why would I make myself invisible?

What will making myself invisible here cause people to think? 

(Laughter) LB: Since August 2012, harmful phosphors have been found in the instant noodle package cups from every famous brand sold in China's supermarkets.

These phosphors can even cause cancer.

The background of this piece is more complex, so I need three to four days in advance for preparation.

This is the suit I wore when I did the supermarket shoot.

There is no Photoshop involved.

Interpreter: This is the suit I [was] wearing when I did the supermarket shoot.

(Laughter) 

LB: These works are on China's cultural memories. 

And this one, this is about food safety in China.

Unsafe food can harm people's health, and a deluge of magazines can confuse people's minds.

(Laughter) The next pieces of work show how I made myself invisible in magazines of different languages, in different countries and at different times. 

I think that in art, an artist's attitude is the most important element.

If an artwork is to touch someone, it must be the result of not only technique, but also the artist's thinking and struggle in life.

And the repeated struggles in life create artwork, no matter in what form. 

That's all I want to say. 

