"Don't talk to strangers."

My phrase for this value of being with "not like us" is "strangeness," and my point is that in today's digitally intensive world, strangers are quite frankly not the point.

The point that we should be worried about is, how much strangeness are we getting? 

Why not strangers?

Because strangers are part of a world of really rigid boundaries.

They belong to a world of people I know versus people I don't know, and in the context of my digital relations, I'm already doing things with people I don't know.

The question isn't whether or not I know you.

I spend a lot of time thinking about how the social landscape is changing, how new technologies create new constraints and new opportunities for people.

The most important changes facing us today have to do with data and what data is doing to shape the kinds of digital relations that will be possible for us in the future.

The economies of the future depend on that.

Our social lives in the future depend on that.

The threat to worry about isn't strangers.

The threat to worry about is whether or not we're getting our fair share of strangeness. 

Mark Granovetter, Stanford sociologist, in 1973 in his seminal essay "The Strength of Weak Ties," made the point that these weak ties that are a part of our networks, these strangers, are actually more effective at diffusing information to us than are our strong ties, the people closest to us.

They produce sameness. 

My colleagues and I at Intel have spent the last few years looking at the ways in which digital platforms are reshaping our everyday lives, what kinds of new routines are possible.

We've been looking specifically at the kinds of digital platforms that have enabled us to take our possessions, those things that used to be very restricted to us and to our friends in our houses, and to make them available to people we don't know.

Whether it's our clothes, whether it's our cars, whether it's our bikes, whether it's our books or music, we are able to take our possessions now and make them available to people we've never met.

And we concluded a very important insight, which was that as people's relationships to the things in their lives change, so do their relations with other people.

It continues to try to predict what I need based on some past characterization of who I am, of what I've already done.

Security technology after security technology continues to design data protection in terms of threats and attacks, keeping me locked into really rigid kinds of relations. 

Categories like "friends" and "family" and "contacts" and "colleagues" don't tell me anything about my actual relations.

People aren't close or distant.

People are always a combination of the two, and that combination is constantly changing. 

Strangeness is that calibration of closeness and distance that enables me to find the people that I need right now, that enables me to find the sources of intimacy, of discovery, and of inspiration that I need right now.

Strangeness is not about meeting strangers.

It simply makes the point that we need to disrupt our zones of familiarity.

So jogging those zones of familiarity is one way to think about strangeness, and it's a problem faced not just by individuals today, but also by organizations, organizations that are trying to embrace massively new opportunities.

Whether you're a political party insisting to your detriment on a very rigid notion of who belongs and who does not, whether you're the government protecting social institutions like marriage and restricting access of those institutions to the few, whether you're a teenager in her bedroom who's trying to jostle her relations with her parents, strangeness is a way to think about how we pave the way to new kinds of relations.

We have to change the norms.

We have to change the norms in order to enable new kinds of technologies as a basis for new kinds of businesses. 

What interesting questions lie ahead for us in this world of no strangers?

How might we think differently about our relations with people?

The range of digital relations is extraordinary.

In the context of this broad range of digital relations, safely seeking strangeness might very well be a new basis for that innovation. 

Thank you. 

