(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) And the last time I looked, I'm -- 

(Laughter) And the last time I looked, I'm -- 

(Applause) So this is why I'm excited but I'm angry.

You saw the quality of the educators who were here.

It is absolutely possible.

Why haven't we fixed this?

So here's a business plan that simply does not make any sense. 

And you know something about a lousy school?

Why haven't we allowed innovation to happen?

Do not tell me we can't do better than this. 

And they say, "We'll, we're going to do what we did last year this year."

What kind of business model is that?

Now, one day, some crazy banker had an idea.

What about introducing technology? 

Now look, I'm a technology fan, but I have to admit to you all I'm a little old.

Why is it that when we had rotary phones, when we were having folks being crippled by polio, that we were teaching the same way then that we're doing right now?

And if you come up with a plan to change things, people consider you radical.

They will say the worst things about you.

I said one day, well, look, if the science says -- this is science, not me -- that our poorest children lose ground in the summertime -- You see where they are in June and say, okay, they're there.

(Laughter) Every 10 years they reproduce the same study.

It says exactly the same thing: Poor kids lose ground in the summertime.

The system decides you can't run schools in the summer. 

You know, I always wonder, who makes up those rules?

For years I went to -- Look, I went the Harvard Ed School.

I thought I knew something.

Why did we ever do it?

They didn't have any place for their kids to go.

It was a perfect place to have schools.

So this is not something that is ordained from the education gods. 

Yes, there'll be some place, because some folks will do the right thing.

Here's what we know.

My wife, Yvonne, and I, we have four kids, three grown ones and a 15-year-old.

That's a longer story.

(Laughter) With our first kids, we did not know the science about brain development.

We didn't know how critical those first three years were.

We didn't know what was happening in those young brains.

And their kids have an advantage.

Poor people don't know, and we're not doing anything to help them at all.

But we know this is critical. 

Now, you take pre-kindergarten.

We know it's important for kids.

We know health services matter.

You know, we provide health services and people are always fussing at me about, you know, because I'm all into accountability and data and all of that good stuff, but we do health services, and I have to raise a lot of money.

People used to say when they'd come fund us, "Geoff, why do you provide these health services?"

But now I'm older, and you know what I tell them?

You know why I provide kids with those health benefits and the sports and the recreation and the arts?

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

The testing that we do -- we're going to have our test in New York next week — is in April.

You know when we're going to get the results back?

Maybe July, maybe June.

And the results have great data.

They'll tell you Raheem really struggled, couldn't do two-digit multiplication -- so great data, but you're getting it back after school is over.

(Laughter) You come back from vacation.

Now you've got all of this test data from last year.

You don't look at it.

Why would you look at it?

You're going to go and teach this year.

So how much money did we just spend on all of that?

Billions and billions of dollars for data that it's too late to use.

I need that data in September.

I need that data in November.

I need to know you're struggling, and I need to know whether or not what I did corrected that.

I need to know that this week.

I don't need to know that at the end of the year when it's too late. 

Because in my older years, I've become somewhat of a clairvoyant.

I can predict school scores.

You take me to any school.

I'm really good at inner city schools that are struggling.

And you tell me last year 48 percent of those kids were on grade level.

(Laughter) This year, somewhere between 44 and 52 percent of those kids will be on grade level.

And I will be right every single time. 

So we're spending all of this money, but we're getting what?

Teachers need real information right now about what's happening to their kids.

The high stakes is today, because you can do something about it. 

They get angry if you do something different.

Some of it's not going to work.

I mean, I really believe they should be closed.

But we can't confuse figuring out the science and things not working with we shouldn't therefore do anything.

If you think about technology, imagine if that's how we thought about technology.

The fact that you have failure, that shouldn't stop you from pushing the science forward. 

We've got to give them all of these opportunities.

America cannot wait another 50 years to get this right.

We have run out of time.

What is five billion dollars to the United States?

When the country cares about something, we'll spend a trillion dollars without blinking an eye.

When the safety of America is threatened, we will spend any amount of money.

John Legend: So what is the high school dropout rate at Harlem Children's Zone? 

Geoffrey Canada: Well, you know, John, 100 percent of our kids graduated high school last year in my school.

A hundred percent of them went to college.

This year's seniors will have 100 percent graduating high school.

Last I heard we had 93 percent accepted to college.

JL: So how do you stick with them after they leave high school? 

GC: Well, you know, one of the bad problems we have in this country is these kids, the same kids, these same vulnerable kids, when you get them in school, they drop out in record numbers.

