So I grew up in East Los Angeles, not even realizing I was poor.

My dad was a high-ranking gang member who ran the streets.

Man, her office was packed. 

But that doesn't mean that we can't.

It just takes a little bit more.

Like, I remember one day I found my dad convulsing, foaming at the mouth, OD-ing on the bathroom floor.

Really, do you think that doing my homework that night was at the top of my priority list?

Not so much. 

And unfortunately, the local junior high was not going to offer that.

It was gang-infested, huge teacher turnover rate. 

I took a school bus to the fancy side of town.

And eventually, I ended up at a school where there was a mixture.

There were some people who were really gang-affiliated, and then there were those of us really trying to make it to high school.

Well, trying to stay out of trouble was a little unavoidable.

Some teachers completely wrote me off as a lost cause. 

And I am going to be their help along the way. 

So as a rookie teacher, I created opportunity.

I had a kid one day come into my class having been stabbed the night before. 

How do you get to build those relationships? 

So we created a new school.

We wanted those freedoms.

But now, shifting an entire paradigm, it hasn't been an easy journey, nor is it even complete.

But we had to do it.

Our community deserved a new way of doing things. 

And as the very first pilot middle school in all of Los Angeles Unified School District, you better believe there was some opposition.

Yeah, what if we get it wrong?

But what if we get it right?

And we did.

So even though teachers were against it because we employ one-year contracts -- you can't teach, or you don't want to teach, you don't get to be at my school with my kids. 

So in our third year, how did we do it?

These were played in the local trolley system.

Teaching elements of persuasion, it doesn't get any more real than that.

And it takes a school board member who is going to lobby for you and say, "Know, the district is trying to impose this, but you have the freedom to do otherwise."

And it takes an active parent center who is not only there, showing a presence every day, but who is part of our governance, making decisions for their kids, our kids. 

Because why should our students have to go so far away from where they live?

Because it's time that kids like me stop being the exception, and we become the norm. 

Thank you. 

