I teach chemistry. 

Have you ever found yourself at a restaurant spacing out just doing this over and over?

Some people nodding yes.

Recently, I showed this to my students, and I just asked them to try and explain why it happened.

Now obviously, as Maddie's chemistry teacher, I love that she went home and continued to geek out about this kind of ridiculous demonstration that we did in class.

But what fascinated me more is that Maddie's curiosity took her to a new level.

If you look inside that beaker, you might see a candle.

Maddie's using temperature to extend this phenomenon to a new scenario. 

But if instead we have the guts to confuse our students, perplex them, and evoke real questions, through those questions, we as teachers have information that we can use to tailor robust and informed methods of blended instruction. 

Where did this guy get this confidence, the audacity of it? 

So when I asked him, he told me three things.

He said first, his curiosity drove him to ask hard questions about the procedure, about what worked and what didn't work.

And third, through intense reflection, he gathered the information that he needed to design and revise the procedure, and then, with a steady hand, he saved my life. 

Rule number one: Curiosity comes first.

And just because the scientific method is allocated to page five of section 1.2 of chapter one of the one that we all skip, okay, trial and error can still be an informal part of what we do every single day at Sacred Heart Cathedral in room 206.

Can we be the surgeons of our classrooms?

As if what we are doing one day will save lives.

Our students our worth it.

And each case is different. 

And, on the left, Riley.

Now Riley's going to be a big girl in a couple weeks here.

We all were at that age.

But the challenge is really for Riley's future teachers, the ones she has yet to meet.

How will they grow this curiosity? 

But if we as educators leave behind this simple role as disseminators of content and embrace a new paradigm as cultivators of curiosity and inquiry, we just might bring a little bit more meaning to their school day, and spark their imagination. 

Thank you very much. 

