After six years of war, Homs is now a half-destroyed city.

My family and I were lucky; our place is still standing.

Although for two years, we were like prisoners at home.

Outside there were demonstrations and battles and bombings and snipers.

My husband and I used to run an architecture studio in the old town main square.

It's gone, as is most of the old town itself.

Half of the city's other neighborhoods are now rubble.

Since the ceasefire in late 2015, large parts of Homs have been more or less quiet.

The economy is completely broken, and people are still fighting.

The merchants who had stalls in the old city market now trade out of sheds on the streets.

Under our apartment, there is a carpenter, sweetshops, a butcher, a printing house, workshops, among many more.

I have started teaching part-time, and with my husband, who juggles several jobs, we've opened a small bookshop.

Other people do all sorts of jobs to get by. 

How did my country -- a country with communities living harmoniously together and comfortable in discussing their differences -- how did it degenerate into civil war, violence, displacement and unprecedented sectarian hatred?

They all have played their role.

And that reason is architecture. 

There is a sure correspondence between the architecture of a place and the character of the community that has settled there.

Architecture plays a key role in whether a community crumbles or comes together.

Syrian society has long lived the coexistence of different traditions and backgrounds.

Syrians have experienced the prosperity of open trade and sustainable communities.

This architecture of mixity can still be read in the remains.

The old Islamic city in Syria was built over a multilayered past, integrating with it and embracing its spirit.

So did its communities.

They shared a remarkably unified existence. 

They called them improvements, and they were the beginning of a long, slow unraveling.

The traditional urbanism and architecture of our cities assured identity and belonging not by separation, but by intertwining.

But over time, the ancient became worthless, and the new, coveted.

And the same was happening to the community.

As the shape of the built environment changed, so the lifestyles and sense of belonging of the communities also started changing.

While many reasons had led to the Syrian war, we shouldn't underestimate the way in which, by contributing to the loss of identity and self-respect, urban zoning and misguided, inhumane architecture have nurtured sectarian divisions and hatred.

Over time, the united city has morphed into a city center with ghettos along its circumference.

From my point of view, losing the sense of belonging to a place and a sense of sharing it with someone else has made it a lot easier to destroy. 

This ghettoized urbanism proved to be a tangible precursor of war.

The ties that used to bind the city together -- whether they were social, through coherent building, or economic, through trade in the souk, or religious, through the coexistent presence -- were all lost in the misguided and visionless modernization of the built environment. 

There is a neighborhood here in Homs that's called Baba Amr that has been fully destroyed.

Almost two years ago, I introduced this design into a UN-Habitat competition for rebuilding it.

It's far from perfect, obviously.

I drew it during the few hours of electricity we get.

And there are many possible ways to express belonging and community through architecture.

But compare it with the freestanding, disconnected blocks proposed by the official project for rebuilding Baba Amr. 

Architecture is not the axis around which all human life rotates, but it has the power to suggest and even direct human activity.

In that sense, settlement, identity and social integration are all the producer and product of effective urbanism.

In order for a place to give, its architecture should be giving, too. 

Our built environment matters.

The fabric of our cities is reflected in the fabric of our souls.

And whether in the shape of informal concrete slums or broken social housing or trampled old towns or forests of skyscrapers, the contemporary urban archetypes that have emerged all across the Middle East have been one cause of the alienation and fragmentation of our communities. 

We can learn from this.

Those needs were totally overlooked in the Syrian cities before the war.

We need to create again cities that are shared by the communities that inhabit them.

