Everyone needs a coach.

(Laughter) 

My bridge coach, Sharon Osberg, says there are more pictures of the back of her head than anyone else's in the world.

(Laughter) Sorry, Sharon.

We all need people who will give us feedback.

That's how we improve.

I'm talking about teachers.

When Melinda and I learned how little useful feedback most teachers get, we were blown away.

How would I know who was the best?

How would I know what I was doing differently?

So today I want to talk about how we can help all teachers get the tools for improvement they want and deserve. 

Let's start by asking who's doing well.

Well, unfortunately there's no international ranking tables for teacher feedback systems.

So I looked at the countries whose students perform well academically, and looked at what they're doing to help their teachers improve.

Consider the rankings for reading proficiency.

The U.S. isn't number one.

We're not even in the top 10.

We're tied for 15th with Iceland and Poland.

Now, out of all the places that do better than the U.S. in reading, how many of them have a formal system for helping teachers improve?

Eleven out of 14.

The U.S. is tied for 15th in reading, but we're 23rd in science and 31st in math.

Let's look at the best academic performer: the province of Shanghai, China.

They made sure that younger teachers get a chance to watch master teachers at work.

They have weekly study groups, where teachers get together and talk about what's working.

They even require each teacher to observe and give feedback to their colleagues. 

Some teachers are far more effective than others.

In fact, there are teachers throughout the country who are helping their students make extraordinary gains.

If today's average teacher could become as good as those teachers, our students would be blowing away the rest of the world.

So we need a system that helps all our teachers be as good as the best. 

What would that system look like?

Well, to find out, our foundation has been working with 3,000 teachers in districts across the country on a project called Measures of Effective Teaching.

And what we found is very exciting.

First, the teachers who did well on these observations had far better student outcomes.

So it tells us we're asking the right questions.

I want to show you what this video component of MET looks like in action. 

To get started, we're doing a peer review day, okay?

A peer review day, and our goal by the end of class is for you to be able to determine whether or not you have moves to prove in your essays. 

My name is Sarah Brown Wessling.

I am a high school English teacher at Johnston High School in Johnston, Iowa. 

I think that there is a difference for teachers between the abstract of how we see our practice and then the concrete reality of it. 

Okay, so I would like you to please bring up your papers. 

I think what video offers for us is a certain degree of reality.

And I'm able to learn a lot from it.

So it really has been a simple but powerful tool in my own reflection. 

All right, let's take a look at the long one first, okay? 

If I don't write things down, I don't remember them. 

So having the notes is a part of my thinking process, and I discover what I'm seeing as I'm writing.

I really have used it for my own personal growth and my own personal reflection on teaching strategy and methodology and classroom management, and just all of those different facets of the classroom. 

I'm glad that we've actually done the process before so we can kind of compare what works, what doesn't. 

I think it is a way to exemplify and illustrate things that we cannot convey in a lesson plan, things you cannot convey in a standard, things that you cannot even sometimes convey in a book of pedagogy. 

Alrighty, everybody, have a great weekend.

I'll see you later. 

Bill Gates: One day, we'd like every classroom in America to look something like that.

But we still have more work to do.

Diagnosing areas where a teacher needs to improve is only half the battle.

We also have to give them the tools they need to act on the diagnosis.

If you learn that you need to improve the way you teach fractions, you should be able to watch a video of the best person in the world teaching fractions. 

So building this complete teacher feedback and improvement system won't be easy.

For example, I know some teachers aren't immediately comfortable with the idea of a camera in the classroom.

That's understandable, but our experience with MET suggests that if teachers manage the process, if they collect video in their own classrooms, and they pick the lessons they want to submit, a lot of them will be eager to participate. 

Building this system will also require a considerable investment.

Our foundation estimates that it could cost up to five billion dollars.

Now that's a big number, but to put it in perspective, it's less than two percent of what we spend every year on teacher salaries. 

The impact for teachers would be phenomenal.

We would finally have a way to give them feedback, as well as the means to act on it. 

But this system would have an even more important benefit for our country.

It would put us on a path to making sure all our students get a great education, find a career that's fulfilling and rewarding, and have a chance to live out their dreams.

This wouldn't just make us a more successful country.

It would also make us a more fair and just one, too. 

I'm excited about the opportunity to give all our teachers the support they want and deserve.

I hope you are too. 

Thank you. 

