And that's actually crucial because if we're going to get increased investment in early childhood programs, we need to interest state governments in this.

The federal government has a lot on its plate, and state governments are going to have to step up.

So we have to appeal to them, the legislators in the state government, and turn to something they understand, that they have to promote the economic development of their state economy.

Now, by promoting economic development, I don't mean anything magical.

I've talked to a lot of directors of state economic development agencies about these issues, a lot of legislators about these issues.

When legislators and others think about economic development, what they first of all think about are business tax incentives, property tax abatements, job creation tax credits, you know, there are a million of these programs all over the place.

So for example, states compete very vigorously to attract new auto plants or expanded auto plants.

They hand out all kinds of business tax breaks.

It's a somewhat more indirect way.

And the trouble with that objection, it reflects a total misunderstanding of how much local economies involve everyone being interdependent.

So when you look, for example, at metropolitan areas such as the Boston area, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Silicon Valley, these areas are not doing well economically because they're low-cost.

I don't know if you ever tried to buy a house in Silicon Valley.

It's not exactly a low-cost proposition.

They are growing because they have high levels of skills.

So when we invest in other people's children, and build up those skills, we increase the overall job growth of a metro area.

One of the very interesting facts is that, in addition, we find that even once we hold constant, statistically, the effect of your own education, the education of everyone else in your metropolitan area also affects your wages.

So specifically, if you hold constant your education, you stick in percentage of college graduates in your metro area, you will find that has a significant positive effect on your wages without changing your education at all.

In fact, this effect is so strong that when someone gets a college degree, the spillover effects of this on the wages of others in the metropolitan area are actually greater than the direct effects.

So if someone gets a college degree, their lifetime earnings go up by a huge amount, over 700,000 dollars.

There's an effect on everyone else in the metro area of driving up the percentage of college graduates in the metro area, and if you add that up -- it's a small effect for each person, but if you add that up across all the people in the metro area, you actually get that the increase in wages for everyone else in the metropolitan area adds up to almost a million dollars.

Now, what's going on here?

What can explain these huge spillover effects of education?

Well, let's think about it this way.

I can be the most skilled person in the world, but if everyone else at my firm lacks skills, my employer is going to find it more difficult to introduce new technology, new production techniques.

So as a result, my employer is going to be less productive.

They will not be able to afford to pay me as good wages.

Even if everyone at my firm has good skills, if the workers at the suppliers to my firm do not have good skills, my firm is going to be less competitive competing in national and international markets.

And again, the firm that's less competitive will not be able to pay as good wages, and then, particularly in high-tech businesses, they're constantly stealing ideas and workers from other businesses.

So clearly the productivity of firms in Silicon Valley has a lot to do with the skills not only of the workers at their firm, but the workers at all the other firms in the metro area.

Another objection used sometimes here to invest in early childhood programs is concern about people moving out.

And maybe Michigan will be thinking about investing in preschool in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and be worried these little Wolverines will end up moving to Ohio and becoming Buckeyes.

And so they'll both underinvest because everyone's going to move out.

Well, the reality is, if you look at the data, Americans aren't as hyper-mobile as people sometimes assume.

That percentage does not vary much from state to state.

So the reality is, if you invest in kids, they will stay.

Okay, so to sum up, there is a lot of research evidence that early childhood programs, if run in a high-quality way, pay off in higher adult skills.

There's a lot of research evidence that those folks will stick around the state economy, and there's a lot of evidence that having more workers with higher skills in your local economy pays off in higher wages and job growth for your local economy, and if you calculate the numbers for each dollar, we get about three dollars back in benefits for the state economy.

So in my opinion, the research evidence is compelling and the logic of this is compelling.

Well, one obvious barrier is cost.

So if you look at what it would cost if every state government invested in universal preschool at age four, full-day preschool at age four, the total annual national cost would be roughly 30 billion dollars.

So, 30 billion dollars is a lot of money.

It's just a simple matter of political will to do it.

And, of course, as I mentioned, this cost has corresponding benefits.

Now, that's one barrier.

I actually think the more profound barrier is the long-term nature of the benefits from early childhood programs.

So the argument I'm making is, is that we're increasing the quality of our local workforce, and thereby increasing economic development.

Ultimately, this is something we're investing in now for the future.

And so what I want to leave you with is what I think is the ultimate question.

Are we still capable of that as a country?

And that's something that each and every citizen and voter needs to ask themselves.

Is that something that you are still invested in, that you still believe in the notion of investment?

That is the notion of investment.

So I think the research evidence on the benefits of early childhood programs for the local economy is extremely strong.

However, the moral and political choice is still up to us, as citizens and as voters. 

