I'm not sure that every person here is familiar with my pictures.

I want to start to show just a few pictures to you, and after I'll speak. 

When I was 15 years old, it was necessary for me to leave this place and go to a town a little bit bigger -- much bigger -- where I did the second part of secondary school.

There I learned different things.

I [went to] university to become an economist.

I [did] a master's degree in economics. 

And the most important thing in my life also happened in this time.

Brazil radicalized very strongly.

And one day photography made a total invasion in my life.

In the '90s, from 1994 to 2000, I photographed a story called Migrations.

I saw in Rwanda total brutality.

I saw deaths by thousands per day.

I lost my faith in our species.

I started to have infection everywhere.

When I made love with my wife, I had no sperm that came out of me; I had blood.

And I made the decision to stop.

I was really upset with photography, with everything in the world, and I made the decision to go back to where I was born.

It was a big coincidence.

When we received this land, this land was as dead as I was.

To build development, Brazilian development, we destroyed a lot of our forest.

As you did here in the United States, or you did in India, everywhere in this planet.

To build our development, we come to a huge contradiction that we destroy around us everything.

And Léila came up with an incredible idea, a crazy idea. 

She said, why don't you put back the rainforest that was here before?

It became a national park.

We created an institution called Instituto Terra, and we built a big environmental project to raise money everywhere.

We raised money in Spain, in Italy, a lot in Brazil.

We worked with a lot of companies in Brazil that put money into this project, the government.

And the life started to come, and I had a big wish to come back to photography, to photograph again.

And this time, my wish was not to photograph anymore just one animal that I had photographed all my life: us.

We must protect the forest in this sense.

And with these pictures, I hope that we can create information, a system of information.

Thank you very much. 

This is what we must fight hard to hold like it is now.

But we create an incredible contradiction.

To build all this, we destroy a lot.

Our forest in Brazil, that antique forest that was the size of California, is destroyed today 93 percent.

Gone very fast, disappeared.

And we must rebuild these forests.

The only machine capable to capture the carbon that we are producing, always, even if we reduce them, everything that we do, we produce CO2, are the trees.

I put the question -- three or four weeks ago, we saw in the newspapers millions of fish that die in Norway.

A lack of oxygen in the water.

For the water system, the trees are essential.

I'll give you a small example that you'll understand very easily.

The trees are the hair of our planet.

When you have trees, the root system holds the water.

All the branches of the trees, the leaves that come down create a humid area, and they take months and months under the water, go to the rivers, and maintain our source, maintain our rivers.

This is the most important thing, when we imagine that we need water for every activity in life. 

I want to show you now, to finish, just a few pictures that for me are very important in that direction.

But you can see in this picture, we were starting to construct an educational center that became quite a large environmental center in Brazil.

There are thousands of trees.

Now I'll show you the pictures made exactly in the same point two months ago. 

I told you in the beginning that it was necessary for us to plant about 2.5 million trees of about 200 different species in order to rebuild the ecosystem.

And I'll show you the last picture.

We are with two million trees in the ground now.

We are doing the sequestration of about 100,000 tons of carbon with these trees. 

By an accident that happened to me, we went back, we built an ecosystem.

And I believe that we can do it together. 

Thank you very much. 

