And this may be a little bit of a surprise to many of you who know my research and what I've done well.

And I decided that I was going to set out to try to solve this problem. 

And this probably is not what you're expecting.

It's about perfecting something old, and bringing something old into the 21st century. 

Let's talk a little bit about how nuclear fission works.

Is fission kind of played out, or is there something left to innovate here?

This is a small modular reactor.

So it's not as big as the reactor you see in the diagram here.

This is between 50 and 100 megawatts.

But that's a ton of power.

That's between, say at an average use, that's maybe 25,000 to 100,000 homes could run off that.

Now the really interesting thing about these reactors is they're built in a factory.

So they're modular reactors that are built essentially on an assembly line, and they're trucked anywhere in the world, you plop them down, and they produce electricity.

This region right here is the reactor. 

And this is buried below ground, which is really important.

For someone who's done a lot of counterterrorism work, I can't extol to you how great having something buried below the ground is for proliferation and security concerns. 

And we have a lot of it sitting around, because this is a big problem.

What are we doing with all the pits of those nuclear weapons?

It's still thermally hot but it's not radioactive.

That's how much thermal energy the reactor's putting out to how much electricity it's producing.

And the reason the efficiencies are so low is these reactors operate at pretty low temperature.

They operate anywhere from, you know, maybe 200 to 300 degrees Celsius.

And I'm really excited about this, because it's a very compact core.

So for a given amount of fuel you put in the reactor, a lot more of it's being used. 

And the problem with a traditional nuclear power plant like this is, you've got these rods that are clad in zirconium, and inside them are uranium dioxide fuel pellets.

Well, uranium dioxide's a ceramic, and ceramic doesn't like releasing what's inside of it.

They love the neutrons that are going on and helping this reaction take place.

And they eat them up, which means that, combined with the fact that the cladding doesn't last very long, you can only run one of these reactors for roughly, say, 18 months without refueling it.

No refueling means you can seal them up and they're not going to be a proliferation risk, and they're not going to have either nuclear material or radiological material proliferated from their cores. 

One, it doesn't operate at high pressure.

These reactors operate at essentially atmospheric pressure, so there's no inclination for the fission products to leave the reactor in the event of an accident.

In this kind of reactor, you can't do that.

So the core of this reactor, since it's not under pressure and it doesn't have this chemical reactivity, means that there's no inclination for the fission products to leave this reactor.

So even in the event of an accident, yeah, the reactor may be toast, which is, you know, sorry for the power company, but we're not going to contaminate large quantities of land.

You can put them anywhere in the world you want to. 

And maybe something else.

As a kid, I was obsessed with space.

But I think I get to come back to this, because imagine having a compact reactor in a rocket that produces 50 to 100 megawatts.

That is the rocket designer's dream.

That's someone who is designing a habitat on another planet's dream.

Not only do you have 50 to 100 megawatts to power whatever you want to provide propulsion to get you there, but you have power once you get there.

I mean, now we're talking about 100 megawatts.

That's a ton of power.

That could power a Martian community.

That could power a rocket there.

And so I hope that maybe I'll have an opportunity to kind of explore my rocketry passion at the same time that I explore my nuclear passion. 

And so I hope that maybe I'll have an opportunity to kind of explore my rocketry passion at the same time that I explore my nuclear passion. 

They're giant nuclear cauldrons in the sky.

