So what happens?

No one can say for sure, but I remember my first accident.

It was just going 65 -- to zero?

I think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other. 

You can't really directly sense the world around you.

You're in this extended body.

What's more important?

And usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road.

But occasionally we miss something.

Occasionally we sense something wrong or too late.

We can only watch so much. 

But the technology exists now that can help us improve that.

We will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us, to see how fast that guy's going or stopping.

If that guy's going down to zero, I'll know. 

And with computation and algorithms and predictive models, we will be able to see the future.

Cars are three-dimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity.

They travel down roads.

Often they travel on pre-published routes.

It's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future.

That guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour.

I mean, they're Newtonian objects.

That's very nice about them. 

So how do we get there?

If I have a GPS and a camera in my car, I have a pretty precise idea of where I am and how fast I'm going.

With computer vision, I can estimate where the cars around me are, sort of, and where they're going.

What happens if two cars share that data, if they talk to each other?

I can tell you exactly what happens.

Both models improve.

Everybody wins.

We also attach a discrete short-range communication radio, and the robots talk to each other.

When these robots come at each other, they track each other's position precisely, and they can avoid each other. 

If your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories, you don't pay as much attention to those packets.

That guy could be a problem.

And you can predict the new trajectory.

So you don't only know that he's going off course, you know how.

And you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way. 

And we wanted to do -- how can we best alert everyone?

How can these cars whisper, "You need to get out of the way?"

If one guy has a really great car, but they're on their phone or, you know, doing something, they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency.

And now, using a series of three cameras, we can detect if a driver is looking forward, looking away, looking down, on the phone, or having a cup of coffee.

Fundamentally, these technologies exist today. 

I think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data.

If I look at your license plate number, I don't really know who you are.

I believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs. 

(Laughter) 

And I think it's going to be a great thing.

I want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking, that you're coming to a dead stop.

By sharing our data willingly, we can do what's best for everyone. 

So let your car gossip about you.

It's going to make the roads a lot safer. 

Thank you. 

