That's long enough for a generation of managers to retire.

You see, the first wave of managers simply replaced their steam engines with electric motors, but they didn't redesign the factories to take advantage of electricity's flexibility.

But technology alone is not enough.

Technology is not destiny.

We're not doing as well at that job as we should be.

Let's look at some data.

So here's GDP per person in America.

There's some bumps along the way, but the big story is you could practically fit a ruler to it.

This is a log scale, so what looks like steady growth is actually an acceleration in real terms.

And here's productivity.

You can see a little bit of a slowdown there in the mid-'70s, but it matches up pretty well with the Second Industrial Revolution, when factories were learning how to electrify their operations.

After a lag, productivity accelerated again.

So maybe "history doesn't repeat itself, but sometimes it rhymes."

It's growing faster than it did during the Second Industrial Revolution.

Worldwide incomes have grown at a faster rate in the past decade than ever in history. 

If anything, all these numbers actually understate our progress, because the new machine age is more about knowledge creation than just physical production.

It's mind not matter, brain not brawn, ideas not things.

But that's not how economists measure GDP.

Zero price means zero weight in the GDP statistics.

You know, I bet you are too.

In total, my research estimates that the GDP numbers miss over 300 billion dollars per year in free goods and services on the Internet.

Now let's look to the future.

Welcome to the economics of abundance.

But there's a subtler benefit to the digitization of the world.

Measurement is the lifeblood of science and progress.

In the age of big data, we can measure the world in ways we never could before. 

Secondly, the new machine age is exponential.

Computers get better faster than anything else ever.

A child's Playstation today is more powerful than a military supercomputer from 1996.

Thirdly, the new machine age is combinatorial.

Now individually, digital, exponential and combinatorial would each be game-changers.

But perhaps the most important invention, the most important invention is machine learning.

Consider one project: IBM's Watson.

At age seven, Watson is still kind of in its childhood.

But you know, Watson is growing up fast.

It's being tested for jobs in call centers, and it's getting them.

It's applying for legal, banking and medical jobs, and getting some of them.

Isn't it ironic that at the very moment we are building intelligent machines, perhaps the most important invention in human history, some people are arguing that innovation is stagnating?

Like the first two industrial revolutions, the full implications of the new machine age are going to take at least a century to fully play out, but they are staggering. 

Technology is not destiny.

Productivity is at an all time high, but fewer people now have jobs.

We have created more wealth in the past decade than ever, but for a majority of Americans, their income has fallen.

This is the great decoupling of productivity from employment, of wealth from work.

Technology is racing ahead, but it's leaving more and more people behind.

Today, we can take a routine job, codify it in a set of machine-readable instructions, and then replicate it a million times. 

You know, I recently overheard a conversation that epitomizes these new economics.

She can't.

But 17 percent of tax preparers no longer have jobs.

What can we do to create shared prosperity?

The answer is not to try to slow down technology.

Instead of racing against the machine, we need to learn to race with the machine.

That is our grand challenge. 

The machine won that day, and today, a chess program running on a cell phone can beat a human grandmaster.

It got so bad that, when he was asked what strategy he would use against a computer, Jan Donner, the Dutch grandmaster, replied, "I'd bring a hammer."

But today a computer is no longer the world chess champion.

Racing with the machine beats racing against the machine.

Technology is not destiny.

We shape our destiny. 

Thank you. 

