We always hear that texting is a scourge.

What do I mean by that? 

So first there's speech, and then writing comes along as a kind of artifice. 

Now don't get me wrong, writing has certain advantages.

Or at least, they shouldn't if they're interested in reproducing.

Casual speech is something quite different.

Linguists have actually shown that when we're speaking casually in an unmonitored way, we tend to speak in word packets of maybe seven to 10 words.

You'll notice this if you ever have occasion to record yourself or a group of people talking.

It's much less reflective -- very different from writing.

So we naturally tend to think, because we see language written so often, that that's what language is, but actually what language is, is speech.

The Gettysburg Address was not the main meal of that event.

For two hours before that, Edward Everett spoke on a topic that, frankly, cannot engage us today and barely did then.

The point of it was to listen to him speaking like writing.

Ordinary people stood and listened to that for two hours.

It was perfectly natural.

That's what people did then, speaking like writing. 

It's almost impossible to do that with your hand except in shorthand, and then communication is limited.

Once you have things in your pocket that can receive that message, then you have the conditions that allow that we can write like we speak.

And that's where texting comes in.

And so, texting is very loose in its structure.

Now we can write the way we talk.

And it's a very interesting thing, but nevertheless easy to think that still it represents some sort of decline.

We see this general bagginess of the structure, the lack of concern with rules and the way that we're used to learning on the blackboard, and so we think that something has gone wrong.

It's a very natural sense. 

But the fact of the matter is that what is going on is a kind of emergent complexity.

That's what we're seeing in this fingered speech.

But if you text now, or if you are someone who is aware of the substrate of texting the way it's become, you'll notice that LOL does not mean laughing out loud anymore.

It's evolved into something that is much subtler. 

This is an actual text that was done by a non-male person of about 20 years old not too long ago. 

Then Susan says "lol, I know," again more guffawing than we're used to when you're talking about these inconveniences. 

Very funny people, if that's what LOL means. 

Susan: "lol, I have to write a 10 page paper."

If you happen to speak Japanese, think about that little word "ne" that you use at the end of a lot of sentences.

A pragmatic particle, that's what LOL has gradually become.

It's a way of using the language between actual people. 

Another example is "slash."

It's used to change the scene. 

Sally: "For this summer program at NYU."

The slash is interesting.

I don't really even know what Jake is talking about after that, but you notice that he's changing the topic.

All spoken languages have what a linguist calls a new information marker -- or two, or three.

Texting has developed one from this slash. 

There's a lack of structure of some sort.

It's not as sophisticated as the language of The Wall Street Journal.

We've heard that sort of thing before, not just in 1956.

So, "From every college in the country goes up the cry, 'Our freshmen can't spell, can't punctuate.'"

"Bad spelling, incorrectness as well as inelegance of expression in writing."

And he's talking about people who are otherwise well prepared for college studies. 

Or you can go all the way back to 63 A.D. -- (Laughter) -- and there's this poor man who doesn't like the way people are speaking Latin.

As it happens, he was writing about what had become French.

And so, there are always — (Laughter) (Applause) — there are always people worrying about these things and the planet somehow seems to keep spinning. 

Increasing evidence is that being bilingual is cognitively beneficial.

That's also true of being bidialectal.

That's certainly true of being bidialectal in terms of your writing.

It's very simple.

So in closing, if I could go into the future, if I could go into 2033, the first thing I would ask is whether David Simon had done a sequel to "The Wire."

That'd be the second thing.

Thank you very much. 

