So as I said, neurosurgery comes from a long tradition.

It's been around for about 7,000 years.

And they were trying to -- they knew that the brain was involved in neurological and psychiatric disease.

So if you are possessed by an evil spirit causing neurologic or psychiatric problems, then the way to treat this is, of course, to make a hole in your skull and let the evil spirit escape. 

But this was common.

Now, in the course of time, we've come to realize that different parts of the brain do different things.

So there are areas of the brain that are dedicated to controlling your movement or your vision or your memory or your appetite, and so on.

And when things work well, then the nervous system works well, and everything functions.

Now, the manifestation of this depends on where in the brain these neurons are.

So what we've been able to do is to pinpoint where these disturbances are in the brain, and we've been able to intervene within these circuits in the brain to either turn them up or turn them down.

So this is very much like choosing the correct station on the radio dial.

Once you choose the right station, whether it be jazz or opera, in our case whether it be movement or mood, we can put the dial there, and then we can use a second button to adjust the volume, to turn it up or turn it down. 

So what I'm going to tell you about is using the circuitry of the brain to implant electrodes and turning areas of the brain up and down to see if we can help our patients.

And this is accomplished using this kind of device, and this is called deep brain stimulation.

So what we're doing is placing these electrodes throughout the brain.

We can turn it up or down, on or off.

So this looks something like this when it's in the brain.

And this works like that, instantly.

And the difference between shaking in this way and not -- (Applause) The difference between shaking in this way and not is related to the misbehavior of 25,000 neurons in her subthalamic nucleus.

So we use electricity to dictate how they fire, and we try to block their misbehavior using electricity.

So in this case, we are suppressing the activity of abnormal neurons. 

So dystonia is a disorder affecting children.

So he is one of five kids.

The only way he could get around was crawling on his belly like this.

(Applause) 

This boy is now in university and leads quite a normal life.

(Applause) 

We realized that perhaps we could use this technology not only in circuits that control your movement but also circuits that control other things, and the next thing that we took on was circuits that control your mood.

And let's see if we can use this technique to help these patients with depression. 

If I make any of you sad, for example, I make you remember the last time you saw your parent before they died or a friend before they died, this area of the brain lights up.

It is the sadness center of the brain.

And so patients with depression have hyperactivity.

The area of the brain for sadness is on red hot.

So we wondered, can we place electrodes in this area of sadness and see if we can turn down the thermostat, can we turn down the activity, and what will be the consequence of that? 

So we went ahead and implanted electrodes in patients with depression.

This is work done with my colleague Helen Mayberg from Emory.

I've shown you that we can use deep brain stimulation to treat the motor system in cases of Parkinson's disease and dystonia.

I've shown you that we can use it to treat a mood circuit in cases of depression.

Can we use deep brain stimulation to make you smarter?

(Laughter) Anybody interested in that?

(Applause) Of course we can, right? 

So what we've decided to do is we're going to try to turbocharge the memory circuits in the brain.

We're going to place electrodes within the circuits that regulate your memory and cognitive function to see if we can turn up their activity.

Now we're not going to do this in normal people.

As you know, this is the main symptom of early onset Alzheimer's disease.

Now it turns out that in Alzheimer's disease, there's a huge deficit in glucose utilization in the brain.

The brain is a bit of a hog when it comes to using glucose.

It uses 20 percent of all your -- even though it only weighs two percent -- it uses 10 times more glucose than it should based on its weight.

And indeed, what we see is that these areas in red around the outside ribbon of the brain are progressively getting more and more blue until they shut down completely.

Can we get those areas of the brain to use glucose once again? 

These areas of the brain are shut down.

The lights are out in these areas of the brain.

And indeed, we are able to get these areas of the brain that were not using glucose to use glucose once again.

So this is now in clinical trials.

We are going to operate on 50 patients with early Alzheimer's disease to see whether this is safe and effective, whether we can improve their neurologic function. 

(Applause) 

We are now learning to understand what are the circuits, what are the areas of the brain that are responsible for the clinical signs and the symptoms of those diseases.

So I envision that we're going to see a great expansion of indications of this technique.

We're going to see electrodes being placed for many disorders of the brain.

One of the most exciting things about this is that, indeed, it involves multidisciplinary work.

Thank you very much. 

