One year ago, I rented a car in Jerusalem to go find a man I'd never met but who had changed my life.

And so, on an overcast morning in January, I headed north off in a silver Chevy to find a man and some peace. 

The road dropped and I exited Jerusalem.

I then rounded the very bend where his blue truck, heavy with four tons of floor tiles, had borne down with great speed onto the back left corner of the minibus where I sat.

I was then 19 years old.

I didn't see Abed coming.

From my seat, I was looking up at a stone town on a hilltop, bright in the noontime sun, when from behind there was a great bang, as loud and violent as a bomb.

My head snapped back over my red seat.

It was then I read the testimony that Abed gave the morning after the crash, of driving down the right lane of a highway toward Jerusalem.

Reading his words, I welled with anger.

It was the first time I'd felt anger toward this man, and it came from magical thinking.

On this xeroxed piece of paper, the crash had not yet happened.

And maybe he had.

I said I wanted to meet.

Abed said that I should call back in a few weeks, and when I did, and a recording told me that his number was disconnected, I let Abed and the crash go. 

Many years passed.

I walked with my cane and my ankle brace and a backpack on trips in six continents.

Each of us had a before and an after.

I'd been working through my lot after all. 

But what to get the man who broke your fucking neck?

(Laughter) I pulled into the town of Abu Ghosh, and bought a brick of Turkish delight: pistachios glued in rosewater.

Abed would say, "I'm sorry."

Who was I?

Was I what had been done to me?

The light my eyes had carried for as long as they had been blue.

The predispositions and impulses that had propelled me as a toddler to try and slip over a boat into a Chicago lake, that had propelled me as a teen to jump into wild Cape Cod Bay after a hurricane.

The frequent furl of five fingers, the chips in my teeth come from biting at all the many things a solitary hand cannot open.

The dancer and the dance were hopelessly entwined. 

It was approaching 11 when I exited right toward Afula, and passed a large quarry and was soon in Kfar Kara.

I felt a pang of nerves.

But Chopin was on the radio, seven beautiful mazurkas, and I pulled into a lot by a gas station to listen and to calm. 

I was me, but I was now me despite a limp, and that, I suppose, was what now made me, me. 

And as I sat contemplating what to say, a woman approached in a black shawl and black robe.

I stepped from my car and said "Shalom," and identified myself, and she told me that her husband Abed would be home from work in four hours.

(Laughter) 

And as I approached the front door, Abed saw me, my jeans and flannel and cane, and I saw Abed, an average-looking man of average size.

It was then that Abed resumed at once the tale of woe he had begun over the phone 16 years before.

He'd just had surgery on his eyes, he said.

He had problems with his side and his legs too, and, oh, he'd lost his teeth in the crash.

Did I wish to see him remove them?

Abed then rose and turned on the TV so that I wouldn't be alone when he left the room, and returned with polaroids of the crash and his old driver's license. 

"I was handsome," he said. 

We looked down at his laminated mug.

Abed had been less handsome than substantial, with thick black hair and a full face and a wide neck.

It was this youth who on May 16, 1990, had broken two necks including mine, and bruised one brain and taken one life.

"The crash changed both of our lives," I said. 

I did not want to recap the crash with Abed.

I'd hoped for something simpler: to exchange a Turkish dessert for two words and be on my way.

And so I now went looking for remorse and threw truth under the bus. 

Abed then told me why he'd suffered.

He'd lived an unholy life before the crash, and so God had ordained the crash, but now, he said, he was religious, and God was pleased. 

It was then that God intervened: news on the TV of a car wreck that hours before had killed three people up north.

We looked up at the wreckage. 

"Strange," I said. 

"Strange," he agreed. 

I had the thought that there, on Route 804, there were perpetrators and victims, dyads bound by a crash.

He'd served six months in prison, lost his truck license for a decade.

I forgot my discretion. 

It was then I understood that Abed would never apologize. 

Abed and I sat with our coffee.

We'd spent 90 minutes together, and he was now known to me.

He was not a particularly bad man or a particularly good man.

But it was hard for me to relate to one who had so completely washed his hands of his own calamitous doing, to one whose life was so unexamined that he said he thought two people had died in the crash. 

There was much I wished to say to Abed.

I wished to tell him that, were he to acknowledge my disability, it would be okay, for people are wrong to marvel at those like me who smile as we limp.

People don't know that they have lived through worse, that problems of the heart hit with a force greater than a runaway truck, that problems of the mind are greater still, more injurious, than a hundred broken necks.

I wished to tell him that one does not have to say that a bad thing is good, that a crash is from God and so a crash is good, a broken neck is good.

One can say that a bad thing sucks, but that this natural world still has many glories.

I wished to tell him that, in the end, our mandate is clear: We have to rise above bad fortune.

We have to be in the good and enjoy the good, study and work and adventure and friendship -- oh, friendship -- and community and love. 

That is the one singular gift you may receive if you suffer in any existential way.

You know death, and so may wake each morning pulsing with ready life.

Some part of you is cold, and so another part may truly enjoy what it is to be warm, or even to be cold.

But I didn't say these things to Abed.

And then I said, "Goodbye."

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

