Let's start with leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, ALL, the most common cancer of children.

When I was a student, the mortality rate was about 95 percent.

Today, some 25, 30 years later, we're talking about a mortality rate that's reduced by 85 percent.

Six thousand children each year who would have previously died of this disease are cured.

If you want the really big numbers, look at these numbers for heart disease.

Heart disease used to be the biggest killer, particularly for men in their 40s.

AIDS, incredibly, has just been named, in the past month, a chronic disease, meaning that a 20-year-old who becomes infected with HIV is expected not to live weeks, months, or a couple of years, as we said only a decade ago, but is thought to live decades, probably to die in his '60s or '70s from other causes altogether.

These are just remarkable, remarkable changes in the outlook for some of the biggest killers.

And one in particular that you probably wouldn't know about, stroke, which has been, along with heart disease, one of the biggest killers in this country, is a disease in which now we know that if you can get people into the emergency room within three hours of the onset, some 30 percent of them will be able to leave the hospital without any disability whatsoever. 

Remarkable stories, good-news stories, all of which boil down to understanding something about the diseases that has allowed us to detect early and intervene early.

Early detection, early intervention, that's the story for these successes. 

Unfortunately, the news is not all good.

What you may not realize is just how prevalent it is.

There are 38,000 suicides each year in the United States.

That means one about every 15 minutes.

Third most common cause of death amongst people between the ages of 15 and 25.

It's kind of an extraordinary story when you realize that this is twice as common as homicide and actually more common as a source of death than traffic fatalities in this country.

You're probably thinking that doesn't make any sense.

I mean, cancer seems far more serious.

Heart disease seems far more serious.

But you can see actually they are further down this list, and that's because we're talking here about disability.

What drives the disability for these disorders like schizophrenia and bipolar and depression?

Why are they number one here? 

Well, there are probably three reasons.

One is that they're highly prevalent.

About one in five people will suffer from one of these disorders in the course of their lifetime.

A second, of course, is that, for some people, these become truly disabling, and it's about four to five percent, perhaps one in 20.

But what really drives these numbers, this high morbidity, and to some extent the high mortality, is the fact that these start very early in life.

Fifty percent will have onset by age 14, 75 percent by age 24, a picture that is very different than what one would see if you're talking about cancer or heart disease, diabetes, hypertension -- most of the major illnesses that we think about as being sources of morbidity and mortality.

These are, indeed, the chronic disorders of young people. 

Now, I started by telling you that there were some good-news stories.

This is obviously not one of them.

I work for the federal government.

And maybe at this point, when you know what I do, or maybe what I've failed to do, you'll think that I probably ought to be fired, and I could certainly understand that.

But what I want to suggest, and the reason I'm here is to tell you that I think we're about to be in a very different world as we think about these illnesses. 

What I've been talking to you about so far is mental disorders, diseases of the mind.

But what I want to suggest to you is that both of those terms, which have been in play for a century or more, are actually now impediments to progress, that what we need conceptually to make progress here is to rethink these disorders as brain disorders. 

When we talk about the brain, it is anything but unidimensional or simplistic or reductionistic.

It's actually a kind of cruel trick of evolution that we simply don't have a brain that seems to be wired well enough to understand itself.

In a sense, it actually makes you feel that when you're in the safe zone of studying behavior or cognition, something you can observe, that in a way feels more simplistic and reductionistic than trying to engage this very complex, mysterious organ that we're beginning to try to understand. 

Now, already in the case of the brain disorders that I've been talking to you about, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, while we don't have an in-depth understanding of how they are abnormally processed or what the brain is doing in these illnesses, we have been able to already identify some of the connectional differences, or some of the ways in which the circuitry is different for people who have these disorders.

We call this the human connectome, and you can think about the connectome sort of as the wiring diagram of the brain.

You'll hear more about this in a few minutes.

It's a little different than the way we think about brain disorders like Huntington's or Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease where you have a bombed-out part of your cortex.

Here we're talking about traffic jams, or sometimes detours, or sometimes problems with just the way that things are connected and the way that the brain functions.

Either one would kill you; in only one of them will you find a major lesion. 

That's something we can observe.

But look at this closely and you can see that actually they've crossed a different threshold.

We know that for Alzheimer's, for Parkinson's, for Huntington's.

There are changes in the brain a decade or more before you see the first signs of a behavioral change.

The tools that we have now allow us to detect these brain changes much earlier, long before the symptoms emerge.

If we waited until the heart attack, we would be sacrificing 1.1 million lives every year in this country to heart disease.

But this tells us how we need to think about it, and where we need to go. 

Are we going to be there soon?

"We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next 10."

