Let's talk dirty.

And that's because it's such an enraging, yet engaging place to be. 

2.5 billion people worldwide have no adequate toilet.

They don't have a bucket or a box.

Forty percent of the world with no adequate toilet.

But he should, because the problem with all that poop lying around is that poop carries passengers.

Fifty communicable diseases like to travel in human shit.

In what I call the flushed-and-plumbed world that most of us in this room are lucky to live in, the most common symptoms associated with those diseases, diarrhea, is now a bit of a joke.

It's the runs, the Hershey squirts, the squits.

Where I come from, we call it Delhi belly, as a legacy of empire.

But if you search for a stock photo of diarrhea in a leading photo image agency, this is the picture that you come up with.

(Laughter) Still not sure about the bikini.

And here's another image of diarrhea.

This is Marie Saylee, nine months old.

And that's her dad.

It's a very potent weapon of mass destruction.

These are cholera beds in Haiti.

You'll have heard of cholera, but we don't hear about diarrhea.

It gets a fraction of the attention and funding given to any of those other diseases. 

But we know how to fix this.

We know, because in the mid-19th century, wonderful Victorian engineers installed systems of sewers and wastewater treatment and the flush toilet, and disease dropped dramatically.

Child mortality dropped by the most it had ever dropped in history.

The flush toilet was voted the best medical advance of the last 200 years by the readers of the British Medical Journal, and they were choosing over the Pill, anesthesia, and surgery.

It's a wonderful waste disposal device. 

But I think that it's so good — it doesn't smell, we can put it in our house, we can lock it behind a door — and I think we've locked it out of conversation too.

We don't have a neutral word for it.

Poop's not particularly adequate.

Because I can't explain otherwise, when I look at the figures, what's going on.

No one's going to refuse clean water.

But the humble latrine, or flush toilet, reduces disease by twice as much as just putting in clean water.

So a toilet can put a girl back in school.

They've been used to sitting through lessons for years and years holding it in.

That's not the only thing it can do for you.

Poop can cook your dinner.

We don't keep them all.

In Rwanda, they are now getting 75 percent of their cooking fuel in their prison system from the contents of prisoners' bowels.

They're cutting down on deforestation, and they've found a fuel supply that is inexhaustible, infinite and free at the point of production. 

It's not just in the poor world that poop can save lives.

Here's a woman who's about to get a dose of the brown stuff in those syringes, which is what you think it is, except not quite, because it's actually donated.

There is now a new career path called stool donor.

It's like the new sperm donor.

Because she has been suffering from a superbug called C. diff, and it's resistant to antibiotics in many cases.

She's been suffering for years.

Maybe it's the ick factor.

That's okay, because there's a team of research scientists in Canada who have now created a stool sample, a fake stool sample which is called RePOOPulate. 

We need to understand software as well as just giving someone hardware.

It's called "No Loo, No I Do."

(Laughter) And in case you think that poster's just propaganda, here's Priyanka, 23 years old.

I met her last October in India, and she grew up in a conservative environment.

She grew up in a rural village in a poor area of India, and she was engaged at 14, and then at 21 or so, she moved into her in-law's house.

And she was horrified to get there and find that they didn't have a toilet.

She'd grown up with a latrine.

It was no big deal, but it was a latrine.

She left.

And if you know anything about rural India, you'll know that's an unspeakably courageous thing to do.

But not just that.

Another version of this, another village in India near where Priyanka lives is this village, called Lakara, and about a year ago, it had no toilets whatsoever.

Kids were dying of diarrhea and cholera.

That's what really made them change their behavior.

So this woman, this boy's mother installed this latrine in a few hours.

But there are things to worry about.

It's the most off-track Millennium Development Goal.

It's about 50 or so years off track.

We're not going to meet targets, providing people with sanitation at this rate.

All we really need to do is look at this issue as the urgent, shameful issue that it is.

And don't think that it's just in the poor world that things are wrong.

Our sewers are crumbling.

Things are going wrong here too.

The solution to all of this is pretty easy.

Thank you. 

