The British Association for the Advancement of Science is holding its third meeting at the University of Cambridge.

An elderly, white-haired man stands up.

The members of the Association are shocked to realize that it's the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who hadn't even left his house in years until that day.

They're even more shocked by what he says. 

Coleridge felt that true philosophers like himself pondered the cosmos from their armchairs.

They were not mucking around in the fossil pits or conducting messy experiments with electrical piles like the members of the British Association. 

The crowd grew angry and began to complain loudly.

"If 'philosophers' is taken to be too wide and lofty a term," he said, "then, by analogy with 'artist,' we may form 'scientist.'"

I first found out about this confrontation when I was in graduate school, and it kind of blew me away.

I mean, how could the word scientist not have existed until 1833?

Prior to this meeting, those who studied the natural world were talented amateurs.

After this, they were scientists, professionals with a particular scientific method, goals, societies and funding. 

Much of this revolution can be traced to four men who met at Cambridge University in 1812: Charles Babbage, John Herschel, Richard Jones and William Whewell.

These were brilliant, driven men who accomplished amazing things.

Charles Babbage, I think known to most TEDsters, invented the first mechanical calculator and the first prototype of a modern computer.

John Herschel mapped the stars of the southern hemisphere, and, in his spare time, co-invented photography.

I'm sure we could all be that productive without Facebook or Twitter to take up our time.

In the Cambridge winter of 1812 and 1813, the four met for what they called philosophical breakfasts.

They talked about science and the need for a new scientific revolution.

They felt science had stagnated since the days of the scientific revolution that had happened in the 17th century.

And I'm going to tell you today about four major changes to science these men made. 

About 200 years before, Francis Bacon and then, later, Isaac Newton, had proposed an inductive scientific method.

Now that's a method that starts from observations and experiments and moves to generalizations about nature called natural laws, which are always subject to revision or rejection should new evidence arise.

However, in 1809, David Ricardo muddied the waters by arguing that the science of economics should use a different, deductive method.

The problem was that an influential group at Oxford began arguing that because it worked so well in economics, this deductive method ought to be applied to the natural sciences too.

The members of the philosophical breakfast club disagreed.

They wrote books and articles promoting inductive method in all the sciences that were widely read by natural philosophers, university students and members of the public.

Previously, it was believed that scientific knowledge ought to be used for the good of the king or queen, or for one's own personal gain.

The philosophical breakfast club changed that, working together.

Whewell's worldwide study of the tides resulted in public tide tables and tidal maps that freely provided the harbormasters' knowledge to all ship captains.

Herschel helped by making tidal observations off the coast of South Africa, and, as he complained to Whewell, he was knocked off the docks during a violent high tide for his trouble.

The four men really helped each other in every way.

In the days before pocket calculators, the numbers that most professionals needed -- bankers, insurance agents, ship captains, engineers — were to be found in lookup books like this, filled with tables of figures.

Babbage's difference engine was the first mechanical calculator devised to accurately compute any of these tables.

Two models of his engine were built in the last 20 years by a team from the Science Museum of London using his own plans.

Founded in Bacon's time, the Royal Society of London was the foremost scientific society in England and even in the rest of the world.

By the 19th century, it had become a kind of gentleman's club populated mainly by antiquarians, literary men and the nobility.

The members of the philosophical breakfast club helped form a number of new scientific societies, including the British Association.

These new societies required that members be active researchers publishing their results.

Members were encouraged to bring their wives, daughters and sisters to the meetings of the British Association, and while the women were expected to attend only the public lectures and the social events like this one, they began to infiltrate the scientific sessions as well.

Up to the 19th century, natural philosophers were expected to pay for their own equipment and supplies.

Occasionally, there were prizes, such as that given to John Harrison in the 18th century, for solving the so-called longitude problem, but prizes were only given after the fact, when they were given at all.

On the advice of the philosophical breakfast club, the British Association began to use the extra money generated by its meetings to give grants for research in astronomy, the tides, fossil fish, shipbuilding, and many other areas.

These grants not only allowed less wealthy men to conduct research, but they also encouraged thinking outside the box, rather than just trying to solve one pre-set question.

So the philosophical breakfast club helped invent the modern scientist.

That's the heroic part of their story.

There's a flip side as well.

They did not foresee at least one consequence of their revolution.

They would have been deeply dismayed by today's disjunction between science and the rest of culture.

Once scientists became members of a professional group, they were slowly walled off from the rest of us.

This is the unintended consequence of the revolution that started with our four friends. 

Charles Darwin said, "I sometimes think that general and popular treatises are almost as important for the progress of science as original work."

In fact, "Origin of Species" was written for a general and popular audience, and was widely read when it first appeared.

Thank you. 

