Now, these people making these proclamations to me were not bad people.

It's dependent on hospitals and clinics for our every care need.

It's dependent on specialists who just look at parts of us.

It's dependent on guesswork of diagnoses and drug cocktails, and so something either works or you die.

And it's dependent on passive patients who just take it and don't ask any questions. 

We need to invent what I call a personal health system.

Now, I'm going to start by actually sharing with you a new friend of mine, Libby, somebody I've become quite attached to over the last six months.

This is Libby, or actually, this is an ultrasound image of Libby.

This is the kidney transplant I was never supposed to have.

Don't you in the front row worry or anything.

(Laughter) I'm going to use a device from a company called Mobisante.

This is a concept demo, so I want to make that clear.

And actually, can you see Libby? 

Thomas Batuik: Hi there, Eric.

So I just wanted to see, is this the image you need to get?

And I know you want to look and see if those spots are still there. 

Should I do that again? 

TB: Yeah, let's do that. 

So tell me a little bit about what this dark spot means.

It's not something I was very happy about. 

TB: Many people after a kidney transplant will develop a little fluid collection around the kidney.

Based on the other images we have, I'm really happy how it looks today. 

These are the foundations of what's going to make personal health possible. 

And you just saw a little bit of the first two with my interaction with Dr. Batiuk. 

So let's start with care anywhere.

Now I personally learned that hospitals can be a very dangerous place at a young age.

This was me in third grade.

I broke my elbow very seriously, had to have surgery, worried that they were going to actually lose the arm.

Recovering from the surgery in the hospital, I get bedsores.

The future of personal health that I'm talking about says care must occur at home as the default model, not in a hospital or clinic.

You have to earn your way into those places by being sick enough to use that tool for the job.

Many of us will have implantables that will actually look real-time at what's going on with our blood chemistry and in our proteins right now.

Now the software is also getting smarter, right?

Think about a coach, an agent online, that's going to help me do safe self-care.

That same interaction that we just did with the ultrasound will likely have real-time image processing, and the device will say, "Up, down, left, right, ah, Eric, that's the perfect spot to send that image off to your doctor."

We have got to go beyond this paradigm of isolated specialists doing parts care to multidisciplinary teams doing person care.

Uncoordinated care today is expensive at best, and it is deadly at worst.

Eighty percent of medical errors are actually caused by communication and coordination problems amongst medical team members.

They put me through five weeks of tests -- very expensive, very scary -- before the nurse finally notices the piece of the paper, my meds list that I've been carrying to every single appointment, and says, "Oh my gosh."

I had a care coordination problem.

And this happens to millions of people every year.

I want to use technology that we're all working on and making happen to make health care a coordinated team sport.

Now this is the most frightening thing to me.

Out of all the care I've had in hospitals and clinics around the world, the first time I've ever had a true team-based care experience was at Legacy Good Sam these last six months for me to go get this.

I wept the day I graduated.

And here's the most important part.

The other people in this picture are me and my wife, Ashley.

Legacy trained us on how to do care for me at home so that they could offload the hospitals and clinics.

The most important point I want to make to you about this is the sacred and somewhat over-romanticized doctor-patient one-on-one is a relic of the past.

The technologies that are coming, high-performance computing, analytics, big data that everyone's talking about, will allow us to build predictive models for each of us as individual patients.

I was optimizing my life for quality of life, and quality of life for me means time in snow.

I think that time-in-snow therapy was as important as the pharmaceuticals that I had.

It's what my friend Verna said: Wake up and take control of your health.

And it's in that spirit that I want to introduce you to one last friend, very quickly.

Tracey Gamley: For me, it was really easy.

I only had one night in the hospital.

ED: Well, I probably will never get a chance to say this to you in such a large audience ever again.

But until such time that these amazing technologies are available to all of us, and even when they are, it's up to us to care for, and even save, one another.

I hope you will go out and make personal health happen for yourselves and for everyone.

