So just by a show of hands, how many of you all have a robot at home?

That's okay.

And as it turns out, that's a really hard problem, because you have to build a small, portable robot that's not only really affordable, but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids.

This robot can't be creepy or uncanny.

He should be friendly and cute. 

So meet Romo.

Romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love -- your iPhone -- as his brain.

When Romo wakes up, he's in creature mode.

So he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face.

And if I get too close to him, he gets scared just like any other creature.

And if I want to explore the world -- uh-oh, Romo's tired -- if I want to explore the world with Romo, I can actually connect him from any other iOS device.

So here's the iPad.

And Romo will actually stream video to this device.

Now this is a free app on the App Store, so if any of you guys had this app on your phones, we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together. 

So I'll snap a picture.

And in the same way that you scroll through content on an iPad, I can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device.

So there are all of you through Romo's eyes.

And finally, because Romo is an extension of me, I can express myself through his emotions.

So I can go in and I can say let's make Romo excited. 

But the most important thing about Romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive.

You do not have to teach someone how to drive Romo.

And even cooler, you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him.

So he actually streams two-way audio and video between any two smart devices.

So you can log in through the browser, and it's kind of like Skype on wheels.

So we were talking before about telepresence, and this is a really cool example.

That girl can take her iPhone, put it on the robot, send an email to Grandma, who lives on the other side of the country.

So those are a couple of the really cool things that Romo can do today.

But I just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future.

This allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want.

You do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for Romo.

And you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser, which is what you see Romo doing on the left.

And then if you have something you're proud of, you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world.

So all of these wi-fi–enabled robots actually learn from each other. 

The reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal.

They change from person to person.

So we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home, that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination. 

But what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away.

Thank you. 

