What makes our story especially important is that we have learned so much from a group of students who are typically not at the top of the academic ladder -- students of color, students underrepresented in selected areas.

And what makes the story especially unique is that we have learned how to help African-American students, Latino students, students from low-income backgrounds, to become some of the best in the world in science and engineering. 

And so I begin with a story about my childhood.

We all are products of our childhood experiences.

And the whole class would say, "Shut up, Freeman."

And there was a designated kicker every day.

And so I was always asking this question: "Well how could we get more kids to really love to learn?"

And we had a rough go of it.

And they came into my room the next morning.

They had not slept.

And when they came in to tell me, I was at first elated.

And one of the points I make to people all the time is that sometimes when people do things that are courageous, it doesn't really mean that they're that courageous.

It simply means that they believe it's important to do it. 

I wanted a better education.

I did not want to have to have hand-me-down books.

I wanted to know that the school I attended not only had good teachers, but the resources we needed.

And as a result of that experience, in the middle of the week, while I was there in jail, Dr. King came and said with our parents, "What you children do this day will have an impact on children who have not been born."

I recently realized that two-thirds of Americans today had not been born at the time of 1963.

And the real question is, what lessons did we learn?

Well amazingly, the most important for me was this: That children can be empowered to take ownership of their education.

They can be taught to be passionate about wanting to learn and to love the idea of asking questions. 

And so it is especially significant that the university I now lead, the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, UMBC, was founded the very year I went to jail with Dr. King, in 1963.

And what made that institutional founding especially important is that Maryland is the South, as you know, and, quite frankly, it was the first university in our state founded at a time when students of all races could go there.

And so we had black and white students and others who began to attend.

And it has been for 50 years an experiment.

The experiment is this: Is it possible to have institutions in our country, universities, where people from all backgrounds can come and learn and learn to work together and learn to become leaders and to support each other in that experience? 

A lot of our students get into theater.

It's great work.

But when I looked at the data, what I found was that, quite frankly, students in general, large numbers were not making it.

And as a result of that, we decided to do something that would help, first of all, the group at the bottom, African-American students, and then Hispanic students. 

And Robert and Jane Meyerhoff, philanthropists, said, "We'd like to help."

We married those ideas, and we created this Meyerhoff Scholars program.

And what is significant about the program is that we learned a number of things.

And the question is this: How is it that now we lead the country in producing African-Americans who go on to complete Ph.D.'s in science and engineering and M.D./Ph.D.'s?

(Applause) 

You see, most people don't realize that it's not just minorities who don't do well in science and engineering.

Quite frankly, you're talking about Americans.

If you don't know it, while 20 percent of blacks and Hispanics who begin with a major in science and engineering will actually graduate in science and engineering, only 32 percent of whites who begin with majors in those areas actually succeed and graduate in those areas, and only 42 percent of Asian-Americans. 

And so, the real question is, what is the challenge?

Well a part of it, of course, is K-12.

We need to strengthen K-12.

But the other part has to do with the culture of science and engineering on our campuses.

Whether you know it or not, large numbers of students with high SAT's and large numbers of A.P.

And the number one reason, we find, quite frankly, is they did not do well in first year science courses.

In fact, we call first year science and engineering, typically around America, weed-out courses or barrier courses. 

And what is interesting about that is that so many students are smart and can do it.

We need to find ways of making it happen. 

So what are the four things we did to help minority students that now are helping students in general?

Number one: high expectations.

And so doing things to help students prepare to be in that position, very important.

But equally important, it takes an understanding that it's hard work that makes the difference.

I don't care how smart you are or how smart you think you are.

Smart simply means you're ready to learn.

You're excited about learning and you want to ask good questions. 

And so high expectations have to do with curiosity and encouraging young people to be curious.

Every foundation makes the difference in the next level.

He retook the course.

That young man went on to graduate from UMBC, to become the first black to get the M.D./Ph.D.

He now works at Harvard.

(Applause) 

Secondly, it's not about test scores only.

Test scores are important, but they're not the most important thing.

One young woman had great grades, but test scores were not as high.

But she had a factor that was very important.

She never missed a day of school, K-12.

She's on the faculty, tenure track in psychiatry, Ph.D. in neuroscience.

(Applause) And so high expectations, very important. 

Secondly, the idea of building community among the students.

You all know that so often in science and engineering we tend to think cutthroat.

Students are not taught to work in groups.

And so to feel that sense of responsibility makes all the difference in the world.

So building community among those students, very important. 

Third, the idea of, it takes researchers to produce researchers.

Whether you're talking about artists producing artists or you're talking about people getting into the social sciences, whatever the discipline -- and especially in science and engineering, as in art, for example -- you need scientists to pull the students into the work.

And so our students are working in labs regularly. 

They had food they had packed out.

They knew they were working on AIDS research.

And he said, "It doesn't get any better than that."

It was that connecting.

Give him a big hand for that. 

(Applause) 

And so the significance is that we have now developed this model that is helping us, not only finally with evaluation, assessing what works.

But now we are looking at redesigning the humanities and social sciences.

Because so many students are bored in class.

Do you know that?

Many students, K-12 and in universities, don't want to just sit there and listen to somebody talk.

They need to be engaged. 

And so we have done -- if you look at our website at the Chemistry Discovery Center, you'll see people coming from all over the country to look at how we are redesigning courses, having an emphasis on collaboration, use of technology, using problems out of our biotech companies on our campus, and not giving students the theories, but having them struggle with those theories.

And it's working so well that throughout our university system in Maryland, more and more courses are being redesigned. 

It's called academic innovation. 

And what does all of that mean?

It means that now, not just in science and engineering, we now have programs in the arts, in the humanities, in the social sciences, in teacher education, even particularly for women in I.T.

If you don't know it, there's been a 79-percent decline in the number of women majoring in computer science just since 2000.

And what I'm saying is that what will make the difference will be building community among students, telling young women, young minority students and students in general, you can do this work.

Most important, if a student has a sense of self, it is amazing how the dreams and the values can make all the difference in the world. 

And then he said something that gives me goosebumps.

Thank you all very much. 

(Applause) 

