So I'd like you to imagine for a moment that you're a soldier in the heat of battle.

Maybe you're a Roman foot soldier or a medieval archer or maybe you're a Zulu warrior.

Regardless of your time and place, there are some things that are constant.

The scout's job is not to attack or defend.

The scout's job is to understand.

The scout is the one going out, mapping the terrain, identifying potential obstacles.

And the scout may hope to learn that, say, there's a bridge in a convenient location across a river.

But above all, the scout wants to know what's really there, as accurately as possible.

And in a real, actual army, both the soldier and the scout are essential.

It was discovered in 1894 by officers in the French general staff.

It was torn up in a wastepaper basket, but when they pieced it back together, they discovered that someone in their ranks had been selling military secrets to Germany. 

They went and searched Dreyfus's apartment, looking for any signs of espionage.

You know, because a spy has to remember a lot of things. 

So the case went to trial, and Dreyfus was found guilty.

Afterwards, they took him out into this public square and ritualistically tore his insignia from his uniform and broke his sword in two.

This was called the Degradation of Dreyfus.

But for the most part, France considered the matter closed. 

One thing that's really interesting to me about the Dreyfus Affair is this question of why the officers were so convinced that Dreyfus was guilty.

I mean, you might even assume that they were setting him up, that they were intentionally framing him.

But historians don't think that's what happened.

As far as we can tell, the officers genuinely believed that the case against Dreyfus was strong.

Well, this is a case of what scientists call "motivated reasoning."

It's this phenomenon in which our unconscious motivations, our desires and fears, shape the way we interpret information.

Our judgment is strongly influenced, unconsciously, by which side we want to win.

And this is ubiquitous.

This shapes how we think about our health, our relationships, how we decide how to vote, what we consider fair or ethical.

What's most scary to me about motivated reasoning or soldier mindset, is how unconscious it is.

We can think we're being objective and fair-minded and still wind up ruining the life of an innocent man. 

This is Colonel Picquart.

So to me, Picquart is a poster child for what I call "scout mindset."

This mindset is what I'm personally passionate about.

And I've spent the last few years examining and trying to figure out what causes scout mindset.

Why are some people, sometimes at least, able to cut through their own prejudices and biases and motivations and just try to see the facts and the evidence as objectively as they can? 

And the answer is emotional.

For example, scouts are curious.

They're more likely to say they feel pleasure when they learn new information or an itch to solve a puzzle.

They're more likely to feel intrigued when they encounter something that contradicts their expectations.

Scouts also have different values.

This cluster of traits is what researchers have found -- and I've also found anecdotally -- predicts good judgment.

And the key takeaway I want to leave you with about those traits is that they're primarily not about how smart you are or about how much you know.

In fact, they don't correlate very much with IQ at all.

They're about how you feel.

There's a quote that I keep coming back to, by Saint-Exupéry.

We need to change the way we feel.

We need to learn how to feel proud instead of ashamed when we notice we might have been wrong about something.

We need to learn how to feel intrigued instead of defensive when we encounter some information that contradicts our beliefs. 

So the question I want to leave you with is: What do you most yearn for?

Do you yearn to defend your own beliefs?

Or do you yearn to see the world as clearly as you possibly can? 

Thank you. 

