In two weeks time, that's the ninth anniversary of the day I first stepped out onto that hallowed "Jeopardy" set.

I mean, nine years is a long time.

And given "Jeopardy's" average demographics, I think what that means is most of the people who saw me on that show are now dead.

(Laughter) But not all, a few are still alive.

Occasionally I still get recognized at the mall or whatever.

And when I do, it's as a bit of a know-it-all.

I think that ship has sailed, it's too late for me.

For better or for worse, that's what I'm going to be known as, as the guy who knew a lot of weird stuff. 

And I can't complain about this.

But if you go further back, if you look at it, it's all there.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I was going to miss my game shows.

So me and all my friends would run home every day and watch "Jeopardy."

I was always that kind of obsessed trivia kid.

I remember being able to play Trivial Pursuit against my parents back in the '80s and holding my own, back when that was a fad.

There's a weird sense of mastery you get when you know some bit of boomer trivia that Mom and Dad don't know.

You know some Beatles factoid that Dad didn't know.

I never had a guidance counselor who thought this was a legitimate career path, that thought you could major in trivia or be a professional ex-game show contestant.

And so I sold out way too young.

I didn't try to figure out what one does with that.

The third reason I said yes is because I was pretty confident that I was going to win.

The kind of thing that a three- or four-year-old human, little kid could do, very hard for a computer.

And I thought, well this is going to be child's play.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I remember a journal article about this new question answering software that had a graph.

So there's a certain performance level that the computer would need to get to.

And at first, it was very low.

There was no software that could compete at this kind of arena.

But then you see the line start to go up.

And it's getting very close to what they call the winner's cloud.

This is what it looks like when the future comes for you.

(Laughter) It's not the Terminator's gun sight; it's a little line coming closer and closer to the thing you can do, the only thing that makes you special, the thing you're best at. 

(Laughter) It's not the Terminator's gun sight; it's a little line coming closer and closer to the thing you can do, the only thing that makes you special, the thing you're best at. 

We were not playing in L.A. on the regular "Jeopardy" set.

Watson does not travel.

Watson's actually huge.

It's thousands of processors, a terabyte of memory, trillions of bytes of memory.

We got to walk through his climate-controlled server room.

The only other "Jeopardy" contestant to this day I've ever been inside.

And we realized right away that the computer had a big home court advantage.

There was a big Watson logo in the middle of the stage.

Like you're going to play the Chicago Bulls, and there's the thing in the middle of their court.

I think guys had "W-A-T-S-O-N" written on their bellies in grease paint.

I don't want to spoil it, if you still have this sitting on your DVR, but Watson won handily.

And I remember standing there behind the podium as I could hear that little insectoid thumb clicking.

It had a robot thumb that was clicking on the buzzer.

I felt obsolete.

I felt like a Detroit factory worker of the '80s seeing a robot that could now do his job on the assembly line.

And it hasn't been the last. 

You don't need human assistants for that anymore.

So it makes me wonder what the economic effects of this might be.

I'm not an economist myself.

Here's the one thing that I was ever good at, and all it took was IBM pouring tens of millions of dollars and its smartest people and thousands of processors working in parallel and they could do the same thing.

And it made me think, what does this mean, if we're going to be able to start outsourcing, not just lower unimportant brain functions.

And suddenly there was a machine that did that, and now we don't need to remember that anymore.

I have read that there's now actually evidence that the hippocampus, the part of our brain that handles spacial relationships, physically shrinks and atrophies in people who use tools like GPS, because we're not exercising our sense of direction anymore.

We're just obeying a little talking voice on our dashboard.

And as a result, a part of our brain that's supposed to do that kind of stuff gets smaller and dumber.

And it made me think, what happens when computers are now better at knowing and remembering stuff than we are?

Is all of our brain going to start to shrink and atrophy like that?

Are we as a culture going to start to value knowledge less?

As somebody who has always believed in the importance of the stuff that we know, this was a terrifying idea to me. 

The more I thought about it, I realized, no, it's still important.

The things we know are still important.

There's an advantage of volume, and there's an advantage of time. 

The advantage of volume, first, just has to do with the complexity of the world nowadays.

There's so much information out there.

Being a Renaissance man or woman, that's something that was only possible in the Renaissance.

Now it's really not possible to be reasonably educated on every field of human endeavor.

There's just too much.

That means between now and late 2014, we will generate as much information, in terms of gigabytes, as all of humanity has in all the previous millenia put together.

It's doubling every 18 months now.

Who do I vote for?

Do I take this job or that one?

If we have those facts at our mental fingertips, we're going to be able to make informed decisions.

If, on the other hand, we need to look them all up, we may be in trouble.

According to a National Geographic survey I just saw, somewhere along the lines of 80 percent of the people who vote in a U.S. presidential election about issues like foreign policy cannot find Iraq or Afghanistan on a map.

If you can't do that first step, are you really going to look up the other thousand facts you're going to need to know to master your knowledge of U.S. foreign policy?

Quite probably not.

The other issue is the advantage of time that you have if you have all these things at your fingertips.

I always think of the story of a little girl named Tilly Smith.

But in this case it happened in real life.

And it happens in real life all the time.

It's not always a tsunami, often it's a social situation.

You say where you're from, and I say, "Oh, yeah."

Or your alma mater or your job, and I know just a little something about it, enough to get the ball rolling.

People love that shared connection that gets created when somebody knows something about you.

It's like they took the time to get to know you before you even met.

That's often the advantage of time.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

The great 18th-century British theologian and thinker, friend of Dr. Johnson, Samuel Parr once said, "It's always better to know a thing than not to know it."

And if I have lived my life by any kind of creed, it's probably that.

I don't know if I want to live in a world where knowledge is obsolete.

I feel like our civilization works when this is a vast cultural heritage that we all share and that we know without having to outsource it to our devices, to our search engines and our smartphones. 

In the movies, when computers like Watson start to think, things don't always end well.

Those movies are never about beautiful utopias.

And I feel like we're sort of at the point now where we need to make that choice of what kind of future we want to be living in.

On the one hand, we can choose between a new golden age where information is more universally available than it's ever been in human history, where we all have the answers to our questions at our fingertips.

And we can all make that choice.

No, every day we should be striving to learn something new.

We should have this unquenchable curiosity for the world around us.

That's where the people you see on "Jeopardy" come from.

These know-it-alls, they're not Rainman-style savants sitting at home memorizing the phone book.

I've met a lot of them.

We can live in one of these two worlds.

We can live in a world where our brains, the things that we know, continue to be the thing that makes us special, or a world in which we've outsourced all of that to evil supercomputers from the future like Watson.

Ladies and gentlemen, the choice is yours. 

Thank you very much. 

