This is me building a prototype for six hours straight.

This is slave labor to my own project.

This is what the DIY and maker movements really look like.

And this is exactly why I started studying how to program physical materials to build themselves. 

But there is another world.

Today at the micro- and nanoscales, there's an unprecedented revolution happening.

And this is the ability to program physical and biological materials to change shape, change properties and even compute outside of silicon-based matter.

But if we look at the human scale, there's massive problems that aren't being addressed by those nanoscale technologies.

If we look at construction and manufacturing, there's major inefficiencies, energy consumption and excessive labor techniques.

So I'd like to propose that we can combine those two worlds, that we can combine the world of the nanoscale programmable adaptive materials and the built environment.

And I don't mean automated machines.

So what do we need if we want to do this at the human scale?

We need a few simple ingredients.

The first ingredient is materials and geometry, and that needs to be tightly coupled with the energy source.

So in one-dimensional systems -- this is a project called the self-folding proteins.

And the idea is that you take the three-dimensional structure of a protein -- in this case it's the crambin protein -- you take the backbone -- so no cross-linking, no environmental interactions -- and you break that down into a series of components.

And this gives us a tangible model of the three-dimensional protein and how it folds and all of the intricacies of the geometry.

So we can study this as a physical, intuitive model.

And we're also translating that into two-dimensional systems -- so flat sheets that can self-fold into three-dimensional structures. 

They had different molecular structures inside and different colors that could be mixed and matched.

And we gave them away to all the TEDsters.

And so these became intuitive models to understand how molecular self-assembly works at the human scale.

This is the polio virus.

You shake it hard and it breaks apart.

And then you shake it randomly and it starts to error correct and built the structure on its own.

And this is demonstrating that through random energy, we can build non-random shapes. 

We even demonstrated that we can do this at a much larger scale.

Last year at TED Long Beach, we built an installation that builds installations.

The idea was, could we self-assemble furniture-scale objects?

So remember, I said 4D.

And this is like robotics without wires or motors.

So you completely print this part, and it can transform into something else. 

We also worked with Autodesk on a software they're developing called Project Cyborg.

And this allows us to simulate this self-assembly behavior and try to optimize which parts are folding when.

But most importantly, we can use this same software for the design of nanoscale self-assembly systems and human scale self-assembly systems.

This is another part, single strand, dipped in a bigger tank that self-folds into a cube, a three-dimensional structure, on its own.

So no human interaction.

And we think this is the first time that a program and transformation has been embedded directly into the materials themselves.

And it also might just be the manufacturing technique that allows us to produce more adaptive infrastructure in the future. 

So I know you're probably thinking, okay, that's cool, but how do we use any of this stuff for the built environment?

And we're dedicated to trying to develop programmable materials for the built environment.

And we think there's a few key sectors that have fairly near-term applications.

One of those is in extreme environments.

Let's go back to infrastructure.

In infrastructure, we're working with a company out of Boston called Geosyntec.

And we're developing a new paradigm for piping.

So this isn't expensive pumps or valves.

This is a completely programmable and adaptive pipe on its own. 

So I want to remind you today of the harsh realities of assembly in our world.

These are complex things built with complex parts that come together in complex ways.

Thank you. 

