Once upon a time, there was a place called Lesterland.

Now Lesterland looks a lot like the United States.

Like the United States, it has about 311 million people, and of that 311 million people, it turns out 144,000 are called Lester.

If Matt's in the audience, I just borrowed that, I'll return it in a second, this character from your series.

So 144,000 are called Lester, which means about .05 percent is named Lester.

Now, Lesters in Lesterland have this extraordinary power.

There are two elections every election cycle in Lesterland.

And in the general election, it's the citizens who get to vote, but in the Lester election, it's the Lesters who get to vote.

And here's the trick.

In order to run in the general election, you must do extremely well in the Lester election.

You don't necessarily have to win, but you must do extremely well. 

Now, what can we say about democracy in Lesterland?

Now there are three things I want you to see now that I've described Lesterland.

Number one, the United States is Lesterland.

The United States is Lesterland.

Now you say, really?

In this sense, the funders are our Lesters. 

Now, what can we say about this democracy in USA-land?

You know, there are Lesters from every part of social society.

Now, by corruption I don't mean brown paper bag cash secreted among members of Congress.

It's a corruption relative to the framers' baseline for this republic.

So here's the model of government.

This is a corruption. 

Now, there's good news and bad news about this corruption.

It blocks the left on a whole range of issues that we on the left really care about.

So the right wants smaller government.

When Al Gore was Vice President, his team had an idea for deregulating a significant portion of the telecommunications industry.

It works against the left and the right, and that, you might say, is good news. 

But here's the bad news.

Block reform. 

Because there is an economy here, an economy of influence, an economy with lobbyists at the center which feeds on polarization.

It feeds on dysfunction.

But we cannot ignore this corruption anymore.

(Applause) We need a government that works.

So I want you to take hold, to grab the issue you care the most about.

Climate change is mine, but it might be financial reform or a simpler tax system or inequality.

There will never be a Christmas.

No sensible reform, and we cannot afford a world, a future, with no sensible reform. 

Turns out, the analytics here are easy, simple.

And to do this does not require a constitutional amendment, changing the First Amendment.

Each of these would fix this corruption by spreading out the influence of funders to all of us. 

The analytics are easy here.

Fifty percent of the Senate between 1998 and 2004 left to become lobbyists, 42 percent of the House.

Now I get this skepticism. 

But I don't buy it.

This is a solvable issue.

If you think about the issues our parents tried to solve in the 20th century, issues like racism, or sexism, or the issue that we've been fighting in this century, homophobia, those are hard issues.

You don't wake up one day no longer a racist.

When Connecticut adopted this system, in the very first year, 78 percent of elected representatives gave up large contributions and took small contributions only.

It's solvable by being citizens, by being citizens, by being TEDizens.

Because if you want to kickstart reform, look, I could kickstart reform at half the price of fixing energy policy, I could give you back a republic. 

Irrelevant.

And then I saw the obvious link, because even we liberals love this country. 

So here's my question: Do you have that love?

Because if you do, then what the hell are you, what are the hell are we doing? 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

