It was made of glass, and this building really helped me to do my job good.

The building was a true bird-killer.

The only thing I had to do was go out, pick them up, and have them stuffed for the collection.

(Laughter) And in those days, I developed an ear to identify birds just by the sound of the bangs they made against the glass. 

(Laughter) And in those days, I developed an ear to identify birds just by the sound of the bangs they made against the glass. 

It's laying dead on its belly.

And then this happened.

The live duck mounted the dead duck, and started to copulate. 

I took my camera, I took my notebook, took a chair, and started to observe this behavior.

After 75 minutes — (Laughter) — I had seen enough, and I got hungry, and I wanted to go home.

So I went out, collected the duck, and before I put it in the freezer, I checked if the victim was indeed of the male sex.

It's a rare picture because there are 10,000 species of birds and only 300 possess a penis. 

(Laughter) I mean, it's a nice topic for a birthday party or at the coffee machine, but to share this among your peers is something different.

I didn't have the framework.

So after six years, my friends and colleagues urged me to publish, so I published "The first case of homosexual necrophilia in the mallard."

And here's the situation again.

A is my office, B is the place where the duck hit the glass, and C is from where I watched it.

And here are the ducks again. 

As you probably know, in science, when you write a kind of special paper, only six or seven people read it.

(Laughter) But then something good happened.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I went -- let me remind you that Marc Abrahams didn't call me from Stockholm.

He called me from Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Real Nobel laureates hand you the prize.

That's the first thing.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

So here's my one minute of fame, my acceptance speech, and here's the duck.

This is its first time on the U.S. West Coast.

I'm going to pass it around.

(Laughter) Yeah?

You can pass it around.

After winning this prize, my life changed.

(Laughter) More importantly, people started to send me their observations of remarkable animal behavior, and believe me, if there's an animal misbehaving on this planet, I know about it. 

(Laughter) More importantly, people started to send me their observations of remarkable animal behavior, and believe me, if there's an animal misbehaving on this planet, I know about it. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

This is a moose.

It's a moose trying to copulate with a bronze statue of a bison.

This is in Montana, 2008.

This is a frog that tries to copulate with a goldfish.

This is the Netherlands, 2011.

These are cane toads in Australia.

This is roadkill.

The missionary position is very rare in the animal kingdom.

These are pigeons in Rotterdam.

Barn swallows in Hong Kong, 2004.

So what does this mean?

At least, I thought it was till I got these slides.

And here you see a dead duck.

So there goes my theory of necrophilia. 

Another example of the impact of glass buildings on the life of birds.

This is Mad Max, a blackbird who lives in Rotterdam.

Here he goes, and here's a short video. 

So what this bird does is fight his own image.

So I'll conclude to invite you all to Dead Duck Day.

That's on June 5 every year.

And as you know, or as you may not know, this is one of the major causes of death for birds in the world.

In the U.S. alone, a billion birds die in collision with glass buildings.

And when it's over, we go to a Chinese restaurant and we have a six-course duck dinner. 

So I hope to see you next year in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for Dead Duck Day.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

