I'm going to talk about the strategizing brain.

We're going to use an unusual combination of tools from game theory and neuroscience to understand how people interact socially when value is on the line. 

So game theory is a branch of, originally, applied mathematics, used mostly in economics and political science, a little bit in biology, that gives us a mathematical taxonomy of social life and it predicts what people are likely to do and believe others will do in cases where everyone's actions affect everyone else.

That's a lot of things: competition, cooperation, bargaining, games like hide-and-seek, and poker. 

Here's a simple game to get us started.

So you want to be a little bit below the average number, but not too far below, and everyone else wants to be a little bit below the average number as well.

Think about what you might pick.

As you're thinking, this is a toy model of something like selling in the stock market during a rising market.

You don't want to sell too early, because you miss out on profits, but you don't want to wait too late to when everyone else sells, triggering a crash.

You want to be a little bit ahead of the competition, but not too far ahead.

Just like in language and other domains, we know that it's hard for people to parse very complex sentences with a kind of recursive structure.

This is called a cognitive hierarchy theory, by the way.

It's something that I've worked on and a few other people, and it indicates a kind of hierarchy along with some assumptions about how many people stop at different steps and how the steps of thinking are affected by lots of interesting variables and variant people, as we'll see in a minute.

A very different theory, a much more popular one, and an older one, due largely to John Nash of "A Beautiful Mind" fame, is what's called equilibrium analysis.

So if you've ever taken a game theory course at any level, you will have learned a little bit about this.

An equilibrium is a mathematical state in which everybody has figured out exactly what everyone else will do.

It is a very useful concept, but behaviorally, it may not exactly explain what people do the first time they play these types of economic games or in situations in the outside world.

Some of the earliest ones were done in the '90s by me and Rosemarie Nagel and others.

This is a beautiful data set of 9,000 people who wrote in to three newspapers and magazines that had a contest.

The contest said, send in your numbers and whoever is close to two-thirds of the average will win a big prize.

There is another spike visible at 22.

And notice, by the way, that most people pick numbers right around there.

They don't necessarily pick exactly 33 and 22.

There's something a little bit noisy around it.

But you can see those spikes, and they're there.

But they lose, right?

Because picking a number that low is actually a bad choice if other people aren't doing equilibrium analysis as well.

So they're smart, but poor. 

(Laughter) 

Where are these things happening in the brain?

One study by Coricelli and Nagel gives a really sharp, interesting answer.

In the other trials, they're told, you're playing a computer.

They're just choosing randomly.

So what you see here is a subtraction of areas in which there's more brain activity when you're playing people compared to playing the computer.

And these are all areas which are fairly reliably known to be part of what's called a "theory of mind" circuit, or "mentalizing circuit."

That is, it's a circuit that's used to imagine what other people might do.

So these were some of the first studies to see this tied in to game theory. 

What happens with these one- and two-step types?

On the top you see the one-step players.

The bottom players, you see all the activity in dorsomedial PFC.

So we know that those two-step players are doing something differently. 

You should use those cells to think carefully about this game.

This is a bargaining game.

Two players who are being scanned using EEG electrodes are going to bargain over one to six dollars.

If they can do it in 10 seconds, they're going to actually earn that money.

If 10 seconds goes by and they haven't made a deal, they get nothing.

That's kind of a mistake together.

The twist is that one player, on the left, is informed about how much on each trial there is.

They play lots of trials with different amounts each time.

In this case, they know there's four dollars.

So there's some tension here between trying to get the most money but trying to goad the other player into giving you more.

And the way they bargain is to point on a number line that goes from zero to six dollars, and they're bargaining over how much the uninformed player gets, and the informed player's going to get the rest.

We have some other data where they play across computers.

That's an interesting difference, as you might imagine.

So this is the other group of subjects who often disagree.

So they have a chance of -- they bicker and disagree and end up with less money.

They might be eligible to be on "Real Housewives," the TV show.

Your intuition might tell you that too. 

So the arrows connect regions that are active at the same time, and the direction of the arrows flows from the region that's active first in time, and the arrowhead goes to the region that's active later.

So in this case, if you look carefully, most of the arrows flow from right to left.

That is, it looks as if the uninformed brain activity is happening first, and then it's followed by activity in the informed brain.

And by the way, these were trials where their deals were made.

This is from the first two seconds.

Those are all cases in which a lot of value is lost by delay and strikes. 

Here's the case where the disagreements occur.

You can see it looks different than the one before.

There's a lot more arrows.

Next I'm going to introduce you to some relatives.

They're hairy, smelly, fast and strong.

You might be thinking back to your last Thanksgiving.

Maybe if you had a chimpanzee with you.

Charles Darwin and I and you broke off from the family tree from chimpanzees about five million years ago.

They're still our closest genetic kin.

We share 98.8 percent of the genes.

We share more genes with them than zebras do with horses.

And we're also their closest cousin.

They have more genetic relation to us than to gorillas.

So how humans and chimpanzees behave differently might tell us a lot about brain evolution. 

And they're highly experienced, so they've done this thousands and thousands of time.

Obviously there's a big training effect, as you can imagine.

(Laughter) You can see they're very blasé and kind of effortless.

(Laughter) We can try.

We know chimps are faster and stronger.

They're also very obsessed with status.

The chimps are actually interacting with each other through the computers.

They're going to press left or right.

One chimp is called a matcher.

The mismatcher wants to mismatch.

They want to press the opposite screen of the chimp.

And the rewards are apple cube rewards.

So here's how game theorists look at these data.

This is a graph of the percentage of times the matcher picked right on the x-axis, and the percentage of times they predicted right by the mismatcher on the y-axis.

And as you can see, the chimps, each chimp is one triangle, are circled around, hovering around that prediction. 

Now we move the payoffs.

We're actually going to make the left, left payoff for the matcher a little bit higher.

Now they get three apple cubes.

And as you can see, their behavior moves up in the direction of this change in the Nash equilibrium.

Finally, we changed the payoffs one more time.

It's sprinkled around, but if you average the chimps out, they're really, really close, within .01.

They're actually closer than any species we've observed. 

So here are some things we learned today.

People seem to do a limited amount of strategic thinking using theory of mind.

