Those are my dad's cows at the back, and behind the cows, that's the Nairobi National Park.

Nairobi National Park is not fenced in the south widely, which means wild animals like zebras migrate out of the park freely.

So predators like lions follow them, and this is what they do.

They kill our livestock.

This is one of the cows which was killed at night, and I just woke up in the morning and I found it dead, and I felt so bad, because it was the only bull we had. 

My community, the Maasai, we believe that we came from heaven with all our animals and all the land for herding them, and that's why we value them so much.

It's one of the six lions which were killed in Nairobi.

And I think this is why the Nairobi National Park lions are few. 

So I had to find a way of solving this problem.

And a second idea I got was to use a scarecrow.

And I discovered that lions are afraid of a moving light.

So I had an idea.

(Laughter) So I got an old car battery, an indicator box.

And I got a switch where I can switch on the lights, on and off.

And that's a small torch from a broken flashlight. 

So I set up everything.

And the indicator box makes the lights flash.

As you can see, the bulbs face outside, because that's where the lions come from.

And that's how it looks to lions when they come at night.

(Laughter) (Applause) Thanks. 

So I set it up in my home two years ago, and since then, we have never experienced any problem with lions.

Because of this invention, I was lucky to get a scholarship in one of the best schools in Kenya, Brookhouse International School, and I'm really excited about this.

My new school now is coming in and helping by fundraising and creating an awareness.

I even took my friends back to my community, and we're installing the lights to the homes which don't have [any], and I'm teaching them how to put them. 

And here I am today.

I got a chance to come by plane for my first time for TED.

So my big dream is to become an aircraft engineer and pilot when I grow up. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

