I'm here to show you how something you can't see can be so much fun to look at.

You're about to experience a new, available and exciting technology that's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives. 

What I have here is a cinder block that we've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material.

It's called Ultra-Ever Dry, and when you apply it to any material, it turns into a superhydrophobic shield.

So this is a cinder block, uncoated, and you can see that it's porous, it absorbs water.

So what's superhydrophobic?

Superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface.

A freshly waxed car, the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees.

A windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees.

Did you guess the one that was dry? 

When you have nanotechnology and nanoscience, what's occurred is that we're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits.

And we're talking really small here.

The way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers, and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter, and to put some scale to that, if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick, and you put it side by side, and you had 50,000 of them, you'd be the width of a human hair.

So very small, but very useful. 

You can see the difference. 

It's that afraid of the water. 

(Applause) 

You'd think it'd be smooth, but it's actually not.

And it has billions of interstitial spaces, and those spaces, along with the nanoparticles, reach up and grab the air molecules, and cover the surface with air.

So what are the applications?

I mean, many of you right now are probably going through your head.

It could be anti-corrosion.

No water, no corrosion.

It could be anti-bacterial.

Without water, the bacteria won't survive.

And it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well. 

So imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work.

(Applause) It's going to happen.

He ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part.

(Applause) 

