Everything is covered in invisible ecosystems made of tiny lifeforms: bacteria, viruses and fungi.

Our desks, our computers, our pencils, our buildings all harbor resident microbial landscapes.

Our bodies are home to trillions of microbes, and these creatures define who we are.

The microbes in your gut can influence your weight and your moods.

The microbes on your skin can help boost your immune system.

So, for example, when you touch a pencil, microbial exchange happens. 

If we can design the invisible ecosystems in our surroundings, this opens a path to influencing our health in unprecedented ways. 

I'm going to share data with you from one aspect of my research focused on architecture that demonstrates how, through both conscious and unconscious design, we're impacting these invisible worlds. 

From the dust, we pulled out bacterial cells, broke them open, and compared their gene sequences.

This means that people in my group were doing a lot of vacuuming during this project.

This is a picture of Tim, who, right when I snapped this picture, reminded me, he said, "Jessica, the last lab group I worked in I was doing fieldwork in the Costa Rican rainforest, and things have changed dramatically for me."

So I'm going to show you now first what we found in the offices, and we're going to look at the data through a visualization tool that I've been working on in partnership with Autodesk.

The way that you look at this data is, first, look around the outside of the circle.

So at 12 o'clock, you'll see that offices have a lot of alphaproteobacteria, and at one o'clock you'll see that bacilli are relatively rare. 

Let's take a look at what's going on in different space types in this building.

But if you look across these space types, you can see that they're fundamentally different from one another.

We know that microbes are dispersed around by people and by air.

So the very first thing we wanted to do in this building was look at the air system.

Mechanical engineers design air handling units to make sure that people are comfortable, that the air flow and temperature is just right.

They do this using principles of physics and chemistry, but they could also be using biology.

If you look at the microbes in one of the air handling units in this building, you'll see that they're all very similar to one another.

And if you compare this to the microbes in a different air handling unit, you'll see that they're fundamentally different.

Another facet of how microbes get around is by people, and designers often cluster rooms together to facilitate interactions among people, or the sharing of ideas, like in labs and in offices.

Given that microbes travel around with people, you might expect to see rooms that are close together have really similar biomes.

And that is exactly what we found.

And when I see the power that dispersal has on these biogeographic patterns, it makes me think that it's possible to tackle really challenging problems, like hospital-acquired infections.

I believe this has got to be, in part, a building ecology problem. 

I am collaborating with Charlie Brown.

He's an architect, and Charlie is deeply concerned about global climate change.

He's dedicated his life to sustainable design.

He went from thinking just about energy to also starting to think about human health.

He helped design some of the air handling systems in this building and the way it was ventilated. 

So what I'm first going to show you is air that we sampled outside of the building.

What you're looking at is a signature of bacterial communities in the outdoor air, and how they vary over time.

Next I'm going to show you what happened when we experimentally manipulated classrooms.

We blocked them off at night so that they got no ventilation.

What we found is that these rooms remained relatively stagnant until Saturday, when we opened the vents up again.

Contrast this to rooms that were designed using a sustainable passive design strategy where air came in from the outside through louvers.

In these rooms, the air tracked the outdoor air relatively well, and when Charlie saw this, he got really excited.

The examples that I just gave you are about architecture, but they're relevant to the design of anything.

Imagine designing with the kinds of microbes that we want in a plane or on a phone. 

There's a new microbe, I just discovered it.

It's called BLIS, and it's been shown to both ward off pathogens and give you good breath.

Wouldn't it be awesome if we all had BLIS on our phones? 

A conscious approach to design, I'm calling it bioinformed design, and I think it's possible. 

Thank you. 

