Chris Anderson: Elon, what kind of crazy dream would persuade you to think of trying to take on the auto industry and build an all-electric car? 

I think it's extremely important that we have sustainable transport and sustainable energy production.

CA: Most of American electricity comes from burning fossil fuels.

How can an electric car that plugs into that electricity help? 

One is that, even if you take the same source fuel and produce power at the power plant and use it to charge electric cars, you're still better off.

So if you take, say, natural gas, which is the most prevalent hydrocarbon source fuel, if you burn that in a modern General Electric natural gas turbine, you'll get about 60 percent efficiency.

If you put that same fuel in an internal combustion engine car, you get about 20 percent efficiency.

And the reason is, in the stationary power plant, you can afford to have something that weighs a lot more, is voluminous, and you can take the waste heat and run a steam turbine and generate a secondary power source.

So in effect, even after you've taken transmission loss into account and everything, even using the same source fuel, you're at least twice as better off charging an electric car, then burning it at the power plant. 

CA: That scale delivers efficiency. 

EM: Yes, it does.

And then the other point is, we have to have sustainable means of power generation anyway, electricity generation.

So given that we have to solve sustainable electricity generation, then it makes sense for us to have electric cars as the mode of transport. 

There's just no way around Newton's third law.

The question is how do you accelerate the advent of electric transport?

In fact, we applied a lot of rocket design techniques to make the car light despite having a very large battery pack.

And then it also has the lowest drag coefficient of any car of its size.

So as a result, the energy usage is very low, and it has the most advanced battery pack, and that's what gives it the range that's competitive, so you can actually have on the order of a 250-mile range. 

CA: I mean, those battery packs are incredibly heavy, but you think the math can still work out intelligently -- by combining light body, heavy battery, you can still gain spectacular efficiency. 

And in fact, customers of the Model S are sort of competing with each other to try to get the highest possible range.

I think somebody recently got 420 miles out of a single charge. 

EM: I mean, you can certainly drive -- if you drive it 65 miles an hour, under normal conditions, 250 miles is a reasonable number. 

CA: Let's show that second video showing the Tesla in action on ice.

Not at all a dig at The New York Times, this, by the way.

What is the most surprising thing about the experience of driving the car? 

EM: In creating an electric car, the responsiveness of the car is really incredible.

So we wanted really to have people feel as though they've almost got to mind meld with the car, so you just feel like you and the car are kind of one, and as you corner and accelerate, it just happens, like the car has ESP.

You can do that with an electric car because of its responsiveness.

You can't do that with a gasoline car.

I think that's really a profound difference, and people only experience that when they have a test drive. 

CA: I mean, this is a beautiful but expensive car.

Is there a road map where this becomes a mass-market vehicle? 

So we're at step two at this point.

So we had a $100,000 sports car, which was the Roadster.

And so I think we're making progress in that direction, and I feel confident that we'll get there. 

CA: I mean, right now, if you've got a short commute, you can drive, you can get back, you can charge it at home.

There isn't a huge nationwide network of charging stations now that are fast.

And the key thing is to have a ratio of drive to stop, to stop time, of about six or seven.

So if you start a trip at 9 a.m., by noon you want to stop to have a bite to eat, hit the restroom, coffee, and keep going. 

CA: So your proposition to consumers is, for the full charge, it could take an hour.

EM: Actually, what we're expecting is for people to stop for about 20 to 30 minutes, not for an hour.

You've been working on this solar company SolarCity.

What's unusual about that? 

EM: Well, as I mentioned earlier, we have to have sustainable electricity production as well as consumption, so I'm quite confident that the primary means of power generation will be solar.

I mean, it's really indirect fusion, is what it is.

What most people know but don't realize they know is that the world is almost entirely solar-powered already.

The whole ecosystem is solar-powered. 

EM: Well actually, I'm confident that solar will beat everything, hands down, including natural gas. 

(Applause)CA: How? 

CA: But you're not selling solar panels to consumers.

And we've made huge progress in that direction, and that's why I'm confident we'll actually beat natural gas. 

CA: So your current proposition to consumers is, don't pay so much up front. 

It's no money down, and your utility bill decreases.

Pretty good deal. 

EM: Well, essentially, SolarCity raises a chunk of capital from say, a company or a bank.

Google is one of our big partners here.

And they have an expected return on that capital.

With that capital, SolarCity purchases and installs the panel on the roof and then charges the homeowner or business owner a monthly lease payment, which is less than the utility bill. 

So I think it's actually very empowering for homeowners and businesses. 

EM: More from solar than any other source. 

EM: With a friend who will remain nameless. 

EM: I made that bet, I think, two or three years ago, so in roughly 18 years, I think we'll see more power from solar than any other source. 

CA: All right, so let's go back to another bet that you made with yourself, I guess, a kind of crazy bet.

You'd made some money from the sale of PayPal.

EM: I got that question a lot, that's true.

People would say, "Did you hear the joke about the guy who made a small fortune in the space industry?"

Obviously, "He started with a large one," is the punchline.

And so I tell people, well, I was trying to figure out the fastest way to turn a large fortune into a small one.

And they'd look at me, like, "Is he serious?"

The goal of SpaceX is to try to advance rocket technology, and in particular to try to crack a problem that I think is vital for humanity to become a space-faring civilization, which is to have a rapidly and fully reusable rocket. 

CA: Would humanity become a space-faring civilization?

So that was a dream of yours, in a way, from a young age?

You've dreamed of Mars and beyond? 

EM: I did build rockets when I was a kid, but I didn't think I'd be involved in this.

It was really more from the standpoint of what are the things that need to happen in order for the future to be an exciting and inspiring one?

And I really think there's a fundamental difference, if you sort of look into the future, between a humanity that is a space-faring civilization, that's out there exploring the stars, on multiple planets, and I think that's really exciting, compared with one where we are forever confined to Earth until some eventual extinction event. 

CA: So you've somehow slashed the cost of building a rocket by 75 percent, depending on how you calculate it.

How on Earth have you done that?

There's a long list of innovations that we've come up with there that are a little difficult to communicate in this talk, but -- 

CA: Not least because you could still get copied, right?

CA: That's really, really interesting.

But the big innovation is still ahead, and you're working on it now.

CA: In fact, let's roll that video and you can talk us through it, what's happening here. 

All rockets that fly today are fully expendable.

The space shuttle was an attempt at a reusable rocket, but even the main tank of the space shuttle was thrown away every time, and the parts that were reusable took a 10,000-person group nine months to refurbish for flight.

It's much like on a jet.

So the cost of the propellant is about .3 percent of the cost of the rocket.

That's why it's so important.

Every mode of transport that we use, whether it's planes, trains, automobiles, bikes, horses, is reusable, but not rockets.

So we must solve this problem in order to become a space-faring civilization. 

CA: You asked me the question earlier of how popular traveling on cruises would be if you had to burn your ships afterward.EM: Certain cruises are apparently highly problematic. 

CA: Definitely more expensive.

You'd like to see a colony on Mars. 

How's it going? 

And we've had some good tests. 

So that's just to give a sense of scale.

EM: Yeah, so that rocket is about the size of a 12-story building.

These projects are so -- Paypal, SolarCity, Tesla, SpaceX, they're so spectacularly different, they're such ambitious projects at scale.

How on Earth has one person been able to innovate in this way?

What is it about you? 

EM: I don't know, actually.

I don't have a good answer for you.

I mean, almost no one can do that.

It is truly amazing what you've done. 

Through most of our life, we get through life by reasoning by analogy, which essentially means copying what other people do with slight variations.

And you have to do that.

Otherwise, mentally, you wouldn't be able to get through the day.

But when you want to do something new, you have to apply the physics approach.

It's really counterintuitive.

CA: Boys and girls watching, study physics.

Thank you so much. 

