(Laughter) Actually, it's deceptively large.

Obviously a very small community.

There were only two other Dannys on the Internet then.

I knew them both.

So just to give you an idea of the level of trust in this community, let me tell you what it was like to register a domain name in the early days.

Now, it just so happened that I got to register the third domain name on the Internet.

So I could have anything I wanted other than bbn.com and symbolics.com.

So I picked think.com, but then I thought, you know, there's a lot of really interesting names out there.

So the basic idea of I.P., or Internet protocol, and the way that the -- the routing algorithm that used it, were fundamentally "from each according to their ability, to each according to their need."

And so, if you had some extra bandwidth, you'd deliver a message for someone.

If they had some extra bandwidth, they would deliver a message for you.

You'd kind of depend on people to do that, and that was the building block.

It was incredibly successful. 

My rough calculation is it would be about 25 miles thick.

I'll come back to that later.

But the fact is that people couldn't take off because something was going wrong on the Internet, and the router card was down. 

And so, there are many of those things that start to happen.

Now, there was an interesting thing that happened last April.

All of a sudden, a very large percentage of the traffic on the whole Internet, including a lot of the traffic between U.S. military installations, started getting re-routed through China.

So for a few hours, it all passed through China.

Imagine how vulnerable the system is to deliberate attacks. 

So if somebody really wanted to attack the United States or Western civilization these days, they're not going to do it with tanks.

That will not succeed.

What they'll probably do is something very much like the attack that happened on the Iranian nuclear facility.

Nobody has claimed credit for that.

There was basically a factory of industrial machines.

It didn't think of itself as being on the Internet.

It thought of itself as being disconnected from the Internet, but it was possible for somebody to smuggle a USB drive in there, or something like that, and software got in there that causes the centrifuges, in that case, to actually destroy themselves.

Now that same kind of software could destroy an oil refinery or a pharmaceutical factory or a semiconductor plant.

And so there's a lot of -- I'm sure you've read a lot in papers, about worries about cyberattacks and defenses against those. 

But the fact is, people are mostly focused on defending the computers on the Internet, and there's been surprisingly little attention to defending the Internet itself as a communications medium.

So actually, in the early days, back when it was the ARPANET, there were actually times -- there was a particular time it failed completely because one single message processor actually got a bug in it.

So, in other words, it claimed it could deliver a message before you sent it.

Everything started breaking.

Now, of course you couldn't do that today.

Now, in fact, they couldn't do it for a lot of reasons today.

When you pump gas, you really don't think you're using the Internet.

What's happening increasingly, though, is these systems are beginning to use the Internet.

So all of our systems, more and more, are starting to use the same technology and starting to depend on this technology.

And so even a modern rocket ship these days actually uses Internet protocol to talk from one end of the rocket ship to the other.

And in fact, nobody really exactly understands all the things it's being used for right now.

They have an informed opinion, but it's changing so quickly that even the experts don't know exactly what's going on.

So if you see one of these maps of the Internet, it's just somebody's guess.

But so what we need is a plan B.

This doesn't need to be a multi-billion-dollar government project.

It's basically a matter of deciding to do it. 

But people won't decide to do it until they recognize the need for it, and that's the problem that we have right now.

So there's been plenty of people, plenty of us have been quietly arguing that we should have this independent system for years, but it's very hard to get people focused on plan B when plan A seems to be working so well. 

It's not that hard a problem.

It could definitely be done by people in this room. 

And so I think that this is actually, of all the problems you're going to hear about at the conference, this is probably one of the very easiest to fix.

So I'm happy to get a chance to tell you about it. 

Thank you very much. 

