That's an Englishman asking an Irishman to be succinct. 

(Laughter) 

He said, "Bono, wouldn't that be a good use of your messianic complex?"

So, yeah.

Then I thought, let's go even further than 25 years.

Three thousand years ago, civilization just getting started on the banks of the Nile, some slaves, Jewish shepherds in this instance, smelling of sheep shit, I guess, proclaimed to the Pharaoh, sitting high on his throne, "We, your majesty-ness, are equal to you."

Cut to our century, same country, same pyramids, another people spreading the same idea of equality with a different book.

This time it's called the Facebook.

Crowds are gathered in Tahrir Square.

They turn a social network from virtual to actual, and kind of rebooted the 21st century.

Because what the facts are telling us is that the long, slow journey, humanity's long, slow journey of equality, is actually speeding up.

Since the year 2000, since the turn of the millennium, there are eight million more AIDS patients getting life-saving antiretroviral drugs.

Malaria: There are eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa that have their death rates cut by 75 percent.

For kids under five, child mortality, kids under five, it's down by 2.65 million a year.

(Applause) 

Let's just stop for a second, actually, and think about that.

And the Global Fund provides antiretroviral drugs that stop mothers from passing HIV to their kids.

This fantastic news didn't happen by itself.

It was fought for, it was campaigned for, it was innovated for.

(Applause) Halved.

And if you live on less than $1.25 a day, if you live in that kind of poverty, this is not just data.

This is everything.

For number-crunchers like us, that is the erogenous zone, and it's fair to say that I am, by now, sexually aroused by the collating of data.

We do love a good baseline.

That's amazing. 

So the pride of lions is the proof of concept. 

There are all kinds of benefits to this.

(Applause) 

I mean, it's about three Rolling Stones farewell concerts away.

Makes us look really young. 

So why aren't we jumping up and down about this?

Well, the opportunity is real, but so is the jeopardy.

We can't get this done until we really accept that we can get this done.

And the next one is really beautiful.

It's called momentum.

We know the obstacles that are in our way right now, in difficult times.

In fact, today in your capital, in difficult times, some who mind the nation's purse want to cut life-saving programs like the Global Fund.

But you can do something about that.

Right now today, in Oslo as it happens, oil companies are fighting to keep secret their payments to governments for extracting oil in developing countries.

You can do something about that too.

You can join the One Campaign, and leaders like Mo Ibrahim, the telecom entrepreneur.

We're pushing for laws that make sure that at least some of the wealth under the ground ends up in the hands of the people living above it. 

It's getting harder to hide if you're doing bad stuff. 

Once you have this knowledge, you can't un-know it.

(Applause) 

By the time we get there, every place with a rough semblance of governance might actually be on their way. 

It's not going to kill you.

In fact, it could save countless lives.

I guess we in the One Campaign would love you to be contagious, spread it, share it, pass it on.

By doing so, you will join us and countless others in what I truly believe is the greatest adventure ever taken, the ever-demanding journey of equality.

Because as is obvious, factivists have feelings too. 

He got thrown in jail for it, but I have his words tattooed on my brain. 

Wael is right.

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

