Now, extinction is a different kind of death.

It's bigger.

We didn't really realize that until 1914, when the last passenger pigeon, a female named Martha, died at the Cincinnati zoo.

This had been the most abundant bird in the world that'd been in North America for six million years.

Suddenly it wasn't here at all.

Flocks that were a mile wide and 400 miles long used to darken the sun.

Aldo Leopold said this was a biological storm, a feathered tempest.

And indeed it was a keystone species that enriched the entire eastern deciduous forest, from the Mississippi to the Atlantic, from Canada down to the Gulf.

But it went from five billion birds to zero in just a couple decades.

Well, commercial hunting happened.

It was the cheapest source of protein in America.

There's an upside to the story.

But a lot of other animals weren't saved.

The Carolina parakeet was a parrot that lit up backyards everywhere.

It was hunted to death for its feathers.

It happened to lots of mammals.

Another keystone species is a famous animal called the European aurochs.

There was sort of a movie made about it recently.

And the aurochs was like the bison.

This was an animal that basically kept the forest mixed with grasslands across the entire Europe and Asian continent, from Spain to Korea.

The extinctions still go on.

There's an ibex in Spain called the bucardo.

It went extinct in 2000.

It was hunted until there were just a few left to die in zoos.

Sorrow, anger, mourning.

What if you could find out that, using the DNA in museum specimens, fossils maybe up to 200,000 years old could be used to bring species back, what would you do?

Well, you'd start by finding out if the biotech is really there.

So he and Ryan organized and hosted a meeting at the Wyss Institute in Harvard bringing together specialists on passenger pigeons, conservation ornithologists, bioethicists, and fortunately passenger pigeon DNA had already been sequenced by a molecular biologist named Beth Shapiro.

All she needed from those specimens at the Smithsonian was a little bit of toe pad tissue, because down in there is what is called ancient DNA.

Then the question is, can you reassemble, with that genome, the whole bird?

George Church thinks you can.

It's kind of like an evolution machine.

You try combinations of genes that you write at the cell level and then in organs on a chip, and the ones that win, that you can then put into a living organism.

The precision of this, one of George's famous unreadable slides, nevertheless points out that there's a level of precision here right down to the individual base pair.

So what you're getting is the capability now of replacing one gene with another variation of that gene.

It's called an allele.

Well that's what happens in normal hybridization anyway.

So this is a form of synthetic hybridization of the genome of an extinct species with the genome of its closest living relative.

Now along the way, George points out that his technology, the technology of synthetic biology, is currently accelerating at four times the rate of Moore's Law.

Genetically, the band-tailed pigeon already is mostly living passenger pigeon.

There's just some bits that are band-tailed pigeon.

Now, there's work to do.

You have to figure out exactly what genes matter.

Add them all up and the result won't be perfect.

We hired him full-time.

The third result of the Boston meeting was the realization that there are scientists all over the world working on various forms of de-extinction, but they'd never met each other.

Some of these conservation biologists are pretty radical.

Henri, from the Netherlands, with a Dutch last name I won't try to pronounce, is working on the aurochs.

The aurochs is the ancestor of all domestic cattle, and so basically its genome is alive, it's just unevenly distributed.

So what they're doing is working with seven breeds of primitive, hardy-looking cattle like that Maremmana primitivo on the top there to rebuild, over time, with selective back-breeding, the aurochs.

Another amazing story came from Alberto Fernández-Arias.

Alberto worked with the bucardo in Spain.

They took the DNA from that ear, they planted it as a cloned egg in a goat, the pregnancy came to term, and a live baby bucardo was born.

Sometimes interspecies clones have respiration problems.

Cryopreservation pioneer of great depth is Oliver Ryder.

At the San Diego zoo, his frozen zoo has collected the tissues from over 1,000 species over the last 35 years.

Now, when it's frozen that deep, minus 196 degrees Celsius, the cells are intact and the DNA is intact.

So he'll take, say, falcon skin cells, fibroblast, turn it into induced pluripotent stem cells.

Since it's so pluripotent, it can become germ plasm.

He then has a way to put the germ plasm into the embryo of a chicken egg so that that chicken will have, basically, the gonads of a falcon.

You get a male and a female each of those, and out of them comes falcons.

Ben Novak was the youngest scientist at the meeting.

It does raise the question of, they're not going to have passenger pigeon parents to teach them how to be a passenger pigeon.

So what do you do about that?

There were some conservationists, really famous conservationists like Stanley Temple, who is one of the founders of conservation biology, and Kate Jones from the IUCN, which does the Red List.

They're excited about all this, but they're also concerned that it might be competitive with the extremely important efforts to protect endangered species that are still alive, that haven't gone extinct yet.

You see, you want to work on protecting the animals out there.

But at the same time, conservation biologists are realizing that bad news bums people out.

And so the Red List is really important, keep track of what's endangered and critically endangered, and so on.

So basically, they're learning how to build on good news.

Here's a couple related examples.

Captive breeding will be a major part of bringing back these species.

The California condor was down to 22 birds in 1987.

Everybody thought is was finished.

Thanks to captive breeding at the San Diego Zoo, there's 405 of them now, 226 are out in the wild.

That technology will be used on de-extincted animals.

Another success story is the mountain gorilla in Central Africa.

In 1981, Dian Fossey was sure they were going extinct.

The secret is, they have an eco-tourism program, which is absolutely brilliant.

So this photograph was taken last month by Ryan with an iPhone.

Another interesting project, though it's going to need some help, is the northern white rhinoceros.

There's no breeding pairs left.

But this is the kind of thing that a wide variety of DNA for this animal is available in the frozen zoo.

So where do we go from here?

These have been private meetings so far.

I think it's time for the subject to go public.

What do people think about it?

You know, do you want extinct species back?

We're also going to push ahead with the passenger pigeon.

So Ben Novak, even as we speak, is joining the group that Beth Shapiro has at UC Santa Cruz.

They're going to work on the genomes of the passenger pigeon and the band-tailed pigeon.

Because the fact is, humans have made a huge hole in nature in the last 10,000 years.

We have the ability now, and maybe the moral obligation, to repair some of the damage.

Most of that we'll do by expanding and protecting wildlands, by expanding and protecting the populations of endangered species.

There's going to be unintended consequences.

You're going to uncork some sort of Pandora's box of who-knows-what.

Stewart Brand: Well, the earlier point is we interfered in a big way by making these animals go extinct, and many of them were keystone species, and we changed the whole ecosystem they were in by letting them go.

Now, there's the shifting baseline problem, which is, so when these things come back, they might replace some birds that are there that people really know and love.

I think that's, you know, part of how it'll work.

This is a long, slow process -- One of the things I like about it, it's multi-generation.

CA: Well it feels like both the conversation and the potential here are pretty thrilling.

