There's a group of people in Kenya.

People cross oceans to go see them.

And they kill lions.

You might be wondering, who are these people?

These are the Maasais.

The Maasais, the boys are brought up to be warriors.

The girls are brought up to be mothers.

My mother, my grandmother, my aunties, they constantly reminded me that your husband just passed by.

(Laughter) Cool, yeah?

And everything I had to do from that moment was to prepare me to be a perfect woman at age 12.

My day started at 5 in the morning, milking the cows, sweeping the house, cooking for my siblings, collecting water, firewood.

I did everything that I needed to do to become a perfect wife. 

I went to school not because the Maasais' women or girls were going to school.

My father worked as a policeman in the city.

He came home once a year.

We didn't see him for sometimes even two years.

And whenever he came home, it was a different case.

My mother worked hard in the farm to grow crops so that we can eat.

She reared the cows and the goats so that she can care for us.

But when my father came, he would sell the cows, he would sell the products we had, and he went and drank with his friends in the bars.

Because my mother was a woman, she was not allowed to own any property, and by default, everything in my family anyway belongs to my father, so he had the right.

And if my mother ever questioned him, he beat her, abused her, and really it was difficult. 

When I went to school, I had a dream.

I wanted to become a teacher.

Teachers looked nice.

They wear nice dresses, high-heeled shoes.

I found out later that they are uncomfortable, but I admired it.

So I wanted to become a teacher. 

I worked hard in school, but when I was in eighth grade, it was a determining factor.

In our tradition, there is a ceremony that girls have to undergo to become women, and it's a rite of passage to womanhood.

And then I was just finishing my eighth grade, and that was a transition for me to go to high school.

This was the crossroad.

It was a shameful thing for him to carry the rest of his life.

And the day before the actual ceremony happens, we were dancing, having excitement, and through all the night we did not sleep.

We walked out to the courtyard, and there were a bunch of people waiting.

They were all in a circle.

And I sat down, and I opened my legs.

As I opened my leg, another woman came, and this woman was carrying a knife.

And as she carried the knife, she walked toward me and she held the clitoris, and she cut it off. 

After bleeding for a while, I fainted thereafter.

It's something that so many girls -- I'm lucky, I never died -- but many die.

It's practiced, it's no anesthesia, it's a rusty old knife, and it was difficult.

I was lucky because one, also, my mom did something that most women don't do.

Three weeks later, I was healed, and I was back in high school.

I was so determined to be a teacher now so that I could make a difference in my family. 

Well, while I was in high school, something happened.

I met a young gentleman from our village who had been to the University of Oregon.

There is something about clothes, I think, and shoes.

They were sneakers, and this is in a village that doesn't even have paved roads.

This gentleman, he helped me.

While I was in high school also, my dad was sick.

But the problem is, my father is not the only father I have.

Everybody who is my dad's age, male in the community, is my father by default -- my uncles, all of them -- and they dictate what my future is. 

So the news came, I applied to school and I was accepted to Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Virginia, and I couldn't come without the support of the village, because I needed to raise money to buy the air ticket.

So I went back and I had to go back to the tradition.

There's a belief among our people that morning brings good news.

And in the village also, there is one chief, an elder, who if he says yes, everybody will follow him.

So I went to him very early in the morning, as the sun rose.

The first thing he sees when he opens his door is, it's me. 

They all came together.

The village, the women, the men, everybody came together to support me to come to get an education. 

I found snow!

I found Wal-Marts, vacuum cleaners, and lots of food in the cafeteria.

I was in a land of plenty. 

And as we speak right now, three million girls in Africa are at risk of going through this mutilation.

Those things made me angry.

I wanted to do something.

As I went back, every time I went, I found that my neighbors' girls were getting married.

I had to do something. 

And the reason they wanted the school for girls is because when a girl is raped when she's walking to school, the mother is blamed for that.

If she got pregnant before she got married, the mother is blamed for that, and she's punished.

I want you to meet one of the girls in that school.

Five months later, that is Angeline.

A transformation had begun in her life.

Angeline wants to be a pilot so she can fly around the world and make a difference.

As a new dawn is happening in my school, a new beginning is happening.

As we speak right now, 125 girls will never be mutilated.

One hundred twenty-five girls will not be married when they're 12 years old.

One hundred twenty-five girls are creating and achieving their dreams.

I want to challenge you today.

You are somebody who wants to make our tomorrow better.

