I live in South Central.

This is South Central: liquor stores, fast food, vacant lots. 

(Laughter) Liquor stores, fast food, vacant lots. 

(Laughter) Liquor stores, fast food, vacant lots. 

Funny thing is, the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys.

People are dying from curable diseases in South Central Los Angeles.

For instance, the obesity rate in my neighborhood is five times higher than, say, Beverly Hills, which is probably eight, 10 miles away. 

I see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars.

I see dialysis centers popping up like Starbucks.

Food is the problem and food is the solution.

Plus I got tired of driving 45 minutes round trip to get an apple that wasn't impregnated with pesticides. 

So what I did, I planted a food forest in front of my house.

It was on a strip of land that we call a parkway.

It's 150 feet by 10 feet.

Thing is, it's owned by the city.

And this is how I decided to maintain it. 

And the garden, it was beautiful. 

And then somebody complained.

The city came down on me, and basically gave me a citation saying that I had to remove my garden, which this citation was turning into a warrant.

We had a victory on our hands.

My councilman even called in and said how they endorse and love what we're doing.

I mean, come on, why wouldn't they?

L.A. leads the United States in vacant lots that the city actually owns.

That's enough space to plant 725 million tomato plants.

Why in the hell would they not okay this?

Growing one plant will give you 1,000, 10,000 seeds.

When one dollar's worth of green beans will give you 75 dollars' worth of produce.

It's my gospel, when I'm telling people, grow your own food.

Growing your own food is like printing your own money. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Just like a graffiti artist, where they beautify walls, me, I beautify lawns, parkways.

You'd be surprised what the soil could do if you let it be your canvas.

You just couldn't imagine how amazing a sunflower is and how it affects people. 

So what happened?

To change the community, you have to change the composition of the soil.

We are the soil.

You'd be surprised how kids are affected by this.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

This is on the street for a reason.

There's another time when I put a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown Los Angeles.

So Green Grounds has gone on to plant maybe 20 gardens.

We've had, like, 50 people come to our dig-ins and participate, and it's all volunteers.

If kids grow kale, kids eat kale.

(Laughter) If they grow tomatoes, they eat tomatoes.

(Applause) But when none of this is presented to them, if they're not shown how food affects the mind and the body, they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them. 

(Applause) But when none of this is presented to them, if they're not shown how food affects the mind and the body, they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them. 

So with gardening, I see an opportunity where we can train these kids to take over their communities, to have a sustainable life.

And when we do this, who knows?

We might produce the next George Washington Carver.

but if we don't change the composition of the soil, we will never do this. 

I want to plant a whole block of gardens where people can share in the food in the same block.

I want to take shipping containers and turn them into healthy cafes.

Now don't get me wrong.

The funny thing about sustainability, you have to sustain it.

(Laughter) (Applause) What I'm talking about is putting people to work, and getting kids off the street, and letting them know the joy, the pride and the honor in growing your own food, opening farmer's markets. 

(Laughter) (Applause) What I'm talking about is putting people to work, and getting kids off the street, and letting them know the joy, the pride and the honor in growing your own food, opening farmer's markets. 

So what I want to do here, we gotta make this sexy.

So I want us all to become ecolutionary renegades, gangstas, gangsta gardeners.

We gotta flip the script on what a gangsta is.

If you ain't a gardener, you ain't gangsta.

Get gangsta with your shovel, okay?

And let that be your weapon of choice. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

So basically, if you want to meet with me, you know, if you want to meet, don't call me if you want to sit around in cushy chairs and have meetings where you talk about doing some shit -- where you talk about doing some shit.

If you want to meet with me, come to the garden with your shovel so we can plant some shit. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

