The most massive tsunami perfect storm is bearing down upon us.

Now, this perfect storm that we are facing is the result of our rising population, rising towards 10 billion people, land that is turning to desert, and, of course, climate change. 

But fossil fuels, carbon -- coal and gas -- are by no means the only thing that is causing climate change. 

Desertification is a fancy word for land that is turning to desert, and this happens only when we create too much bare ground.

There's no other cause.

And I intend to focus on most of the world's land that is turning to desert. 

But I have for you a very simple message that offers more hope than you can imagine.

We have environments where humidity is guaranteed throughout the year.

On those, it is almost impossible to create vast areas of bare ground.

No matter what you do, nature covers it up so quickly.

Fortunately, with space technology now, we can look at it from space, and when we do, you can see the proportions fairly well.

Generally, what you see in green is not desertifying, and what you see in brown is, and these are by far the greatest areas of the Earth.

About two thirds, I would guess, of the world is desertifying. 

Over 1,000 drums of water fell on every hectare of that land that day.

The next day, the land looked like this.

Where had that water gone?

Now, because the fate of water and carbon are tied to soil organic matter, when we damage soils, you give off carbon.

Carbon goes back to the atmosphere. 

But if you do not look at grasslands but look down into them, you find that most of the soil in that grassland that you've just seen is bare and covered with a crust of algae, leading to increased runoff and evaporation.

That is the cancer of desertification that we do not recognize till its terminal form. 

And then my university education as an ecologist reinforced my beliefs. 

Well, I have news for you.

We were once just as certain that the world was flat.

We were wrong then, and we are wrong again.

Now, that was a terrible decision for me to have to make, and it was political dynamite, frankly.

And it got worse, not better.

One good thing did come out of it.

It made me absolutely determined to devote my life to finding solutions. 

And the authors of the position paper on climate change from which I obtained these pictures attribute this change to "unknown processes."

We have never understood it.

Now, by the time you are doing that and increasing greatly the percentage of bare ground on more than half the world's land, you are changing macroclimate.

Why has it accelerated lately?

We had no understanding of that. 

This picture is a typical seasonal grassland.

It has just come through four months of rain, and it's now going into eight months of dry season.

And watch the change as it goes into this long dry season.

To prevent that, we have traditionally used fire.

But fire also leaves the soil bare, releasing carbon, and worse than that, burning one hectare of grassland gives off more, and more damaging, pollutants than 6,000 cars.

And we are burning in Africa, every single year, more than one billion hectares of grasslands, and almost nobody is talking about it.

We cannot burn it without causing desertification and climate change.

What are we going to do?

There is no other alternative left to mankind. 

So let's do that.

When I first realized that we had no option as scientists but to use much-vilified livestock to address climate change and desertification, I was faced with a real dilemma.

How were we to do it?

We'd had 10,000 years of extremely knowledgeable pastoralists bunching and moving their animals, but they had created the great manmade deserts of the world.

But we biologists and ecologists had never tackled anything as complex as this.

So rather than reinvent the wheel, I began studying other professions to see if anybody had.

Let's look at some results.

This is land close to land that we manage in Zimbabwe.

It has just come through four months of very good rains it got that year, and it's going into the long dry season.

But as you can see, all of that rain, almost of all it, has evaporated from the soil surface.

Our river is flowing and healthy and clean.

It's fine.

The production of grass, shrubs, trees, wildlife, everything is now more productive, and we have virtually no fear of dry years.

But before we began, our land looked like that.

And there are fallen trees in there now, because the better land is now attracting elephants, etc.

(Applause) 

The vast grasslands of Patagonia are turning to desert as you see here.

Ninety-five percent of that land can only feed people from animals. 

What we are doing globally is causing climate change as much as, I believe, fossil fuels, and maybe more than fossil fuels.

And if this continues, we are unlikely to be able to stop the climate changing, even after we have eliminated the use of fossil fuels. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

(Applause) 

I'm just going to ask you one quick question.

How do you start? 

It's a little bit technical to explain here, but just that. 

(Applause) 

