Once there was a star.

Like everything else, she was born; grew to be around 30 times the mass of our sun and lived for a very long time.

Exactly how long, people cannot really tell.

And she evolved into another role in our galaxy. 

Supernova explosions are very extreme.

But the ones that emit gamma rays are even more extreme.

In the process of becoming a supernova, the interior of the star collapses under its own weight and it starts rotating ever faster, like an ice skater when pulling their arms in close to their body.

In that way, it starts rotating very fast and it increases, powerfully, its magnetic field.

The matter around the star is dragged around, and some energy from that rotation is transferred to that matter and the magnetic field is increased even further.

In that way, our star had extra energy to outshine the rest of the galaxy in brightness and gamma ray emission. 

My star, the one in my story, became what is known as a magnetar.

And just for your information, the magnetic field of a magnetar is 1,000 trillion times the magnetic field of Earth.

Our star, like the one in our story that became a magnetar, is detected as a gamma-ray burst during the most energetic portion of the explosion.

Yet, even though gamma-ray bursts are the strongest events ever measured by astronomers, we cannot see them with our naked eye.

We can only see an itty bitty, tiny portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that we call visible light.

And beyond that, we rely on other methods. 

On the screen, it may look like this.

You're seeing a plot.

That is a light curve.

It's a plot of intensity of light over time.

It is a gamma-ray light curve.

Sighted astronomers depend on this kind of plot in order to interpret how this light intensity changes over time.

On the left, you will be seeing the light intensity without a burst, and on the right, you will be seeing the light intensity with the burst. 

Early during my career, I could also see this kind of plot.

But then, I lost my sight.

And professionally, it left me without a way to do my science.

I thought long and hard about it, when I suddenly realized that all a light curve is, is a table of numbers converted into a visual plot.

So along with my collaborators, we worked really hard and we translated the numbers into sound.

I achieved access to the data, and today I'm able to do physics at the level of the best astronomer, using sound.

And what people have been able to do, mainly visually, for hundreds of years, now I do it using sound. 

When I examine the very strong low-frequency regions, or bass line -- I'm zooming into the bass line now.

We noted resonances characteristic of electrically charged gasses like the solar wind.

I think you heard it, right? 

You may remember that I said that the matter around the star is dragged around?

It transmits power with frequency and field distribution determined by the dimensions.

You may remember that we were talking about a super-massive star that became a very strong magnetic field magnetar.

If this is the case, then outflows from the exploding star may be associated with this gamma-ray burst. 

What does that mean?

That star formation may be a very important part of these supernova explosions.

Listening to this very gamma-ray burst brought us to the notion that the use of sound as an adjunctive visual display may also support sighted astronomers in the search for more information in the data.

Simultaneously, I worked on analyzing measurements from other telescopes, and my experiments demonstrated that when you use sound as an adjunctive visual display, astronomers can find more information in this now more accessible data set.

This ability to transform data into sound gives astronomy a tremendous power of transformation.

And the fact that a field that is so visual may be improved in order to include anyone with interest in understanding what lies in the heavens is a spirit-lifter. 

It was not until we innovated with the sonification process that I regained the hope to be a productive member of the field that I had worked so hard to be part of. 

Yet, information access is not the only area in astronomy where this is important.

The situation is systemic and scientific fields are not keeping up.

Let's think about, for example, scientists that are already at the top of their careers.

What happens to them if they develop a disability?

Will they feel excommunicated as I did?

Information access empowers us to flourish.

It gives us equal opportunities to display our talents and choose what we want to do with our lives, based on interest and not based on potential barriers.

When we give people the opportunity to succeed without limits, that will lead to personal fulfillment and prospering life.

And I think that the use of sound in astronomy is helping us to achieve that and to contribute to science. 

There, we are working on sonification techniques and analysis methods to impact the students of the Athlone School for the Blind.

These students will be learning radio astronomy, and they will be learning the sonification methods in order to study astronomical events like huge ejections of energy from the sun, known as coronal mass ejections.

And this is happening right now. 

I think that science is for everyone.

I think that if we limit people with disabilities from participating in science, we'll sever our links with history and with society.

I dream of a level scientific playing field, where people encourage respect and respect each other, where people exchange strategies and discover together.

That is the titanic burst. 

