What is going to be the future of learning? 

But the Victorians actually did it.

What they did was amazing.

They created a global computer made up of people.

It's still with us today.

It's called the bureaucratic administrative machine.

In order to have that machine running, you need lots and lots of people.

The schools would produce the people who would then become parts of the bureaucratic administrative machine.

They must be identical to each other.

They must be so identical that you could pick one up from New Zealand and ship them to Canada and he would be instantly functional.

The Victorians were great engineers.

They engineered a system that was so robust that it's still with us today, continuously producing identical people for a machine that no longer exists.

So that's a pretty strong comment there.

I said schools as we know them now, they're obsolete.

I'm not saying they're broken.

They're there in thousands in every office.

They don't need to be able to multiply numbers in their heads.

They do need to be able to read.

In fact, they need to be able to read discerningly. 

We know that people will work from wherever they want, whenever they want, in whatever way they want.

How is present-day schooling going to prepare them for that world? 

Well, I bumped into this whole thing completely by accident.

I used to teach people how to write computer programs in New Delhi, 14 years ago.

Or should they not?

(Laughter) What did the poor do wrong?

And I went away.

(Laughter) I repeated the experiment there.

There was no place to stay, so I stuck my computer in, I went away, came back after a couple of months, found kids playing games on it. 

When they saw me, they said, "We want a faster processor and a better mouse."

And they said something very interesting to me.

Here's a short glimpse from those years.

That's the first day at the Hole in the Wall.

And he's teaching her how to browse.

Then onto other parts of the country, I repeated this over and over again, getting exactly the same results that we were.

["Hole in the wall film - 1999"] An eight-year-old telling his elder sister what to do.

And finally a girl explaining in Marathi what it is, and said, "There's a processor inside."

I'd seen it happen over and over and over again. 

I started experimenting with other subjects, among them, for example, pronunciation.

Sugata Mitra: The reason I ended with the face of this young lady over there is because I suspect many of you know her.

Where does it stop?

I decided I would destroy my own argument by creating an absurd proposition.

I made a hypothesis, a ridiculous hypothesis.

I came back after two months and the children trooped in and said, "We've understood nothing."

Thirty percent is a fail.

So she did that for two more months.

The scores jumped to 50 percent.

When I saw that graph I knew there is a way to level the playing field. 

Here's Kallikuppam. 

So what are jobs going to be like?

Well, we know what they're like today.

What will it be tomorrow?

Could it be that we don't need to go to school at all?

Could it be that, at the point in time when you need to know something, you can find out in two minutes?

Knowing, that's what distinguishes us from the apes.

But look at it this way.

It took nature 100 million years to make the ape stand up and become Homo sapiens.

It took us only 10,000 to make knowing obsolete.

Encouragement seems to be the key.

If you look at Kuppam, if you look at all of the experiments that I did, it was simply saying, "Wow," saluting learning. 

There is evidence from neuroscience.

Punishment and examinations are seen as threats.

Because it was needed.

When you're standing in a trench all alone, if you could have survived, you're okay, you've passed.

If you didn't, you failed.

But the Age of Empires is gone.

What happens to creativity in our age?

We need to shift that balance back from threat to pleasure. 

I came back to England looking for British grandmothers.

(Laughter) They're called the Granny Cloud.

The Granny Cloud sits on the Internet.

If there's a child in trouble, we beam a Gran.

She goes on over Skype and she sorts things out.

She does it with only one age-old gesture.

Watch this. 

SM: So what's happening here?

I think what we need to look at is we need to look at learning as the product of educational self-organization.

If you allow the educational process to self-organize, then learning emerges.

It's not about making learning happen.

It's about letting it happen.

The teacher sets the process in motion and then she stands back in awe and watches as learning happens.

I think that's what all this is pointing at. 

Well, I intend to build these Self-Organized Learning Environments.

They are basically broadband, collaboration and encouragement put together.

I've tried this in many, many schools. 

It's been tried all over the world, and teachers sort of stand back and say, "It just happens by itself?"

Here's a SOLE in action. 

This one is in England.

SM: A decade ahead of her time. 

We've brought it down to the tangent of an angle.

But that's not sexy enough.

The way you would put it to a nine-year-old is to say, "If a meteorite was coming to hit the Earth, how would you figure out if it was going to or not?"

So here are a couple of images from SOLEs.

This one is about what happens to the air we breathe.

This is done by children without the help of any teacher.

The teacher only raises the question, and then stands back and admires the answer. 

So what's my wish?

My wish is that we design the future of learning.

It will be a school where children go on these intellectual adventures driven by the big questions which their mediators put in.

The way I want to do this is to build a facility where I can study this.

It's a facility which is practically unmanned.

There's only one granny who manages health and safety.

The rest of it's from the cloud.

The lights are turned on and off by the cloud, etc., etc., everything's done from the cloud. 

But I want you for another purpose.

That's my wish. 

And there was this little girl who was following me around. 

She suddenly raised her hand like this, and said to me, "Get on with it."

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

