So here's the good news about families.

The last 50 years have seen a revolution in what it means to be a family.

We have blended families, adopted families, we have nuclear families living in separate houses and divorced families living in the same house.

But through it all, the family has grown stronger.

Eight in 10 say the family they have today is as strong or stronger than the family they grew up in. 

Now, here's the bad news.

Nearly everyone is completely overwhelmed by the chaos of family life.

Every parent I know, myself included, feels like we're constantly playing defense.

And here's the worst news of all.

Our children sense we're out of control.

So how can we change this dynamic?

Are there concrete things we can do to reduce stress, draw our family closer, and generally prepare our children to enter the world? 

I want to tell you about one family that I met, and why I think they offer clues.

At 7 p.m. on a Sunday in Hidden Springs, Idaho, where the six members of the Starr family are sitting down to the highlight of their week: the family meeting.

"We were living in complete chaos," Eleanor said. 

In agile, workers are organized into small groups and do things in very short spans of time.

David said when they brought this system into their home, the family meetings in particular increased communication, decreased stress, and made everybody happier to be part of the family team.

When my wife and I adopted these family meetings and other techniques into the lives of our then-five-year-old twin daughters, it was the biggest single change we made since our daughters were born.

And these meetings had this effect while taking under 20 minutes. 

In 1983, Jeff Sutherland was a technologist at a financial firm in New England.

He was very frustrated with how software got designed.

Eighty-three percent of projects failed.

They were too bloated or too out of date by the time they were done.

Sutherland wanted to create a system where ideas didn't just percolate down but could percolate up from the bottom and be adjusted in real time.

It highlighted Toyota and Canon and likened their adaptable, tight-knit teams to rugby scrums.

As Sutherland told me, we got to that article, and said, "That's it."

In Sutherland's system, companies don't use large, massive projects that take two years.

So instead of saying, "You guys go off into that bunker and come back with a cell phone or a social network," you say, "You go off and come up with one element, then bring it back.

You succeed or fail quickly.

Today, agile is used in a hundred countries, and it's sweeping into management suites.

Inevitably, people began taking some of these techniques and applying it to their families.

You had blogs pop up, and some manuals were written.

Sutherland said it was the best Thanksgiving ever. 

It was one of the most astonishing family dynamics I have ever seen. 

Eleanor looked at me. 

So following the agile model, we ask three questions: What worked well in our family this week, what didn't work well, and what will we agree to work on in the week ahead?

Everyone throws out suggestions and then we pick two to focus on.

And suddenly the most amazing things started coming out of our daughters' mouths.

What worked well this week?

This gave us access suddenly to their innermost thoughts.

But the most surprising part was when we turned to, what are we going to work on in the week ahead?

You know, the key idea of agile is that teams essentially manage themselves, and it works in software and it turns out that it works with kids.

Our kids love this process.

So they would come up with all these ideas.

It turns out, by the way, our girls are little Stalins.

We constantly have to kind of dial them back.

It felt like we were kind of laying these underground cables that wouldn't light up their world for many years to come. 

Three years later -- our girls are almost eight now -- We're still holding these meetings.

My wife counts them among her most treasured moments as a mom. 

So what did we learn?

I think the time is right for an Agile Family Manifesto.

Plank number one: Adapt all the time. 

We'll set a few rules and we'll stick to them.

It's like they say in the Internet world: if you're doing the same thing today you were doing six months ago, you're doing the wrong thing.

Parents can learn a lot from that.

But to me, "adapt all the time" means something deeper, too.

We have to break parents out of this straitjacket that the only ideas we can try at home are ones that come from shrinks or self-help gurus or other family experts.

Let's just take a few examples.

Let's take the biggest issue of all: family dinner.

Everybody knows that having family dinner with your children is good for the kids.

But for so many of us, it doesn't work in our lives.

It turns out there's only 10 minutes of productive time in any family meal.

The rest of it's taken up with "take your elbows off the table" and "pass the ketchup."

The point is there are all these new ideas out there.

We've got to hook them up with parents.

Plank number two: Empower your children.

There's a reason that few systems have been more waterfall over time than the family.

But the single biggest lesson we learned is to reverse the waterfall as much as possible.

Enlist the children in their own upbringing.

To me that is a certified agile miracle.

(Laughter) (Applause) And by the way, research backs this up too.

Children who plan their own goals, set weekly schedules, evaluate their own work build up their frontal cortex and take more control over their lives.

I was talking to Warren Buffett's banker, and he was chiding me for not letting my children make mistakes with their allowance.

So the bottom line is, empower your children. 

Plank number three: Tell your story.

Adaptability is fine, but we also need bedrock.

So agile is great for stimulating progress, but I kept hearing time and again, you need to preserve the core.

So how do you do that?

Collins coached us on doing something that businesses do, which is define your mission and identify your core values.

So he led us through the process of creating a family mission statement.

And we ended up with 10 statements.

Again, research shows that parents should spend less time worrying about what they do wrong and more time focusing on what they do right, worry less about the bad times and build up the good times.

This family mission statement is a great way to identify what it is that you do right. 

A few weeks later, we got a call from the school.

One of our daughters had gotten into a spat.

And suddenly we were worried, like, do we have a mean girl on our hands?

The family mission statement was on the wall, and my wife said, "So, anything up there seem to apply?"

And she kind of looked down the list, and she said, "Bring people together?"

Suddenly we had a way into the conversation. 

Another great way to tell your story is to tell your children where they came from.

Researchers at Emory gave children a simple "what do you know" test.

The children who scored highest on this "do you know" scale had the highest self-esteem and a greater sense they could control their lives.

The "do you know" test was the single biggest predictor of emotional health and happiness.

As the author of the study told me, children who have a sense of -- they're part of a larger narrative have greater self-confidence.

So my final plank is, tell your story.

Spend time retelling the story of your family's positive moments and how you overcame the negative ones.

If you give children this happy narrative, you give them the tools to make themselves happier. 

But as I began working on this project, I began changing my mind.

Recent scholarship has allowed us, for the first time, to identify the building blocks that successful families have.

The answer, I believe, is yes.

When Leo Tolstoy was five years old, his brother Nikolay came to him and said he had engraved the secret to universal happiness on a little green stick, which he had hidden in a ravine on the family's estate in Russia.

If the stick were ever found, all humankind would be happy.

Tolstoy became consumed with that stick, but he never found it.

In fact, he asked to be buried in that ravine where he thought it was hidden.

He still lies there today, covered in a layer of green grass.

Greatness is not a matter of circumstance.

You just need to take small steps, accumulate small wins, keep reaching for that green stick.

In the end, this may be the greatest lesson of all.

