I think the evolution of insect flight is perhaps one of the most important events in the history of life.

Without insects, there'd be no flowering plants.

Without flowering plants, there would be no clever, fruit-eating primates giving TED Talks. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Well, I spent a lot of my early career trying to figure out how insect wings generate enough force to keep the flies in the air.

And you might have heard how engineers proved that bumblebees couldn't fly.

Well, the problem was in thinking that the insect wings function in the way that aircraft wings work.

And we tackle this problem by building giant, dynamically scaled model robot insects that would flap in giant pools of mineral oil where we could study the aerodynamic forces.

But the thing that's actually most -- so, what's fascinating is not so much that the wing has some interesting morphology.

What's clever is the way the fly flaps it, which of course ultimately is controlled by the nervous system, and this is what enables flies to perform these remarkable aerial maneuvers. 

The engine of the fly is absolutely fascinating.

It's specialized to generate the enormous power required for flight, and it fills the middle portion of the fly, so when a fly hits your windshield, it's basically the power muscle that you're looking at.

And of course, the role of the nervous system is to control all this. 

So let's look at the controller.

Now flies excel in the sorts of sensors that they carry to this problem.

They have antennae that sense odors and detect wind detection.

We have no idea what they do.

They have sensors on their wing.

Their wing is covered with sensors, including sensors that sense deformation of the wing.

They can even taste with their wings.

One of the most sophisticated sensors a fly has is a structure called the halteres.

The halteres are actually gyroscopes.

And the basic punchline of my talk is, I'd like to turn that over on its head.

I don't think they're a simple model of anything.

And I think that flies are a great model.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And let's explore this notion of simplicity.

So I think, unfortunately, a lot of neuroscientists, we're all somewhat narcissistic.

When we think of brain, we of course imagine our own brain.

But remember that this kind of brain, which is much, much smaller — instead of 100 billion neurons, it has 100,000 neurons — but this is the most common form of brain on the planet and has been for 400 million years.

And is it fair to say that it's simple?

Well, it's simple in the sense that it has fewer neurons, but is that a fair metric?

And then something happened when I started to work on flies.

They do a lot of the similar things.

But I would argue that flies do more.

So I want you to look at the payload at the tail of the fruit fly.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

And I'll expand this up.

So here's some other organisms at the similar scale.

This animal gets rid of them because they take up too much space.

So this is a session on frontiers in neuroscience.

I would posit that one frontier in neuroscience is to figure out how the brain of that thing works. 

And I think, from an engineering perspective, you think of multiplexing.

You can take a hardware and have that hardware do different things at different times, or have different parts of the hardware doing different things.

And these are the two concepts I'd like to explore.

And they're not concepts that I've come up with, but concepts that have been proposed by others in the past. 

And here's an endoscopic movie of this structure.

You heard about neuromodulators earlier.

And this is the work by Eve Marder and her many colleagues who've been studying this fascinating system that show how a smaller cluster of neurons can do many, many, many things because of neuromodulation that can take place on a moment-by-moment basis.

So this is basically multiplexing in time.

Imagine a network of neurons with one neuromodulator.

You select one set of cells to perform one sort of behavior, another neuromodulator, another set of cells, a different pattern, and you can imagine you could extrapolate to a very, very complicated system. 

Is there any evidence that flies do this?

Well, for many years in my laboratory and other laboratories around the world, we've been studying fly behaviors in little flight simulators.

You can let the fly play a little video game by letting it fly around in a visual display.

So let me show you a little tiny sequence of this.

It's part of their visual guidance system.

But very, very recently, it's been possible to modify these sorts of behavioral arenas for physiologies.

So this is the preparation that one of my former post-docs, Gaby Maimon, who's now at Rockefeller, developed, and it's basically a flight simulator but under conditions where you actually can stick an electrode in the brain of the fly and record from a genetically identified neuron in the fly's brain.

And this is what one of these experiments looks like.

It was a sequence taken from another post-doc in the lab, Bettina Schnell.

So for the first time we've actually been able to record from neurons in the fly's brain while the fly is performing sophisticated behaviors such as flight.

And one of the lessons we've been learning is that the physiology of cells that we've been studying for many years in quiescent flies is not the same as the physiology of those cells when the flies actually engage in active behaviors like flying and walking and so forth.

And why is the physiology different?

But this is just one of many neuromodulators that's in the fly's brain.

It's a non-spiking cell.

So a typical cell, like the neurons in our brain, has a region called the dendrites that receives input, and that input sums together and will produce action potentials that run down the axon and then activate all the output regions of the neuron.

So there's a possibility that you have computational compartments that allow the different parts of the neuron to do different things at the same time. 

