Okay, this morning I'm speaking on the question of corruption.

But we need to understand what we understand about corruption, and we need to understand that we have been miseducated about it, and we have to admit that.

We have to have the courage to admit that to start changing how we deal with it. 

The first thing is that the big myth, number one, is that in fact it's not really a crime.

When we get together with friends and family and we discuss crime in our country, crime in Belmont or crime in Diego or crime in Marabella, nobody's speaking about corruption.

That's the honest truth.

When the Commissioner of Police comes on TV to talk about crime, he isn't speaking about corruption.

And we know for sure when the Minister of National Security is speaking about crime, he's not talking about corruption either.

Public and private corruption is a reality.

As somebody who comes from the private sector, I can tell you there's a massive amount of corruption in the private sector that has nothing to do with government.

The same bribes and backhanders and things that take place under the table, it all takes place in the private sector.

It's a piece of public mischief. 

And I want to speak a little bit, take us back about 30 years.

And it's ironic, because we're standing today in the Central Bank.

You see, history's rich in irony.

(Applause) 

The first thing I want to talk about is that when all of this money flowed into our country about 40 years ago, we embarked, the government of the day embarked on a series of government-to-government arrangements to have rapidly develop the country.

As I said, even this building we're standing in -- that's one of the ironies -- this building was part of that series of complexes, what they called the Twin Towers.

And he said that, in fact — Let me see if this thing works.

Are we getting a, yeah?— That's what he told us.

He told us that, in fact, two out of every three dollars of our petrodollars that we spent, the taxpayers' money, was wasted or stolen.

So what has changed?

I don't like to bring up embarrassing secrets to an international audience, but I have to.

Four months ago, we suffered a constitutional outrage in this country.

(Laughter) And it was called, those people are called the Piarco Airport accused.

It was a constitutional outrage of the first order, and I have labeled it the Plot to Pervert Parliament.

Our highest institution in our country was perverted.

We are dealing with perverts here of an economic and financial nature.

So that is the kind of outrage of the thing.

Those of us who are, sometimes you feel like you're a little bit on your own doing some of this work.

That passage of the law and the repeal of the law fortified the case of the Piarco Airport accused.

So it was one of those really superior double bluff kind of things that took place. 

But what were they accused of?

We were trying to build, or reconstruct largely, an airport that had grown outdated.

The entire project cost about 1.6 billion dollars, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and in fact, we had a lot of bid-rigging and suspicious activity, corrupt activity took place.

And to get an idea of what it consisted of, and to put it in context in relationship to this whole second myth about it being no big thing, we can look at this second slide here.

And what we have here -- I am not saying so, this is the Director of Public Prosecutions in a written statement.

And he's telling us that for the $1.6 billion cost of the project, one billion dollars has been traced to offshore bank accounts.

One billion dollars of our taxpayers' money has been located in offshore bank accounts. 

Being the kind of suspicious person I am, I am outraged at that, and I'm going to pause here, I'm going to pause now and again and bring in different things.

And I was walking around with the protesters looking at the One Wall Street, Occupy Wall Street movement walking around.

And there was a lady with a sign, a very simple sign, a kind of battered-looking blonde lady, and the sign was made out of Bristol board, as we say in these parts, and it was made with a marker.

And what it said on that sign hit me right in the center.

So listen up, because we're getting into even deeper waters. 

My brain started thinking.

Well, what if -- because I'm suspicious like that.

(Laughter) But what if this wasn't the first time?

Now, the previous two examples I gave were to do with construction sector corruption, okay?

So those of you interested in finding out more about it, or joining us or signing up on any of our petitions, please get involved. 

CL Financial is the Caribbean's largest ever conglomerate, okay?

In an unprecedented fit of generosity -- and you have to be very suspicious about these people -- in an unprecedented — and I'm using that word carefully — unprecedented fit of generosity, the government of the day signed, made a written commitment, to repay all of the creditors.

And I can tell you without fear of contradiction that hasn't happened anywhere else on the planet.

They've had bailouts in London.

It's interesting to parallel how the Nigerian experience has -- how they've treated it, and they've treated it very well compared to us.

Nowhere on the planet have all the creditors been bailed out in excess of what their statutory entitlements were.

So I started digging and writing and so and so on, and that work can be found, my personal work can be found at AfraRaymond.com, which is my name.

It's a not-for-profit blog that I run.

Not as popular as some of the other people, but there you go.

And I made a Freedom of Information application in May this year to the Ministry of Finance.

The Ministry of Finance is the next tower over.

This is the other context.

The Ministry of Finance, we are told, is subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.

I'm going to take you through a worked example of whether that's really so.

The Central Bank in which we stand this morning is immune from the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.

That is the law since 1999. 

Here is not like anywhere else. 

It's like that joke: I want whatever he's drinking.

And they wrote back and said to me, well what do you really mean?

So they hit my question with a question. 

Second point: I want to see who are the creditors of the group who have been repaid?

Let me pause here to point out to you all that 24 billion dollars of our money has been spent on this.

And I asked the question, who was getting that three and a half billion dollars? 

And I want to pause again to bring up context, because context helps us to get clarity understanding this thing.

There's a particular individual who is in the government now.

The name of the person doesn't matter.

Fantastic.

But you see, the question is this: If it's right and proper for us to use the Freedom of Information Act and to use the court to force a disclosure about 60 million dollars in public money, it must be right and proper for us to force a disclosure about 24 billion dollars.

The third thing I will tell you is that I also asked for the directors of CL Financial, whether in fact they were making filings under our Integrity in Public Life Act.

I have defined this as the single largest expenditure in the country's history.

It's also the single largest example of public corruption according to this equation. 

And this is my reality check.

Where you have an expenditure of public money and it is without accountability and it's without transparency, it will always be equal to corruption, whether you're in Russia or Nigeria or Alaska, it will always be equal to corruption, and that is what we are dealing with here. 

I'm going to continue the work to press on, to get some resolution of those matters at the Ministry of Finance.

If it is I have to go to court personally, I will do that.

We will continue to press on.

We will continue to work within JCC. 

We had the journalist [Heather] Brooke speaking about her battle against government corruption, and she introduced me to this website, Alaveteli.com.

And Alaveteli.com is a way for us to have an open database for Freedom of Information applications, and speak with each other.

We need to increase the consciousness. 

The final thing I want to say is in relation to this one, which is a lovely website from India called IPaidABribe.com.

They have international branches, and it's important for us to tune into this one.

IPaidABribe.com is really important, a good one to log on to and see. 

And let us continue working together to betterment in this situation, stability and sustainability in our society.

