And that is, why is it that countries with seemingly similar economies and institutions can display radically different savings behavior? 

Now, many brilliant economists have spent their entire lives working on this question, and as a field we've made a tremendous amount of headway and we understand a lot about this.

Let me tell you a little bit about savings rates, a little bit about language, and then I'll draw that connection. 

Let's start by thinking about the member countries of the OECD, or the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development.

OECD countries, by and large, you should think about these as the richest, most industrialized countries in the world.

And by joining the OECD, they were affirming a common commitment to democracy, open markets and free trade.

Despite all of these similarities, we see huge differences in savings behavior. 

Holding down the right flank of the OECD, all the way on the other side, is Greece.

Let me tell you a little bit about how languages fundamentally differ.

Linguists and cognitive scientists have been exploring this question for many years now.

And then I'll draw the connection between these two behaviors. 

Many of you have probably already noticed that I'm Chinese.

I grew up in the Midwest of the United States.

And something I realized quite early on was that the Chinese language forced me to speak about and -- in fact, more fundamentally than that -- ever so slightly forced me to think about family in very different ways. 

Suppose I were talking with you and I was introducing you to my uncle.

You understood exactly what I just said in English.

If we were speaking Mandarin Chinese with each other, though, I wouldn't have that luxury.

I wouldn't have been able to convey so little information.

What my language would have forced me to do, instead of just telling you, "This is my uncle," is to tell you a tremendous amount of additional information.

And in fact, if I want to speak correctly, Chinese forces me to constantly think about it. 

It's simply not permissible in English to say, "It rain tomorrow."

In contrast to that, that's almost exactly what you would say in Chinese.

A Chinese speaker can basically say something that sounds very strange to an English speaker's ears.

They can say, "Yesterday it rain," "Now it rain," "Tomorrow it rain."

Is this difference in languages only between very, very distantly related languages, like English and Chinese?

What you may not have realized is that English is actually an outlier.

It is the only Germanic language that requires this.

And what that means is that every time you discuss the future, or any kind of a future event, grammatically you're forced to cleave that from the present and treat it as if it's something viscerally different.

Now suppose that that visceral difference makes you subtly dissociate the future from the present every time you speak.

If that's true and it makes the future feel like something more distant and more different from the present, that's going to make it harder to save.

If, on the other hand, you speak a futureless language, the present and the future, you speak about them identically.

If that subtly nudges you to feel about them identically, that's going to make it easier to save. 

Now this is a fanciful theory.

I'm a professor, I get paid to have fanciful theories.

But how would you actually go about testing such a theory?

Well, what I did with that was to access the linguistics literature.

And interestingly enough, there are pockets of futureless language speakers situated all over the world.

This is a pocket of futureless language speakers in Northern Europe.

Interestingly enough, when you start to crank the data, these pockets of futureless language speakers all around the world turn out to be, by and large, some of the world's best savers. 

Just to give you a hint of that, let's look back at that OECD graph that we were talking about.

What you see is that these bars are systematically taller and systematically shifted to the left compared to these bars which are the members of the OECD that speak futured languages.

What is the average difference here?

Five percentage points of your GDP saved per year.

Over 25 years that has huge long-run effects on the wealth of your nation. 

Now while these findings are suggestive, countries can be different in so many different ways that it's very, very difficult sometimes to account for all of these possible differences.

And just in summary, no matter how far I push this, I can't get it to break.

Let me show you how far you can do that. 

One way to imagine that is I gather large datasets from around the world.

So for example, there is the Survey of Health, [Aging] and Retirement in Europe.

From this dataset you actually learn that retired European families are extremely patient with survey takers.

(Laughter) So imagine that you're a retired household in Belgium and someone comes to your front door.

Combine that with a world value survey, which measures the political opinions and, fortunately for me, the savings behaviors of millions of families in hundreds of countries around the world. 

Take all of that data, combine it, and this map is what you get.

What you find is nine countries around the world that have significant native populations which speak both futureless and futured languages.

And what I'm going to do is form statistical matched pairs between families that are nearly identical on every dimension that I can measure, and then I'm going to explore whether or not the link between language and savings holds even after controlling for all of these levels. 

What are the characteristics we can control for?

Well I'm going to match families on country of birth and residence, the demographics -- what sex, their age -- their income level within their own country, their educational achievement, a lot about their family structure.

It turns out there are six different ways to be married in Europe.

There are 1.4 billion different ways that a family can find itself. 

Now effectively everything I'm going to tell you from now on is only comparing these basically nearly identical families.

Now even after all of this granular level of control, do futureless language speakers seem to save more?

Yes, futureless language speakers, even after this level of control, are 30 percent more likely to report having saved in any given year.

Does this have cumulative effects?

Yes, by the time they retire, futureless language speakers, holding constant their income, are going to retire with 25 percent more in savings. 

Now how can we think about health behaviors to think about savings?

Well, think about smoking, for example.

Smoking is in some deep sense negative savings.

If savings is current pain in exchange for future pleasure, smoking is just the opposite.

It's current pleasure in exchange for future pain.

What we should expect then is the opposite effect.

And that's exactly what we find.

Futureless language speakers are 20 to 24 percent less likely to be smoking at any given point in time compared to identical families, and they're going to be 13 to 17 percent less likely to be obese by the time they retire, and they're going to report being 21 percent more likely to have used a condom in their last sexual encounter.

I could go on and on with the list of differences that you can find.

It's almost impossible not to find a savings behavior for which this strong effect isn't present. 

My linguistics and economics colleagues at Yale and I are just starting to do this work and really explore and understand the ways that these subtle nudges cause us to think more or less about the future every single time we speak.

Ultimately, the goal, once we understand how these subtle effects can change our decision making, we want to be able to provide people tools so that they can consciously make themselves better savers and more conscious investors in their own future. 

Thank you very much. 

