The theme of my talk today is, "Be an artist, right now."

There are hundreds of reasons why we can't be artists right now.

Don't they just pop into your head? 

Why do people instantly resist the idea of associating themselves with art?

This is the theme of my talk today.

We are all born artists. 

If you have kids, you know what I mean.

Almost everything kids do is art.

So they dance a strange dance and inflict their singing on everyone.

Perhaps their art is something only their parents can bear, and because they practice such art all day long, people honestly get a little tired around kids. 

Kids will sometimes perform monodramas -- playing house is indeed a monodrama or a play.

And some kids, when they get a bit older, start to lie.

Usually parents remember the very first time their kid lies.

When you have a conversation like this, the kid has to come up with the next thing to say to be responsible for what he started.

And you continue to make connections. 

Kafka did not show his work to his father.

A kid who has just started to lie is taking the first step as a storyteller.

Kids do art.

They don't get tired and they have fun doing it.

Kids don't do it because someone told them to.

They aren't told by their boss or anyone, they just do it. 

When you were little, I bet you spent time enjoying the pleasure of primitive art.

When I ask my students to write about their happiest moment, many write about an early artistic experience they had as a kid.

You must have had such a moment.

The French writer Michel Tournier has a famous saying.

Playing doesn't tire us.

We can play all night long.

They don't draw to sell the work to a client or play the piano to earn money for the family.

Of course, there were kids who had to.

You know this gentleman, right?

He had to tour around Europe to support his family -- Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart -- but that was centuries ago, so we can make him an exception.

Unfortunately, at some point our art -- such a joyful pastime -- ends.

If you're in elementary school and you still draw on the wall, you'll surely get in trouble with your mom.

Here's my story: I was an eighth grader and I entered a drawing contest at school in Gyeongbokgung.

There were a lot of girls there as well, so I was utterly mortified. 

None of my explanations or excuses were heard, and I really got it big time.

Later, I grew up and went to Europe's galleries -- I was a university student -- and I thought this was really unfair.

This is Picasso's.

Next, a urinal was placed on its side and called "Fountain".

They get locked in.

That's our tragedy. 

So what happens when little artists get locked in, banished or even killed?

Our artistic desire doesn't go away.

TV is full of people who do what we wished to do, but never got to.

They dance, they act -- and the more they do, they are praised.

So we start to envy them.

Right now, we need to start our own art.

Right this minute, we can turn off TV, log off the Internet, get up and start to do something.

Where I teach students in drama school, there's a course called Dramatics.

In this course, all students must put on a play.

However, acting majors are not supposed to act.

In school, the military or even in a mental institution, once you make people do it, they enjoy it.

I saw this happen in the army -- many people had fun doing plays. 

So I give them blank sheets of paper and a theme.

The reason I make them write like crazy is because when you write slowly and lots of thoughts cross your mind, the artistic devil creeps in.

You have to run fast so the devil can't catch up.

The really good writing I've seen in my class was not from the assignments with a long deadline, but from the 40- to 60-minute crazy writing students did in front of me with a pencil.

The students go into a kind of trance.

After 30 or 40 minutes, they write without knowing what they're writing.

And in this moment, the nagging devil disappears. 

Why we cannot be something is not important.

Most artists became artists because of the one reason.

Art is the ultimate goal.

It saves our souls and makes us live happily.

It helps us express ourselves and be happy without the help of alcohol or drugs.

The ideal future I imagine is where we all have multiple identities, at least one of which is an artist. 

In 1990, Martha Graham, the legend of modern dance, came to Korea.

Thank you. 

