When we're designing new products, services or businesses, the only time you'll know if they're any good, if the designs are good, is to see how they're used in the real world, in context. 

It's absolutely beautiful.

But then there's this mud trap that cuts across the middle.

People clearly don't want to walk all the way around the edge.

I find them fascinating, because they're often the point where design and user experience diverge. 

But today, I'm going to pick three I find interesting and share what actually it reminds me about launching new products and services.

The first is in the capital city of Brazil -- Brasilia.

And it reminds me that sometimes, you have to just focus on designing for a real need at low friction.

Now, Brasilia is fascinating.

It was designed by Niemeyer in the '50s.

Slightly worryingly, he put most of the important government buildings in the cockpit.

They're absolutely everywhere. 

Now, they thought that they had future-proofed this design.

But as you can see, there's a real need.

These are very dangerous desire paths.

If we just pick one, in the middle, you can see it crosses 15 lanes of traffic.

It won't surprise you guys that Brasilia has five times the pedestrian accident rate of your average US city.

People are resourceful.

Many of us get frustrated when we're confronted with the obligatory walk through duty-free.

Do they think we're stupid?

Do they think we're lazy?

Or do they accept that this is the only truth?

This is their product.

We're effectively co-designing their product.

Now, university campuses are fantastic for spotting desire paths.

I think it's because students are always late and they're pretty smart.

And the designers here knew that.

So they built the buildings and then they waited a few months for the paths to form.

They then paved them.

(Laughter) Incredibly smart approach.

In fact, often, just launching the straw man of a service can teach you what people really want. 

For example, Ayr Muir in Boston knew he wanted to open a restaurant.

He now has a chain of restaurants.

So it can be incredibly efficient to launch something to spot the desire paths. 

So as you'll guess, this is a hospital.

I've marked for you on the left the Oncology Department.

The patients would usually stay in the hotels down on the bottom right.

But what they realized when they started offering chemotherapy is the patients rarely wanted to get in cars.

They were too nauseous, so they'd walk back to their hotels.

This desire path that you see diagonally, formed.

The patients even called it "The Chemo Trail."

Now, when the hospital saw this originally, they tried to lay turf back over it, ignore it.

And I think our job is often to pave these emerging desire paths.

If we look back at the one in North London again, that desire path hasn't always been there.

The reason it sprung up is people were traveling to the mighty Arsenal Football Club stadium on game days, from the Underground station you see on the bottom right.

So you see the desire path.

If we just wind the clock back a few years, when the stadium was being constructed, there is no desire path. 

Someone installed a barrier, people started walking across and round the bottom as you see, and they paved it. 

So these three desire paths remind me we need to design for real human needs.

I think empathy for what your customers want is probably the biggest leading indicator of business success.

Secondly, often the best way to learn what people really want is to launch your service.

The answer is rarely inside the building.

Get out there and see what people really want. 

And finally, in part because of technology, the world is incredibly flux at the moment.

It's changing constantly.

These desire paths are going to spring up faster than ever.

Our job is to pick the appropriate ones and pave over them. 

Thank you very much. 

