When I was 11, I remember waking up one morning to the sound of joy in my house.

My father was listening to BBC News on his small, gray radio.

"You can go to a real school now," he said. 

A morning that I will never forget.

So for the next five years, I dressed as a boy to escort my older sister, who was no longer allowed to be outside alone, to a secret school.

It was the only way we both could be educated.

Each day, we took a different route so that no one would suspect where we were going.

We would cover our books in grocery bags so it would seem we were just out shopping.

The school was in a house, more than 100 of us packed in one small living room.

From time to time, the school would suddenly be canceled for a week because Taliban were suspicious.

We always wondered what they knew about us.

Were we being followed?

Do they know where we live?

We were scared, but still, school was where we wanted to be. 

I was very lucky to grow up in a family where education was prized and daughters were treasured.

My grandfather was an extraordinary man for his time.

But my educated mother became a teacher.

There she is.

She retired two years ago, only to turn our house into a school for girls and women in our neighborhood.

Today I am 22.

I was raised in a country that has been destroyed by decades of war.

Instead, I stand here a proud graduate of Middlebury College. 

When I returned to Afghanistan, my grandfather, the one exiled from his home for daring to educate his daughters, was among the first to congratulate me.

He not only brags about my college degree, but also that I was the first woman, and that I am the first woman to drive him through the streets of Kabul. 

The exciting thing is that I see students at my school with ambition grabbing at opportunity.

Less than a month ago, he and his daughter were on their way from SOLA to their village, and they literally missed being killed by a roadside bomb by minutes.

"Kill me now, if you wish," he said, "but I will not ruin my daughter's future because of your old and backward ideas."

What I've come to realize about Afghanistan, and this is something that is often dismissed in the West, that behind most of us who succeed is a father who recognizes the value in his daughter and who sees that her success is his success.

It's not to say that our mothers aren't key in our success.

Afghanistan looks so different from here in America.

I find that Americans see the fragility in changes.

I fear that these changes will not last much beyond the U.S. troops' withdrawal.

But when I am back in Afghanistan, when I see the students in my school and their parents who advocate for them, who encourage them, I see a promising future and lasting change.

Like me, they are dreaming big. 

Thank you. 

