For 11 years, I was mayor of Tirana, our capital.

We faced many challenges.

But this use of colors was not just an artistic act.

Rather, it was a form of political action in a context when the city budget I had available after being elected amounted to zero comma something. 

When we painted the first building, by splashing a radiant orange on the somber gray of a facade, something unimaginable happened.

There was a traffic jam and a crowd of people gathered as if it were the location of some spectacular accident, or the sudden sighting of a visiting pop star. 

He screeched that he would block the financing. 

"Because the colors you have ordered do not meet European standards," he replied. 

(Applause) So it's time for change. 

The rehabilitation of public spaces revived the feeling of belonging to a city that people lost.

The pride of people about their own place of living, and there were feelings that had been buried deep for years under the fury of the illegal, barbaric constructions that sprang up in the public space.

So we noticed change.

They had thrown the old shutter in the garbage collection place. 

"Well, because the street is safer now," they answered. 

And indeed, it was beauty that was giving people this feeling of being protected.

And this was not a misplaced feeling.

Crime did fall. 

International organizations have invested a lot in Albania during these 20 years, not all of it well spent.

But people were waiting in long queues under sun and under rain in order to get a certificate or just a simple answer from two tiny windows of two metal kiosks.

We could change the invisible clerks within the kiosks, every week, but we could not change this corrupt practice. 

(Applause) 

It's not about genes.

It's not about some being with a high conscience and some others having not a conscience.

It's about system, it's about organization.

It's also about environment and respect. 

We created an online system of control and so speeded up all the processes.

We put the citizen first, and not the clerks. 

The corruption in the state administration of countries like Albania -- it's not up to me to say also like Greece -- can be fought only by modernization.

(Applause) 

Things have come to this point because politicians in general, but especially in our countries, let's face it, think people are stupid.

Seen from those stairs, all politicians today seem the same, and politics has come to resemble a sport that inspires more aggressiveness and pessimism than social cohesion and the desire for civic protaganism. 

Barack Obama won — (Applause) — because he mobilized people as never before through the use of social networks.

Politics is not just about leaders.

It's not just about politicians and laws.

It is about how people think, how they view the world around them, how they use their time and their energy.

Our world is defined by the pace of change.

We can all change the world. 

I gave you a very small example of how one thing, the use of color, can make change happen.

President Roosevelt, he said, "Believe you can, and you are halfway there."

(Applause) 

