Let me tell you a story. 

And so I'm so excited to discuss this with them, and I come in and I say, "Can somebody please explain the main ideas and why this is so cool?"

There's silence.

Finally, my favorite student, she looks me straight in the eye, and she says, "The reading sucked."

I'm totally clueless.

Now, the story that I start telling my kids, it starts out like a horror story.

Once upon a time there's this happy little bacterium.

Don't get too attached to him.

Here's what had to happen.

A virus grabbed onto a bacterium and it slipped its DNA into it.

The next thing is, that virus DNA made stuff that chopped up the bacteria DNA.

Because, you see, DNA is like a blueprint that tells living things what to make.

So this is kind of like going into a car factory and replacing the blueprints with blueprints for killer robots.

But that's not the only way that viruses infect bacteria.

Some are much more crafty.

When a secret agent virus infects a bacterium, they do a little espionage.

And what's interesting about this is now whenever this bacteria has babies, the babies also have the virus DNA in them.

So now you understand how viruses can attack cells.

So this stuff is not that hard, right?

And now all of you understand it.

But if you've graduated from high school, I can almost guarantee you've seen this information before.

But I bet it was presented in a way that it didn't exactly stick in your mind. 

So when my students were first learning this, why did they hate it so much?

Well, there were a couple of reasons. 

First of all, I can guarantee you that their textbooks didn't have secret agent viruses, and they didn't have horror stories.

Now another problem was that the language in their textbook was truly incomprehensible.

For example, I told you that viruses have DNA.

Well, a very tiny fraction of them don't.

They have something called RNA instead.

This is horrifying. 

But just as important is knowing which details we should leave out so that the main point still comes across.

That's not true at all.

If a young learner thinks that all viruses have DNA, that's not going to ruin their chances of success in science.

But if a young learner can't understand anything in science and learns to hate it because it all sounds like this, that will ruin their chances of success. 

But I think that's unlikely.

So we are so lucky that we have resources like the Internet, where we can circumvent these institutions from the bottom up.

And I myself spend most of my free time making these science videos that I put on YouTube.

I explain chemical equilibrium using analogies to awkward middle school dances, and I talk about fuel cells with stories about boys and girls at a summer camp.

The feedback that I get is sometimes misspelled and it's often written in LOLcats, but nonetheless it's so appreciative, so thankful that I know this is the right way we should be communicating science. 

Thank you. 

