And this is amongst the highest worldwide.

But what is interesting about the story that I've just said?

The question is how.

How could we survive that?

We have no water whatsoever.

So that is our lake, if you can see it.

That is our river.

That is how you all happen to use and enjoy water.

This is the best technology that this region could ever have: desalination. 

So what are the risks?

Do you worry much?

I would say, perhaps if you look at the global facts, you will realize, of course I have to worry.

There is growing demand, growing population.

We've turned seven billion only a few months ago.

And so that number also demands food.

And there's predictions that we'll be nine billion by 2050. 

So a country that has no water has to worry about what happens beyond its borders.

There's also changing diets.

By elevating to a higher socio-economic level, they also change their diet.

They start eating more meat and so on and so forth.

On the other hand, there is declining yields because of climate change and because of other factors.

And so someone has to really realize when the crisis is going to happen. 

This is the situation in Qatar, for those who don't know.

We only have two days of water reserve.

We import 90 percent of our food, and we only cultivate less than one percent of our land.

The limited number of farmers that we have have been pushed out of their farming practices as a result of open market policy and bringing the big competitions, etc., etc.

So we also face risks.

These risks directly affect the sustainability of this nation and its continuity. 

The question is, is there a solution?

Is there a sustainable solution?

Indeed there is.

This slide sums up thousands of pages of technical documents that we've been working on over the past two years.

Or should we use something else?

Do we have the comparative advantage to use another sort of energy?

I guess most of you by now realize that we do: 300 days of sun.

And so we will use that renewable energy to produce the water that we need.

And we will probably put 1,800 megawatts of solar systems to produce 3.5 million cubic meters of water.

And that is a lot of water. 

So that's what we are planning to do.

Within two years we should hopefully be done with this plan and taking it to implementation.

Thank you very much. 

