Then we get more personal with it.

Have you ever had any diseases?

Have you ever been divorced?

What gender do you like to sleep with? 

I get it.

We are neurologically hardwired to seek out people like ourselves.

We seek out environments that reinforce our personal choices.

Because the categories, I've found, are too limiting.

The boxes are too narrow.

And this can get really dangerous. 

So here's a disclaimer about me, though, before we get too deep into this.

I grew up in a very sheltered environment.

I was raised in downtown Manhattan in the early 1980s, two blocks from the epicenter of punk music.

(Laughter) It was an unorthodox upbringing, but as a kid on the streets of New York, you learn how to trust your own instincts, you learn how to go with your own ideas. 

So when I was six, I decided that I wanted to be a boy.

I went to school one day and the kids wouldn't let me play basketball with them.

They said they wouldn't let girls play.

I kept up the charade for eight years. 

So this is me when I was 11.

I was playing a kid named Walter in a movie called "Julian Po."

I was a little street tough that followed Christian Slater around and badgered him.

In fact, no one in my life knew that I was a girl -- not my teachers at school, not my friends, not the directors that I worked with.

Kids would often come up to me in class and grab me by the throat to check for an Adam's apple or grab my crotch to check what I was working with.

When I would go to the bathroom, I would turn my shoes around in the stalls so that it looked like I was peeing standing up.

At sleepovers I would have panic attacks trying to break it to girls that they didn't want to kiss me without outing myself. 

It's worth mentioning though that I didn't hate my body or my genitalia.

I didn't feel like I was in the wrong body.

I felt like I was performing this elaborate act.

I wouldn't have qualified as transgender.

If my family, though, had been the kind of people to believe in therapy, they probably would have diagnosed me as something like gender dysmorphic and put me on hormones to stave off puberty.

(Laughter) But I wasn't asked to define myself by my parents.

Three years later, when I fell in love with a man, neither of my parents batted an eyelash either.

See, it's one of the great blessings of my very unorthodox childhood that I wasn't ever asked to define myself as any one thing at any point.

I was just allowed to be me, growing and changing in every moment. 

So four, almost five years ago, Proposition 8, the great marriage equality debate, was raising a lot of dust around this country.

And then, that this discussion was drawing geographical boundaries around me. 

If this was a war with two disparate sides, I, by default, fell on team gay, because I certainly wasn't 100 percent straight.

And this powerful awareness rolled in over me that I was a minority, and in my own home country, based on one facet of my character.

I was legally and indisputably a second-class citizen. 

I was not an activist.

I wave no flags in my own life.

And had these people ever even consciously met a victim of their discrimination?

Did they know who they were voting against and what the impact was? 

Because in a photograph you can examine a lion's whiskers without the fear of him ripping your face off. 

For me, photography is not just about exposing film, it's about exposing the viewer to something new, a place they haven't gone before, but most importantly, to people that they might be afraid of.

Life magazine introduced generations of people to distant, far-off cultures they never knew existed through pictures.

(Laughter) 

So I ran out in the freezing cold, and I photographed every single person that I knew that I could get to in February of about two years ago.

And I took those photographs, and I went to the HRC and I asked them for some help.

And they funded two weeks of shooting in New York.

And then we made this. 

Self Evident Truths is a photographic record of LGBTQ America today.

My aim is to take a simple portrait of anyone who's anything other than 100 percent straight or feels like they fall in the LGBTQ spectrum in any way.

We are failing as a nation to uphold the morals upon which we were founded.

There is no equality in the United States. 

The fight for equal rights is not just about gay marriage.

Today in 29 states, more than half of this country, you can legally be fired just for your sexuality. 

And we wouldn't have been able to do any of it without the generous support of the Human Rights Campaign.

I want to take the project across the country.

I want to visit 25 American cities, and I want to shoot 4,000 or 5,000 people.

This is my contribution to the civil rights fight of my generation.

iO Tillett Wright: Absolutely nothing could have prepared us for what happened after that.

And a lot more people wanted to show their faces than I had anticipated.

So I changed my immediate goal to 10,000 faces.

Because if a picture is worth a thousand words, then a picture of a face needs a whole new vocabulary. 

So after traveling and talking to people in places like Oklahoma or small-town Texas, we found evidence that the initial premise was dead on.

Visibility really is key.

Familiarity really is the gateway drug to empathy.

Of course, in my travels I met people who legally divorced their children for being other than straight, but I also met people who were Southern Baptists who switched churches because their child was a lesbian.

Sparking empathy had become the backbone of Self Evident Truths. 

In fact, on the contrary, it highlights them.

It wasn't that we had too many boxes, it was that we had too few. 

At some point I added a question to the release form that asked people to quantify themselves on a scale of one to 100 percent gay.

And I watched so many existential crises unfold in front of me.

(Laughter) People didn't know what to do because they had never been presented with the option before.

Can you quantify your openness? 

I found that most people fall on a spectrum of what I have come to refer to as "Grey."

And the reality that this presents is a complicated one.

Because, for example, if you pass a law that allows a boss to fire an employee for homosexual behavior, where exactly do you draw the line?

Is it over here, by the people who have had one or two heterosexual experiences so far?

Another interesting thing that I learned from my project and my travels is just what a poor binding agent sexual orientation is.

After traveling so much and meeting so many people, let me tell you, there are just as many jerks and sweethearts and Democrats and Republicans and jocks and queens and every other polarization you can possibly think of within the LGBT community as there are within the human race.

Aside from the fact that we play with one legal hand tied behind our backs, and once you get past the shared narrative of prejudice and struggle, just being other than straight doesn't necessarily mean that we have anything in common. 

So in the endless proliferation of faces that Self Evident Truths is always becoming, as it hopefully appears across more and more platforms, bus shelters, billboards, Facebook pages, screen savers, perhaps in watching this procession of humanity, something interesting and useful will begin to happen.

Hopefully these categories, these binaries, these over-simplified boxes will begin to become useless and they'll begin to fall away.

Because really, they describe nothing that we see and no one that we know and nothing that we are.

What we see are human beings in all their multiplicity.

So is it me particularly that you would choose to deny the right to housing, the right to adopt children, the right to marriage, the freedom to shop here, live here, buy here?

Am I the one that you choose to disown as your child or your brother or your sister or your mother or your father, your neighbor, your cousin, your uncle, the president, your police woman or the fireman?

It's too late.

Thank you. 

