I've had the opportunity over the last couple of days of listening in on some of your conversations and watching you interact with each other.

And I thought you might like to know who you are. 

But instead of pointing at you, which would be gratuitous and intrusive, I thought I would tell you a few facts and stories, in which you may catch a glimpse of yourself. 

And what we try to do, in our own way, is to make sense of how each of us -- each of you -- is, in certain respects, like all other people, like some other people and like no other person. 

So let me explain why this is so. 

They spell out the acronym OCEAN.

And so we know that, for example, openness and conscientiousness are very good predictors of life success, but the open people achieve that success through being audacious and, occasionally, odd.

Extroversion and agreeableness are both conducive to working well with people.

Did you know that?

Already, some of you have tried to lick the outside of your own elbow.

But extroverts amongst you are probably those who have not only tried, but they have successfully licked the elbow of the person sitting next to them. 

Those are the extroverts. 

And third, what makes you individually you -- idiosyncratic -- what I call your "idiogenic" nature. 

Let me explain.

One of the things that characterizes extroverts is they need stimulation.

They all gather together.

And I've seen you.

Sometimes it's an internal stimulant, from your body.

Caffeine, for example, works much better with extroverts than it does introverts.

When extroverts come into the office at nine o'clock in the morning and say, "I really need a cup of coffee," they're not kidding -- they really do.

But it's a misconstrual. 

And so, if you would like me to -- yes, you would?

OK. 

There are studies done on the frequency with which individuals engage in the conjugal act, as broken down by male, female; introvert, extrovert.

How many times per month do introverted men engage in the act?

3.0.

Extroverted men?

More or less?

Yes, more.

5.5 -- almost twice as much.

Introverted women: 3.1.

Extroverted women?

Frankly, speaking as an introverted male, which I will explain later -- they are heroic.

7.5.

They not only handle all the male extroverts, they pick up a few introverts as well. 

We communicate differently, extroverts and introverts.

Extroverts, when they interact, want to have lots of social encounter punctuated by closeness.

They'd like to stand close for comfortable communication.

They like to have a lot of eye contact, or mutual gaze.

We found in some research that they use more diminutive terms when they meet somebody.

So when an extrovert meets a Charles, it rapidly becomes "Charlie," and then "Chuck," and then "Chuckles Baby."

Whereas for introverts, it remains "Charles," until he's given a pass to be more intimate by the person he's talking to.

We speak differently.

Extroverts prefer black-and-white, concrete, simple language.

Introverts prefer -- and I must again tell you that I am as extreme an introvert as you could possibly imagine -- we speak differently.

More or less. 

As it were. 

Not to put too fine a point upon it -- like that. 

When we talk, we sometimes talk past each other.

I had a consulting contract I shared with a colleague who's as different from me as two people can possibly be.

First, his name is Tom.

Mine isn't. 

Secondly, he's six foot five.

I have a tendency not to be. 

And thirdly, he's as extroverted a person as you could find.

I am seriously introverted.

I overload so much, I can't even have a cup of coffee after three in the afternoon and expect to sleep in the evening. 

We had seconded to this project a fellow called Michael.

And Michael almost brought the project to a crashing halt.

He spoke in classic "extrovert-ese."

Tom rolled his eyes and he said, "Brian, that's what I said: he's an asshole!"

Now is this something that we should be heedful of?

Of course.

It's important that we know this.

Is that all we are?

Are we just a bunch of traits?

No, we're not.

Remember, you're like some other people and like no other person.

How about that idiosyncratic you?

As Elizabeth or as George, you may share your extroversion or your neuroticism.

But are there some distinctively Elizabethan features of your behavior, or Georgian of yours, that make us understand you better than just a bunch of traits?

That make us love you?

Not just because you're a certain type of person. 

I'm uncomfortable putting people in pigeonholes.

I don't even think pigeons belong in pigeonholes.

So what is it that makes us different?

It's the doings that we have in our life -- the personal projects.

You have a personal project right now, but nobody may know it here.

It relates to your kid -- you've been back three times to the hospital, and they still don't know what's wrong.

These are free traits.

What are these free traits?

And we enact those free traits.

I'm a professor.

And I can't wait to tell them about what's new, what's exciting, what I can't wait to tell them about.

But we need to be very careful when we act protractedly out of character.

Sometimes we may find that we don't take care of ourselves.

I find, for example, after a period of pseudo-extroverted behavior, I need to repair somewhere on my own.

As Susan Cain said in her "Quiet" book, in a chapter that featured the strange Canadian professor who was teaching at the time at Harvard, I sometimes go to the men's room to escape the slings and arrows of outrageous extroverts. 

And then I heard this gravelly voice saying, "Hey, is that Dr.

If anything is guaranteed to constipate an introvert for six months, it's talking on the john. 

That's where I'm going now.

Don't follow me. 

Thank you. 

