This is about a hidden corner of the labor market.

It's the world of people who need to work ultra-flexibly, if they're to work at all.

Which is a tragedy because there are employers who can use pools of very flexible local people booked completely ad hoc around when that person wants to work. 

Imagine that you run a cafe.

It's mid-morning, the place is filling up.

You're going to have a busy lunchtime rush.

They'd have to be available at very competitive rates.

They'd have to be bookable in about the next minute.

In reality, no recruitment agency wants to handle that sort of business, so you are going to muddle by, understaffed.

And it's not just caterers, it's hoteliers, it's retailers, it's anyone who provides services to the public or businesses.

There's all sorts of organizations that can use these pools of very flexible people, possibly already once they've been inducted. 

Everybody on this screen is genuinely available at those specific hours tomorrow.

They're all contactable in time for this booking.

They've all defined the terms on which they will accept bookings.

And this booking is within all the parameters for each individual.

And they would all be legally compliant by doing this booking.

Of course, they're all trained to work in warehouses.

You can select as many of them as you want.

They're from multiple agencies.

It's calculated the charge rate for each person for this specific booking.

They're likely to be more expensive.

But is there more that could be done for this corner of the labor market?

Because right now there are so many people who need whatever economic opportunity they can get.

Let's make it personal.

She may have possessions that she would like to trade at times she doesn't need them.

So she might have a sofa bed in her front room that she would like to let out.

She might have a bike, a video games console she only uses occasionally.

And you're probably thinking -- because you're all very web-aware -- yes, and we're in the era of collaborative consumption, so she can go online and do all this.

She can go to Airbnb to list her sofa bed, she can go to TaskRabbit.com and say, "I want to do local deliveries," and so on. 

And the key to that is a philosophy that we call modern markets for all.

If you're a Wall Street trader, you now take it for granted that you sell your financial assets in a system of markets that identifies the most profitable opportunities for you in real time, executes on that in microseconds within the boundaries you've set.

It analyzes supply and demand and pricing and tells you where your next wave of opportunities are coming from.

It manages counterparty risk in incredibly sophisticated ways.

It's all extremely low overhead.

What have we gained at the bottom of the economy in terms of markets in the last 20 years?

Basically classified adverts with a search facility. 

And when a Wall Street trader comes into work in the morning, she does not write a listing for every financial derivative she wants to sell today and then post that listing on multiple websites and wait for potential buyers to get in touch and start negotiating the terms on which she might trade. 

In the early days of this modern markets technology, the financial institutions worked out how they could leverage their buying power, their back office processes, their relationships, their networks to shape these new markets that would create all this new activity.

They asked governments for supporting regulatory regimes, and in a lot of cases they got it. 

But throughout the economy, there are facilities that could likewise leverage a new generation of markets for the benefit of all of us.

And those facilities -- I'm talking about things like the mechanisms that prove our identity, the licensing authorities that know what each of us is allowed to do legally at any given time, the processes by which we resolve disputes through official channels.

These mechanisms, these facilities are not in the gift of Craigslist or Gumtree or Yahoo, they're controlled by the state.

And the policymakers who sit on top of them are, I suggest, simply not thinking about how those facilities could be used to underpin a whole new era of markets. 

Like everyone else, those policymakers are taking it for granted that modern markets are the preserve of organizations powerful enough to create them for themselves.

Let's take Britain as an example.

It simply passed the National Lottery Act and this is what followed.

This act defines what a national lottery will look like.

It specifies certain benefits that the state can uniquely bestow on the operators.

And it puts some obligations on those operators.

In terms of spreading gambling activity to the masses, this was an unqualified success. 

But let's suppose that our aim is to bring new economic activity to the base of the pyramid.

Could we use the same model?

I believe we could.

So imagine that policymakers outlined a facility.

Let's call it national e-markets, NEMs for short.

Think of it as a regulated public utility.

So it's on a par with the water supply or the road network.

And it's a series of markets for low-level trade that can be fulfilled by a person or a small company.

And government has certain benefits it can uniquely bestow on these markets.

It's about public spending going through these markets to buy public services at the local level.

It's about interfacing these markets direct into the highest official channels in the land.

It's about enshrining government's role as a publicist for these markets.

It's about deregulating some sectors so that local people can enter them. 

So, taxi journeys might be one example.

So imagine that the operators make their return by building a percentage markup into each transaction.

Imagine that there's a concession period defined of maybe 15 years in which they can take all these benefits and run with them.

And imagine that the consortia who bid to run it are told, whoever comes in at the lowest percentage markup on each transaction to fund the whole thing will get the deal. 

So government then exits the frame.

This is now in the hands of the consortium.

And there would be no constraints on alternative markets.

So this would just be one more choice among millions of Internet forums.

But it could be very different, because having access to those state-backed facilities could incentivize this consortium to seriously invest in the service.

Because they would have to get a lot of these small transactions going to start making their return. 

So we're talking about sectors like home hair care, the hire of toys, farm work, hire of clothes even, meals delivered to your door, services for tourists, home care.

So this is a local person potentially deciding whether to enter the babysitting market.

And they might be aware that they would have to fund vetting and training if they wanted to go into that market.

They'd have to do assessment interviews with local parents who wanted a pool of babysitters.

Is it worth their while?

Should they be looking at other sectors?

Should they be moving to another part of the country where there's a shortage of babysitters?

This kind of data can become routine.

And this data can be used by investors.

This is a world of atomized capitalism.

So it's small trades by small people, but it's very informed, safe, convenient, low-overhead and immediate.

Some rough research suggests this could unlock around 100 million pounds' worth a day of new economic activity in a country the size of the U.K. 

Does that sound improbable to you?

That's what a lot of people said about turbo trading in financial exchanges 20 years ago.

Do not underestimate the transformative power of truly modern markets. 

Thank you. 

