I'm here today to talk about a disturbing question, which has an equally disturbing answer.

My topic is the secrets of domestic violence, and the question I'm going to tackle is the one question everyone always asks: Why does she stay?

Why would anyone stay with a man who beats her?

I'm just one woman with a story to tell. 

I had moved to New York City for my first job as a writer and editor at Seventeen magazine.

It may even be your story. 

It's everywhere.

And my second message is that everyone thinks domestic violence happens to women, that it's a women's issue.

Not exactly.

I was also a very typical victim because I knew nothing about domestic violence, its warning signs or its patterns. 

I met Conor on a cold, rainy January night.

He sat next to me on the New York City subway, and he started chatting me up.

He told me two things.

One was that he, too, had just graduated from an Ivy League school, and that he worked at a very impressive Wall Street bank.

But what made the biggest impression on me that first meeting was that he was smart and funny and he looked like a farm boy.

He had these big cheeks, these big apple cheeks and this wheat-blond hair, and he seemed so sweet. 

One of the smartest things Conor did, from the very beginning, was to create the illusion that I was the dominant partner in the relationship.

He did this especially at the beginning by idolizing me.

He wanted to know everything about my family and my childhood and my hopes and dreams.

Which is why that Ivy League degree and the Wall Street job and his bright shiny future meant so much to him.

If you had told me that this smart, funny, sensitive man who adored me would one day dictate whether or not I wore makeup, how short my skirts were, where I lived, what jobs I took, who my friends were and where I spent Christmas, I would have laughed at you, because there was not a hint of violence or control or anger in Conor at the beginning.

I didn't know that the first stage in any domestic violence relationship is to seduce and charm the victim. 

I also didn't know that the second step is to isolate the victim.

The next step in the domestic violence pattern is to introduce the threat of violence and see how she reacts.

And here's where those guns come in.

As soon as we moved to New England -- you know, that place where Connor was supposed to feel so safe -- he bought three guns.

And he said that he needed those guns because of the trauma he'd experienced as a young boy.

He needed them to feel protected.

But those guns were really a message for me, and even though he hadn't raised a hand to me, my life was already in grave danger every minute of every day. 

Five days later, the ten bruises on my neck had just faded, and I put on my mother's wedding dress, and I married him. 

And he was very, very sorry.

He had just been really stressed out by the wedding and by becoming a family with me.

It was an isolated incident, and he was never going to hurt me again. 

It happened twice more on the honeymoon.

The first time, I was driving to find a secret beach and I got lost, and he punched me in the side of my head so hard that the other side of my head repeatedly hit the driver's side window.

And then a few days later, driving home from our honeymoon, he got frustrated by traffic, and he threw a cold Big Mac in my face.

Conor proceeded to beat me once or twice a week for the next two and a half years of our marriage. 

I was mistaken in thinking that I was unique and alone in this situation.

So actually, I was in very good company. 

The answer is easy.

I didn't know he was abusing me.

Even though he held those loaded guns to my head, pushed me down stairs, threatened to kill our dog, pulled the key out of the car ignition as I drove down the highway, poured coffee grinds on my head as I dressed for a job interview, I never once thought of myself as a battered wife.

Instead, I was a very strong woman in love with a deeply troubled man, and I was the only person on Earth who could help Conor face his demons. 

Because the final step in the domestic violence pattern is kill her.

I was able to leave, because of one final, sadistic beating that broke through my denial.

I realized that the man who I loved so much was going to kill me if I let him.

Because it turns out that I'm actually a very typical domestic violence victim and a typical domestic violence survivor.

I remarried a kind and gentle man, and we have those three kids.

I have that black lab, and I have that minivan.

Right now, maybe you're thinking, "Wow, this is fascinating," or, "Wow, how stupid was she," but this whole time, I've actually been talking about you.

I promise you there are several people listening to me right now who are currently being abused or who were abused as children or who are abusers themselves.

Abuse could be affecting your daughter, your sister, your best friend right now. 

I was able to end my own crazy love story by breaking the silence.

I'm still breaking the silence today.

Talk about what you heard here.

Abuse thrives only in silence.

You have the power to end domestic violence simply by shining a spotlight on it.

We victims need everyone.

We need every one of you to understand the secrets of domestic violence.

Show abuse the light of day by talking about it with your children, your coworkers, your friends and family.

Recast survivors as wonderful, lovable people with full futures.

Recognize the early signs of violence and conscientiously intervene, deescalate it, show victims a safe way out.

Together we can make our beds, our dinner tables and our families the safe and peaceful oases they should be. 

Thank you. 

