So I want to talk to you about two things tonight.

Number one: Teaching surgery and doing surgery is really hard.

And second, that language is one of the most profound things that separate us all over the world.

And in my little corner of the world, these two things are actually related, and I want to tell you how tonight. 

Now, nobody wants an operation.

Who here has had surgery?

Did you want it?

Keep your hands up if you wanted an operation.

Nobody wants an operation.

But if you have to have an operation, what you really want is a minimally invasive operation.

So this is gallbladder surgery.

Surgeons are not made either.

Now that foundation is so important that a number of us from the largest general surgery society in the United States, SAGES, started in the late 1990s a training program that would assure that every surgeon who practices minimally invasive surgery would have a strong foundation of knowledge and skills necessary to go on and do procedures.

Now the science behind this is so potent that it became required by the American Board of Surgery in order for a young surgeon to become board certified.

It's hard.

Now just this past year, one of our partners, the American College of Surgeons, teamed up with us to make an announcement that all surgeons should be FLS (Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery)-certified before they do minimally invasive surgery. 

So to lift this education and training worldwide is a very large task, something I'm very personally excited about as we travel around the world.

We can't travel everywhere.

We need to make the world a smaller place.

And I think that we can develop some tools to do so.

And one of the tools I like personally is using video. 

And he proved that you could actually teach people to do surgery using video conferencing.

So here's Allan teaching an English-speaking surgeon in Africa these basic fundamental skills necessary to do minimally invasive surgery.

Very inspiring.

But for this examination, which is really hard, we have a problem.

Let me bring it to you locally.

I work at the Cambridge Hospital.

It's the primary Harvard Medical School teaching facility.

It's a big labor-intensive effort.

We need to employ technology to assist us in this quest.

At our hospital we see everybody from Harvard professors to people who just got here last week.

And you have no idea how hard it is to talk to somebody or take care of somebody you can't talk to.

And there isn't always a translator available. 

So we need tools.

We need a universal translator.

One of the things that I want to leave you with as you think about this talk is that this talk is not just about us preaching to the world.

It's really about setting up a dialogue.

We have a lot to learn.

Here in the United States we spend more money per person for outcomes that are not better than many countries in the world.

Maybe we have something to learn as well. 

So I'm passionate about teaching these FLS skills all over the world.

This past year I've been in Latin America, I've been in China, talking about the fundamentals of laparoscopic surgery.

I want to talk to the people in Asia, Latin America, Africa, Europe seamlessly, accurately and in a cost-effective fashion using technology.

And it has to be bi-directional.

They have to be able to teach us something as well. 

So we looked for a universal translator; I thought there would be one out there.

A lexicon is a body of words that describes a domain.

I need to have a health care lexicon.

We're working with the folks at IBM Research from the Accessibility Center to string together technologies to work towards the universal translator.

But we don't have the words yet, so we add a third technology.

We get the words up in a window and then apply the magic.

We work with a fourth technology.

And we currently have access to eleven language pairs.

More to come as we think about trying to make the world a smaller place.

But that's the lectures. 

If you remember what I told you about FLS at the beginning, it's knowledge and skills.

The difference in an operation between doing something successfully and not may be moving your hand this much.

Allan Okrainec: Today we're going to practice suturing.

This is how you hold the needle.

Grab the needle at the tip.

It's important to be accurate.

Aim for the black dots.

SS: So that's what we're working on in our quest for the universal translator.

We want it to be bi-directional.

We have a need to learn as well as to teach.

I can think of a million uses for a tool like this.

As we think about intersecting technologies -- everybody has a cell phone with a camera -- we could use this everywhere, whether it be health care, patient care, engineering, law, conferencing, translating videos.

This is a ubiquitous tool. 

In order to break down our barriers, we have to learn to talk to people, to demand that people work on translation.

We need it for our everyday life, in order to make the world a smaller place.

Thank you very much. 

