What I want to do this afternoon is something a little different than what's scheduled.

Foreign policy, you can figure that out by watching, I don't know, Rachel Maddow or somebody, but — (Laughter) — 

And I was talking to this group of students, and take a look at them.

They were around me in three directions.

You'll noticed that almost all of them are minority.

You'll notice that the building is rather austere.

It's an old New York school building, nothing fancy.

They still have old blackboards and whatnot.

And there are about 300 kids in this school, and the school's been going now for four years, and they're about to graduate their first class.

Twenty-two people are graduating, and all 22 are going to college.

They all come from homes where there is, for the most part, just one person in the home, usually the mother or the grandmother, and that's it, and they come here for their education and for their structure. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

I make them stand at attention like a soldier.

And the thing about it, I've done this for years, the younger they are, the more fun it is. 

When I get six- and seven-year-olds in a group, I have to figure out how to keep them quiet.

You know that they'll always start yakking.

And so I play a little game with them before I make them stand at attention. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) I don't think so. 

(Laughter) I don't think so. 

But anyway, it's a game I play, and it comes obviously from my military experience.

And we would bring them into the army, and the first thing we would do is to put them in an environment of structure, put them in ranks, make them all wear the same clothes, cut all their hair off so they look alike, make sure that they are standing in ranks.

We teach them how to go right face, left face, so they can obey instructions and know the consequences of not obeying instructions.

And they hate him.

And the drill sergeant starts screaming at them, and telling them to do all kinds of awful things.

But then the most amazing thing happens over time.

They come to respect him.

And so we need more of this kind of structure and respect in the lives of our children. 

And if the person doing it, whether it's the mother or grandmother, whoever's doing it, that is when the education process begins.

And that's what you have to do to prepare children for education and for school.

It's predictable.

I was privileged to have that kind of good start.

I was not a great student.

I was a public school kid in New York City, and I didn't do well at all.

I have my entire New York City Board of Education transcript from kindergarten through college.

I wanted it when I was writing my first book.

I wanted to see if my memory was correct, and, my God, it was.

(Laughter) Straight C everywhere.

And then I found ROTC.

And so my whole life then was dedicated to ROTC and the military.

Now the authorities at CCNY were getting tired of me being there.

And that's the key to success. 

But it begins with the gift of a good start.

If we don't give that gift to each and every one of our kids, if we don't invest at the earliest age, we're going to be running into difficulties.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

In my case it was aunts who lived in all of these tenement buildings.

(Laughter) They never did anything.

But what they did was keep us in play.

They kept us in play.

And they didn't care whether you became a doctor or a lawyer or a general, and they never expected any generals in the family, as long as you got an education and then you got a job. 

And so, it's so essential that we kind of put this culture back into our families, all families.

And we're not just investing in the kids.

We're investing in our future. 

We're going to be a minority-majority country in one more generation.

Those that we call minorities now are going to be the majority.

And we have to make sure that they are ready to be the majority.

That's how the system's supposed to work.

We are a nation of immigrants.

That's why we need sound immigration policy.

I even did it when I was Secretary of State.

(Laughter) "It's okay, it's okay."

(Laughter) "It's okay, it's okay."

But I gotta have my hot dog. 

I hand him the money. 

I accept the generosity, continue up the street, and it washes over me, my God, it's the same country that greeted my parents this way 90 years ago. 

Thank you very much. 

