You know, my favorite part of being a dad is the movies I get to watch.

It totally dominated her imagination for months.

Her favorite character was Glinda, of course.

It gave her a great excuse to wear a sparkly dress and carry a wand. 

But you watch that movie enough times, and you start to realize how unusual it is.

Now we live today, and are raising our children, in a kind of children's-fantasy-spectacular-industrial complex.

But "The Wizard of Oz" stood alone.

It did not start that trend.

Now, there's a big difference between these two movies, a couple of really big differences between "The Wizard of Oz" and all the movies we watch today.

Another thing that's really unique about "The Wizard of Oz" to me is that all of the most heroic and wise and even villainous characters are female. 

At that point I also had a son.

But he was the second child, and the level of supervision had plummeted.

And I wonder what he's soaking in.

Is he picking up on the themes of courage and perseverance and loyalty?

Is he picking up on the fact that Luke joins an army to overthrow the government?

By making friends with everybody and being a leader.

Why is there so much Force -- capital F, Force -- in the movies we have for our kids, and so little yellow brick road? 

I haven't read as much on how boys are picking up on this vibe.

The movies are very, very focused on defeating the villain and getting your reward, and there's not a lot of room for other relationships and other journeys.

It's almost as though if you're a boy, you are a dopey animal, and if you are a girl, you should bring your warrior costume.

There are plenty of exceptions, and I will defend the Disney princesses in front of any you.

But they do send a message to boys, that they are not, the boys are not really the target audience.

They are doing a phenomenal job of teaching girls how to defend against the patriarchy, but they are not necessarily showing boys how they're supposed to defend against the patriarchy.

There's no models for them.

And we also have some terrific women who are writing new stories for our kids, and as three-dimensional and delightful as Hermione and Katniss are, these are still war movies.

And, of course, the most successful studio of all time continues to crank out classic after classic, every single one of them about the journey of a boy, or a man, or two men who are friends, or a man and his son, or two men who are raising a little girl.

Do you remember what the critics said when "Brave" came out?

"Aw, I can't believe Pixar made a princess movie."

Now, almost none of these movies pass the Bechdel Test.

I don't know if you've heard of this.

It has not yet caught on and caught fire, but maybe today we will start a movement.

And do these women talk to each other at any point in the movie? 

And is their conversation about something other than the guy that they both like?

Thank you.

Two women who exist and talk to each other about stuff.

It pretty much flunks the Bechdel test.

We've got quite a few scenes of the men having deep, angst-ridden conversations in this hideout, and the great moment for one of the actresses is to peek through the door and say, "Are you coming to bed, honey?"

That's Hollywood for you. 

So let's look at the numbers.

But there is a number that is greater than this that's going to bring this room down. 

Last year, The New York Times published a study that the government had done.

Now, I don't think that's the fault of popular entertainment.

I don't think kids' movies have anything to do with that.

What are they failing to learn?

Are they absorbing the story that a male hero's job is to defeat the villain with violence and then collect the reward, which is a woman who has no friends and doesn't speak?

Are we soaking up that story? 

You know, as a parent with the privilege of raising a daughter like all of you who are doing the same thing, we find this world and this statistic very alarming and we want to prepare them.

I think we have got to show our sons a new definition of manhood. 

They're throwing it up in the air.

When I asked my daughter who her favorite character was in "Star Wars," do you know what she said?

Maybe it's not just the sparkly dress.

I think these people are experts.

I think these are the two people in the movie who know more than anybody else, and they love sharing their knowledge with other people to help them reach their potential.

Now, they are leaders.

I like that kind of quest for my daughter, and I like that kind of quest for my son.

I want more quests like that.

Thank you. 

