What you learn when you go to Australia is the Australians are very competitive.

And they are not magnanimous in victory.

And of course, they were right.

But it's not just Australia that has better health than Britain.

All of these things.

But this graph is after taking into account all of these known risk factors.

This is after accounting for smoking, social class, diet, all those other known risk factors.

We are left with this missing space of increased deaths the further north you go. 

Now, sunlight, of course, comes into this.

And we need vitamin D. It's now a requirement that children have a certain amount.

And that really prevented the rickets that used to be common in this city.

But an association: The higher people's blood levels of vitamin D are, the less heart disease they have, the less cancer.

There seems to be a lot of data suggesting that vitamin D is very good for you.

And it is, to prevent rickets and so on.

But if you give people vitamin D supplements, you don't change that high rate of heart disease.

And the evidence for it preventing cancers is not yet great.

So what I'm going to suggest is that vitamin D is not the only story in town.

It's not the only reason preventing heart disease.

And they were the first people to describe this new chemical transmitter, nitric oxide.

It also dilates the coronary arteries, so it stops angina. 

And what was remarkable about it was in the past when we think of chemical messengers within the body, we thought of complicated things like estrogen and insulin, or nerve transmission.

And I started doing research, and we found, very excitingly, that the skin produces nitric oxide.

So it's not just in the cardiovascular system it arises.

It arises in the skin.

Well, having found that and published that, I thought, well, what's it doing?

How do you have low blood pressure in your skin?

And I was interested in these really complex systems.

We thought that maybe nitric oxide affected cell death, and how cells survive, and their resistance to other things.

And I first off started work in cell culture, growing cells, and then I was using knockout mouse models -- mice that couldn't make the gene.

We worked out a mechanism, which -- NO was helping cells survive. 

And I then moved back to Edinburgh.

And in Edinburgh, the experimental animal we use is the medical student.

So they're really an ideal model. 

But what we found was that we couldn't reproduce in man the data we had shown in mice.

It seemed we couldn't turn off the production of nitric oxide in the skin of humans.

We put on creams that blocked the enzyme that made it, we injected things.

Could the sun activate those stores into the circulation, and there in the circulation do its good things for your cardiovascular system? 

And so what we did was we took a bunch of volunteers and we exposed them to ultraviolet light.

So these are kind of sunlamps.

So we used ultraviolet A, which doesn't make vitamin D. 

When we put people under a lamp for the equivalent of about 30 minutes of sunshine in summer in Edinburgh, what we produced was, we produced a rise in circulating nitric oxide.

Not by much, as an individual level, but enough at a population level to shift the rates of heart disease in a whole population.

So this seems to be a feature of ultraviolet rays hitting the skin. 

Now, we're still collecting data.

A few good things here: This appeared to be more marked in older people.

I'm not sure exactly how much.

But this is a separate mechanism from vitamin D. 

Now, one of the problems with looking at blood pressure is your body does everything it can to keep your blood pressure at the same place.

And what we've shown is that doing a sham irradiation -- this is the thick line here -- this is shining UV on the arm so it warms up but keeping it covered so the rays don't hit the skin.

There is no change in blood flow, in dilatation of the blood vessels.

But the active irradiation, during the UV and for an hour after it, there is dilation of the blood vessels.

So here, further data that ultraviolet -- that's sunlight -- has benefits on the blood flow and the cardiovascular system. 

So we thought we'd just kind of model -- Different amounts of UV hit different parts of the Earth at different times of year, so you can actually work out those stores of nitric oxide -- the nitrates, nitrites, nitrosothiols in the skin -- cleave to release NO.

Different wavelengths of light have different activities of doing that.

So you can look at the wavelengths of light that do that.

And you can look -- So, if you live on the equator, the sun comes straight overhead, it comes through a very thin bit of atmosphere.

In winter or summer, it's the same amount of light.

So if you're on the equator, December or June, you've got masses of NO being released from the skin.

So Ventura is in southern California.

Ventura mid-winter, well, there's still a decent amount.

So what do we think?

We think it's very important.

We think that the skin -- well, we know that the skin has got very large stores of nitric oxide as these various other forms.

My day job is saying to people, "You've got skin cancer, it's caused by sunlight, don't go in the sun."

I actually think a far more important message is that there are benefits as well as risks to sunlight.

And I think that we need to be more aware of, and we need to find the risk-benefit ratio.

How much sunlight is safe, and how can we finesse this best for our general health? 

