(Laughter) Reading and writing DNA code is getting easier and cheaper.

By the end of this year, we'll be able to sequence the three million bits of information in your genome in less than a day and for less than 1,000 euros.

Biotech is probably the most powerful and the fastest-growing technology sector.

It has the power, potentially, to replace our fossil fuels, to revolutionize medicine, and to touch every aspect of our daily lives. 

So who gets to do it?

I think we'd all be pretty comfortable with this guy doing it.

(Laughter) (Laughter) 

(Laughter) (Laughter) 

The idea is that if you open up the science and you allow diverse groups to participate, it could really stimulate innovation.

I thought so. 

So, three years ago, I got together with some friends of mine who had similar aspirations and we founded Genspace.

It's a nonprofit, a community biotech lab in Brooklyn, New York, and the idea was people could come, they could take classes and putter around in the lab in a very open, friendly atmosphere. 

The press started calling us.

The only thing that got us through that period was that we knew that all over the world, there were other people that were trying to do the same thing that we were.

They were opening biohacker spaces, and some of them were facing much greater challenges than we did, more regulations, less resources.

But now, three years later, here's where we stand.

It's a vibrant, global community of hackerspaces, and this is just the beginning.

These are some of the biggest ones, and there are others opening every day.

Let me take you on a little tour.

I'm not going to minimize those concerns.

That's a lot more than conventional science has done. 

I've actually chosen to take a different kind of risk.

I signed up for something called the Personal Genome Project.

It's a study at Harvard where, at the end of the study, they're going to take my entire genomic sequence, all of my medical information, and my identity, and they're going to post it online for everyone to see.

There were a lot of risks involved that they talked about during the informed consent portion.

The one I liked the best is, someone could download my sequence, go back to the lab, synthesize some fake Ellen DNA, and plant it at a crime scene.

(Laughter) But like DIYbio, the positive outcomes and the potential for good for a study like that far outweighs the risk. 

(Laughter) But like DIYbio, the positive outcomes and the potential for good for a study like that far outweighs the risk. 

We're only seeing just the tip of the DNA iceberg.

Let me show you what you could do right now.

A biohacker in Germany, a journalist, wanted to know whose dog was leaving little presents on his street?

(Laughter) (Applause) I discovered an invasive species in my own backyard.

Looked like a ladybug, right?

It actually is a Japanese beetle.

In a biohacker space, you can analyze your genome for mutations.

You can analyze your breakfast cereal for GMO's, and you can explore your ancestry.

You can send weather balloons up into the stratosphere, collect microbes, see what's up there.

You can make a biocensor out of yeast to detect pollutants in water.

It's really cool. 

Some people ask me, well, why am I involved?

I could have a perfectly good career in mainstream science.

The thing is, there's something in these labs that they have to offer society that you can't find anywhere else.

There's something sacred about a space where you can work on a project, and you don't have to justify to anyone that it's going to make a lot of money, that it's going to save mankind, or even that it's feasible.

It just has to follow safety guidelines.

If you had spaces like this all over the world, it could really change the perception of who's allowed to do biotech.

(Laughter) (Applause) 

(Laughter) (Applause) 

