At this moment, I knew the girls needed a way to connect with their fathers.

These girls just needed a way to invite their fathers into their lives on their own terms. 

So I asked the girls, "How can we help other girls develop healthy relationships with their fathers?"

The wisdom lives inside of them.

They were dressed to the nines.

They acted sweet.

(Laughter) They acted silly.

They really enjoyed each other's company.

It was a huge success.

And the girls decided to make it an annual event. 

So as the seasons changed, and it was time to plan the dance again, one girl named Brianna spoke up, and she said, "My dad can't come to the dance, and this whole thing is making me sad."

"Because he's in jail," she bravely admitted. 

So the girls thought for a moment, and one girl suggested, "Why don't we just take the dance in the jail?"

He contacted me immediately and said, whenever there is an opportunity to bring families inside, his doors are always open.

Because one thing he did know, that when fathers are connected to their children, it is less likely that they will return. 

So, 16 inmates and 18 girls were invited.

The girls were dressed in their Sunday best, and the fathers traded in their yellow and blue jumpsuits for shirts and ties.

They hugged.

They shared a full catered meal of chicken and fish.

They laughed together.

It was beautiful.

Fathers were in a space where they were able to make their daughters play, and pull out her chair and extend his hand for a dance.

Even the guards cried. 

But after the dance, we all realized that Dad still would be in jail.

So we needed to create something that they could take with them.

So we brought in Flip cams, and we had them look at the Flip cams and just interview each other -- their messages, their thoughts.

I have had my father in my life always.

He's even here today. 

We have just created a form for girls who have heavy questions on their heart to be in a position to ask their fathers those questions and given the fathers the freedom to answer.

Because we know that the fathers are even leaving with this one thought: What type of woman am I preparing to put in the world?

Because a father is locked in does not mean he should be locked out of his daughter's life. 

