Imagine that you're a pig farmer.

You live on a small farm in the Philippines.

You know that any day, one of your pigs can catch the flu, the swine flu.

If it's a bad enough virus, the health of your herd may be gone in the blink of an eye.

If you called in a veterinarian, he or she would visit your farm and take samples from your pigs' noses and mouths.

But then they would have to drive back into the city to test those samples in their central lab.

Two weeks later, you'd hear back the results.

Two weeks may be just enough time for infection to spread and take away your way of life. 

But it doesn't have to be that way.

Today, farmers can take those samples themselves.

And without leaving their farms, they take a drop of that genetic material and put it into a little analyzer smaller than a shoebox, program it to detect DNA or RNA from the swine flu virus, and within one hour get back the results, visualize the results.

This reality is possible because today we're living in the era of personal DNA technology.

Every one of us can actually test DNA ourselves. 

DNA is the fundamental molecule the carries genetic instructions that help build the living world.

Even bacteria and some viruses have DNA too.

The genetic instructions encoded in DNA inform how our bodies develop, grow, function.

And in many cases, that same information can trigger disease.

So when we're looking to answer a question based on DNA, we actually don't need to read all those three billion letters, typically.

That would be like getting hungry at night and having to flip through the whole phone book from cover to cover, pausing at every line, just to find the nearest pizza joint. 

Luckily, three decades ago, humans started to invent tools that can find any specific line of genetic information.

These DNA machines are wonderful.

They can find any line in DNA.

Am I of Irish descent?

Is that child my son? 

This ability to make copies of DNA, as simple as it sounds, has transformed our world.

Scientists use it every day to detect and address disease, to create innovative medicines, to modify foods, to assess whether our food is safe to eat or whether it's contaminated with deadly bacteria.

Even judges use the output of these machines in court to decide whether someone is innocent or guilty based on DNA evidence.

The inventor of this DNA-copying technique was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1993.

But for 30 years, the power of genetic analysis has been confined to the ivory tower, or bigwig PhD scientist work.

Well, several companies around the world are working on making this same technology accessible to everyday people like the pig farmer, like you. 

I cofounded one of these companies.

We started working in our basements.

You would have thought, "Wow!

And all of this, while sitting on the toilet. 

It is notoriously hard to predict where new technology might take us.

And the same is true for personal DNA technology today. 

For example, I could never have imagined that a truffle farmer, of all people, would use personal DNA machines.

Dr. Paul Thomas grows truffles for a living.

We see him pictured here, holding the first UK-cultivated truffle in his hands, on one of his farms.

Truffles are this delicacy that stems from a fungus growing on the roots of living trees.

And it's a rare fungus.

Some species may fetch 3,000, 7,000, or more dollars per kilogram.

I learned from Paul that the stakes for a truffle farmer can be really high.

But even to a trained eye like Paul's, even when looked at under a microscope, these truffles can pass for authentic.

So in order to grow the highest quality truffles, the ones that chefs all over the world will fight over, Paul has to use DNA analysis.

Isn't that mind-blowing?

I bet you will never look at that black truffle risotto again without thinking of its genes. 

But personal DNA machines can also save human lives.

Professor Ian Goodfellow is a virologist at the University of Cambridge.

Last year he traveled to Sierra Leone.

When the Ebola outbreak broke out in Western Africa, he quickly realized that doctors there lacked the basic tools to detect and combat disease.

Results could take up to a week to come back -- that's way too long for the patients and the families who are suffering.

Ian decided to move his lab into Makeni, Sierra Leone.

But here's a surprise: the same equipment that Ian could use at his lab in the UK to sequence and diagnose Ebola, just wouldn't work under these conditions.

We're talking 35 Celsius heat and over 90 percent humidity here.

Let's talk about DNA analysis in space.

And under these conditions, our bodies can do funky things.

One of these things is that our immune systems get suppressed, making astronauts more prone to infection. 

Here we see Anna-Sophia on April 8, 2016, in Cape Canaveral, watching her experiment launch to the International Space Station.

Personal DNA machines are now aboard the International Space Station, where they can help monitor living conditions and protect the lives of astronauts. 

A 16-year-old designing a DNA experiment to protect the lives of astronauts may seem like a rarity, the mark of a child genius.

Could we be moving into a world of one personal DNA machine in every home? 

I know families who are already living in this reality.

The Daniels family, for example, set up a DNA lab in the basement of their suburban Chicago home.

This is not a family made of PhD scientists.

Last time I called them, they were checking out homegrown produce from the backyard garden.

For the Daniels family, the personal DNA machine is like the chemistry set for the 21st century.

Most of us may not yet be diagnosing genetic conditions in our kitchen sinks or doing at-home paternity testing. 

But we've definitely reached a point in history where every one of you could actually get hands-on with DNA in your kitchen.

You could copy, paste and analyze DNA and extract meaningful information from it.

Think about the moment when phones stopped being plugged into the wall by cords, or when computers left the mainframe and entered your home or your office. 

So if you're curious, get up close and personal with DNA -- today.

It is in our DNA to be curious. 

Thank you. 

