So we all have our own biases.

When we think of government systems, we tend to think that they're archaic, set in their ways, and perhaps, the leadership is just too bureaucratic to be able to change things.

Well, today, I want to challenge that theory.

This is what a classroom in a public school in India looks like.

There are 1 million such schools in India.

And even for me, who's lived in India all her life, walking into one of these schools is fairly heartbreaking.

11-year-olds cannot do simple addition, they cannot construct a grammatically correct sentence.

These are things that you and I would expect an 8-year-old to be able to do.

By the time kids are 13 or 14, they tend to drop out of schools.

And yet, 40 percent of the parents today are choosing to pull their children out of public schools and pay out of their pockets to put them in private schools.

As a comparison, in a far richer country, the US, that number is only 10 percent.

That's a huge statement on how broken the Indian public education system is. 

She was, at that time, the head of the Department of School Education in a state called Haryana in India.

Let me describe Haryana a little bit to you.

Haryana is a state which has 30 million people.

It has 15,000 public schools and 2 million plus children in those public schools.

As I started this project, I was very painfully aware of two things.

One, that I had never done anything like this before.

And two, many others had, perhaps without too much success.

We knew that we had to craft our own journey. 

There was no way we were going to be able to implement 50 things. 

But if it doesn't or we're not sure, then let's put it aside.

And looking back over the last two and a half years, that has been a huge positive for us. 

So we had the goal, and now we needed to figure out what are the issues, what is broken.

Well, when we went inside schools, we found something completely different.

On most days, most teachers were actually inside schools.

And when you spoke with them, you realized they were perfectly capable of teaching elementary classes.

But they were not teaching.

At lunchtime, most teachers were spending all of their time getting the midday meal cooking, supervised and served to the students. 

Not explicitly, but implicitly.

They needed to be monitored and measured and awarded on the quality of teaching and not on all sorts of other things. 

And we realized that unless we change those specific things, we could do a number of other things.

And addressing these non-obvious core issues became a key part of the program. 

Small things being done by NGOs, being done by foundations.

But what was also interesting was that none of them actually scaled.

All of them were limited to 50, 100 or 500 schools.

And here, we were looking for a solution for 15,000 schools. 

And hence, innovations don't scale.

I think this was definitely the point in time when my team hated me.

In the end, I think we did find solutions to many of the issues.

I'll give you an example.

In the context of effective learning, one of the things people talk about is hands-on learning.

Which basically means giving students things like beads, learning rods, abacuses.

We needed another solution.

We couldn't think of anything.

That was a huge eureka moment for us.

Now, this brings me to my last point.

How do you implement something across 15,000 schools and 100,000 teachers?

I like to call it "The Chain of Hope."

And then you would hope that at the block office, somebody else got the letter, opened it, read it and forwarded it eventually to the 15,000 principals.

And then one would hope that the principals got the letter, received it, understood it and started implementing it.

It was a little bit ridiculous.

However, what the teachers do have are smartphones.

They're constantly on SMS, on Facebook and on WhatsApp. 

It spreads like wildfire.

Teachers can ask clarification questions instantaneously.

And what's interesting is, it's not just the headquarters who are answering these questions.

Another teacher from a completely different part of the state will stand up and answer the question.

Everybody's acting as everybody's peer group, and things are getting implemented.

So today, when you go to a school in Haryana, things look different.

Often with innovative techniques.

When a supervisor comes to visit the classroom, he or she not only checks the construction of the toilet but also what is the quality of teaching.

And schools which are not doing so well find themselves having difficult conversations.

In the context of education, it's very difficult to see results quickly. 

When people talk about systemic, large-scale change, they talk about periods of 7 years and 10 years.

But not in Haryana.

Learning levels of children have stopped declining, and they have started going up.

I certainly believe so.

I think if you give them the right levers, they can move mountains. 

Thank you. 

