So if you've been following the news, you've heard that there's a pack of giant asteroids headed for the United States, all scheduled to strike within the next 50 years.

Now I don't mean actual asteroids made of rock and metal.

This is where we're headed in terms of global temperature rises, and if we keep on going the way we're going, we get a four- or five-degree-Centigrade temperature rise by the end of this century.

Hansen says we can expect about a five-meter rise in sea levels.

This is what a five-meter rise in sea levels would look like.

Low-lying cities all around the world will disappear within the lifetime of children born today.

Of course, the left wants to take action, but the right denies that there's any problem. 

All right, now this might not sound as scary as an asteroid, but look at these graphs that Levin showed.

Borrow a lot of money, pay it off, pay it off, pay it off, get down to near zero, and bang!

Once again, the same process repeats.

Now then we get the Great Depression and World War II.

We rise to an astronomical level, around 118 percent of GDP, really unsustainable, really dangerous.

But we pay it off, pay it off, pay it off, and then, what's this?

Why has it been rising since the '70s?

Let me translate for you. 

We can deflect both of these asteroids.

These problems are both technically solvable.

Our problem and our tragedy is that in these hyper-partisan times, the mere fact that one side says, "Look, there's an asteroid," means that the other side's going to say, "Huh?

To understand why this is happening to us, and what we can do about it, we need to learn more about moral psychology.

So I'm a social psychologist, and I study morality, and one of the most important principles of morality is that morality binds and blinds.

It binds us into teams that circle around sacred values but thereby makes us go blind to objective reality. 

Think of it like this.

Large-scale cooperation is extremely rare on this planet.

And when you find this in other animals, it's always the same story.

They're always all siblings who are children of a single queen, so they're all in the same boat.

They rise or fall, they live or die, as one.

This is a reconstruction of ancient Babylon, and this is Tenochtitlan. 

It's miraculous, and part of the explanation is this ability to circle around sacred values.

As you see, temples and gods play a big role in all ancient civilizations.

This is an image of Muslims circling the Kaaba in Mecca.

It's a sacred rock, and when people circle something together, they unite, they can trust each other, they become one.

It's as though you're moving an electrical wire through a magnetic field that generates current.

When people circle together, they generate a current.

We love to circle around things.

We circle around flags, and then we can trust each other.

We can fight as a team, as a unit.

But even as morality binds people together into a unit, into a team, the circling blinds them.

It causes them to distort reality.

But it is a gross distortion of reality. 

You can see the moral electromagnet operating in the U.S. Congress.

But then, after World War I, things dropped, and we get this historically low level of polarization.

This was a golden age of bipartisanship, at least in terms of the parties' ability to work together and solve grand national problems.

But in the 1980s and '90s, the electromagnet turns back on.

Polarization rises.

It used to be that conservatives and moderates and liberals could all work together in Congress.

They could rearrange themselves, form bipartisan committees, but as the moral electromagnet got cranked up, the force field increased, Democrats and Republicans were pulled apart.

Did anybody notice that in two of the three debates, Obama wore a blue tie and Romney wore a red tie?

Do you know why they do this?

The polarization is strongest among our political elites.

Nobody doubts that this is happening in Washington.

But for a while, there was some doubt as to whether it was happening among the people.

And what they do on that survey is they ask what's called a feeling thermometer rating.

So, how warm or cold do you feel about, you know, Native Americans, or the military, the Republican Party, the Democratic Party, all sorts of groups in American life.

It's as though the moral electromagnet is affecting us too.

We will never again have a political class that was forged by the experience of fighting together in World War II against a common enemy.

We will never again have just three television networks, all of which are relatively centrist.

And we will never again have a large group of conservative southern Democrats and liberal northern Republicans making it easy, making there be a lot of overlap for bipartisan cooperation.

So for a lot of reasons, those decades after the Second World War were an historically anomalous time.

We will never get back to those low levels of polarization, I believe. 

These changes are detailed in many books.

I'm just going to group them into three broad classes here. 

So if you think about this as the problem of a dysfunctional, hyper-polarized institution, well, the first step is, do what you can so that fewer hyper-partisans get elected in the first place, and when you have closed party primaries, and only the most committed Republicans and Democrats are voting, you're nominating and selecting the most extreme hyper-partisans.

So open primaries would make that problem much, much less severe. 

But the problem isn't primarily that we're electing bad people to Congress.

From my experience, and from what I've heard from Congressional insiders, most of the people going to Congress are good, hard-working, intelligent people who really want to solve problems, but once they get there, they find that they are forced to play a game that rewards hyper-partisanship and that punishes independent thinking.

You step out of line, you get punished.

So there are a lot of reforms we could do that will counteract this. 

But the third class of reforms is that we've got to change the nature of social relationships in Congress.

But beginning in the 1990s, first the House of Representatives changed its legislative calendar so that all business is basically done in the middle of the week.

Nowadays, Congressmen fly in on Tuesday morning, they do battle for two days, then they fly home Thursday afternoon.

They don't move their families to the District.

They don't meet each other's spouses or children.

There's no more relationship there.

And trying to run Congress without human relationships is like trying to run a car without motor oil.

Should we be surprised when the whole thing freezes up and descends into paralysis and polarization?

A simple change to the legislative calendar, such as having business stretch out for three weeks and then they get a week off to go home, that would change the fundamental relationships in Congress. 

So there's a lot we can do, but who's going to push them to do it?

There are a number of groups that are working on this.

No Labels and Common Cause, I think, have very good ideas for changes we need to do to make our democracy more responsive and our Congress more effective. 

Sometimes a single threat can polarize us, as we saw.

This is where we are as a country. 

So here's another asteroid.

Rising inequality like this is associated with so many problems for a democracy.

We're not all in the same boat, and that means nobody's willing to sacrifice for the common good.

Well, one of the largest causes, after globalization, is actually this fourth asteroid, rising non-marital births.

This graph shows the steady rise of out-of-wedlock births since the 1960s.

Most Hispanic and black children are now born to unmarried mothers.

Whites are headed that way too.

Within a decade or two, most American children will be born into homes with no father.

As I know from working with street children in Brazil, Mom's boyfriend is often a really, really dangerous person for kids. 

Now the right has been screaming about this asteroid since the 1960s, and the left has been saying, "It's not a problem.

But even if you blame nobody, it still is a national problem, and one side has been more concerned about it than the other.

The New York Times finally noticed this asteroid with a front-page story last July showing how the decline of marriage contributes to inequality. 

We are becoming a nation of just two classes.

When Americans go to college and marry each other, they have very low divorce rates.

They earn a lot of money, they invest that money in their kids, some of them become tiger mothers, the kids rise to their full potential, and the kids go on to become the top two lines in this graph.

And then there's everybody else: the children who don't benefit from a stable marriage, who don't have as much invested in them, who don't grow up in a stable environment, and who go on to become the bottom three lines in that graph. 

So once again, we see that these two graphs are actually saying the same thing.

But if everybody could just take off their partisan blinders, we'd see that these two problems actually are best addressed together.

Because if you really care about income inequality, you might want to talk to some evangelical Christian groups that are working on ways to promote marriage.

But then you're going to run smack into the problem that women don't generally want to marry someone who doesn't have a job.

So if you really care about strengthening families, you might want to talk to some liberal groups who are working on promoting educational equality, who are working on raising the minimum wage, who are working on finding ways to stop so many men from being sucked into the criminal justice system and taken out of the marriage market for their whole lives. 

So to conclude, there are at least four asteroids headed our way.

How many of you can see all four?

Okay, almost all of you. 

In the Asteroids Club, we don't start by looking for common ground.

Common ground is often very hard to find.

This is something we can do.

Because Americans on both sides care about the decline in civility, and they've formed dozens of organizations, at the national level, such as this one, down to many local organizations, such as To The Village Square in Tallahassee, Florida, which tries to bring state leaders together to help facilitate that sort of working together human relationship that's necessary to solve Florida's problems.

And most surprisingly to me, they sometimes can even see eye to eye on criminal justice.

For example, the incarceration rate, the prison population in this country has quadrupled since 1980.

Now this is a social disaster, and liberals are very concerned about this.

The Southern Poverty Law Center is often fighting the prison-industrial complex, fighting to prevent a system that's just sucking in more and more poor young men.

And so, because the prison-industrial complex is bankrupting our states and corroding our souls, groups of fiscal conservatives and Christian conservatives have come together to form a group called Right on Crime.

And at times they have worked with the Southern Poverty Law Center to oppose the building of new prisons and to work for reforms that will make the justice system more efficient and more humane. 

Let us therefore go to battle stations, not to fight each other, but to begin deflecting these incoming asteroids.

