So I'd like to start by focusing on the world's most dangerous animal. 

Now, when you talk about dangerous animals, most people might think of lions or tigers or sharks.

But of course the most dangerous animal is the mosquito.

The mosquito has killed more humans than any other creature in human history.

In fact, probably adding them all together, the mosquito has killed more humans.

And the mosquito has killed more humans than wars and plague. 

If it was the case, we wouldn't have between 200 and 300 million cases of malaria every year, and we wouldn't have a million and a half deaths from malaria, and we wouldn't have a disease that was relatively unknown 50 years ago now suddenly turned into the largest mosquito-borne virus threat that we have, and that's called dengue fever. 

Other estimates put that number at roughly double that number of infections.

And dengue fever has grown in speed quite phenomenally.

In the last 50 years, the incidence of dengue has grown thirtyfold. 

Now let me tell you a little bit about what dengue fever is, for those who don't know.

And let's assume you're bitten by a mosquito that's carrying that virus.

Well, you could develop flu-like symptoms.

They could be quite mild.

You could develop nausea, headache, your muscles could feel like they're contracting, and you could actually feel like your bones are breaking.

And that's the nickname given to this disease.

It's called breakbone fever, because that's how you can feel. 

Now the odd thing is, is that once you've been bitten by this mosquito, and you've had this disease, your body develops antibodies, so if you're bitten again with that strain, it doesn't affect you.

But it's not one virus, it's four, and the same protection that gives you the antibodies and protects you from the same virus that you had before actually makes you much more susceptible to the other three.

So why is it spreading so fast?

And the answer is this thing.

This is Aedes aegypti.

Now this is a mosquito that came, like its name suggests, out of North Africa, and it's spread round the world.

What they're very good at doing is hitchhiking, particularly the eggs.

They will lay their eggs in clear water, any pool, any puddle, any birdbath, any flower pot, anywhere there's clear water, they'll lay their eggs, and if that clear water is near freight, it's near a port, if it's anywhere near transport, those eggs will then get transported around the world.

To give you just a couple of examples how fast this has happened, in the mid-'70s, Brazil declared, "We have no Aedes aegypti," and currently they spend about a billion dollars now a year trying to get rid of it, trying to control it, just one species of mosquito.

Interestingly, Madeira first got the insect in 2005, and here we are, a few years later, first cases of dengue.

So the one thing you'll find is that where the mosquito goes, dengue will follow.

Once you've got the mosquito in your area, anyone coming into that area with dengue, mosquito will bite them, mosquito will bite somewhere else, somewhere else, somewhere else, and you'll get an epidemic. 

So we must be good at killing mosquitos.

I mean, that can't be very difficult.

Well, there's two principle ways.

Now in an urban environment, that's extraordinarily difficult.

You've got to get your chemical into every puddle, every birdbath, every tree trunk.

It's just not practical.

The second way you can do it is actually trying to kill the insects as they fly around.

This is a picture of fogging.

Here what someone is doing is mixing up chemical in a smoke and basically spreading that through the environment.

You could do the same with a space spray.

So it's not very effective, but it's probably the best thing we've got at the moment.

Having said that, actually, your best form of protection and my best form of protection is a long-sleeve shirt and a little bit of DEET to go with it. 

There's no point in just killing the odd mosquito here and there.

We want something that gets that population right the way down so it can't get the disease transmission.

Clearly the product you've got has got to be safe to humans.

We are going to use it in and around humans.

It has to be safe.

We don't want to have a lasting impact on the environment.

We don't want to do anything that you can't undo.

And finally, you want something that's species-specific.

But you don't want to get all of the insects.

You just want to get this one.

It's got to get into people's houses, into the bedrooms, into the kitchens. 

Now there are two features of mosquito biology that really help us in this project, and that is, firstly, males don't bite.

It's only the female mosquito that will actually bite you.

The male can't bite you, won't bite you, doesn't have the mouth parts to bite you.

It's just the female.

If there's a male mosquito that you release, and if there's a female around, that male will find the female. 

So basically, we've used those two factors.

A single female will lay about up to 100 eggs at a time, up to about 500 in her lifetime.

Now if that male is carrying a gene which causes the death of the offspring, then the offspring don't survive, and instead of having 500 mosquitos running around, you have none.

If you put more sterile males out into the environment, then the females are more likely to find a sterile male than a fertile one, and you will bring that population down.

If they don't find a female, then they'll die anyway.

They only live a few days. 

And that's exactly where we are.

So this is technology that was developed in Oxford University a few years ago.

The company itself, Oxitec, we've been working for the last 10 years, very much on a sort of similar development pathway that you'd get with a pharmaceutical company.

So about 10 years of internal evaluation, testing, to get this to a state where we think it's actually ready.

And then we've gone out into the big outdoors, always with local community consent, always with the necessary permits.

So we've done field trials now in the Cayman Islands, a small one in Malaysia, and two more now in Brazil. 

And what's the result?

Well, the result has been very good.

In about four months of release, we've brought that population of mosquitos — in most cases we're dealing with villages here of about 2,000, 3,000 people, that sort of size, starting small — we've taken that mosquito population down by about 85 percent in about four months.

And in fact, the numbers after that get, those get very difficult to count, because there just aren't any left.

So that's been what we've seen in Cayman, it's been what we've seen in Brazil in those trials. 

And now what we're doing is we're going through a process to scale up to a town of about 50,000, so we can see this work at big scale.

We can transport them around the world.

And for Brazil, where we've been doing some trials, the Brazilian government themselves have now built their own mosquito factory, far bigger than ours, and we'll use that for scaling up in Brazil. 

So you take a Google Map, you divide it up, work out how far they can fly, and make sure you're releasing such that you get coverage of the area, and then you go back, and within a very short space of time, you're bringing that population right the way down. 

We've also done this in agriculture.

We've got several different species of agriculture coming along, and I'm hoping that soon we'll be able to get some funding together so we can get back and start looking at malaria. 

I'm in favor of particularly where the older technologies don't work well or have become unacceptable.

So for the mosquito, it's a dead end. 

