One day in 1819, 3,000 miles off the coast of Chile, in one of the most remote regions of the Pacific Ocean, 20 American sailors watched their ship flood with seawater.

They'd been struck by a sperm whale, which had ripped a catastrophic hole in the ship's hull.

As their ship began to sink beneath the swells, the men huddled together in three small whaleboats.

These men were 10,000 miles from home, more than 1,000 miles from the nearest scrap of land.

In their small boats, they carried only rudimentary navigational equipment and limited supplies of food and water.

These were the men of the whaleship Essex, whose story would later inspire parts of "Moby Dick."

Even in today's world, their situation would be really dire, but think about how much worse it would have been then.

No one on land had any idea that anything had gone wrong.

No search party was coming to look for these men.

As we grow up, we're often encouraged to think of fear as a weakness, just another childish thing to discard like baby teeth or roller skates.

And I think it's no accident that we think this way.

Neuroscientists have actually shown that human beings are hard-wired to be optimists.

But what if we looked at fear in a fresh way?

What if we thought of fear as an amazing act of the imagination, something that can be as profound and insightful as storytelling itself? 

It's easiest to see this link between fear and the imagination in young children, whose fears are often extraordinarily vivid.

And what we say about kids who have fears like that is that they have a vivid imagination.

But at a certain point, most of us learn to leave these kinds of visions behind and grow up.

We learn that there are no monsters hiding under the bed, and not every earthquake brings buildings down.

But maybe it's no coincidence that some of our most creative minds fail to leave these kinds of fears behind as adults.

Well let's return to the year 1819 for a moment, to the situation facing the crew of the whaleship Essex.

Let's take a look at the fears that their imaginations were generating as they drifted in the middle of the Pacific.

Twenty-four hours had now passed since the capsizing of the ship.

The time had come for the men to make a plan, but they had very few options.

In his fascinating account of the disaster, Nathaniel Philbrick wrote that these men were just about as far from land as it was possible to be anywhere on Earth.

The men knew that the nearest islands they could reach were the Marquesas Islands, 1,200 miles away.

But they'd heard some frightening rumors.

They'd been told that these islands, and several others nearby, were populated by cannibals.

So the men pictured coming ashore only to be murdered and eaten for dinner.

But they knew that the sheer length of this journey would stretch their supplies of food and water.

Now we might just as easily call these fears by a different name.

What if instead of calling them fears, we called them stories?

Because that's really what fear is, if you think about it.

It's a kind of unintentional storytelling that we are all born knowing how to do.

And fears and storytelling have the same components.

They have the same architecture.

Like all stories, fears have characters.

Our fears also tend to contain imagery that can be every bit as vivid as what you might find in the pages of a novel.

Picture a cannibal, human teeth sinking into human skin, human flesh roasting over a fire.

Fears also have suspense.

If I've done my job as a storyteller today, you should be wondering what happened to the men of the whaleship Essex.

Our fears provoke in us a very similar form of suspense.

In other words, our fears make us think about the future.

In fear, just like in fiction, one thing always leads to another.

And then it was only later that I realized how very similar these questions were to the ones I used to ask myself as a child frightened in the night.

If an earthquake strikes tonight, I used to worry, what will happen to our house?

And the answer to those questions always took the form of a story.

So if we think of our fears as more than just fears but as stories, we should think of ourselves as the authors of those stories.

But just as importantly, we need to think of ourselves as the readers of our fears, and how we choose to read our fears can have a profound effect on our lives. 

Now, some of us naturally read our fears more closely than others.

So that way, if their worst fears came true, their businesses were ready. 

And sometimes, of course, our worst fears do come true.

That's one of the things that is so extraordinary about fear.

Once in a while, our fears can predict the future.

But we can't possibly prepare for all of the fears that our imaginations concoct.

So how can we tell the difference between the fears worth listening to and all the others?

After much deliberation, the men finally made a decision.

When the last of the survivors were finally picked up by two passing ships, less than half of the men were left alive, and some of them had resorted to their own form of cannibalism.

Why were they swayed by one story so much more than the other?

Looked at from this angle, theirs becomes a story about reading.

As we've seen, the men of the Essex had no trouble with the artistic part.

They dreamed up a variety of horrifying scenarios.

The problem was that they listened to the wrong story.

And maybe if we all tried to read our fears, we too would be less often swayed by the most salacious among them.

