On March 14, this year, I posted this poster on Facebook.

This is an image of me and my daughter holding the Israeli flag.

I will try to explain to you about the context of why and when I posted. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It's like every year it's the last minute that we can do something about the war with Iran.

So at some point it became, you know, to me, I'm a graphic designer, so I made posters about it and I posted the one I just showed you before.

So I went to sleep, and that was it for me.

We don't know people from Iran.

It's like, on Facebook, you have friends only from -- it's like your neighbors are your friends on Facebook.

And now people from Iran are talking to me. 

So I'm like, whoa.

I ask my wife to come, and I tell her, you have to see that.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) Because it's working, put me in a poster now. 

(Laughter) Because it's working, put me in a poster now. 

It's not just one dude making one poster, it's -- we can be part of it, so they start sending me pictures and ask me, "Make me a poster.

It was a huge amount of pictures.

So for a few days, that's how my living room was. 

And we received Israeli posters, Israeli images, but also lots of comments, lots of messages from Iran.

If it's an image, they may read it. 

So here are a few of them. 

And then it became news.

Because when you're seeing the Middle East, you see only the bad news.

And they just came, and it was so much, 

I remember one day, Michal, she was talking with the journalist, and she was asking him, "Who's gonna see the show?

And we were just at the beginning of the story. 

Something crazy also happened.

You have Lebanon that just -- a few days ago.

We really changed how people see the Middle East.

Because you're not in the Middle East.

And for a few days you got those images.

Today the Israel-Loves-Iran page is this number, 80,831, and two million people last week went on the page and shared, liked, I don't know, commented on one of the photos. 

So for five months now, that's what we are doing, me, Michal, a few of my friends, are just making images.

They see images of us, and they see bad images.

This is a guy in Tehran on the day of remembrance of the Israeli fallen soldier putting an image of an Israeli soldier on his page.

This is the enemy.

What? 

And it's going both ways.

And you become friends.

And at some point, you become friends on Facebook, and you become friends in life.

You can go and travel and meet people.

And I was in Munich a few weeks ago.

And that was the end of it.

Remember that image from the beginning?

At some point we met in real life, and we became friends. 

And it goes the other way around.

And for every guy from Israel, you've got someone from Iran.

Just people sending their pictures.

Crazy, yes? 

And I'm not that naive, because a lot of the time I've been asked, many times I've been asked, "Yeah, but, this is really naive, sending flowers over, I mean — " 

I know how it can look really bad.

And really, we can be our own ambassadors.

We can just send a message and hope for the best. 

