So a friend of mine who's a political scientist, he told me several months ago exactly what this month would be like.

To give you a quick primer on where we are, a quick refresher on where we are.

So the fiscal cliff, I was told that that's too partisan a thing to say, although I can't remember which party it's supporting or attacking.

So I just call it the self-imposed, self-destructive arbitrary deadline about resolving an inevitable problem.

And this is what the inevitable problem looks like.

So this is a projection of U.S. debt as a percentage of our overall economy, of GDP.

Here's another way to look at exactly the same problem.

The dark blue line is how much the government spends.

The light blue line is how much the government gets in.

And this graph sort of sums up what the problem is.

The Democrats, they say, well, this isn't a big deal.

But that system has tons of problems.

Wealth piles up in the wrong places.

Wealth is ripped away from people who shouldn't be called unproductive.

That's not going to create an equitable, fair society.

But here's what I learned.

The American people, taken as a whole, when it comes to these issues, to fiscal issues, are moderate, pragmatic centrists.

And I know that's hard to believe, that the American people are moderate, pragmatic centrists.

But let me explain what I'm thinking. 

Social Security is fairly easy to fix.

The rumors of its demise are always greatly exaggerated.

Raise medical health care contributions?

We're comfortable with it needing some tweaks, but we want to keep it.

We're not open to a discussion of eliminating it. 

The vast majority want to protect military defense spending.

Now when it comes to taxes, there is more disagreement.

That's a more partisan area.

So basically Republicans who make more than 250,000 dollars a year don't want to be taxed.

Raising taxes on investment income, you also see about two thirds of Democrats but only one third of Republicans are comfortable with that idea. 

If you add Democrats, you add Republicans, you've got the American people.

But that is not the case at all.

And it has not been the case for most of modern American history.

Roughly a third of Americans say that they are Democrats.

Around a quarter say that they are Republicans.

Now we get to fight about all sorts of other issues.

I talk to a lot of economists, and back in the '70s and '80s it was ugly being an economist.

You were in what they called the saltwater camp, meaning Harvard, Princeton, MIT, Stanford, Berkeley, or you were in the freshwater camp, University of Chicago, University of Rochester.

It's still ugly to this day, but in my experience, it is really, really hard to find an economist under 40 who still has that kind of way of seeing the world.

The vast majority of economists -- it is so uncool to call yourself an ideologue of either camp.

And the data is very clear.

None of these major theories have been completely successful.

Those groups are very, very small.

The vast majority of people, they pick and choose, they see compromise and they change over time when they hear a better argument or a worse argument.

And that part of it has not changed.

What has changed is how people respond to vague questions.

They don't represent what our views are. 

We had the battle between Jefferson and Hamilton.

The Fed can't mess it up so badly.

But then we got off the gold standard for individuals during the Depression and we got off the gold standard as a source of international currency coordination during Richard Nixon's presidency.

Each of those times, we were on the verge of complete collapse.

And nothing happened at all.

And this long-term fiscal picture that we're in right now, I think what is most maddening about it is, if Congress were simply able to show not that they agree with each other, not that they're able to come up with the best possible compromise, but that they are able to just begin the process towards compromise, we all instantly are better off.

The fear is that the world is watching.

