I'm a neuroscientist, and I study decision-making.

I do experiments to test how different chemicals in the brain influence the choices we make. 

A few years ago, my colleagues and I were interested in how a brain chemical called serotonin would influence people's decisions in social situations.

Specifically, we wanted to know how serotonin would affect the way people react when they're treated unfairly. 

So we did an experiment.

This is the amino acid tryptophan.

That's the study we did, and here are some of the headlines that came out afterwards. 

("Eating Cheese and Meat May Boost Self-Control") At this point, you might be wondering, did I miss something? 

We gave people this horrible-tasting drink that affected their tryptophan levels.

But it turns out that tryptophan also happens to be found in cheese and chocolate.

And of course when science says cheese and chocolate help you make better decisions, well, that's sure to grab people's attention.

So there you have it: the evolution of a headline. 

When this happened, a part of me thought, well, what's the big deal?

So the media oversimplified a few things, but in the end, it's just a news story.

And I think a lot of scientists have this attitude.

But the problem is that this kind of thing happens all the time, and it affects not just the stories you read in the news but also the products you see on the shelves.

When the headlines rolled, what happened was, the marketers came calling.

I think these folks meant well, but had I taken them up on their offers, I would have been going beyond the science, and good scientists are careful not to do this. 

(Laughter) I could totally have used this 10 minutes ago.

So when this came up in my local shop, naturally I was curious about some of the research backing these claims.

So I went to the company's website looking to find some controlled trials of their products.

But I didn't find any. 

Trial or no trial, these claims are front and center on their label right next to a picture of a brain.

And it turns out that pictures of brains have special properties.

A couple of researchers asked a few hundred people to read a scientific article.

For half the people, the article included a brain image, and for the other half, it was the same article but it didn't have a brain image.

At the end — you see where this is going — people were asked whether they agreed with the conclusions of the article.

So this is how much people agree with the conclusions with no image.

And this is how much they agree with the same article that did include a brain image.

So the take-home message here is, do you want to sell it?

Really cool stuff.

But the promise of neuroscience has led to some really high expectations and some overblown, unproven claims. 

So what I'm going to do is show you how to spot a couple of classic moves, dead giveaways, really, for what's variously been called neuro-bunk, neuro-bollocks, or, my personal favorite, neuro-flapdoodle. 

So the first unproven claim is that you can use brain scans to read people's thoughts and emotions.

It quickly became the most emailed article on the site. 

So how'd they figure this out?

They put 16 people inside a brain scanner and showed them videos of ringing iPhones.

The brain scans showed activation in a part of the brain called the insula, a region they say is linked to feelings of love and compassion.

So they concluded that because they saw activation in the insula, this meant the subjects loved their iPhones.

My colleagues Tal Yarkoni and Russ Poldrack have shown that the insula pops up in almost a third of all brain imaging studies that have ever been published.

This time it's not a cheese sandwich.

No, it's a hormone called oxytocin.

You've probably heard of it.

So he's calling oxytocin "the moral molecule."

Oxytocin can bias people to favor their own group at the expense of other groups.

And in some cases, oxytocin can even decrease cooperation.

So we've seen neuro-flapdoodle all over the headlines.

We see it in supermarkets, on book covers.

What about the clinic? 

For the bargain price of a few thousand dollars, there are clinics in the U.S. that will give you one of these SPECT scans and use the image to help diagnose your problems.

Some of these clinics are pulling in tens of millions of dollars a year in business. 

There's just one problem.

And if one day we can say that cheese and chocolate help us make better decisions, count me in.

But we're not there yet.

We haven't found a "buy" button inside the brain, we can't tell whether someone is lying or in love just by looking at their brain scans, and we can't turn sinners into saints with hormones.

So here's where you come in.

Ask for the part of the story that's not being told.

The answers shouldn't be simple, because the brain isn't simple.

But that's not stopping us from trying to figure it out anyway. 

