You see, as a youngster, I was always curious about a few things.

And secondly, where did the leprosy bacteria come from?

And why were Kānaka Maoli, the indigenous people of Hawaii, so susceptible to developing leprosy, or "mai Pake?"

But it wasn't until high school, through the Human Genome Project, that I realized I wasn't alone in trying to connect our unique genetic ancestry to our potential health, wellness and illness.

You see, the 2.7 billion-dollar project promised an era of predictive and preventative medicine based on our unique genetic makeup.

So to me it always seemed obvious that in order to achieve this dream, we would need to sequence a diverse cohort of people to obtain the full spectrum of human genetic variation on the planet.

That's why 10 years later, it continues to shock me, knowing that 96 percent of genome studies associating common genetic variation with specific diseases have focused exclusively on individuals of European ancestry. 

Now you don't need a PhD to see that that leaves four percent for the rest of diversity.

And in my own searching, I've discovered that far less than one percent have actually focused on indigenous communities, like myself.

So that begs the question: Who is the Human Genome Project actually for?

Just like we have different colored eyes and hair, we metabolize drugs differently based on the variation in our genomes.

So how many of you would be shocked to learn that 95 percent of clinical trials have also exclusively featured individuals of European ancestry? 

This bias and systematic lack of engagement of indigenous people in both clinical trials and genome studies is partially the result of a history of distrust.

For example, in 1989, researchers from Arizona State University obtained blood samples from Arizona's Havasupai tribe, promising to alleviate the burden of type 2 diabetes that was plaguing their community, only to turn around and use those exact same samples -- without the Havasupai's consent -- to study rates of schizophrenia, inbreeding, and challenge the Havasupai's origin story.

When the Havasupai found out, they sued successfully for $700,000, and they banned ASU from conducting research on their reservation.

This culminated in a sort of domino effect with local tribes in the Southwest -- including the Navajo Nation, one of the largest tribes in the country -- putting a moratorium on genetic research. 

Now despite this history of distrust, I still believe that indigenous people can benefit from genetic research.

And if we don't do something soon, the gap in health disparities is going to continue to widen.

So how do we ensure the populations of people that need genome sequencing the most are not the last to benefit?

Traditionally, genomes are sequenced in laboratories.

Here's an image of your classic genome sequencer.

It's huge.

It's the size of a refrigerator.

There's this obvious physical limitation.

But what if you could sequence genomes on the fly?

What if you could fit a genome sequencer in your pocket?

This nanopore-based sequencer is one 10,000th the size of your traditional genome sequencer.

It doesn't have the same physical limitations, in that it's not tethered to a lab bench with extraneous cords, large vats of chemicals or computer monitors.

But only if that's what Hawaiian people want.

In our space, on our terms. 

IndiGenomics is about science for the people by the people.

We'll be starting with a tribal consultation resource, focused on educating indigenous communities on the potential use and misuse of genetic information.

Eventually we'd like to have our own IndiGenomics research institute to conduct our own experiments and educate the next generation of indigenous scientists. 

In the end, indigenous people need to be partners in and not subjects of genetic research.

Mahalo. 

