Twelve years ago, I founded Zipcar.

Zipcar buys cars and parks them throughout dense metropolitan areas for people to use, by the hour and by the day, instead of owning their own cars.

But what Zipcar really did was make sharing the norm. 

Buzzcar lets people rent out their own cars to their friends and neighbors.

Instead of investing in a car, we invest in a community.

We bring the power of a corporation to individuals who add their cars to the network.

Some people call this peer-to-peer.

That's peer-to-peer.

It's like saying yard sales are the same thing as eBay, or craft fairs are the same thing as Etsy. 

I call this Peers, Inc.

So we have the peers that are providing the services and the product, and the company that's doing the stuff that companies do.

The two of these are delivering the best of both worlds.

This is all happening with excess capacity. 

This Peers, Inc. concept is in a very difficult and complex realm.

TopCoder has 400,000 engineers who are delivering complex design and engineering services.

When I talked to their CEO, he had this great line.

He said, "We have a community that owns its own company."

Every single decision, I have to think about what is right for both sides.

There are many, many examples and I'll give you one that is not my favorite example: insurance.

It took me a year and a half to get the insurance just right.

They need a low deductible, and 24-hour roadside assistance.

So this was a trick to get these two sides. 

So all those months of work, they come into play. 

We can flag that and we can put it to the side, and people who are buyers and consumers don't have to deal with it. 

That is the diversity of what's going on.

And after a year, we have 1,000 cars that are parked across France and 6,000 people who are members and eager to drive them.

This would not be possible to do that in economic fashion for a traditional company. 

And I can tell you two great stories.

So one of the reasons, if we come back to why did I call it Buzzcar?

So I continue to think that transportation is the center of the hard universe.

All problems come back to transportation for me.

