I'm usually introduced as a polar explorer.

But he was credited with coining the phrase, "Because it's there."

Now I'm not actually sure that he did say that.

Mallory's argument that leaving the house, embarking on these grand adventures is joyful and fun, however, doesn't tally that neatly with my own experience.

I sat there wondering what on Earth I had gotten myself into.

We were both thundering through this incredible Siberian dawn, and part of me felt a bit like a cross between Jason Bourne and Wilfred Thesiger.

Beyond that, I didn't see anyone for 10 weeks.

The North Pole is slap bang in the middle of the sea, so I'm traveling over the frozen surface of the Arctic Ocean.

NASA described conditions that year as the worst since records began.

I was dragging 180 kilos of food and fuel and supplies, about 400 pounds.

So again, there wasn't an awful lot of joy or fun to be had. 

One of the magical things about this journey, however, is that because I'm walking over the sea, over this floating, drifting, shifting crust of ice that's floating on top of the Arctic Ocean is it's an environment that's in a constant state of flux.

And that, I guess, is probably the finest argument for leaving the house.

And it seems to me, therefore, that the doing, you know, to try to experience, to engage, to endeavor, rather than to watch and to wonder, that's where the real meat of life is to be found, the juice that we can suck out of our hours and days.

And I would add a cautionary note here, however.

In my experience, there is something addictive about tasting life at the very edge of what's humanly possible.

Many of you will know the story.

This is a photo of Captain Scott and his team.

All five of them turned and started walking back to the coast and all five died on that return journey. 

There is a sort of misconception nowadays that it's all been done in the fields of exploration and adventure.

But Scott's journey remains unfinished.

No one has ever walked from the very coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again.

So that's precisely what I'm setting out to do. 

This time next year, in October, I'm leading a team of three.

We have to turn around and come back again.

And it'll also be a four-month chance for me to finally come up with a pithy answer to the question, "Why?"

If I wanted to know, for example, how many stars were in the Milky Way, how old those giant heads on Easter Island were, most of you could find that out right now without even standing up.

And yet, if I've learned anything in nearly 12 years now of dragging heavy things around cold places, it is that true, real inspiration and growth only comes from adversity and from challenge, from stepping away from what's comfortable and familiar and stepping out into the unknown.

I certainly would implore you to open the door just a little bit and take a look at what's outside.

