And basically it's all evolved to handle its food source, which is dung. 

So the question is, where do we start this story?

They are grown completely in a ball of dung.

Within South Africa, we've got about 800 species of dung beetles, in Africa we've got 2,000 species of dung beetles, and in the world we have about 6,000 species of dung beetles.

So, according to dung beetles, dung is pretty good. 

So the question is, how do they deal with this material?

And most dung beetles actually wrap it into a package of some sort.

So this is a very proud owner of a beautiful dung ball.

So what I want to share with you now are some of the experiments that myself and my colleagues have used to investigate how dung beetles deal with these problems. 

A little dance, and then heads off in a particular direction.

So this animal has actually had the whole world turned under its feet.

It was that every now and then they'd climb on top of the ball and they'd take a look at the world around them.

And what do you think they could be looking at as they climb on top of the ball?

And the obvious thing to look at is the sun.

What we're going to do now is shade the sun with a board and then move the sun with a mirror to a completely different position.

And look at what the beetle does.

The sun is a very important cue in the sky for them. 

What we do is we get a great big polarization filter, pop the beetle underneath it, and the filter is at right angles to the polarization pattern of the sky.

So obviously beetles can see polarized light. 

How are they maintaining it in a particular straight line?

But how do they pick up those celestial cues?

So what are they doing when they do this dance?

How far can we push them before they will reorientate themselves?

And see what his response is.

Every now and then, when they climb on top of the ball, they wipe their face.

And we thought that it could be a thermoregulatory behavior.

We thought that maybe what they're doing is trying to get off the hot soil and also spitting onto their face to cool their head down. 

So what we did was design a couple of arenas.

And then what we did was we filmed them with a thermal camera.

So what you're looking at here is a heat image of the system, and what you can see here emerging from the poo is a cool dung ball.

So the truth is, if you look at the temperature over here, dung is cool.

So all we're interested in here is comparing the temperature of the beetle against the background.

So the background here is around about 50 degrees centigrade.

It's about the same as yours and mine.

And what's of interest here is that little brain is quite cool.

But if we contrast now what happens in a hot environment, look at the temperature of the soil.

It's up around 55 to 60 degrees centigrade.

So the ball leaves a little thermal shadow, and the beetle climbs on top of the ball and wipes its face, and all the time it's trying to cool itself down, we think, and avoid the hot sand that it's walking across. 

And if you look over here, with boots they climb onto the ball far less often when they had no boots on.

So we described these as cool boots.

And that's exactly what the beetles are doing here. 

It's from a genus called Pachysoma.

This is a different species in the same genus but exactly the same foraging behavior. 

So watch this individual here, and what he's trying to do is set up a nest.

And what I want you to notice is the outward path compared to the homeward path, and compare the two.

And by and large, you'll see that the homeward path is far more direct than the outward path.

On the outward path, he's always on the lookout for a new blob of dung.

On the way home, he knows where home is, and he wants to go straight to it.

And watch, you're going to see another South African crime taking place right now.

So what we're looking at here is a behavior called path integration.

Now there's two ways it could be doing that, and we can test that by displacing the beetle to a new position when it's at the foraging site.

If it's using landmarks, it will find its home.

It knows the bearing home, and it knows it should be in that direction.

If you displace it, it ends up in the wrong place.

So let's see what happens when we put this beetle to the test with a similar experiment. 

So here's our cunning experimenter.

The forage has been displaced to a new position.

If he's using path integration, then it should end up in the wrong spot over here. 

So let's watch what happens when we put the beetle through the whole test.

So there he is there.

He's about to head home, and look what happens.

Shame.

It hasn't a clue.

So we know now that this animal uses path integration to find its way around, and the callous experimenter leads it top left and leaves it.

We don't know yet what dung beetles use. 

So what have we learned from these animals with a brain that's the size of a grain of rice?

Well, we know that they can roll balls in a straight line using celestial cues.

We know that the dance behavior is an orientation behavior and it's also a thermoregulation behavior, and we also know that they use a path integration system for finding their way home.

