And that's changed irrevocably. 

So I wrote a letter.

And 60 seconds is the amount of time it took for it to travel 250 kilometers to Managua.

So the ground shook in Managua 60 seconds after it hit the epicenter.

So that's, every second, more than an hour of video gets uploaded.

And in photos, Instagram, 58 photos are uploaded to Instagram a second.

More than three and a half thousand photos go up onto Facebook.

So by the time I'm finished talking here, there'll be 864 more hours of video on Youtube than there were when I started, and two and a half million more photos on Facebook and Instagram than when I started. 

Any event that happens anywhere in the world, I should be able to know about it pretty much instantaneously, as it happens, for free.

And that goes for every single person in this room. 

The only problem is, when you have that much information, you have to find the good stuff, and that can be incredibly difficult when you're dealing with those volumes.

And the reason that they could tell that it was real was because they could get to the source, and in this case, these guys were New York food bloggers.

And you were, instead of going and finding the information and bringing it back to the reader, you were holding back the stuff that was potentially damaging. 

And a good example of how useful it can be but also how difficult was the Egyptian revolution in 2011.

As a non-Arabic speaker, as someone who was looking from the outside, from Dublin, Twitter lists, and lists of good sources, people we could establish were credible, were really important.

This visualization was done by an Italian academic.

And as the conversation grew and grew, it became more and more lively, and eventually you were left with this huge, big, rhythmic pointer of this conversation.

And when you start digging into the sources, you can go further and further than you ever could before. 

And you have to do that investigative work.

And this video, which I'm going to let run through, was one we discovered a couple of weeks ago. 

Video: Getting real windy in just a second. 

There was only one video posted to that account, and the username was Rita Krill.

And we didn't know if Rita existed or if it was a fake name.

But we started looking, and we used free Internet tools to do so.

The first one was called Spokeo, which allowed us to look for Rita Krills.

So we looked all over the U.S. We found them in New York, we found them in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Florida.

Sometimes the search for truth, though, is a little bit less flippant, and it has much greater consequences.

So this video, I'm not going to show you the whole thing, because it's quite gruesome, but you'll hear some of the sounds.

This is from Hama.

Video: (Shouting) And what this video shows, when you watch the whole thing through, is bloody bodies being taken out of a pickup truck and thrown off a bridge.

Three different sources said three different things about the bridge.

So that was the only one that gave us a clue.

We looked through the video for other clues.

It had black-and-white curbs.

And also, as you look away from the bridge, there's a divot on the left-hand side of the bank, and the river narrows. 

So onto Google Maps we go, and we start looking through literally every single bridge.

We start to see that it's got a median, so it's a two-lane bridge.

The first thing that we see is we see black-and-white curbing, which is handy because we've seen that before.

Given a couple of clues, I could probably find out a lot of things about most of you in the audience that you might not like me finding out. 

But what it tells me is that, at a time when there's more -- there's a greater abundance of information than there ever has been, it's harder to filter, we have greater tools.

We have free Internet tools that allow us, help us do this kind of investigation.

We have algorithms that are smarter than ever before, and computers that are quicker than ever before. 

