In 2002, a group of treatment activists met to discuss the early development of the airplane.

The Wright Brothers, in the beginning of the last century, had for the first time managed to make one of those devices fly.

They also had taken out numerous patents on essential parts of the airplane.

They were not the only ones.

That was common practice in the industry, and those who held patents on airplanes were defending them fiercely and suing competitors left and right. 

So there was a bit of a conflict there.

The U.S. government decided to take action, and forced those patent holders to make their patents available to share with others to enable the production of airplanes. 

So what has this got to do with this? 

AIDS had become a chronic disease.

People in our countries here in Europe, in North America, were living with HIV, healthy lives.

Nelson decided to become a treatment activist and join up with other groups.

In 2002, they were facing a different battle.

Prices for ARVs, the drugs needed to treat HIV, cost about 12,000 [dollars] per patient per year.

The patents on those drugs were held by a number of Western pharmaceutical companies that were not necessarily willing to make those patents available.

When you have a patent, you can exclude anyone else from making, from producing or making low-cost versions, for example, available of those medications.

Clearly this led to patent wars breaking out all over the globe. 

Luckily, those patents did not exist everywhere.

Treatment programs became possible, funding became available, and the number of people on antiretroviral drugs started to increase very rapidly. 

Today, eight million people have access to antiretroviral drugs.

Thirty-four million are infected with HIV.

People who have access to these drugs stop dying.

This is fairly recent science that has shown that.

What that means is we have the tools to break the back of this epidemic. 

So what's the problem?

Today, all countries are obliged to provide patents for pharmaceuticals that last at least 20 years.

This is as a result of the intellectual property rules of the World Trade Organization.

So what India did is no longer possible.

Second, the practice of patent-holding companies have changed.

So you can imagine that if you are a generic company about to decide whether to invest in the development of this product, unless you know that the licenses to these patents are actually going to be available, you will probably choose to do something else.

Again, deliberate action is needed. 

So surely if a patent pool could be established to ramp up the production of military airplanes, we should be able to do something similar to tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 

That can be generic manufacturers.

Those manufacturers can then sell those medicines at much lower cost to people who need access to them, to treatment programs that need access to them.

They pay royalties over the sales to the patent holders, so they are remunerated for sharing their intellectual property. 

There is one key difference with the airplane patent pool.

The Medicines Patent Pool is a voluntary mechanism.

That is something that the Medicines Patent Pool cannot do.

It relies on the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to license their patents and make them available for others to use. 

Today, Nelson Otwoma is healthy.

He has access to antiretroviral drugs.

His son will soon be 14 years old.

Nelson is a member of the expert advisory group of the Medicines Patent Pool, and he told me not so long ago, "Ellen, we rely in Kenya and in many other countries on the Medicines Patent Pool to make sure that new medicines also become available to us, that new medicines, without delay, become available to us."

And this is no longer fantasy.

The company, Gilead, that holds the patents, has licensed the intellectual property to the Medicines Patent Pool.

This has never been done before.

The rule is about a 10-year delay for a new product to go to market in developing countries, if at all.

This has never been seen before.

