I'd like to show you a video of some of the models I work with.

They're all the perfect size, and they don't have an ounce of fat.

Did I mention they're gorgeous?

And one day we hope that these tissues can serve as replacement parts for the human body.

But what I'm going to tell you about today is how these tissues make awesome models. 

Well, let's think about the drug screening process for a moment.

And the later it fails, the worse the consequences. 

So what if we had better models in the lab that could not only mimic us better than rats but also reflect our diversity?

Let's see how we can do it with tissue engineering. 

One of the key technologies that's really important is what's called induced pluripotent stem cells.

So they're skin cells that can be tricked, kind of like cellular amnesia, into an embryonic state.

So without the controversy, that's cool thing number one.

So we can make a model of your heart, your brain on a chip. 

It would be like having a clinical trial on a chip. 

Here's an example from Kevin Eggan's lab at Harvard.

So with disease models like these, we can fight back faster than ever before and understand the disease better than ever before, and maybe discover drugs even faster.

This is another example of patient-specific stem cells that were engineered from someone with retinitis pigmentosa.

This is a degeneration of the retina.

It's a disease that runs in my family, and we really hope that cells like these will help us find a cure. 

A drug for the heart can get metabolized in the liver, and some of the byproducts may be stored in the fat.

Don't you miss all that with these tissue-engineered models?

Well, this is another trend in the field.

These systems are really hard to build, but we're just starting to be able to get there, and so, watch out. 

Wouldn't you rather test to see if those cancer drugs you're going to take are going to work on your cancer?

Essentially, we're dramatically speeding up that feedback between developing a molecule and learning about how it acts in the human body.

