I'm going to talk about the power of a word: jihad. 

It is a struggle to try and live a life that is set by the moral codes written in the Koran.

In that original idea, the concept of jihad is as important to Muslims as the idea of grace is to Christians.

But there have always been, in Islam, a small group, a minority, who believe that jihad is not only an internal struggle but also an external struggle against forces that would threaten the faith, or the faithul.

And some of these people believe that in that struggle, it is sometimes okay to take up arms.

And we forget this now, but back then the Mujahideen were celebrated in this country, in America.

We thought of them as holy warriors who were taking the good fight to the ungodly communists.

America gave them weapons, gave them money, gave them support, encouragement. 

His idea of jihad was a global war of terror, primarily targeted at the far enemy, at the crusaders from the West, against America.

We just assumed that if this insane man and his psychopathic followers were calling what they did jihad, then that's what jihad must mean.

A year ago I was in Tunis, and I met the imam of a very small mosque, an old man.

But he told me that after 9/11, he began to have second thoughts.

He worried that if he called her by that name, especially outdoors, outside in public, he might be seen as endorsing bin Laden's idea of jihad.

They had heard bin Laden say that that was jihad, and claimed victory for it.

The United States, at this point, was putting pressure on all its Arab allies, including Tunisia, to stamp out extremism in their societies, and this imam found himself suddenly in the crosshairs of the Tunisian intelligence service.

That was the power of that word that he was able to do.

And it filled this old imam, it filled him with great sadness.

He told me that, of bin Laden's many crimes, this was, in his mind, one that didn't get enough attention, that he took this word, this beautiful idea.

But the good news is that the global jihad is almost over, as bin Laden defined it.

Opinion polls from all over the Muslim world show that there is very little interest among Muslims in a global holy war against the West, against the far enemy.

The supply of young men willing to fight and die for this cause is dwindling.

The supply of money — just as important, more important perhaps — the supply of money to this activity is also dwindling.

The wealthy fanatics who were previously sponsoring this kind of activity are now less generous. 

What does that mean for us in the West?

And so there's now a lot of different violent jihads all over the world.

In Somalia, in Mali, in Nigeria, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, Pakistan, there are groups that claim to be the inheritors of the legacy of Osama bin Laden.

They use his rhetoric.

They even use the brand name he created for his jihad.

So there is now an al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, there's an al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, there is an al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.

There are other groups -- in Nigeria, Boko Haram, in Somalia, al Shabaab -- and they all pay homage to Osama bin Laden.

But if you look closely, they're not fighting a global jihad.

They're fighting battles over much narrower issues.

Usually it has to do with ethnicity or race or sectarianism, or it's a power struggle.

More often than not, it's a power struggle in one country, or even a small region within one country.

It's old school al Qaeda.

You may remember these guys.

They are the ones who tried to send the underwear bomber here, and they were using the Internet to try and instigate violence among American Muslims.

But they have been distracted recently.

And then the Yemeni military got its act together, and ordinary people rose up against these guys and drove them out, and since then, most of their activities, most of their attacks have been directed at Yemenis. 

So I think we've come to a point now where we can say that, just like all politics, all jihad is local.

When those Mujahideen defeated the Soviet Union, we disengaged.

Local jihad, if you ignore it, becomes global jihad again. 

The good news is that it doesn't have to be.

We know how to fight it now.

Who ended the global jihad?

There lie the answers to the solution to local jihad. 

He probably thought 9/11 was his greatest achievement.

In reality, it was the beginning of the end for him.

Any claim that al Qaeda had to being protectors of Islam against the Western crusaders was drowned in the blood of Iraqi Muslims. 

And perhaps, a time will come when they get the rightful credit for it. 

Now, not all of these things will work in local jihad.

The American military is not going to march into Nigeria to take on Boko Haram, and it's unlikely that SEAL Team Six will rappel into the homes of al Shabaab's leaders and take them out. 

We don't have to reinvent the wheel.

The notion of violent jihad in which more Muslims are killed than any other kind of people is already thoroughly discredited.

We don't have to go back to that.

Satellite television and the Internet are informing and empowering young Muslims in exciting new ways.

We've got plenty of these things. 

His definition of jihad can now be expunged.

