I could never have imagined that a 19-year-old suicide bomber would actually teach me a valuable lesson.

But he did.

He taught me to never presume anything about anyone you don't know. 

I didn't see him.

Actually, I didn't see anyone.

Especially in those final seconds. 

I know it wasn't personal.

He didn't set out to kill or maim me, Gill Hicks.

I mean -- he didn't know me.

No.

Instead, he gave me an unwarranted and an unwanted label.

I had become the enemy.

To him, I was the "other," the "them," as opposed to "us."

And he wasn't selective.

We didn't know we were the enemy.

We were just a bunch of commuters who, minutes earlier, had followed the Tube etiquette: no direct eye contact, no talking and absolutely no conversation. 

I didn't know Richard.

But it mattered to me that he survived. 

All I shared with them was my first name.

I don't smoke cigarillos anymore.

I drank gin and I watched TED Talks, of course, never dreaming that one day I would be standing, balancing on prosthetic legs, giving a talk. 

I held myself upright and I fought the urge to close my eyes. 

Perhaps I should have done more.

Perhaps I could have lived more, seen more.

Maybe I should have gone running, dancing, taken up yoga.

But my priority and my focus was always my work.

I lived to work.

Who I was on my business card mattered to me.

But it didn't matter down in that tunnel. 

I surrendered my body to them.

I had done all I possibly could, and now I was in their hands. 

Those four words were my gift.

What they told me very clearly was that my life was saved, purely because I was a human being.

I see myself as a living fact.

I am proof that unconditional love and respect can not only save, but it can transform lives.

Ten years after the event, and here we are, arm in arm. 

What did I feel?

I felt loved.

I was loved. 

I know the brilliance of humanity.

Does it have to take a tragedy or a disaster for us to feel deeply connected as one species, as human beings?

Thank you. 

