I would like to talk to you about a very special group of animals. 

There are 10,000 species of birds in the world.

Vultures are amongst the most threatened group of birds.

When you see a vulture like this, the first thing that comes to your mind is, these are disgusting, ugly, greedy creatures that are just after your flesh, associated with politicians.

First of all, why do they have such a bad press?

They've also be associated with Disney — (Laughter) — personified as goofy, dumb, stupid characters. 

Because MPs do not keep the environment clean.

Because MPs do not keep the environment clean.

Because MPs do not keep the environment clean.

So there's two types of vultures in this planet.

There are the New World vultures that are mainly found in the Americas, like the condors and the caracaras, and then the Old World vultures, where we have 16 species.

They're our natural garbage collectors.

Recent studies have shown that in areas where there are no vultures, carcasses take up to three to four times to decompose, and this has huge ramifications for the spread of diseases. 

Vultures also have tremendous historical significance.

They have been associated in ancient Egyptian culture.

Nekhbet was the symbol of the protector and the motherhood, and together with the cobra, symbolized the unity between Upper and Lower Egypt.

In Hindu mythology, Jatayu was the vulture god, and he risked his life in order to save the goddess Sita from the 10-headed demon Ravana.

In Tibetan culture, they are performing very important sky burials.

So what is the problem with vultures?

The reason is that they're getting poisoned, and the reason that they're getting poisoned is because there's human-wildlife conflicts.

This drug has now been banned for veterinary use in India, and they have taken a stand.

Kenya is going to have one of the largest wind farms in Africa: 353 wind turbines are going to be up at Lake Turkana.

They are bird-blending machines.

In West Africa, there's a horrific trade of dead vultures to serve the witchcraft and the fetish market. 

We need to work with governments in regional levels.

When you walk out of this room, you will be informed about vultures, but speak to your families, to your children, to your neighbors about vultures. 

Kenya, this world, will be much poorer without these wonderful species.

