Life is about opportunities, creating them and embracing them, and for me, that was the Olympic dream.

As a cross-country skier and member of the Australian ski team, headed towards the Winter Olympics, I was on a training bike ride with my fellow teammates.

And I got up off the seat of my bike, and I started pumping my legs, and as I sucked in the cold mountain air, I could feel it burning my lungs, and I looked up to see the sun shining in my face. 

I was airlifted from the scene of the accident by a rescue helicopter to a large spinal unit in Sydney.

I had extensive and life-threatening injuries.

My whole right side was ripped open, filled with gravel.

For over 10 days, I drifted between two dimensions.

I had an awareness of being in my body, but also being out of my body, somewhere else, watching from above as if it was happening to someone else.

Why would I want to go back to a body that was so broken? 

I was at a crossroads.

I knew if I didn't return to my body, I'd have to leave this world forever.

It was the fight of my life.

They said to my parents, the neck break was a stable fracture, but the back was completely crushed.

The vertebra at L1 was like you'd dropped a peanut, stepped on it, smashed it into thousands of pieces.

They picked as much broken bone as they could that had lodged in my spinal cord.

(Laughter) I had no idea.

If I couldn't do that, then what could I do?

And the question I asked myself is, if I couldn't do that, then who was I? 

They moved me from intensive care to acute spinal.

And there were no superficial conversations as we shared our innermost thoughts, our fears, and our hopes for life after the spinal ward. 

I remember one night, one of the nurses came in, Jonathan, with a whole lot of plastic straws.

And each of us knew that when we left the spinal ward we would never be the same. 

After six months, it was time to go home.

I soaked it up and I thought, how could I ever have taken this for granted?

I felt so incredibly grateful for my life.

But before I left the hospital, the head nurse had said to me, "Janine, I want you to be ready, because when you get home, something's going to happen."

I'd lost so much weight in the hospital I now weighed about 80 pounds.

And I wanted to give up.

And then I remembered my friends that were still in the spinal ward, particularly Maria.

They told me, "We're going to move you next to her because we think it will be good for her."

I knew it would be challenging, but it was actually a blessing, because Maria always smiled.

She was always happy, and even when she began to talk again, albeit difficult to understand, she never complained, not once.

And I wondered how had she ever found that level of acceptance. 

And then I thought to myself, maybe being at rock bottom is actually the perfect place to start. 

But now I was about to embark on the most creative project that any of us could ever do: that of rebuilding a life.

And even though I had absolutely no idea what I was going to do, in that uncertainty came a sense of freedom.

I was no longer tied to a set path.

I was free to explore life's infinite possibilities.

And that realization was about to change my life. 

(Laughter) I said, "Pass me the yellow pages."

She passed me the phone book, I rang up the flying school, I made a booking, said I'd like to make a booking to come out for a flight.

(Laughter) I can tell you, I did not look like the ideal candidate to get a pilot's license.

So he got over to the runway, and he applied the power.

And then I learned to fly an airplane with two engines and I got my twin engine rating.

And then I learned to fly in bad weather as well as fine weather and got my instrument rating.

(Applause) 

But then I knew for certain that although my body might be limited, it was my spirit that was unstoppable. 

It wasn't until I let go of the life I thought I should have that I was able to embrace the life that was waiting for me.

And then it no longer matters what you look like, where you come from, or what you do for a living.

And if we are to move towards our collective bliss, it's time we shed our focus on the physical and instead embrace the virtues of the heart. 

So raise your straws if you'll join me. 

Thank you.

(Applause) Thank you. 

