Road congestion is a pervasive phenomenon.

I mean, think about how different cities are, actually.

I mean, you have the typical European cities, with a dense urban core, good public transportation mostly, not a lot of road capacity.

And traffic planners all around the world have tried lots of different measures: dense cities or dispersed cities, lots of roads or lots of public transport or lots of bike lanes or more information, or lots of different things, but nothing seems to work. 

But all of these attempts have one thing in common.

They're basically attempts at figuring out what people should do instead of rush hour car driving.

They're essentially, to a point, attempts at planning what other people should do, planning their life for them. 

Back in 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell, an urban planner in London got a phone call from a colleague in Moscow saying, basically, "Hi, this is Vladimir.

It organizes itself.

When you try to solve really complex social problems, the right thing to do is most of the time to create the incentives.

You don't plan the details, and people will figure out what to do, how to adapt to this new framework. 

And let's now look at how we can use this insight to combat road congestion. 

This is a map of Stockholm, my hometown.

And these red dots show the most congested parts, which are the bridges that lead into the inner city.

And then someone came up with the idea that, apart from good public transport, apart from spending money on roads, let's try to charge drivers one or two euros at these bottlenecks. 

You would be wrong.

One or two euros was enough to make 20 percent of cars disappear from rush hours.

But fortunately, it also works the other way around.

If you can reduce traffic even somewhat, then congestion will go down much faster than you might think.

The first day with the congestion charges looked like this.

This is what happens when you take away 20 percent of the cars from the streets.

You really reduce congestion quite substantially. 

But, well, as I said, I mean, car drivers adapt, right?

So after a while they would all come back because they have sort of gotten used to charges.

But you see, there's an interesting gap here in the time series in 2007.

But it was fun anyway. 

The first day they all came back.

This shows public support for congestion pricing of Stockholm, and you see that when congestion pricing were introduced in the beginning of Spring 2006, people were fiercely against it.

Seventy percent of the population didn't want this.

They're not even aware of this themselves. 

So we did another interview survey, tried to figure out why people changed their mind, and what type of group changed their minds?

And after analyzing the answers, it turned out that more than half of them believe that they haven't changed their minds.

They're actually confident that they have liked congestion pricing all along.

You should just nudge them in the right direction.

