Everything I do, and everything I do professionally -- my life -- has been shaped by seven years of work as a young man in Africa.

From 1971 to 1977 -- I look young, but I'm not — (Laughter) -- I worked in Zambia, Kenya, Ivory Coast, Algeria, Somalia, in projects of technical cooperation with African countries. 

I worked for an Italian NGO, and every single project that we set up in Africa failed.

And I was distraught.

I thought, age 21, that we Italians were good people and we were doing good work in Africa.

Instead, everything we touched we killed. 

Our first project, the one that has inspired my first book, "Ripples from the Zambezi," was a project where we Italians decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food.

But instead of asking them how come they were not growing anything, we simply said, "Thank God we're here."

When the tomatoes were nice and ripe and red, overnight, some 200 hippos came out from the river and they ate everything.

Because, you see, at least we fed the hippos. 

You want to read the book, read "Dead Aid," by Dambisa Moyo, Zambian woman economist.

The book was published in 2009.

We Western donor countries have given the African continent two trillion American dollars in the last 50 years.

I'm not going to tell you the damage that that money has done.

Just go and read her book.

Read it from an African woman, the damage that we have done. 

The two words come from the Latin root "pater," which means "father."

But they mean two different things.

That's why the white people in Africa are called "bwana," boss. 

The first principle of aid is respect.

This morning, the gentleman who opened this conference lay a stick on the floor, and said, "Can we -- can you imagine a city that is not neocolonial?"

So what you do -- you shut up.

We have zero infrastructure.

The most important thing is passion.

The passion that the person has for her own growth is the most important thing.

The passion that that man has for his own personal growth is the most important thing.

The person with the idea may not have the knowledge, but the knowledge is available. 

Let me tell you a secret.

There is a problem with community meetings.

Entrepreneurs never come, and they never tell you, in a public meeting, what they want to do with their own money, what opportunity they have identified.

So planning has this blind spot.

You have to create a new profession.

I started this as a tryout in Esperance, in Western Australia.

We have helped to start 40,000 businesses.

There is a new generation of entrepreneurs who are dying of solitude. 

So now you're rebuilding Christchurch without knowing what the smartest people in Christchurch want to do with their own money and their own energy.

You have to learn how to get these people to come and talk to you.

In a community of 10,000 people, we get 200 clients.

Can you imagine a community of 400,000 people, the intelligence and the passion?

So what I'm saying is that entrepreneurship is where it's at.

We are at the end of the first industrial revolution -- nonrenewable fossil fuels, manufacturing -- and all of a sudden, we have systems which are not sustainable.

The internal combustion engine is not sustainable.

Freon way of maintaining things is not sustainable.

What we have to look at is at how we feed, cure, educate, transport, communicate for seven billion people in a sustainable way.

The technologies do not exist to do that.

There's a lovely story that I read in a futurist magazine many, many years ago.

There was a group of experts who were invited to discuss the future of the city of New York in 1860.

However, there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs.

First, you have to offer them confidentiality.

Otherwise they don't come and talk to you.

Then you have to offer them absolute, dedicated, passionate service to them.

And then you have to tell them the truth about entrepreneurship.

Guess what?

This person has never been born.

Never the word "I," and the word "we" 32 times.

