(Music) 

So I started shooting time-lapse photography.

Their beauty immerses us with color, taste, touch.

It also provides a third of the food we eat.

(Music) Beauty and seduction is nature's tools for survival, because we protect what we fall in love with.

It opens our hearts, and makes us realize we are a part of nature and we're not separate from it.

The "oh" means it caught your attention, makes you present, makes you mindful.

The "my" means it connects with something deep inside your soul.

God is that personal journey we all want to be on, to be inspired, to feel like we're connected to a universe that celebrates life. 

Did you know that 80 percent of the information we receive comes through our eyes?

(Music) 

Nature's beauty is a gift that cultivates appreciation and gratitude.

(Music) So I have a gift I want to share with you today, a project I'm working on called Happiness Revealed, and it'll give us a glimpse into that perspective from the point of view of a child and an elderly man of that world. 

(Music) 

It's the only gift that you have right now, and the only appropriate response is gratefulness.

If you do nothing else but to cultivate that response to the great gift that this unique day is, if you learn to respond as if it were the first day in your life and the very last day, then you will have spent this day very well. 

Begin by opening your eyes and be surprised that you have eyes you can open, that incredible array of colors that is constantly offered to us for pure enjoyment.

Look at the sky.

We so rarely look at the sky.

We so rarely note how different it is from moment to moment, with clouds coming and going.

We just think of good weather and bad weather.

Look at the faces of people whom you meet.

(Music) 

Open your heart to the incredible gifts that civilization gives to us.

You flip a switch and there is electric light.

You turn a faucet and there is warm water and cold water, and drinkable water.

It's a gift that millions and millions in the world will never experience. 

So these are just a few of an enormous number of gifts to which we can open your heart.

(Music) 

