But let's be frank.

When the kids are in bed, who is in front of the PlayStation?

Would any of you complain if this was the case about doing linear algebra? 

So what we are asking in the lab is, how can we leverage that power?

Now I want to step back a bit.

I'd like you to put this kind of knee-jerk reaction in the context of what you would have thought if you had found your girl playing sudoku or your boy reading Shakespeare.

Most parents would find that great.

Well, I'm not going to tell you that playing video games days in and days out is actually good for your health.

It's not, and binging is never good.

But I'm going to argue that in reasonable doses, actually the very game I showed you at the beginning, those action-packed shooter games have quite powerful effects and positive effects on many different aspects of our behavior. 

I'd like to put this kind of Friday night bar discussion aside and get you to actually step into the lab.

And so I'm going to take a few examples from our work. 

One first saying that I'm sure you all have heard is the fact that too much screen time makes your eyesight worse.

That's a statement about vision.

There may be vision scientists among you.

We actually know how to test that statement.

It's better than those that don't play.

And it's better in two different ways.

The first way is that they're actually able to resolve small detail in the context of clutter, and though that means being able to read the fine print on a prescription rather than using magnifier glasses, you can actually do it with just your eyesight.

So we're actually leveraging that work to develop games for patients with low vision, and to have an impact on retraining their brain to see better.

Clearly, when it comes to action video games, screen time doesn't make your eyesight worse. 

Another saying that I'm sure you have all heard around: Video games lead to attention problems and greater distractability.

Okay, we know how to measure attention in the lab.

I'm actually going to give you an example of how we do so.

Audience: Yellow.DB: Good.

That's for you guys, action video game players.

Now, when we do brain imaging, we find that all three of these networks are actually much more efficient in people that play action games. 

Now, we can measure that kind of skills in the lab.

When we do that, we actually find that people that play a lot of action games are really, really good.

That's a multimedia-tasker.

There was a first study done by colleagues at Stanford and that we replicated that showed that those people that identify as being high multimedia-taskers are absolutely abysmal at multitasking.

When we measure them in the lab, they're really bad. 

The first one is that not all media are created equal.

Even within video games, I'm telling you right now about these action-packed video games.

Different video games have a different effect on your brains.

So we actually need to step into the lab and really measure what is the effect of each video game. 

The other lesson is that general wisdom carries no weight.

I showed that to you already, like we looked at the fact that despite a lot of screen time, those action gamers have a lot of very good vision, etc.

Now because we are interested in having an impact for education or rehabilitation of patients, we are actually not that interested in how those of you that choose to play video games for many hours on end perform.

That's the point of rehabilitation or education.

And one more step is to do training studies.

Like, the reason that I asked you to do that is because you really feel your brain cringing, right?

It doesn't really feel like playing mindless action video games. 

Then, once they are done with the training, they come back a few days later and they are tested again on a similar type of mental rotation task.

Now, at this point, a number of you are probably wondering well, what are you waiting for, to put on the market a game that would be good for the attention of my grandmother and that she would actually enjoy, or a game that would be great to rehabilitate the vision of my grandson who has amblyopia, for example? 

Well, we're working on it, but here is a challenge.

There are brain scientists like me that are beginning to understand what are the good ingredients in games to promote positive effects, and that's what I'm going to call the broccoli side of the equation.

There is an entertainment software industry which is extremely deft at coming up with appealing products that you can't resist.

That's the chocolate side of the equation.

