What was this place called Minto?

I have to say, it wasn't exactly what I had in mind for my first day down under.

I mean, I'd thought about the Harbour Bridge or Bondi Beach, but Minto?

So, off I went into Friday afternoon traffic, and I'll never forget what I saw when I got there.

Lone Twin had come to Minto and worked with the residents, and they had created these dances. 

And he was followed by her little sister.

And soon they were all dancing this joyous, exuberant dance right there on their lawn.

And as I walked through the neighborhood, I was amazed and I was moved by the incredible sense of ownership this community clearly felt about this event.

"Minto: Live" brought Sydneysiders into dialogue with international artists, and really celebrated the diversity of Sydney on its own terms. 

The Sydney Festival which produced "Minto: Live" I think represents a new kind of 21st-century arts festival.

These festivals are radically open.

They can transform cities and communities. 

To understand this, I think it kind of makes sense to look where we've come from.

Modern arts festivals were born in the rubble of World War II.

Civic leaders created these annual events to celebrate culture as the highest expression of the human spirit.

In 1947, the Edinburgh Festival was born and Avignon was born and hundreds of others would follow in their wake.

But as the decades passed, these festivals, they really became the establishment, and as the culture and capital accelerated, the Internet brought us all together, high and low kind of disappeared, a new kind of festival emerged. 

The old festivals, they continued to thrive, but from Brighton to Rio to Perth, something new was emerging, and these festivals were really different.

They're open because they ask the audience to be a player, a protagonist, a partner, rather than a passive spectator, and they're open because they know that imagination cannot be contained in buildings, and so much of the work they do is site-specific or outdoor work. 

So, the new festival, it asks the audience to play an essential role in shaping the performance.

Companies like De La Guarda, which I produce, and Punchdrunk create these completely immersive experiences that put the audience at the center of the action, but the German performance company Rimini Protokoll takes this all to a whole new level.

In a series of shows that includes "100 Percent Vancouver," "100 Percent Berlin," Rimini Protokoll makes shows that actually reflect society.

LIFT has always been a pioneer in the use of venues.

They understand that theater and performance can happen anywhere.

You can do a show in a schoolroom, in an airport, — (Laughter) — in a department store window. 

Artists can take us to a far-flung part of the city that we haven't explored, or they can take us into that building that we pass every day but we never went into. 

An artist, I think, can really show us people that we might overlook in our lives.

We, the audience, were given headsets and seated on one side of the terminal.

So, the dialogue with the local and the global, the audience as participant and player and protagonist, the innovative use of site, all of these things come to play in the amazing work of the fantastic French company Royal de Luxe.

Royal de Luxe's giant puppets come into a city and they live there for a few days. 

For "The Sultan's Elephant," Royal de Luxe came to central London and brought it to a standstill with their story of a giant little girl and her friend, a time-traveling elephant.

In short, they make cities better places to live. 

I think what's so brilliant about the festivals, the new festivals, is that they are really fully capturing the complexity and the excitement of the way we all live today.

