What does it mean to spend our time well?

I spend a lot of my time thinking about how to spend my time.

Probably too much -- I probably obsess over it.

I'll give you an example.

So I have to click it right now.

Why am I doing this?

This doesn't make any sense. 

But I'll give you a hint why this is happening.

What do you think makes more money in the United States than movies, game parks and baseball combined?

Slot machines.

How can slot machines make all this money when we play with such small amounts of money?

We play with coins.

How is this possible?

Well, the thing is ... my phone is a slot machine.

And the thing is that, again, knowing exactly how this works -- and I'm a designer, I know exactly how the psychology of this works, I know exactly what's going on -- but it doesn't leave me with any choice, I still just get sucked into it. 

So what are we going to do?

So we need to restore choice.

We're going to need design help.

So what would that look like? 

We actually cycle through two different projects before we come back to the original thing we were doing.

And her research also shows that it actually trains bad habits.

The more interruptions we get externally, it's conditioning and training us to interrupt ourselves.

We actually self-interrupt every three-and-a-half minutes. 

This is crazy.

So how do we fix this?

Because Nancy and John are in this all-or-nothing relationship.

Design can fix this problem.

And John remembers, "I need to send Nancy that document."

Except this time, Nancy can mark that she's focused.

But instead of having constant accidental or mindless interruptions, we're now only creating conscious interruptions, 

So we're doing two things here.

And it's that we're changing the question we're answering.

Now, do designers actually care about this?

Do we want to have conversations about what these deeper human goals are?

Well, I'll tell you one story.

A little over a year ago, I got to help organize a meeting between some of technology's leading designers and Thich Nhat Hanh.

Thich Nhat Hanh is an international spokesperson for mindfulness meditation.

And it was the most amazing meeting.

And the questions were about the deepest human values, like what does the future of technology look like when you're designing for the deepest questions and the deepest human values?

And our conversation centered on listening more deeply to what those values might be.

He joked in our conversation that what if, instead of a spell check, you had a compassion check, meaning, you might highlight a word that might be accidentally abrasive -- perceived as abrasive by someone else. 

So does this kind of conversation happen in the real world, not just in these design meetings?

If you didn't know, Couchsurfing is a website that matches people who are looking for a place to stay with a free couch, from someone who's trying to offer it. 

What are you designing for if you work at Couchsurfing?

That's a pretty good goal.

But that would kind of be like our goal with messaging before, where we're just trying to deliver a message. 

I'll tell you how it works.

Did you have a good experience with this person that you met?

Why should we value that as success?

The net hours that would have never existed, had Couchsurfing not existed. 

Imagine a professional social network that, instead of measuring its success in terms of connections created or messages sent, instead measured its success in terms of the job offers that people got that they were excited to get.

And subtracted the amount of time people spent on the website.

Whatever that was for them, by the way. 

The more users you have, the more usage you have, the more time people spend, that's how we measure success. 

But we've solved this problem before.

What if we had something like that for technology?

What if we had something whose entire purpose and goal was to help create net new positive contributions to human life?

Imagine you gave this different premium shelf space on app stores.

Imagine you had web browsers that helped route you to these kinds of design products.

Can you imagine how exciting it would be to live and create that world? 

We can create this world today.

Designers, you can redefine success; you can redefine design.

Arguably, you have more power than many people in your organization to create the choices that all of us live by.

And users, for all of us -- we can demand technology that works this way.

Walmart didn't have organic food until the consumer demand was there.

We have to demand this new kind of technology.

And we can do that.

And doing that would amount to shifting from a world that's driven and run entirely on time spent, to world that's driven by time well spent. 

Let's start that conversation now. 

Thank you. 

