So I tried to do a small good thing for my wife.

It makes me to stand here, the fame, the money I got out of it.

So what I did, I'd gone back to my early marriage days.

And it's called affordability.

I tried to impress my new wife by offering her a packet of sanitary pads.

I went to a local shop, I tried to buy her a sanitary pad packet.

That fellow looks left and right, and spreads a newspaper, rolls it into the newspaper, gives it to me like a banned item, something like that.

The very first time, at the age of 29, that day I am touching the sanitary pad, first ever.

Even in Bangalore you won't get [one], in India.

So only problem: the only available victim is my wife. 

Because it's an arranged marriage, not a love marriage.

(Laughter) So one day she said, openly, I'm not going to support this research.

Then other victims, they got into my sisters.

But even sisters, wives, they're not ready to support in the research.

That's why I am always jealous with the saints in India.

They are having a lot of women volunteers around them.

Why I am not getting [any]?

You know, without them even calling, they'll get a lot of women volunteers.

That makes me to want to refuse to continue this research and research and research.

You need first funds.

She suspects I am using as a trump card to run behind medical college girls.

That is my invention. 

Why are they coming for, finally, for philanthropy?

Why the need for accumulating money, then doing philanthropy?

What if one decided to start philanthropy from the day one?

So far, 630 installations happened in 23 states in six other countries. 

A school dropout from Coimbatore, how he is able to sustaining?

That makes me a visiting professor and guest lecturer in all IIMs.

(Applause) Play video one. 

So I decided I'm going to sell this new machine only for Women Self Help Groups.

That is my idea. 

AM: And previously, you need a multimillion investment for machine and all.

They are performing puja.

(Video): (Singing) You just think, competing giants, even from Harvard, Oxford, is difficult.

I make a rural woman to compete with multinationals.

I'm going to make India [into] a 100-percent-sanitary-napkin-using country in my lifetime.

In this way I'm going to provide not less than a million rural employment that I'm going to create.

That's why I'm not running after this bloody money.

I'm doing something serious.

I don't want to make this as a corporate entity.

(Applause) 

