On my desk in my office, I keep a small clay pot that I made in college.

This one is more than 400 years old.

Everyday pots like this cup take eight to 10 hours to fire.

I would come home with my clothes reeking of woodsmoke. 

I love raku because it allows me to play with the elements.

Raku is a wonderful metaphor for the process of creativity.

The filmmaker Mira Nair speaks about growing up in a small town in India.

Julie Burstein: Isn't that a wonderful story?

You can see the sort of break in the everyday.

So being open for that experience that might change you is the first thing we need to embrace. 

Artists also speak about how some of their most powerful work comes out of the parts of life that are most difficult.

The sculptor Richard Serra talks about how, as a young artist, he thought he was a painter, and he lived in Florence after graduate school.

And I thought, "I'm not going to be able to do that painting."

I was to the point where I was using a stopwatch and painting squares out of randomness, and I wasn't getting anywhere.

He makes us the subject of his art.

So experience and challenge and limitations are all things we need to embrace for creativity to flourish. 

There's a fourth embrace, and it's the hardest.

In order to create, we have to stand in that space between what we see in the world and what we hope for, looking squarely at rejection, at heartbreak, at war, at death.

That's a tough space to stand in.

You know where this story goes.

And it was such a blow that it woke me up, in the way that it was meant to be, I guess.

Looking at these photographs today brings back the smell of smoke that lingered on my clothes when I went home to my family at night.

My office was just a few blocks away.

I mean, there were afternoons I was down there, and the light goes pink and there's a mist in the air and you're standing in the rubble, and I found myself recognizing both the inherent beauty of nature and the fact that nature, as time, is erasing this wound.

Time is unstoppable, and it transforms the event.

Creativity is essential to all of us, whether we're scientists or teachers, parents or entrepreneurs. 

It's more than a hundred years old and you can still see the fingermarks where the potter pinched it.

But as you can also see, this one did break at some point in its hundred years.

But the person who put it back together, instead of hiding the cracks, decided to emphasize them, using gold lacquer to repair it.

