It's been fantastic. 

So it's about 6:30 now, suggests that most of us should have lied.

No, that looked good, it was about two thirds of you.

It's this pervasiveness, combined with the centrality to what it means to be a human, the fact that we can tell the truth or make something up, that has fascinated people throughout history.

Here we have Diogenes with his lantern.

You believed in your principles. 

Now my first professional encounter with deception is a little bit later than these guys, a couple thousand years.

Almost every aspect of human communication's been changed, and of course that's had an impact on deception.

Let me tell you a little bit about a couple of new deceptions we've been tracking and documenting.

They're called the Butler, the Sock Puppet and the Chinese Water Army.

It sounds a little bit like a weird book, but actually they're all new types of lies. 

You weren't in a dead zone.

You just didn't want to respond to that person that time.

Our relationship is still important. 

Here's R.J. Ellory, best-seller author in Britain.

Here's one of his bestselling books.

Here's a reviewer online, on Amazon.

And of course, you might suspect that Nicodemus Jones is R.J. Ellory.

Now this Sock Puppet stuff isn't actually that new.

In North America, we call this Astroturfing, and Astroturfing is very common now.

We see this especially with product reviews, book reviews, everything from hotels to whether that toaster is a good toaster or not. 

But actually, what I've been finding is very different from that.

Now, let's put aside the online anonymous sex chatrooms, which I'm sure none of you have been in.

I can assure you there's deception there.

Let's focus on the conversations between our friends and our family and our coworkers and our loved ones.

Those are the conversations that really matter.

What does technology do to deception with those folks? 

And it really throws people for a loop because we think, well, there's no nonverbal cues, so why don't you lie more?

The phone, in contrast, the most lies.

This tends to be very different from what people expect. 

And what we found, to many people's surprise, was that those LinkedIn résumés were more honest on the things that mattered to employers, like your responsibilities or your skills at your previous job. 

How about Facebook itself?

My friends, no way they can be that cool and have good of a life.

Well, one study tested this by examining people's personalities.

They had four good friends of a person judge their personality.

All right, well, what about online dating?

And what we found was very, very interesting.

Here's an example of the men and the height.

Now, as you see, most of the little dots are below the line.

What it means is all the guys were lying about their height.

Well, to do that, one thing is we can look at the deception-detection literature.

Well it has to do with Pinocchio's nose.

We lie to protect ourselves or for our own gain or for somebody else's gain.

Just because people can't see us doesn't mean we're going to necessarily lie. 

A lot of humans have lived since then.

So we've been evolving to talk in a way in which there is no record.

Let's turn to now, the networked age.

It looks like almost every single person here recorded something.

I can look at lies that before were said and then gone.

Now, your task now is to decide which review is fake?

I'll give you a moment to read through them.

Those cold, hard winters, I love it. 

All right, so why do I care about this?

Well, what I can do now with my colleagues in computer science is we can create computer algorithms that can analyze the linguistic traces of deception.

They were inserting themselves into the hotel review, kind of trying to convince you they were there.

In contrast, the people that wrote the reviews that were actually there, their bodies actually entered the physical space, they talked a lot more about spatial information.

They said how big the bathroom was, or they said, you know, here's how far shopping is from the hotel. 

Our computer algorithm is very accurate, much more accurate than humans can be, and it's not going to be accurate all the time.

This isn't a deception-detection machine to tell if your girlfriend's lying to you on text messaging.

And I think we're going to see a lot more of that, where we can reflect on who we are by looking at what we wrote, what we said, what we did. 

Now, if we bring it back to deception, there's a couple of take-away things here.

First, lying online can be very dangerous, right?

Not only are you leaving a record for yourself on your machine, but you're leaving a record on the person that you were lying to, and you're also leaving them around for me to analyze with some computer algorithms.

So by all means, go ahead and do that, that's good.

Now, when you are about to say or do something, we can think, do I want this to be part of my legacy, part of my personal record?

Because in the digital age we live in now, in the networked age, we are all leaving a record.

Thank you so much for your time, and good luck with your record.

