I've found, after doing this for many, many years, that there's a magical world behind reality.

But to really see the details of the bee, and really appreciate what it is, you have to look a little bit closer.

A human hair is about the smallest thing that the eye can see.

It's about a tenth of a millimeter. 

So you could fit 10 human cells across the diameter of a human hair. 

So when we would look at cells, this is how I really got involved in biology and science is by looking at living cells in the microscope.

When I first saw living cells in a microscope, I was absolutely enthralled and amazed at what they looked like.

So if you look at the cell like that from the immune system, they're actually moving all over the place.

And it's looking around, and when it finds something, and recognizes it being foreign, it will actually engulf it and eat it.

So if you look right there, it finds that little bacterium, and it engulfs it and eats it.

That's how small that is.

This is a ring of cobalt atoms. 

So that's thousands of little grains of pollen there, and there's the pistil there, and these are the little things called trichomes.

Each sand grain is about a tenth of a millimeter in size.

An amazing array of incredible things exist in sand.

So here's, for example, a picture of sand from Maui.

We don't realize it, but it's actually a record of that entire ecology.

So here we see, for example, a sponge spicule, two bits of coral here, that's a sea urchin spine.

Here's what most of the sand in our world looks like.

There's some sand that's really much more colorful.

Every grain of sand is coming somewhere and going somewhere.

They're like a snapshot in time. 

And you can see those in micrometeorites.

I thought it looked kind of a little bit like the Moon, which is sort of interesting.

And you can see here that that is -- that's sort of vaporized, and that material is holding this little clump of little sand grains together.

This is a very small grain of sand, this whole thing.

And that's called a ring agglutinate.

So what I've been trying to tell you today is things even as ordinary as a grain of sand can be truly extraordinary if you look closely and if you look from a different and a new point of view.

I think that this was best put by William Blake when he said, "To see a world in a grain of sand and a heaven in a wild flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, and eternity in an hour."

