Today I have just one request.

Please don't tell me I'm normal. 

Now I'd like to introduce you to my brothers.

Remi is 22, tall and very handsome.

He's speechless, but he communicates joy in a way that some of the best orators cannot.

Remi knows what love is.

He has the most impeccable memory.

He has a selective one, though.

He doesn't remember if he stole my chocolate bar, but he remembers the year of release for every song on my iPod, conversations we had when he was four, weeing on my arm on the first ever episode of Teletubbies, and Lady Gaga's birthday. 

Don't they sound incredible?

But most people don't agree.

And in fact, because their minds don't fit into society's version of normal, they're often bypassed and misunderstood. 

Now, for you who may be less familiar with the term "autism," it's a complex brain disorder that affects social communication, learning and sometimes physical skills.

It manifests in each individual differently, hence why Remi is so different from Sam.

And across the world, every 20 minutes, one new person is diagnosed with autism, and although it's one of the fastest-growing developmental disorders in the world, there is no known cause or cure. 

And I cannot remember the first moment I encountered autism, but I cannot recall a day without it.

And after a few months went by, I realized that he was different.

He screamed a lot.

He didn't want to play like the other babies did, and in fact, he didn't seem very interested in me whatsoever.

And as he grew older, he grew more different, and the differences became more obvious.

Yet beyond the tantrums and the frustration and the never-ending hyperactivity was something really unique: a pure and innocent nature, a boy who saw the world without prejudice, a human who had never lied.

Extraordinary. 

Normality overlooks the beauty that differences give us, and the fact that we are different doesn't mean that one of us is wrong.

It just means that there's a different kind of right.

And if I could communicate just one thing to Remi and to Sam and to you, it would be that you don't have to be normal.

You can be extraordinary.

The chance for greatness, for progress and for change dies the moment we try to be like someone else. 

