What I experienced wasn't virtual reality.

It was music.

And this is where the story begins. 

Music goes straight to the emotional vein, into your bloodstream and right into your heart.

Music makes everything have more emotional resonance.

Let's see how it does for this talk.

Here's a part of the story, though, where I got a little greedy.

I thought if I added more layers on top of the music, I could make the feelings even more powerful.

So I got into directing music videos.

This is what they looked like.

These experiments grew, and in time, started to look more like this.

Adding moving pictures over the music added narrative dimension, yes, but never quite equated the power that just raw music had for me on its own.

We were pushing beyond the screen, trying to connect more deeply to people's hearts and imaginations.

But it wasn't quite enough.

It still didn't have the raw experiential power of pure music for me. 

So I started chasing a new technology that I only had read about in science fiction.

And after years of searching, I found a prototype.

It was a project from Nonny de la Peña in Mark Bolas's lab in USC.

And when I tried it, I knew I'd found it.

I could taste the lightning.

It was called virtual reality.

This was it five years ago when I ran into it.

This is what it looks like now. 

In fact, it's going to be the last one.

I mean this because it's the first medium that actually makes the jump from our internalization of an author's expression of an experience, to our experiencing it firsthand.

If we go back to the origins of mediums, by all best guesses, it starts around a fire, with a good story.

We hear his words and translate them into our own internal truths.

The same thing happens when we look at the cave painting version of the story, the book about the mammoth hunt, the play, the radio broadcast, the television show or the movie.

Virtual reality bridges that gap.

Now, you are on the tundra hunting with the clan leader.

Or you are the clan leader.

Or maybe you're even the woolly mammoth. 

So here's what special about VR.

In all other mediums, your consciousness interprets the medium.

In VR, your consciousness is the medium.

So the potential for VR is enormous.

But where are we now?

We are the equivalent of year one of cinema.

Similar to this early stage of this medium, in VR, we also have to move past the spectacle and into the storytelling.

So let me show you some things.

For the purpose of this demo, we're going to take every direction that you could possibly look, and stretch it into this giant rectangle.

OK, here we go. 

So, first: camera movement is tricky in VR.

Done wrong, it can actually make you sick.

We found if you move the camera at a constant speed in a straight line, you can actually get away with it, though.

The first day in film school, they told me you have to learn every single rule before you can break one.

We have not learned every single rule.

We've barely learned any at all, but we're already trying to break them to see what kind of creative things we can accomplish.

In VR, I can give that to you. 

Not surprisingly, music matters a lot in this medium as well.

It guides us how to feel.

You feel triumphant for JR's character.

The music guides you there. 

A close-up in VR means you're actually close up to someone.

It brings that character inside of your personal space, a space that we'd usually reserve for the people that we love.

And you feel an emotional closeness to the character because of what you feel to be a physical closeness. 

Directing VR is not like directing for the rectangle.

It's more of a choreography of the viewer's attention.

So I can use that to direct your attention to where I want you to see.

VR makes us feel like we are part of something.

For most of human history, we lived in small family units.

We started in caves, then moved to clans and tribes, then villages and towns, and now we're all global citizens.

But I believe that we are still hardwired to care the most about the things that are local to us.

And VR makes anywhere and anyone feel local.

That's why it works as an empathy machine.

But where do we go from here?

The tricky thing is that with all previous mediums, the format is fixed at its birth.

Film has been a sequence of rectangles, from Muybridge and his horses to now.

The format has never changed.

But VR as a format, as a medium, isn't complete yet.

It's not using physical celluloid or paper or TV signals.

It actually employs what we use to make sense of the world.

Eventually, we can see if we will have all of our human senses employed, and we will have agency to live the story in any path we choose.

And we call it virtual reality right now, but what happens when we move past simulated realities?

What do we call it then?

What if instead of verbally telling you about a dream, I could let you live inside that dream?

What if instead of just experiencing visiting some reality on Earth, you could surf gravitational waves on the edge of a black hole, or create galaxies from scratch, or communicate with each other not using words but using our raw thoughts?

That's not a virtual reality anymore.

And honestly I don't know what that's called.

But I hope you see where we're going. 

But here I am, intellectualizing a medium I'm saying is experiential.

So let's experience it.

In your hands, you hopefully hold a piece of cardboard.

Let's open the flap.

Tap on the power button to unlock the phone.

We played in cardboard boxes as kids, and as adults, I'm hoping we can all find a little bit of that lightning by sticking our head in one again.

You're about to participate in the largest collective VR viewing in history.

Let's hope it works.

And when I was perfectly above -- you know, with the wind, we had to redo it a few times -- then I kept shooting. 

Child's voice: There are more kids in Zaatari than adults right now.

Chris Milk: How was it? 

I believe that everyone on Earth needs to experience what you just experienced.

And to that end, in November of last year, the New York Times and Vrse made a VR project called "The Displaced."

It launched with one million Google Cardboards sent out to every Sunday subscriber with their newspaper.

But a funny thing happened that Sunday morning.

A lot of people got them that were not the intended recipients on the mailing label.

And we started seeing this all over Instagram.

Look familiar? 

Music led me on a path of searching for what seemed like the unattainable for a very long time.

Only I think this one surpasses it.

Thank you. 

