Well, normally, a charity starts with the cause, and someone that is directly affected by a cause.

They then go on to create an event, and beyond that, a foundation to support that.

I was with my brother and a mate having a few beers, and I was watching the world go by, had a few more beers, and the conversation turned to '70s fashion — (Laughter) — and how everything manages to come back into style.

So we started thinking about that, and we were inspired by the women around us and all they were doing for breast cancer.

And I started to research that topic, and discovered prostate cancer is the male equivalent of breast cancer in terms of the number of men that die from it and are diagnosed with it. 

And that eloquently describes the challenge, changing your appearance for the 30 days, and also the outcome that we're trying to achieve: getting men engaged in their health, having them have a better understanding about the health risks that they face. 

And I said, "We're going to come together at the end, we're going to have a mustache-themed party, we're going to have DJs, we're going to celebrate life, and we're going to change the face of men's health."

So my lesson that year was persistence.

Then in early 2007, a really interesting thing happened.

But he said, "We will partner with you, but we're not going to invest in it.

And we're not about finding an Australian cure or a Canadian cure, we're about finding the cure. 

So in 2007, we brought the campaign across here, and it was, it set the stage for the campaign.

It wasn't as successful as we thought it would be.

We were sort of very gung ho with our success in Australia and New Zealand at that stage.

So that year really taught us the importance of being patient and really understanding the local market before you become so bold as to set lofty targets. 

But what I'm really pleased to say is, in 2010, Movember became a truly global movement.

Canada was just pipped to the post in terms of the number one fundraising campaign in the world.

Last year we had 450,000 Mo Bros spread across the world and together we raised 77 million dollars.

(Applause) And that makes Movember now the biggest funder of prostate cancer research and support programs in the world.

We hand across our brand and our campaign to those people.

We let them embrace it and interpret it in their own way. 

And they go, "What, what do you mean?"

And it's like, everything single person, every single Mo Bro and Mo Sista that participates in Movember is our celebrity ambassador, and that is so, so important and fundamental to our success. 

And from that moment I realized that Movember is so much more than a mustache, having a joke.

It's about each person coming to this platform, embracing it in their own way, and being significant in their own life. 

For us now at Movember, we really focus on three program areas, and having a true impact: awareness and education, survivor support programs, and research.

He came up to me and said, "Thank you for starting Movember."

So those conversations, getting men engaged in this, at whatever age, is so critically important, and in my view so much more important than the funds we raise. 

Now to the funds we raise, and research, and how we're redefining research.

We fund prostate cancer foundations now in 13 countries.

And that's how we're redefining the research world. 

