What I want you all to do right now is to think of this mammal that I'm going to describe to you.

The first thing I'm going to tell you about this mammal is that it is essential for our ecosystems to function correctly.

If we remove this mammal from our ecosystems, they simply will not work.

That's the first thing.

The second thing is that due to the unique sensory abilities of this mammal, if we study this mammal, we're going to get great insight into our diseases of the senses, such as blindness and deafness.

And the third really intriguing aspect of this mammal is that I fully believe that the secret of everlasting youth lies deep within its DNA.

So are you all thinking?

So, magnificent creature, isn't it?

Who here thought of a bat?

So I have had the good fortune for the past 20 years to study these fascinating and beautiful mammals.

One fifth of all living mammals is a bat, and they have very unique attributes.

Bats as we know them have been around on this planet for about 64 million years.

One of the most unique things that bats do as a mammal is that they fly.

Now flight is an inherently difficult thing.

Bats have learned and evolved how to deal with this. 

For a hundred years, despite evidence to show that this is what they were doing, we didn't believe it. 

Now, if you look at this bat, it looks a little bit alien.

Indeed, the very famous philosopher Thomas Nagel once said, "To truly experience an alien life form on this planet, you should lock yourself inside a room with a flying, echolocating bat in complete darkness."

And if you look at the actual physical characteristics on the face of this beautiful horseshoe bat, you see a lot of these characteristics are dedicated to be able to make sound and perceive it.

Very big ears, strange nose leaves, but teeny-tiny eyes.

So again, if you just look at this bat, you realize sound is very important for its survival. 

Most bats look like the previous one.

However, there are a group that do not use echolocation.

They do not perceive their environment using sound, and these are the flying foxes.

So among and within bats is a huge variation in their ability to use sensory perception.

Now this is going to be important for what I'm going to tell you later during the talk. 

Really, of course the famous book "Dracula," written by a fellow Northside Dubliner Bram Stoker, probably is mainly responsible for this.

Bats are usually synonymous with some type of evil events.

Now, this is Western society, and what I hope to do tonight is to convince you of the Chinese traditional culture, that they perceive bats as creatures that bring good luck, and indeed, if you walk into a Chinese home, you may see an image such as this.

This is considered the Five Blessings.

The Chinese word for "bat" sounds like the Chinese word for "happiness," and they believe that bats bring wealth, health, longevity, virtue and serenity.

And indeed, in this image, you have a picture of longevity surrounded by five bats.

And what I want to do tonight is to talk to you and to show you that at least three of these blessings are definitely represented by a bat, and that if we study bats we will get nearer to getting each of these blessings. 

Bats in the tropics are major pollinators of many plants.

Without them, it's going to be a problem.

But most bats are voracious insect predators.

It's working its way slowly across the U.S. and wiping out populations of bats, and scientists have estimated that 1,300 metric tons of insects a year are now remaining in the ecosystems due to the loss of bats.

They're going to -- They are very threatened in the United States of America alone. 

Now how can this help us?

Well, it has been calculated that if we were to remove bats from the equation, we're going to have to then use insecticides to remove all those pest insects that feed on our agricultural crops.

They maintain the health of our ecosystems, and also they save us money.

Inside every cell in your body lies your genome.

Your genome is made up of your DNA, your DNA codes for proteins that enable you to function and interact and be as you are.

Now since the new advancements in modern molecular technologies, it is now possible for us to sequence our own genome in a very rapid time and at a very, very reduced cost.

Now when we've been doing this, we've realized that there's variations within our genome.

And one of the grand challenges right now in modern molecular medicine is to work out whether this variation makes you more susceptible to diseases, or does this variation just make you different?

Well, I believe we just look at nature's experiments.

So in this case here, if all the mammals that we look at have a yellow-type genome at that site, it probably suggests that purple is bad.

This could be even more powerful if you look at mammals that are doing things slightly differently.

So say, for example, the region of the genome that I was looking at was a region that's important for vision.

If we look at that region in mammals that don't see so well, such as bats, and we find that bats that don't see so well have the purple type, we know that this is probably what's causing this disease. 

Again, there's many underlying genetic causes for this.

So what we've been doing in my lab is looking at these unique sensory specialists, the bats, and we have looked at genes that cause blindness when there's a defect in them, genes that cause deafness when there's a defect in them, and now we can predict which sites are most likely to cause disease.

So bats are also important for our health, to enable us to better understand how our genome functions. 

What about longevity?

This is where we're going to go, and as I said before, I really believe that the secret of everlasting youth lies within the bat genome.

So why should we be interested in aging at all?

But we are going to have to understand it a bit better.

In Europe alone, by 2050, there is going to be a 70 percent increase of individuals over 65, and 170 percent increase in individuals over 80.

As we age, we deteriorate, and this deterioration causes problems for our society, so we have to address it. 

But what would be so amazing about this? 

Well, typically, in mammals there is a relationship between body size, metabolic rate, and how long you can live for, and you can predict how long a mammal can live for given its body size.

There are 19 species of mammal that live longer than expected, given their body size, than man, and 18 of those are bats.

And hopefully in the next five years, I'll be giving you a TEDTalk on that.

Potentially, this means that we could halt aging or maybe even reverse it.

Just imagine what that would be like. 

So really, I don't think we should be thinking of them as flying demons of the night, but more as our superheroes.

So tonight, when you walk out of here and you look up in the night skies, and you see this beautiful flying mammal, I want you to smile.

