My brothers and I dug in, and that's when my father came home.

He was livid, and I still remember how we cried when that cart with our half-eaten sweets was pulled away from us. 

Later, I understood why my father got so upset.

Those sweets were a bribe from a contractor who was trying to get my father to award him a government contract.

And I experienced this most viscerally when I traveled to remote villages to study poverty.

And as I went village to village, I remember one day, when I was famished and exhausted, and I was almost collapsing in a scorching heat under a tree, and just at that time, one of the poorest men in that village invited me into his hut and graciously fed me.

Only I later realized that what he fed me was food for his entire family for two days.

This profound gift of generosity challenged and changed the very purpose of my life.

I resolved to give back. 

Later, I joined the World Bank, which sought to fight such poverty by transferring aid from rich to poor countries.

It was Bihar all over again. 

Today, each of these elements is opening up due to dramatic changes in the global environment.

The first key shift is open knowledge.

You know, developing countries today will not simply accept solutions that are handed down to them by the U.S., Europe or the World Bank.

They get their inspiration, their hope, their practical know-how, from successful emerging economies in the South.

They want to know how China lifted 500 million people out of poverty in 30 years, how Mexico's Oportunidades program improved schooling and nutrition for millions of children.

And just as these North-to-South transfers are opening up, so too are the development institutions that channeled these transfers.

This is the second shift: open aid.

This is a tremendous leap forward in transparency and accountability of aid. 

From the Arab Spring to the Anna Hazare movement in India, using mobile phones and social media not just for political accountability but also for development accountability.

Are governments delivering services to the citizens?

So for instance, several governments in Africa and Eastern Europe are opening their budgets to the public. 

To tackle this problem, governments are using new tools to visualize the budget so it's more understandable to the public.

In this map from Moldova, the green color shows those districts that have low spending on schools but good educational outcomes, and the red color shows the opposite.

In Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, even an impoverished community was able to use these tools to voice its aspirations.

Today, even Bihar is turning around and opening up under a committed leadership that is making government transparent, accessible and responsive to the poor. 

These examples give new hope, new possibility to the problems I witnessed in Uganda or that my father confronted in Bihar. 

Two years ago, on April 8th, 2010, I called my father.

It was very late at night, and at age 80, he was typing a 70-page public interest litigation against corruption in a road project.

These became the two bookends of his life, and the journey he traveled in between mirrored the changing development landscape. 

Today, I'm inspired by these changes, and I'm excited that at the World Bank, we are embracing these new directions, a significant departure from my work in Uganda 20 years ago.

We need to accelerate these shifts.

We will find that textbooks and teachers will show up in schools for their children.

