But how can I tell an eight-year-old boy that his father is a politician?"

My colleagues in Parliament include, in my new intake, family doctors, businesspeople, professors, distinguished economists, historians, writers, army officers ranging from colonels down to regimental sergeant majors.

And this isn't just a problem in Britain.

They would bring prosperity, security, overcome sectarian violence, ensure that states would never again harbor terrorists. 

Since then, what's happened?

Well, what we've seen is the creation, in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, of democratic systems of government which haven't had any of those side benefits.

In Pakistan, in lots of sub-Saharan Africa, again you can see democracy and elections are compatible with corrupt governments, with states that are unstable and dangerous.

Anything else would run contrary to our values, it would run contrary to the wishes of the people on the ground, it would run contrary to our interests.

I remember in Iraq, for example, that we went through a period of feeling that we should delay democracy.

Most remote community, I have never met a villager who does not want a vote. 

We need to get away from saying democracy matters because of the other things it brings.

The point about democracy is not instrumental.

It's not about the things that it brings.

The point about democracy is intrinsic.

But if we're really to make democracy vigorous again, if we're ready to revivify it, we need to get involved in a new project of the citizens and the politicians.

And part of that activity is honesty.

If you ask about child tax credits, the future of the penguins in the south Antarctic, asked to hold forth on whether or not the developments in Chongqing contribute to sustainable development in carbon capture, and we will have an answer for you.

We need to stop that, to stop pretending to be omniscient beings.

And the second thing we should do is understand the genius of our societies.

That can mean different things in different countries.

It's a question of what the citizens do.

For politicians to be honest, the public needs to allow them to be honest, and the media, which mediates between the politicians and the public, needs to allow those politicians to be honest.

If local democracy is to flourish, it is about the active and informed engagement of every citizen. 

In other words, if democracy is to be rebuilt, is to become again vigorous and vibrant, it is necessary not just for the public to learn to trust their politicians, but for the politicians to learn to trust the public.

