(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Harry Potter was a foster child.

It seems that writers know that the child outside of family reflects on what family truly is more than what it promotes itself to be.

That is, they also use extraordinary skills to deal with extraordinary situations on a daily basis. 

It's our respect.

It is that simple. 

In the 1960s -- I should give you some context -- in the 1960s, if you were pregnant and you were single, you were seen as a threat to the community.

It was the primary purpose of the social worker, the aim, to get the woman at her most vulnerable time in her entire life, to sign the adoption papers.

So the adoption papers were signed.

The mother and baby's homes were often run by nuns.

The adoption papers were signed, the child was given to the adoptive parents, and the mother shipped back to her community to say that she'd been on a little break.

It's kind of easy to patronize the past, to forego our responsibilities in the present.

What happened then is a direct reflection of what is happening now.

She lands months before the Beatles release "The White Album," months before Martin Luther King was killed.

(Laughter) Norman! 

(Laughter) Norman! 

I was Norman Mark Greenwood.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) And I was on the cusp of, sort of, adolescence, so I was starting to take biscuits from the tin without asking.

I was starting to stay out a little bit late, etc., etc.

Now, in their religiosity, in their naivete, my mom and dad, which I believed them to be forever, as they said they were, my mom and dad conceived that I had the Devil inside of me. 

And what -- I should say this here, because this is how they engineered my leaving.

They sat me at a table, my foster mom, and she said to me, "You don't love us, do you?"

"I will ask God for forgiveness and His light will shine through me to them.

When I got to the — For the next four, five years, I was held in four different children's homes.

You couldn't see it from the street, because the home was surrounded by beech trees. 

I'm 17 years old, and they had a padded cell.

All of the staff were ex-police -- interesting -- and ex-probation officers.

The man who ran it was an ex-army officer.

That home was full of young boys who were on remand for things like murder.

And this was the preparation that I was being given after 17 years as a child of the state. 

I have to tell this story.

I have to tell it, because there was no one to put two and two together. 

I slowly became aware that I knew nobody that knew me for longer than a year.

I'm not defining a good family from a bad family.

In creativity I saw light.

In the imagination I saw the endless possibility of life, the endless truth, the permanent creation of reality, the place where anger was an expression in the search for love, a place where dysfunction is a true reaction to untruth. 

