The other thing I would add is that this is not a new view.

So the best way I've found of trying to get people to take seriously the idea that the world may not be flat, may not even be close to flat, is with some data.

So let's start off with plain old telephone service.

Of all the voice-calling minutes in the world last year, what percentage do you think were accounted for by cross-border phone calls?

Pick a percentage in your own mind.

The answer turns out to be two percent.

Or let's turn to people moving across borders.

One particular thing we might look at, in terms of long-term flows of people, is what percentage of the world's population is accounted for by first-generation immigrants?

Again, please pick a percentage.

What percentage of that was accounted for by foreign direct investment?

Not quite ten percent. 

And then finally, the one statistic that I suspect many of the people in this room have seen: the export-to-GDP ratio.

If you look at the official statistics, they typically indicate a little bit above 30 percent.

However, there's a big problem with the official statistics, in that if, for instance, a Japanese component supplier ships something to China to be put into an iPod, and then the iPod gets shipped to the U.S., that component ends up getting counted multiple times.

So nobody knows how bad this bias with the official statistics actually is, so I thought I would ask the person who's spearheading the effort to generate data on this, Pascal Lamy, the Director of the World Trade Organization, what his best guess would be of exports as a percentage of GDP, without the double- and triple-counting, and it's actually probably a bit under 20 percent, rather than the 30 percent-plus numbers that we're talking about. 

So it's very clear that if you look at these numbers or all the other numbers that I talk about in my book, "World 3.0," that we're very, very far from the no-border effect benchmark, which would imply internationalization levels of the order of 85, 90, 95 percent.

So clearly, apocalyptically-minded authors have overstated the case.

But it's not just the apocalyptics, as I think of them, who are prone to this kind of overstatement.

I've also spent some time surveying audiences in different parts of the world on what they actually guess these numbers to be.

Let me share with you the results of a survey that Harvard Business Review was kind enough to run of its readership as to what people's guesses along these dimensions actually were. 

Even though I'm an economist, I find that a pretty large error.

A second reason has to do with peer pressure.

So try this out with your friends and acquaintances, if you like.

If you raise questions about that formulation, you really are considered a bit of an antique. 

What percentage of people's friends on Facebook are actually located in countries other than where people we're analyzing are based?

The answer is probably somewhere between 10 to 15 percent.

I want to suggest that actually, globaloney can be very harmful to your health.

So being accurate about how limited globalization levels are is critical to even being able to notice that there might be room for something more, something that would contribute further to global welfare. 

So I actually spend most of my "World 3.0" book working through a litany of market failures and fears that people have that they worry globalization is going to exacerbate.

Think of France and the current debate about immigration.

Maybe realizing that the number is just eight percent might help cool some of the superheated rhetoric that we see around the immigration issue.

The reassuring thing about this particular survey was, when it was pointed out to people how far their estimates were from the actual data, some of them — not all of them — seemed to become more willing to consider increases in foreign aid. 

"Foreign aid is the most aid to poor people," is about the most home-biased thing you can find.

If you look at the OECD countries and how much they spend per domestic poor person, and compare it with how much they spend per poor person in poor countries, the ratio — Branko Milanovic at the World Bank did the calculations — turns out to be about 30,000 to one.

Now of course, some of us, if we truly are cosmopolitan, would like to see that ratio being brought down to one-is-to-one.

I'd like to make the suggestion that we don't need to aim for that to make substantial progress from where we are.

If we simply brought that ratio down to 15,000 to one, we would be meeting those aid targets that were agreed at the Rio Summit 20 years ago that the summit that ended last week made no further progress on. 

