I've got a confession.

I love looking through people's garbage.

Now, it's not some creepy thing.

I do have a fetish for CD-ROM drives.

There's switches so you can turn things on and off.

There's even a freaking laser, so you can make a cool robot into an awesome robot. 

This is what I love doing, so I just made it part of my day job.

We aren't focused on any particular problem, and we're not trying to solve any particular disease.

This is just a place where people can come and ask fascinating questions and find answers.

And what happened was that artists and scientists from around the world started coming to my lab.

And it's not just because we value unconventional ideas, it's because we test and validate them with scientific rigor. 

Could I dismantle a biological system, mix and match the parts and then put it back together in some new and creative way?

Can any of you guys tell me what fruit this is? 

Audience: Apple! 

Now, I actually want you to notice as well that this is a lot redder than most apples.

And that's because we grew human cells into it.

We took a totally innocent Macintosh apple, removed all the apple cells and DNA and then implanted human cells.

And what we're left with after removing all the apple cells is this cellulose scaffold.

This is the stuff that gives plants their shape and texture.

And these little holes that you can see, this is where all the apple cells used to be.

What happens is, these guys start multiplying and they fill up this entire scaffold. 

As weird as this is, it's actually really reminiscent of how our own tissues are organized.

I actually brought this up with my wife.

Yeah, I know. 

It's a good lab, man. 

And then we grew cells on them.

And this is the result. 

People have actually been working on this for decades.

We used an apple and it cost pennies. 

What's also really cool here is it's not that hard to make these things.

So what we did was put all the instructions online as open source.

What I'm really curious about is if one day, it will be possible to repair, rebuild and augment our own bodies with stuff we make in the kitchen. 

They're tasty, and they make your pee smell funny. 

And when we image them in the lab, you can see how the cellulose forms these structures.

Because if we can, then maybe we can use asparagus to form new connections between the ends of damaged and severed nerves.

Or maybe even a spinal cord.

But we are the only ones using asparagus. 

Right now, we've got really promising pilot data.

And we're working with tissue engineers and neurosurgeons to find out what's actually possible. 

Play -- play is a key part of my scientific practice.

So, the next time any of you are looking at some old, broken-down, malfunctioning, piece-of-crap technology, I want you to think of me.

Because I want it. 

Thank you. 

