Once upon a time, the world was a big, dysfunctional family.

If any of the more rowdier children questioned the authority of the parents, they were scolded.

Then one day, a man came to town with boxes and boxes of secret documents stolen from the parents' rooms.

"Look what they've been hiding from you," he said.

The children looked and were amazed.

They behaved just like the children.

And they made mistakes, too, just like the children.

The only difference was, their mistakes were in the secret filing cabinets.

And so she set about to make it so. 

(Applause) It wasn't like I was asking for the code to a nuclear bunker, or anything like that, but the amount of resistance I got from this Freedom of Information request, you would have thought I'd asked something like this. 

(Applause) It wasn't like I was asking for the code to a nuclear bunker, or anything like that, but the amount of resistance I got from this Freedom of Information request, you would have thought I'd asked something like this. 

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

The transparency law they'd passed earlier that applied to everybody else, they tried to keep it so it didn't apply to them.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Well, I tell you that story because it wasn't unique to Britain.

So we are moving to this democratization of information, and I've been in this field for quite a while.

Slightly embarrassing admission: Even when I was a kid, I used to have these little spy books, and I would, like, see what everybody was doing in my neighborhood and log it down.

No, it's about trying to find the truth based on what you can see and what can be tested.

That, in the first Enlightenment, led to questions about the right of kings, the divine right of kings to rule over people, or that women should be subordinate to men, or that the Church was the official word of God. 

So that's why we're seeing increasingly this demand for access to information.

In the finance industry, you now have more of a right to know about what's going on, so we have different anti-bribery laws, money regulations, increased corporate disclosure, so you can now track assets across borders.

And it's getting harder to hide assets, tax avoidance, pay inequality.

It's the system which underpins all these other systems.

And I think this is largely what's behind the crisis of legitimacy in our different governments right now. 

So I've told you a bit about what I did to try and drag Parliament, kicking and screaming, into the 21st century, and I'm just going to give you a couple of examples of what a few other people I know are doing. 

So that's open-source and it can be used in any country where there is some kind of Freedom of Information law.

So if any of you out there like the sound of that and have a law like that in your country, I know that Seb would love to hear from you about collaborating and getting that into your country. 

So when the Guardian did this investigation about the Afghan War, you know, they can't walk into the Department of Defense and ask for all the information.

You know, they're just not going to get it.

So this came from leaks of tens of thousands of dispatches that were written by American soldiers about the Afghan War, and leaked, and then they're able to do this investigation. 

Another rather large investigation is around world diplomacy.

Beyond that, what I found most fascinating was the level of endemic corruption that I saw across all different countries, and particularly centered around the heart of power, around public officials who were embezzling the public's money for their own personal enrichment, and allowed to do that because of official secrecy. 

So I've mentioned WikiLeaks, because surely what could be more open than publishing all the material?

Because that is what Julian Assange did.

That did end up with vulnerable people in Afghanistan being exposed.

You've got to have skepticism and humility.

Skepticism, because you must always be challenging.

At the moment our rights are incredibly weak.

(Applause) (Laughs) I would like us to work towards that. 

(Applause) (Laughs) I would like us to work towards that. 

So it was only just the other week that I heard London's Metropolitan Police Commissioner talking about why the police need access to all of our communications, spying on us without any judicial oversight, and he said it was a matter of life and death.

It was just, "Because I say so.

In America, you have the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act.

You've got drones now being considered for domestic surveillance.

You have the National Security Agency building the world's giantest spy center.

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

