Is it something that we survive?

Is it something that we can treat? 

Clinical studies form the basis of how we investigate, so if we're going to look at a new drug, right, we test it in people, we draw blood, we do experiments, and we gain consent for that study, to make sure that we're not screwing people over as part of it. 

We're able to gather information about our environment.

So my grandfather's genes go all the way through to him, and my choices are going to affect his health.

The technology between these two pictures cannot be more different, but the methodology for clinical studies has not radically changed over that time period.

We just have better statistics.

It's a side effect, if you will, of a power we created to take us for good.

And so if you think about it, the depressing thing is that Facebook would never make a change to something as important as an advertising algorithm with a sample size as small as a Phase III clinical trial.

We cannot take the information from past trials and put them together to form statistically significant samples. 

It's outrage that we have this information and we can't use it.

And it's an accident.

So the cost in blood and treasure of this is enormous.

Two hundred and twenty-six billion a year is spent on cancer in the United States.

Fifteen hundred people a day die in the United States.

And it's getting worse. 

So a lot of people talk about it as digital exhaust.

I like to think of it as the dust that runs along behind my kid.

It was done in five months by a startup company of a couple of people.

I don't have any financial interest in it. 

And no one could tell me yes.

As you can see, I have high cholesterol.

This is like the photograph of my granddad holding my mom from a data perspective, and I had to go into the system and get it out. 

So not that many programmers write free software, but we have the Apache web server.

And in biology, the numbers are even better.

So people like to share, if you give them the opportunity and the choice. 

And the reason that I got obsessed with this, besides the obvious family aspects, is that I spend a lot of time around mathematicians, and mathematicians are drawn to places where there's a lot of data because they can use it to tease signals out of noise.

If we have a lot of shared genotypes, and a lot of shared outcomes, and a lot of shared lifestyle choices, and a lot of shared environmental information, we can start to tease out the correlations between subtle variations in people, the choices they make and the health that they create as a result of those choices, and there's open-source infrastructure to do all of this.

Sage Bionetworks is a nonprofit that's built a giant math system that's waiting for data, but there isn't any. 

Those are strengths in the system. 

And open doesn't mean that there's no money.

Closed systems, corporations, make a lot of money on the open web, and they're one of the reasons why the open web lives is that corporations have a vested interest in the openness of the system.

And so all of these things are part of the clinical study that we've created, so you can actually come in, all you have to be is 14 years old, willing to sign a contract that says I'm not going to be a jerk, basically, and you're in.

It's very much the design principles of a commons that we're trying to bring to health data.

So what I'd end [with] is, the most beautiful thing I've learned since I quit my job almost a year ago to do this, is that it really doesn't take very many of us to achieve spectacular results.

And being naked and alone can be terrifying.

But to be naked in a group, voluntarily, can be quite beautiful.

