The question is, which of these horizontal lines is longer?

The answer is?

Audience: The same.Eddie Obeng: The same.

And this is what I'm trying to explain has happened to us in the 21st century.

Somebody or something has changed the rules about how our world works.

(Applause) 

So let me take you on a little journey of many of the things I don't understand.

If you search Amazon for the word "creativity," you'll discover something like 90,000 books.

If you go on Google and you look for "innovation + creativity," you get 30 million hits.

We've got to make it happen.

We've spent decades professionalizing implementation.

This was a group of eminent economists apologizing to the Queen of England when she asked the question, "Why did no one tell us that the crisis was coming?"

What we do know is that the world has accelerated.

Cyberspace moves everything at the speed of light.

Technology accelerates things exponentially.

At the same time, as we've done that, we've done something really weird.

We've doubled the population in 40 years, put half of them in cities, then connected them all up so they can interact.

And then we've done a third thing.

What's happened is, we've changed the scale.

Size and scale are no longer the same.

And then add to that, every time you tweet, over a third of your followers follow from a country which is not your own. 

There's this little flicker, and then as he turns it ever so slightly more, the whole of that green line disappears, and instead there are these little sort of inky dust devils close to the needle.

And if we didn't have that green ink, you'd never notice. 

Now how do we cope and deal with that?

If you work in an institution, one day you will get them to make that decision.

If you haven't understood the world you're living in, it's almost impossible to be absolutely certain that what you're going to deliver fits. 

Well, harshly, because you could have asked somebody who had experience.

So we learned the answer and we carried this in our heads for 20, 30 years, are you with me?

The answer is, don't do things which are different.

And then suddenly we tell them to and it doesn't work.

You see, in reality, there are two ways you can fail in our new world.

On the other hand, you're doing something new, no one's ever done before, you get it completely wrong.

So what I want to leave you, then, is with the explanation of why I actually traveled 60,000 miles from my desk.

(Applause) 

