Companies are losing control.

Companies are losing control of their customers and their employees.

But are they really? 

Your brand is what other people say about you when you're not in the room, the saying goes.

They can listen and join the conversation.

In fact, they have more control over the loss of control than ever before.

First of all, they can give employees and customers more control.

They can collaborate with them on the creation of ideas, knowledge, content, designs and product.

The album sold more copies than previous releases of the band.

The Danish chocolate company Anthon Berg opened a so-called "generous store" in Copenhagen.

It asked customers to purchase chocolate with the promise of good deeds towards loved ones.

It turned transactions into interactions, and generosity into a currency.

Companies can even give control to hackers.

When Microsoft Kinect came out, the motion-controlled add-on to its Xbox gaming console, it immediately drew the attention of hackers.

Microsoft first fought off the hacks, but then shifted course when it realized that actively supporting the community came with benefits.

The sense of co-ownership, the free publicity, the added value, all helped drive sales. 

The ultimate empowerment of customers is to ask them not to buy.

Outdoor clothier Patagonia encouraged prospective buyers to check out eBay for its used products and to resole their shoes before purchasing new ones.

In an even more radical stance against consumerism, the company placed a "Don't Buy This Jacket" advertisement during the peak of shopping season.

It may have jeopardized short-term sales, but it builds lasting, long-term loyalty based on shared values. 

Research has shown that giving employees more control over their work makes them happier and more productive.

The Brazilian company Semco Group famously lets employees set their own work schedules and even their salaries.

Hulu and Netflix, among other companies, have open vacation policies. 

Companies can give people more control, but they can also give them less control.

Giving people less control might be a wonderful way to counter the abundance of choice and make them happier.

Take the travel service Nextpedition.

Force them to help others.

A recent study suggests that having employees complete occasional altruistic tasks throughout the day increases their sense of overall productivity.

By applying a strict process, we give them less control, less choice, but we enable more and richer social interactions. 

That should make them more humble, more vulnerable and more human.

At the end of the day, as hyperconnectivity and transparency expose companies' behavior in broad daylight, staying true to their true selves is the only sustainable value proposition.

"A smile is a door that is half open and half closed," the author Jennifer Egan wrote.

