One of the big things about countering terrorism is, how do you perceive it?

Because perception leads to your response to it.

So if you have a traditional perception of terrorism, it would be that it's one of criminality, one of war.

So how are you going to respond to it?

It doesn't actually do what it says on the tin.

And you're not really going to, in the '80s, end capitalism by supporting one of these groups.

We've talked there about curtailing the underlying need for the product itself.

That's where their consumers come from.

And we have to get our messaging in there.

So the essentials are, we've got to have interaction in those areas, with the terrorists, the facilitators, etc.

We've got to engage, we've got to educate, and we've got to have dialogue. 

How are we going to do these attacks?

We've got to show our values.

We've got to practice what we preach.

But whether it's victims, whether it's governments, NGOs, or even the Queen yesterday, in Northern Ireland, we have to interact and engage with those different layers of terrorism, and, in effect, we do have to have a little dance with the devil. 

This is my favorite part of my speech.

The father will probably kick himself for years to come that he didn't take that seat instead of his kid.

There's a lady over there as well who lost her legs in this bombing.

She's going to find out that she gets a pitiful amount of money off our government for looking after what's happened to her.

She had a daughter who was going to go to one of the best universities.

What they'd have done then is an invasion.

We're going to drive prejudice throughout Edinburgh, throughout the U.K., for Welsh people. 

The fear and the pressure to do something on them is going to be immense.

They're not just going to be smart. 

There was a famous Irish terrorist who once summed up the point very beautifully.

We need to build an arsenal of noncombative weapons in this war on terrorism.

But of course, it's ideas -- is not something that governments do very well. 

We see it as terrorism versus democracy in that brand war.

They'll see it as freedom fighters and truth against injustice, imperialism, etc. 

We do have to see this as a deadly battlefield.

It's not just [our] flesh and blood they want.

They were effectively [doing] something in this brand image of creating a brand which can be franchised around the world, where there's poverty, ignorance and injustice. 

If we perceive it in this way as a brand, or other ways of thinking at it like this, we will not resolve or counter terrorism. 

What I'd like to do is just briefly go through a few examples from my work on areas where we try and approach these things differently.

A civil action was brought from 1998.

In Omagh, bomb went off, Real IRA, middle of a peace process.

It also meant, then, if you can imagine this, that the people who bombed your children and your husbands were walking around the supermarket that you lived in.

Why was it effective?

It was effective not just because justice was seen to be done where there was a huge void.

The bombs actually stopped -- fact -- because of this action.

New Libya has been compassionate towards those victims, and started taking it -- so it started a whole new dialogue there.

But the problem is, we need more and more support for these ideas and cases. 

If anyone thinks you can have a war on piracy like a war on terrorism and beat it, you're wrong.

What we're trying to do there is turn pirates to fisherman.

The last one I wanted to talk about was dialogue.

The advantages of dialogue are obvious.

We need to foster more modern and asymmetrical responses to it.

This isn't about being soft on terrorism.

It's about fighting them on contemporary battlefields.

The private sector has a role.

The role we could do right now is going away and looking at how we can support victims around the world to bring initiatives. 

We have to ask ourselves these questions, however unpalatable.

Have we been ignoring an injustice or a humanitarian struggle somewhere in the world?

What if, actually, engagement on poverty and injustice is exactly what the terrorists wanted us to do?

What if the bombs are just simply wake-up calls for us?

What happens if that bomb went off because we didn't have any thoughts and things in place to allow dialogue to deal with these things and interaction? 

What it would mean is that humans, in order to survive in development, quite Darwinian spirit here, inherently must dance with the devil. 

Maybe the Rolling Stones has a place in this.

Thank you.

(Music) (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you.

