But before I give it away, I want to ask you to right now do a little audit of your body and what you're doing with your body.

Even the BBC and The New York Times.

And we make sweeping judgments and inferences from body language.

For example, Nalini Ambady, a researcher at Tufts University, shows that when people watch 30-second soundless clips of real physician-patient interactions, their judgments of the physician's niceness predict whether or not that physician will be sued.

So it doesn't have to do so much with whether or not that physician was incompetent, but do we like that person and how they interacted?

I became especially interested in nonverbal expressions of power and dominance. 

So in the animal kingdom, they are about expanding.

And this one is especially interesting because it really shows us how universal and old these expressions of power are.

So women are much more likely to do this kind of thing than men.

Women feel chronically less powerful than men, so this is not surprising. 

And this is really important in the MBA classroom, because participation counts for half the grade. 

So business schools have been struggling with this gender grade gap.

There's some evidence that they do.

So the second question really was, you know, so we know that our minds change our bodies, but is it also true that our bodies change our minds?

And when I say minds, in the case of the powerful, what am I talking about?

So what do the minds of the powerful versus the powerless look like?

So powerful people tend to be, not surprisingly, more assertive and more confident, more optimistic.

But really, power is also about how you react to stress.

Here are a couple more.

So you can be standing or you can be sitting.

And here are the low-power poses.

When you're touching your neck, you're really protecting yourself. 

When you're in the low-power pose condition, only 60 percent, and that's a whopping significant difference. 

Here's what we find on testosterone.

So again, two minutes, and you get these changes.

Also, our bodies change our minds. 

We decided that the one that most people could relate to because most people had been through, was the job interview. 

Again, this is not about you talking to other people.

So this really spikes your cortisol.

It's about the presence that they're bringing to the speech.

So this is what's driving the effect, or mediating the effect. 

When I was 19, I was in a really bad car accident.

I was thrown out of a car, rolled several times.

I knew my IQ because I had identified with being smart, and I had been called gifted as a child.

I am an impostor.

Like, she can fake it, she can become it. 

Do it enough until you actually become it and internalize. 

The last thing I'm going to leave you with is this.

Tiny tweaks can lead to big changes.

So, this is two minutes.

