This is the skyline of my hometown, New Orleans.

These are my mother's, at the top -- although that's not her car, it was carried there by floodwaters up to the roof -- and that's my sister's, below.

Other parts of the world have been hit by storms in even more devastating ways.

In 2008, Cyclone Nargis and its aftermath killed 138,000 in Myanmar.

The changes in these times won't affect us all equally.

And how will they cope in a foreign land?

Will there be tensions over immigration, or conflicts over competition for limited resources?

It's already fueled conflicts in Chad and Darfur.

That's the Russians planting a flag on the ocean bottom to stake a claim for minerals under the receding Arctic sea ice.

But while there might be some short-term individual winners, our collective losses will far outweigh them.

In New Orleans, the I-10 Twin Spans, with sections knocked out in Katrina, have been rebuilt 21 feet higher to allow for greater storm surge.

And these raised and energy-efficient homes were developed by Brad Pitt and Make It Right for the hard-hit Ninth Ward.

The devastated church my mom attends has been not only rebuilt higher, it's poised to become the first Energy Star church in the country.

They're selling electricity back to the grid thanks to solar panels, reflective paint and more.

But as important as technology and infrastructure are, perhaps the human element is even more critical.

We need better planning and systems for evacuation.

We need to better understand how people make decisions in times of crisis, and why.

Imagine leaving behind your own pet in an evacuation or a rescue.

Second, preparing for heat and drought.

The stability this provides is giving the farmers the confidence to invest.

It's giving them access to affordable credit.

They're splitting the cost of installing these green roofs with home and building owners.

Third, adapting to rising seas.

Infrastructure is going to be affected.

Imagine the staggering cost of protecting this vital infrastructure with levees.

Beyond these technical solutions, our work at the Georgetown Climate Center with communities encourages them to look at what existing legal and policy tools are available and to consider how they can accommodate change.

The Asian Cities Climate [Change] Resilience Network is restoring vital ecosystems like forest mangroves.

But we can simply no longer rely on established norms.

The larger point I'm trying to make is this.

There are no quick fixes.

There are no one-size-fits-all solutions.

We're all learning by doing.

