We don't hear about all the times that people got stuff wrong.

Now we expect that to happen with silly stories about precognition, but the problem is, we have exactly the same problem in academia and in medicine, and in this environment, it costs lives. 

So this is already evidence of how, in the academic literature, we will see a biased sample of the true picture of all of the scientific studies that have been conducted. 

So in March, 2012, just one month ago, some researchers reported in the journal Nature how they had tried to replicate 53 different basic science studies looking at potential treatment targets in cancer, and out of those 53 studies, they were only able to successfully replicate six.

Forty-seven out of those 53 were unreplicable.

And they say in their discussion that this is very likely because freaks get published.

People will do lots and lots and lots of different studies, and the occasions when it works they will publish, and the ones where it doesn't work they won't.

But it doesn't just happen in the very dry world of preclinical basic science cancer research.

Early on its development, they did a very small trial, just under a hundred patients.

Fifty patients got lorcainide, and of those patients, 10 died.

Another 50 patients got a dummy placebo sugar pill with no active ingredient, and only one of them died.

So they rightly regarded this drug as a failure, and its commercial development was stopped, and because its commercial development was stopped, this trial was never published. 

That's the technical term for the phenomenon where unflattering data gets lost, gets unpublished, is left missing in action, and they say the results described here "might have provided an early warning of trouble ahead."

The academic publishing environment is very different now.

I felt misled. 

But it turns out that this phenomenon of publication bias has actually been very, very well studied.

So here is one example of how you approach it.

They took all of the trials which were submitted to the FDA as part of the approval package.

But when they went to look for these trials in the peer-reviewed academic literature, what they found was a very different picture.

Only three of the negative trials were published, but all but one of the positive trials were published.

Publication bias affects every field of medicine.

This is a cancer at the core of evidence-based medicine.

And to me, this is research misconduct.

If I conducted one study and I withheld half of the data points from that one study, you would rightly accuse me, essentially, of research fraud.

And yet, for some reason, if somebody conducts 10 studies but only publishes the five that give the result that they want, we don't consider that to be research misconduct.

The results were unavailable to them.

And when they started obtaining the writeups of those trials through various different means, through Freedom of Information Act requests, through harassing various different organizations, what they found was inconsistent.

And the most staggering thing of all of this, to me, is that not only is this a problem, not only do we recognize that this is a problem, but we've had to suffer fake fixes.

We've had people pretend that this is a problem that's been fixed.

But people didn't bother to use those registers.

And so then the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors came along, and they said, oh, well, we will hold the line.

This is a disaster.

We cannot know the true effects of the medicines that we prescribe if we do not have access to all of the information. 

And this is not a difficult problem to fix.

