Everyone has relationships with other people, and they're interested in these relationships for a variety of reasons.

Good relationships, bad relationships, annoying relationships, agnostic relationships, and what I'm going to do is focus on the central piece of an interaction that goes on in a relationship.

You make a blood flow movie, you have an independent proxy of brain activity. 

This has literally revolutionized cognitive science.

Valuation is just what you think it is, you know?

If you went and you were valuing two companies against one another, you'd want to know which was more valuable.

Cultures discovered the key feature of valuation thousands of years ago.

If you want to compare oranges to windshields, what do you do?

We have a behavioral superpower in our brain, and it at least in part involves dopamine.

These same valuation systems are redeployed when we're valuing interactions with other people.

So this same dopamine system that gets addicted to drugs, that makes you freeze when you get Parkinson's disease, that contributes to various forms of psychosis, is also redeployed to value interactions with other people and to assign value to gestures that you do when you're interacting with somebody else. 

Let me give you an example of this.

You bring to the table such enormous processing power in this domain that you hardly even notice it. 

You can cover up one of her eyes, and you can still read something in the other eye, and I see sort of curiosity in one eye, I see maybe a little bit of surprise in the other. 

All right, so what does this mean?

It means we bring an enormous amount of processing power to the problem.

It engages deep systems in our brain, in dopaminergic systems that are there to make you chase sex, food and salt.

So how can we take that and arrange a kind of staged social interaction and turn that into a scientific probe?

This is the kind of game done by my lab and many around the world.

You have to be able to come to the table with a proper model of another person.

You have to be able to remember what you've done.

You have to stand up in the moment to do that.

That is, you have to decide what that other person expects of you.

In doing this, what we've discovered is that humans are literal canaries in social exchanges.

Canaries used to be used as kind of biosensors in mines.

People come to the table, and even these very blunt, staged social interactions, and they, and there's just numbers going back and forth between the people, and they bring enormous sensitivities to it.

We can compute that during the game.

And we can use that to sort of carve up the behavior. 

So it synchronizes machines anywhere in the world.

The hub, ironically enough, is centered in little Roanoke, Virginia.

But we're also studying just a small part of what makes us interesting as human beings, and so I would invite other people who are interested in this to ask us for the software, or even for guidance on how to move forward with that. 

Let me leave you with one thought in closing.

The interesting thing about studying cognition has been that we've been limited, in a way.

We just haven't had the tools to look at interacting brains simultaneously.

