So if someone asked you for the three words that would sum up your reputation, what would you say?

How would people describe your judgment, your knowledge, your behaviors, in different situations?

Sebastian Sandys has been a bed and breakfast host on Airbnb since 2008.

I caught up with him recently, where, over the course of several cups of tea, he told me how hosting guests from all over the world has enriched his life.

More than 50 people have come to stay in the 18th-century watchhouse he lives in with his cat, Squeak.

And so Sebastian bought Squeak to protect his reputation. 

If you don't like the hotel, there's a castle down the road that you can rent for 5,000 dollars a night.

It's a fantastic example of how technology is creating a market for things that never had a marketplace before. 

This image here is from 2008.

The pink dots represent host properties.

Even four years ago, letting strangers stay in your home seemed like a crazy idea.

Now the same view in 2010.

And now, 2012.

There is an Airbnb host on almost every main street in Paris.

They're empowered to make money and save money from their existing assets. 

But the real magic and the secret source behind collaborative consumption marketplaces like Airbnb isn't the inventory or the money.

It's using the power of technology to build trust between strangers.

This side of Airbnb really hit home to Sebastian last summer during the London riots.

Former guests from around the world had seen that the riots were happening just down the street, and wanted to check if he needed anything.

Sebastian actually said to me, he said, "Thirteen former guests contacted me before my own mother rang."

Now, this little anecdote gets to the heart of why I'm really passionate about collaborative consumption, and why, after I finished my book, I decided I'm going to try and spread this into a global movement.

Because at its core, it's about empowerment.

Now the irony is that these ideas are actually taking us back to old market principles and collaborative behaviors that are hard-wired in all of us.

They're just being reinvented in ways that are relevant for the Facebook age.

We are trading lessons on everything from sushi-making to coding on Skillshare, and we're even sharing our pets on DogVacay.

But the key reason why it's taking off now so fast is because every new advancement of technology increases the efficiency and the social glue of trust to make sharing easier and easier. 

Now, I've looked at thousands of these marketplaces, and trust and efficiency are always the critical ingredients.

Now, the story behind TaskRabbit starts like so many great stories with a very cute dog by the name of Kobe.

Now what happened was, in February 2008, Leah and her husband were waiting for a cab to take them out for dinner, when Kobe came trotting up to them and he was salivating with saliva.

They realized they'd run out of dog food.

Kevin had to cancel the cab and trudge out in the snow.

Now, later that evening, the two self-confessed tech geeks starting talking about how cool it would be if some kind of eBay for errands existed.

Six months later, Leah quit her job, and TaskRabbit was born.

At the time, she didn't realize that she was actually hitting on a bigger idea she later called service networking.

It's essentially about how we use our online relationships to get things done in the real world. 

Yes, there's actually a four-stage, rigorous interview process that's designed to find the people that would make great personal assistants and weed out the dodgy Rabbits.

Now the tasks being posted are things that you might expect, like help with household chores or doing some supermarket runs.

And 70 percent of this new labor force were previously unemployed or underemployed.

I think TaskRabbit and other examples of collaborative consumption are like lemonade stands on steroids.

I actually came across this fascinating study by the Pew Center this week that revealed that an active Facebook user is three times as likely as a non-Internet user to believe that most people are trustworthy.

Virtual trust will transform the way we trust one another face to face. 

Now, with all of my optimism, and I am an optimist, comes a healthy dose of caution, or rather, an urgent need to address some pressing, complex questions.

How do we mimic the way trust is built face-to-face online?

How do we stop people who've behaved badly in one community doing so under a different guise?

Reputation is the measurement of how much a community trusts you.

Let's just take a look at Chris.

You can see that over 200 people have given him an average rating over 4.99 out of 5.

Now — (Laughter) -- I love that word, SuperRabbit.

And interestingly, what Chris has noted is that as his reputation has gone up, so has his chances of winning a bid and how much he can charge.

In other words, for SuperRabbits, reputation has a real world value. 

30 million rides have been shared on Carpooling.com.

This year, two billion dollars worth of loans will go through peer-to-peer lending platforms.

This adds up to millions of pieces of reputation data on how well we behave or misbehave. 

Now, capturing and correlating the trails of information that we leave in different places is a massive challenge, but one we're being asked to figure out.

What the likes of Sebastian are starting to rightfully ask is, shouldn't they own their reputation data?

Shouldn't the reputation that he's personally invested on building on Airbnb mean that it should travel with him from one community to another?

I was essentially a ghost in the system. 

I also want to be clear that this isn't about adding up tweets and likes and friends in a clout-like fashion.

Those guys are measuring influence, not behaviors that indicate our trustworthiness. 

But the most important thing that we have to keep in mind is that reputation is largely contextual.

Just because Sebastian is a wonderful host does not mean that he can assemble Ikea furniture.

Now this is a concept that I'm currently researching and writing my next book on, and currently define as the worth of your reputation, your intentions, capabilities and values across communities and marketplaces.

This isn't some far-off frontier.

There are actually a wave of startups like Connect.Me and Legit and TrustCloud that are figuring out how you can aggregate, monitor and use your online reputation. 

Now, I realize that this concept may sound a little Big Brother to some of you, and yes, there are some enormous transparency and privacy issues to solve, but ultimately, if we can collect our personal reputation, we can actually control it more, and extract the immense value that will flow from it. 

Also, more so than our credit history, we can actually shape our reputation.

Just think of Sebastian and how he bought the cat to influence his. 

Now privacy issues aside, the other really interesting issue I'm looking at is how do we empower digital ghosts, people [who] for whatever reason, are not active online, but are some of the most trustworthy people in the world?

How do we take their contributions to their jobs, their communities and their families, and convert that value into reputation capital? 

Ultimately, when we get it right, reputation capital could create a massive positive disruption in who has power, trust and influence.

Indeed, reputation is a currency that I believe will become more powerful than our credit history in the 21st century.

Reputation will be the currency that says that you can trust me. 

Now the interesting thing is, reputation is the socioeconomic lubricant that makes collaborative consumption work and scale, but the sources it will be generated from, and its applications, are far bigger than this space alone.

Four years ago, tech bloggers and entrepreneurs Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood, decided to start something called Stack Overflow.

Now, Stack Overflow is basically a platform where experienced programmers can ask other good programmers highly detailed technical questions on things like tiny pixels and chrome extensions.

This site receives five and a half thousand questions a day, and 80 percent of these receive accurate answers.

Now users earn reputation in a whole range of ways, but it's basically by convincing their peers they know what they're talking about. 

What they heard was that users were putting their reputation scores on the top of their résumés, and that recruiters were searching the platform to find people with unique talents.

Now thousands of programmers today are finding better jobs this way, because Stack Overflow and the reputation dashboards provide a priceless window into how someone really behaves, and what their peers think of them. 

But the bigger principle of what's happening behind Stack Overflow, I think, is incredibly exciting.

You know, it's very interesting.

When you talk to super-users, whether that's SuperRabbits or super-people on Stack Overflow, or Uberhosts, they all talk about how having a high reputation unlocks a sense of their own power.

On Stack Overflow, it creates a level playing field, enabling the people with the real talent to rise to the top.

Now at the end of my tea with Sebastian, he told me how, on a bad, rainy day, when he hasn't had a customer in his bookstore, he thinks of all the people around the world who've said something wonderful about him, and what that says about him as a person.

He's turning 50 this year, and he's convinced that the rich tapestry of reputation he's built on Airbnb will lead him to doing something interesting with the rest of his life. 

You know, there are only a few windows in history where the opportunity exists to reinvent part of how our socioeconomic system works.

We're living through one of those moments.

I believe that we are at the start of a collaborative revolution that will be as significant as the Industrial Revolution.

In the 20th century, the invention of traditional credit transformed our consumer system, and in many ways controlled who had access to what.

