I've always written primarily about architecture, about buildings, and writing about architecture is based on certain assumptions.

You can experience their sense of place. 

But what was striking to me over the last several years was that less and less was I going out into the world, and more and more, I was sitting in front of my computer screen.

And especially since about 2007, when I got an iPhone, I was not only sitting in front of my screen all day, but I was also getting up at the end of the day and looking at this little screen that I carried in my pocket.

And what was surprising to me was how quickly my relationship to the physical world had changed.

And what was even more striking to me, and what I really got hung up on, was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own.

If you went and looked for images of the Internet, this was all that you found, this famous image by Opte of the Internet as the kind of Milky Way, this infinite expanse where we don't seem to be anywhere on it.

We can never seem to grasp it in its totality.

So if there was this world and this screen, and if there was the physical world around me, I couldn't ever get them together in the same place. 

And then this happened.

My Internet broke one day, as it occasionally does, and the cable guy came to fix it, and he started with the dusty clump of cables behind the couch, and he followed it to the front of my building and into the basement and out to the back yard, and there was this big jumble of cables against the wall.

You know, was there something actually out there? 

And the answer, by all accounts, was no.

Normally it lives on the top of Big Ben, because that's where you get the best reception, but they had negotiated that their colleague could borrow it for the afternoon to use in an office presentation.

And that connection is an unequivocally physical process.

It's about the router of one network, a Facebook or a Google or a B.T.

And 60 Hudson in particular is interesting because it's home to about a half a dozen very important networks, which are the networks which serve the undersea cables that travel underneath the ocean that connect Europe and America and connect all of us.

And it's those cables in particular that I want to focus on. 

If the Internet is a global phenomenon, if we live in a global village, it's because there are cables underneath the ocean, cables like this.

But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.

But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.

But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.

But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.

But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.

Now there are six cables and more coming, three down each coast.

It's an intensely, intensely physical process. 

(Laughter) Because they all started at the same time with the boom about 20 years ago.

They looked for the unwired places, and that's meant North and South, primarily these cables to Africa.

It seemed like there was a moment when the continent was being plugged in, and I wanted to see that.

And Simon was working on a new cable, WACS, the West Africa Cable System, that stretched from Lisbon down the west coast of Africa, to Cote d'Ivoire, to Ghana, to Nigeria, to Cameroon.

Then a bulldozer began to pull the cable in from this specialized cable landing ship, and it was floated on these buoys until it was in the right place.

Then you can see the English engineers looking on.

And then once that cable was on shore, they began to prepare to connect it to the other side, for the cable that had been brought down from the landing station.

And first they got it with a hacksaw, and then they start sort of shaving away at this plastic interior with a -- sort of working like chefs, and then finally they're working like jewelers to get these hair-thin fibers to line up with the cable that had come down, and with this hole-punch machine they fuse it together.

And when you see these guys going at this cable with a hacksaw, you stop thinking about the Internet as a cloud.

It starts to seem like an incredibly physical thing.

And then the process on shore takes around three or four days, and then, when it's done, they put the manhole cover back on top, and they push the sand over that, and we all forget about it. 

(Applause) 

