It's time to start designing for our ears.

Architects and designers tend to focus exclusively on these.

Sound affects us physiologically, psychologically, cognitively and behaviorally all the time.

The sound around us is affecting us even though we're not conscious of it.

If the space I'm sending it in is not effective, that communication can't happen. 

Spaces tend to include noise and acoustics.

A room like this has acoustics, this one very good acoustics.

Many rooms are not so good.

Hospital sound is getting worse all the time.

Noise levels in hospitals have doubled in the last few years, and it affects not just the patients but also the people working there.

Sleep is absolutely crucial for recovery.

There are just huge benefits to come from designing for the ears in our health care.

This is an area I intend to take on this year. 

This is a 32-million-pound flagship academy school which was built quite recently in the U.K. and designed by one of Britain's top architects.

Unfortunately, it was designed like a corporate headquarters, with a vast central atrium and classrooms leading off it with no back walls at all.

It's not just these modern buildings which suffer.

Old-fashioned classrooms suffer too.

A study in Florida just a few years ago found that if you're sitting where this photograph was taken in the classroom, row four, speech intelligibility is just 50 percent.

Children are losing one word in two.

In a classroom with a reverberation time of 1.2 seconds, which is pretty common, this is what it sounds like. 

Not so good, is it?

If you take that 1.2 seconds down to 0.4 seconds by installing acoustic treatments, sound absorbing materials and so forth, this is what you get. 

Voice: In language, infinitely many words can be written with a small set of letters.

Julian Treasure: What a difference.

All that changed was the acoustics of the classroom in those two examples. 

In the U.K., that's more than 10 percent of the school population.

It's not just the children who are affected, though.

(Noisy conversation) This study in Germany found the average noise level in classrooms is 65 decibels.

This chart maps the teacher's heart rate against the noise level.

Noise goes up, heart rate goes up.

That is not good for you.

In fact, 65 decibels is the very level at which this big survey of all the evidence on noise and health found that, that is the threshold for the danger of myocardial infarction.

To you and me, that's a heart attack.

It may not be pushing the boat out too far to suggest that many teachers are losing significant life expectancy by teaching in environments like that day after day. 

What does it cost to treat a classroom down to that 0.4-second reverberation time?

Two and a half thousand pounds.

I think the economics are pretty clear on this. 

I'm glad that debate is happening on this.

Out of that conference, incidentally, also came a free app which is designed to help children study if they're having to work at home, for example, in a noisy kitchen.

And that's free out of that conference. 

Let's broaden the perspective a little bit and look at cities.

We have urban planners.

The World Health Organization estimates that a quarter of Europe's population is having its sleep degraded by noise in cities.

And in our offices, we spend a lot of time at work.

Where are the office sound planners?

Where are the interior sound designers?

My friend Richard Mazuch, an architect in London, coined the phrase "invisible architecture."

I love that phrase.

(Applause) 

