Fifteen years ago, it was widely assumed that the vast majority of brain development takes place in the first few years of life.

Back then, 15 years ago, we didn't have the ability to look inside the living human brain and track development across the lifespan.

And we also use functional MRI, called fMRI, to take a video, a movie, of brain activity when participants are taking part in some kind of task like thinking or feeling or perceiving something. 

So adolescence is defined as the period of life that starts with the biological, hormonal, physical changes of puberty and ends at the age at which an individual attains a stable, independent role in society.

(Laughter) It can go on a long time.

(Laughter) One of the brain regions that changes most dramatically during adolescence is called prefrontal cortex.

So this is a model of the human brain, and this is prefrontal cortex, right at the front.

Prefrontal cortex is an interesting brain area.

It's also involved in social interaction, understanding other people, and self-awareness. 

So MRI studies looking at the development of this region have shown that it really undergoes dramatic development during the period of adolescence.

You can think of it a bit like pruning a rosebush.

So a second line of inquiry that we use to track changes in the adolescent brain is using functional MRI to look at changes in brain activity across age.

So I'll just give you an example from my lab.

So you don't have to ask any of these guys.

You have a pretty good idea of what they're feeling and thinking at this precise moment in time. 

So that's what we're interested in looking at in my lab.

In this task, you see a set of shelves.

This is the same set of shelves from his point of view.

Now your task is to move objects around.

They move the white truck instead of the blue truck.

But it's when you compare the last two groups, the mid-adolescent group and the adult group where things get really interesting, because there, there is no continued improvement in the no-director condition.

So if you have a teenage son or a daughter and you sometimes think they have problems taking other people's perspectives, you're right.

So we sometimes laugh about teenagers.

(Laughter) He then goes on to say, "Having said that, would any but these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty hunt in this weather?"

It gives you the kick out of taking risks.

All four of my grandparents, for example, left school in their early adolescence.

And yet, this is a period of life where the brain is particularly adaptable and malleable.

It's a fantastic opportunity for learning and creativity. 

So what's sometimes seen as the problem with adolescents — heightened risk-taking, poor impulse control, self-consciousness — shouldn't be stigmatized.

