And I started to feed them in the most traditional and environmentally friendly way.

I went to the local greengrocer, and I went to a farmer who was throwing away potatoes because they were the wrong shape or size for supermarkets.

But I noticed that most of the food that I was giving my pigs was in fact fit for human consumption, and that I was only scratching the surface, and that right the way up the food supply chain, in supermarkets, greengrocers, bakers, in our homes, in factories and farms, we were hemorrhaging out food.

One morning, when I was feeding my pigs, I noticed a particularly tasty-looking sun-dried tomato loaf that used to crop up from time to time.

We're talking about good, fresh food that is being wasted on a colossal scale. 

Unfortunately, empirical data, good, hard stats, don't exist, and therefore to prove my point, I first of all had to find some proxy way of uncovering how much food was being wasted.

So I took the food supply of every single country and I compared it to what was actually likely to be being consumed in each country.

That's based on diet intake surveys, it's based on levels of obesity, it's based on a range of factors that gives you an approximate guess as to how much food is actually going into people's mouths.

But that black line shows what a food supply should be in a country if they allow for a good, stable, secure, nutritional diet for every person in that country.

Any dot above that line, and you'll quickly notice that that includes most countries in the world, represents unnecessary surplus, and is likely to reflect levels of waste in each country. 

As a country gets richer, it invests more and more in getting more and more surplus into its shops and restaurants, and as you can see, most European and North American countries fall between 150 and 200 percent of the nutritional requirements of their populations.

So a country like America has twice as much food on its shop shelves and in its restaurants than is actually required to feed the American people. 

But the thing that really struck me, when I plotted all this data, and it was a lot of numbers, was that you can see how it levels off.

Countries rapidly shoot towards that 150 mark, and then they level off, and they don't really go on rising as you might expect.

So I decided to unpack that data a little bit further to see if that was true or false.

And that's what I came up with.

If you include not just the food that ends up in shops and restaurants, but also the food that people feed to livestock, the maize, the soy, the wheat, that humans could eat but choose to fatten livestock instead to produce increasing amounts of meat and dairy products, what you find is that most rich countries have between three and four times the amount of food that their population needs to feed itself.

A country like America has four times the amount of food that it needs. 

When people talk about the need to increase global food production to feed those nine billion people that are expected on the planet by 2050, I always think of these graphs.

The fact is, we have an enormous buffer in rich countries between ourselves and hunger.

We've never had such gargantuan surpluses before.

But what we have to recognize now is that we are reaching the ecological limits that our planet can bear, and when we chop down forests, as we are every day, to grow more and more food, when we extract water from depleting water reserves, when we emit fossil fuel emissions in the quest to grow more and more food, and then we throw away so much of it, we have to think about what we can start saving. 

And yesterday, I went to one of the local supermarkets that I often visit to inspect, if you like, what they're throwing away.

I found quite a few packets of biscuits amongst all the fruit and vegetables and everything else that was in there.

And I thought, well this could serve as a symbol for today. 

That's what's in fields around the world every single year.

The first biscuit we're going to lose before we even leave the farm.

That's a problem primarily associated with developing work agriculture, whether it's a lack of infrastructure, refrigeration, pasteurization, grain stores, even basic fruit crates, which means that food goes to waste before it even leaves the fields.

The next three biscuits are the foods that we decide to feed to livestock, the maize, the wheat and the soya.

Unfortunately, our beasts are inefficient animals, and they turn two-thirds of that into feces and heat, so we've lost those two, and we've only kept this one in meat and dairy products.

Two more we're going to throw away directly into bins.

That is not a superlatively efficient use of global resources, especially when you think of the billion hungry people that exist already in the world. 

Having gone through the data, I then needed to demonstrate where that food ends up.

Supermarkets are an easy place to start.

But this is what you can see more or less on every street corner in Britain, in Europe, in North America.

It represents a colossal waste of food, but what I discovered whilst I was writing my book was that this very evident abundance of waste was actually the tip of the iceberg.

When you start going up the supply chain, you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan scale. 

Can I have a show of hands if you have a loaf of sliced bread in your house?

Who lives in a household where that crust -- that slice at the first and last end of each loaf -- who lives in a household where it does get eaten?

We contribute to that squeeze by depositing food in bins here in Britain and elsewhere in the world.

Go one step up, and you get to farmers, who throw away sometimes a third or even more of their harvest because of cosmetic standards.

This farmer, for example, has invested 16,000 pounds in growing spinach, not one leaf of which he harvested, because there was a little bit of grass growing in amongst it.

Potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect, all going for pigs.

If we do that to fruit and vegetables, you bet we can do it to animals too.

As a result, this stuff gets fed to dogs at best, or is incinerated.

This man, in Kashgar, Xinjiang province, in Western China, is serving up his national dish.

It's called sheep's organs.

It's delicious, it's nutritious, and as I learned when I went to Kashgar, it symbolizes their taboo against food waste.

Fish, 40 to 60 percent of European fish are discarded at sea, they don't even get landed.

Some food waste, as I said at the beginning, will inevitably arise, so the question is, what is the best thing to do with it?

I answered that question when I was 15.

If you cook food for pigs, just as if you cook food for humans, it is rendered safe.

It's also a massive saving of resources.

At the moment, Europe depends on importing millions of tons of soy from South America, where its production contributes to global warming, to deforestation, to biodiversity loss, to feed livestock here in Europe.

At the same time we throw away millions of tons of food waste which we could and should be feeding them.

If we did that, and fed it to pigs, we would save that amount of carbon.

If we feed our food waste which is the current government favorite way of getting rid of food waste, to anaerobic digestion, which turns food waste into gas to produce electricity, you save a paltry 448 kilograms of carbon dioxide per ton of food waste.

A silver lining: It has kicked off globally, the quest to tackle food waste.

Feeding the 5,000 is an event I first organized in 2009.

We fed 5,000 people all on food that otherwise would have been wasted.

Since then, it's happened again in London, it's happening internationally, and across the country.

