He wanted to shake the President's hand.

The President dismissed the Secretary of State, whom he was conferring with, and asked the dentist if he would remove a tooth.

Well, when I got to the White House in the beginning of 2009, at the start of the Obama Administration, the White House was anything but open.

Social media were blocked at the firewall.

We didn't have a blog, let alone a dozen twitter accounts like we have today.

I came in to become the head of Open Government, to take the values and the practices of transparency, participation and collaboration, and instill them into the way that we work, to open up government, to work with people. 

Turns out that had never been done before.

In fact, many people told us it was illegal. 

Here's the crux of the obstacle.

Governments exist to channel the flow of two things, really, values and expertise to and from government and to and from citizens to the end of making decisions.

Then in the 19th century, we layer on the concept of bureaucracy and the administrative state to help us govern complex and large societies.

We need to only look around this room to know that expertise and intelligence is widely distributed in society, and not limited simply to our institutions. 

So complain as we might, what actually can replace what we have today?

What comes the day after the Arab Spring? 

You've got 3,000 employees at Facebook governing 900 million inhabitants.

But private communities, private, corporate, privatizing communities, are not bottom-up democracies.

They cannot replace government.

Friending someone on Facebook is not complex enough to do the hard work of you and I collaborating with each other and doing the hard work of governance.

Powerful, practical, palpable model for handing power from government to citizens.

But it's not just about policing government.

It's also about creating government.

Spacehive in the U.K. is engaging in crowd-funding, getting you and me to raise the money to build the goalposts and the park benches that will actually allow us to deliver better services in our communities.

No one is better at this activity of actually getting us to engage in delivering services, sometimes where none exist, than Ushahidi.

Can you imagine, in the bureaucratic world of yesteryear, getting anything done in a four-month period of time?

That is a nice sideline of open government.

And we see lots of examples of these innovators using open government data, not simply to make apps, but then to make companies and to hire people to build them working with the government. 

So a lot of these innovations are local.

The victim who receives bystander CPR is more than twice as likely to survive.

"There is a hero in all of us," is their slogan. 

But it's not limited to the local.

British Columbia, Canada, is publishing a catalogue of all the ways that its residents and citizens can engage with the state in the cocreation of governance. 

Let me be very clear, and perhaps controversial, that open government is not about transparent government.

Simply throwing data over the transom doesn't change how government works.

What it does is it creates an adversarial relationship between civil society and government over the control and ownership of information.

And transparency, by itself, is not reducing the flow of money into politics, and arguably, it's not even producing accountability as well as it might if we took the next step of combining participation and collaboration with transparency to transform how we work. 

We piloted the work in the U.S. and the U.K. and Japan and Australia, and now I'm pleased to report that the United States Patent Office will be rolling out universal, complete, and total openness, so that all patent applications will now be open for citizen participation, beginning this year. 

The first phase is in getting better information in.

The second phase is in getting decision-making power out.

Participatory budgeting has long been practiced in Porto Alegre, Brazil.

They're just starting it in the 49th Ward in Chicago.

Russia is using wikis to get citizens writing law together, as is Lithuania.

There are many things that we can do to get us there.

Obviously opening up the data is one, but the important thing is to create lots more -- create and curate -- lots more participatory opportunities.

And that's why we need to start with our youngest people.

We've heard talk here at TED about people biohacking and hacking their plants with Arduino, and Mozilla is doing work around the world in getting young people to build websites and make videos.

When we start by teaching young people that we live, not in a passive society, a read-only society, but in a writable society, where we have the power to change our communities, to change our institutions, that's when we begin to really put ourselves on the pathway towards this open government innovation, towards this open government movement, towards this open government revolution. 

So let me close by saying that I think the important thing for us to do is to talk about and demand this revolution.

We don't have words, really, to describe it yet.

