After all, what's wrong with a world in which a worker on an iPhone assembly line can't even afford to buy one?

It's taken for granted that Chinese factories are oppressive, and that it's our desire for cheap goods that makes them so. 

By focusing so much on ourselves and our gadgets, we have rendered the individuals on the other end into invisibility, as tiny and interchangeable as the parts of a mobile phone. 

Chinese workers are not forced into factories because of our insatiable desire for iPods.

They choose to leave their homes in order to earn money, to learn new skills, and to see the world.

In the ongoing debate about globalization, what's been missing is the voices of the workers themselves. 

Here are a few. 

All of these speakers, by the way, are young women, 18 or 19 years old. 

So I spent two years getting to know assembly line workers like these in the south China factory city called Dongguan.

Everyone they knew lived in similar circumstances, and it was still better than the dormitories and homes of rural China. 

The workers rarely spoke about the products they made, and they often had great difficulty explaining what exactly they did.

When I asked Lu Qingmin, the young woman I got to know best, what exactly she did on the factory floor, she said something to me in Chinese that sounded like "qiu xi."

Only much later did I realize that she had been saying "QC," or quality control.

She couldn't even tell me what she did on the factory floor.

All she could do was parrot a garbled abbreviation in a language she didn't even understand. 

Karl Marx saw this as the tragedy of capitalism, the alienation of the worker from the product of his labor.

Unlike, say, a traditional maker of shoes or cabinets, the worker in an industrial factory has no control, no pleasure, and no true satisfaction or understanding in her own work.

But like so many theories that Marx arrived at sitting in the reading room of the British Museum, he got this one wrong.

Just because a person spends her time making a piece of something does not mean that she becomes that, a piece of something.

What she does with the money she earns, what she learns in that place, and how it changes her, these are the things that matter.

Journalistic coverage of Chinese factories, on the other hand, plays up this relationship between the workers and the products they make.

For example, an entry-level-line assembly line worker in China in an iPhone plant would have to shell out two and a half months' wages for an iPhone. 

But how meaningful is this calculation, really?

Their calculations are different.

How long should I stay in this factory?

How much money can I save?

How much will it take to buy an apartment or a car, to get married, or to put my child through school? 

The workers I got to know had a curiously abstract relationship with the product of their labor.

About a year after I met Lu Qingmin, or Min, she invited me home to her family village for the Chinese New Year.

On the train home, she gave me a present: a Coach brand change purse with brown leather trim.

I thanked her, assuming it was fake, like almost everything else for sale in Dongguan.

After we got home, Min gave her mother another present: a pink Dooney &amp; Bourke handbag, and a few nights later, her sister was showing off a maroon LeSportsac shoulder bag.

Slowly it was dawning on me that these handbags were made by their factory, and every single one of them was authentic. 

Min's sister's boyfriend, who had traveled home with her for the new year, said, "It doesn't look like it's worth that much."

In Min's world, the Coach bags had a curious currency.

Once, when Min's older sister's friend got married, she brought a handbag along as a wedding present.

Another time, after Min had already left the handbag factory, her younger sister came to visit, bringing two Coach Signature handbags as gifts. 

I wonder what Karl Marx would have made of Min and her sisters.

Their relationship with the product of their labor was more complicated, surprising and funny than he could have imagined.

And yet, his view of the world persists, and our tendency to see the workers as faceless masses, to imagine that we can know what they're really thinking. 

The first time I met Min, she had just turned 18 and quit her first job on the assembly line of an electronics factory.

Over the next two years, I watched as she switched jobs five times, eventually landing a lucrative post in the purchasing department of a hardware factory.

She recently returned to Dongguan on her own to take a job in a factory that makes construction cranes, temporarily leaving her husband and children back in the village. 

In a recent email to me, she explained, "A person should have some ambition while she is young so that in old age she can look back on her life and feel that it was not lived to no purpose."

Very few of them would want to go back to the way things used to be. 

When I first went to Dongguan, I worried that it would be depressing to spend so much time with workers.

I also worried that nothing would ever happen to them, or that they would have nothing to say to me.

Instead, I found young women who were smart and funny and brave and generous.

By opening up their lives to me, they taught me so much about factories and about China and about how to live in the world. 

This purse is also a reminder that the things that you imagine, sitting in your office or in the library, are not how you find them when you actually go out into the world. 

Chris Anderson: Thank you, Leslie, that was an insight that a lot of us haven't had before.

Leslie Chang: One minute? 

They usually left school when they were in 7th or 8th grade.

When you talk to workers, that's what they want.

CA: Was there a sense from them of a narrative that things were kind of tough and bad, or was there a narrative of some kind of level of growth, that things over time were getting better? 

Certainly, the factory conditions are really tough, and it's nothing you or I would want to do, but from their perspective, where they're coming from is much worse, and where they're going is hopefully much better, and I just wanted to give that context of what's going on in their minds, not what necessarily is going on in yours. 

