To explain what that is, let me tell you how I got here.

It's got breathtaking nature, waffle houses and diabetes as far as the eye can see.

It is really something. 

Besides Florida, the most troubling category here are the Haters.

They are a minority, but they overcompensate by being extra loud.

They have the Napoleon complex of demographics, and yes, some of the men do wear heels. 

This is not an exhaustive list; I'm probably missing 3-7 items. 

But the point is, we have to reckon with the haters.

But there's variance within this group and it's not efficient to go after all of them, right?

So what I've done is created a highly scientific Taxonomy of Haters.

First off, we have the trolls.

These are your garden-variety digital haters.

They're the people who quit their jobs so they can post on YouTube videos all day long.

There's also the drive-by haters.

The next category is the mission-oriented-bigot- whose-group-affiliation- gives-them-cover-for-hating hater.

But the group I'm most interested in is the swing hater.

They're like ideological sluts who move from hating to not hating.

And they do it because they don't have enough information.

This is the group I like to target with social justice comedy.

Why comedy?

Because on a scale of comedy to brochure, the average American prefers comedy, as you can see from this graph. 

Comedy is very popular.

And by the way, this is a mathematically accurate graph, generated from fake numbers. 

Because, first off, it makes you laugh.

And when you're laughing, you enter into a state of openness.

Two, it's inviting and warm, it makes you feel like you're sitting inside of a burrito.

Three, it's funny but sneaky, like you could be hearing an interesting treatise on income inequality, that's encased in a really sophisticated poop joke. 

Here's how I see social justice comedy working.

A few years ago, I rounded up a bunch of Muslim-American comedians -- in a non-violent way -- 

So myself and fellow comedian Dean Obeidallah decided to launch the fighting-bigotry- with-delightful-posters campaign.

Let's take a look at a couple of those posters.

OK.

Fact: Grown-up Muslims can do more push-ups than baby Muslims. 

Fact: Muslims invented Justin Timberlake. 

Let's take a look at another one.

Now clearly, frittatas are considered political by the MTA.

It's about justice.

So basically, what I'm saying is a couple of dirt-bag comedians took on a major New York City agency and the comedians won. 

Thank you.

But if bigotry isn't your thing, social justice comedy is useful for all sorts of issues.

For example, myself and fellow comedian Lee Camp went to the Cayman Islands to investigate offshore banking.

Now, the United States loses something like 300 billion dollars a year in these offshore tax havens.

Not to brag, but at the end of every month, I have something like 5-15 dollars in disposable income.

So we walked into these banks in the Cayman Islands and asked if we could open up a bank account with eight dollars and 27 cents. 

The bank managers would indulge us for 30-45 seconds before calling security.

Most of my work is meant to be fun.

Sometimes I get mean tweets and hate mail.

Sometimes I get voice mails saying that if I continue telling my jokes, they'll kill me and they'll kill my family.

And those death threats are definitely not funny. 

But despite the occasional danger, I still think that social justice comedy is one of our best weapons.

So I think it's time we try and tell a really good poop joke. 

Thank you. 

