A father came out of his house to tell his teenage son and his five friends that it was time for them to stop horsing around on the front lawn and on the sidewalk, to get home, finish their schoolwork, and prepare themselves for bed.

And the car sped off. 

The police, investigating officers, were amazingly efficient.

That was all a preliminary hearing judge had to listen to, to bind Mr. Carrillo over to stand trial for a first-degree murder.

In the investigation that followed before the actual trial, each of the other five teenagers was shown photographs, the same photo array.

The reason we're not sure absolutely is because of the nature of evidence preservation in our judicial system, but that's another whole TEDx talk for later.

So at the actual trial, all six of the teenagers testified, and indicated the identifications they had made in the photo array.

No vehicle was ever identified as being the one in which the shooter had extended his arm, and no person was ever charged with being the driver of the shooter's vehicle.

And Mr. Carrillo's alibi?

Which of those parents here in the room might not lie concerning the whereabouts of your son or daughter in an investigation of a killing? 

Sent to prison, adamantly insisting on his innocence, which he has consistently for 21 years. 

So what's the problem?

The problems, actually, for this kind of case come manyfold from decades of scientific research involving human memory.

We know that eyewitness identifications are fallible. 

But it happens without awareness such that you don't, aren't even cognizant of it occurring.

It's called reconstructed memories.

It happens to us in all the aspects of our life, all the time.

But also because I have expertise and testify about the nature of human night vision. 

Well, what's that got to do with this?

Well, when you read through the case materials in this Carrillo case, one of the things that suddenly strikes you is that the investigating officers said the lighting was good at the crime scene, at the shooting.

All the teenagers testified during the trial that they could see very well.

So when I did the calculations for the lunar data and the solar data at that location on Earth at the time of the incident of the shooting, all right, it was well past the end of civil twilight and there was no moon up that night.

So all the light in this area from the sun and the moon is what you see on the screen right here.

This is looking directly across the street from where they were standing.

Remember, the investigating officers' report said the lighting was good.

The teenagers said they could see very well.

As you can see, it is at best poor.

Their eyes just glaze over, all right?

A shocker in American jurisprudence. 

Now, he didn't use a real gun in his hand, so he had a black object in his hand that was similar to the gun that was described.

He pointed by, and this is what the judge saw. 

This is the car 30 feet away from the judge.

There's an arm sticking out of the passenger side and pointed back at you.

That's 30 feet away.

Some of the teenagers said that in fact the car was 15 feet away when it shot.

At this point, I became a little concerned.

I couldn't see the slightest bend of his head.

Furthermore, the roof of the car is causing what we call a shadow cloud inside the car which is making it darker.

And this is three to four feet away. 

Why did I take the risk?

I knew that the depth of field was 18 inches or less.

Three to four feet, it might as well have been a football field away.

This is what he saw.

And furthermore, he released Mr. Carrillo so that he could aid in the preparation of his own defense if the prosecution decided to retry him. 

This is him embracing his grandmother-in-law.

He -- His girlfriend was pregnant when he went to trial, right?

First of all, there's a long history of antipathy between science and the law in American jurisprudence.

I could regale you with horror stories of ignorance over decades of experience as a forensic expert of just trying to get science into the courtroom.

The opposing council always fight it and oppose it. 

None of them thought they couldn't see the person's face.

We all have to be very careful.

All our memories are reconstructed memories.

They are the product of what we originally experienced and everything that's happened afterwards.

They're dynamic.

