So here's what I came up with.

Why are we talking about microalgae?

Those small organisms have been around for millions of years and there's thousands of different species of microalgae in the world, some of which are the fastest-growing plants on the planet, and produce, as I just showed you, lots and lots of oil. 

Now, why do we want to do this offshore?

This is the city of San Francisco, which has 900 miles of sewer pipes under the city already, and it releases its waste water offshore.

But in all cases, the water that's released is perfectly adequate for growing microalgae.

So let's envision what the system might look like.

We call it OMEGA, which is an acronym for Offshore Membrane Enclosures for Growing Algae.

At NASA, you have to have good acronyms. 

They of course use solar energy to grow, and the wave energy on the surface provides energy for mixing the algae, and the temperature is controlled by the surrounding water temperature.

The algae that grow produce oxygen, as I've mentioned, and they also produce biofuels and fertilizer and food and other bi-algal products of interest. 

The plastic we'll build it out of is some kind of well-known plastic that we have good experience with, and we'll rebuild our modules to be able to reuse them again. 

So we may be able to go beyond that when thinking about this system that I'm showing you, and that is to say we need to think in terms of the water, the fresh water, which is also going to be an issue in the future, and we're working on methods now for recovering the waste water. 

The other thing to consider is the structure itself.

It provides a surface for things in the ocean, and this surface, which is covered by seaweeds and other organisms in the ocean, will become enhanced marine habitat so it increases biodiversity.

And finally, because it's an offshore structure, we can think in terms of how it might contribute to an aquaculture activity offshore. 

So you're probably thinking, "Gee, this sounds like a good idea.

The laboratory that we set up in Santa Cruz was our skunkworks.

Now, we grew algae in waste water, and we built tools that allowed us to get into the lives of algae so that we could monitor the way they grow, what makes them happy, how do we make sure that we're going to have a culture that will survive and thrive.

So the most important feature that we needed to develop were these so-called photobioreactors, or PBRs.

So let me show you how the system works.

But this is a bit like putting your head in a plastic bag.

The larger column that we then installed in San Francisco in the installed system. 

So we would remove the algaes that concentrated in the bottom of this column, and then we could harvest that by a procedure where you float the algae to the surface and can skim it off with a net. 

So we wanted to also investigate what would be the impact of this system in the marine environment, and I mentioned we set up this experiment at a field site in Moss Landing Marine Lab.

Now really what we were doing, we were working in four areas.

Our research covered the biology of the system, which included studying the way algae grew, but also what eats the algae, and what kills the algae.

Do you get more energy out of the system than you have to put into the system to be able to make the system run?

And what about operating costs?

And what about capital costs?

And what about, just, the whole economic structure? 

What are we going to do with all this plastic that we're going to need to use in our marine environment?

So the OMEGA system will be part of this type of an outcome, and that when we're finished using it in the marine environment, we'll be using it, hopefully, on fields. 

Here's an image of what we could do in San Francisco Bay.

Well, that's less than one percent of the surface area of the bay.

Where else could we potentially put this system?

There's lots of possibilities.

There's, of course, San Francisco Bay, as I mentioned.

I set out to find a pathway to innovative production of sustainable biofuels, and en route I discovered that what's really required for sustainability is integration more than innovation. 

Sustainable solutions for our future problems are going to be diverse and are going to be many.

(Applause) (Applause) Chris Anderson: Just a quick question for you, Jonathan.

