Space that exists within us, and without us. 

So, when I was a child, I don't know how many of you grew up in the '50s, but I was sent upstairs for an enforced rest.

Do you mind if we do something completely different?

Can we all just close our eyes for a minute?

(Laughter) It's just, it's just, I just would like us all to go there.

(Laughter) It's just, it's just, I just would like us all to go there.

So close your eyes for a minute.

Here we are, in a space, the subjective, collective space of the darkness of the body.

It is endless. 

Okay, open your eyes. 

That's the space that I think sculpture -- which is a bit of a paradox, sculpture that is about making material propositions -- but I think that's the space that sculpture can connect us with. 

I wanted to do something that was working directly with the world, directly with place.

This was a wonderful place, because it was a place where you could imagine that you were the first person to be there.

It was a place where nothing very much had happened.

I then cleared all the stones within that radius and made a pile.

And that was the pile, by the way.

You could say, well, it doesn't look very different from when he started.

(Laughter) What's all the fuss about?

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

The elemental world that we all live in is that space that we all visited together, the darkness of the body.

I wanted to start again with that environment, the environment of the intimate, subjective space that each of us lives in, but from the other side of appearance. 

This is an indexical register of a lived moment of a body in time. 

In the old days they used to take a lump of Pentelic marble and drill from the surface in order to identify the skin, the appearance, what Aristotle defined as the distinction between substance and appearance, the thing that makes things visible, but here we're working from the other side. 

Or can we do it as an exclusive membrane?

This is a work called "Learning To See."

It's called "Learning To See" because it's about an object that hopefully works reflexively and talks about that vision or connection with the darkness of the body that I see as a space of potential. 

Is there another way?

Dark matter now placed against a horizon.

And there you can see what a Liverpool sea looks like on a typical afternoon.

Just moving on, is it possible, taking that idea of mind, body, body-building, to supplant the first body, the biological body, with the second, the body of architecture and the built environment. 

This is a work called "Room for the Great Australian Desert."

It's in an undefined location and I've never published where it is.

It's an object for the mind.

I think of it as a 21st-century Buddha.

Again, the darkness of the body, now held within this bunker shape of the minimum position that a body needs to occupy, a crouching body.

Again, a site found with a completely flat 360-degree horizon.

Taking that idiom of, as it were, the darkness of the body transferred to architecture, can you use architectural space not for living but as a metaphor, and use its systolic, diastolic smaller and larger spaces to provide a kind of firsthand somatic narrative for a journey through space, light and darkness?

Here is a box filled at one and a half atmospheres of atmospheric pressure, with a cloud and with very bright light.

If you look down, you can't see your feet.

For me, art is not about objects of high monetary exchange.

It's about reasserting our firsthand experience in present time.

