In System D, this is a store, and what I mean by that is that this is a photograph I took in Makoko, shantytown in Lagos, Nigeria.

It's built over the lagoon, and there are no streets where there can be stores to shop, and so the store comes to you. 

And in the same community, this is business synergy.

And this is a global business.

And this is a business incubator.

That's his little depot behind him, and he earns twice the Nigerian minimum wage. 

This is a shopping mall.

This is Oshodi Market in Lagos.

So, what am I talking about when I talk about System D?

It's traditionally called the informal economy, the underground economy, the black market.

I don't conceive of it that way.

All of this is happening openly, and aboveboard.

There's nothing underground about it.

It's our prejudgment that it's underground. 

I've pirated the term System D from the former French colonies.

But governments hate the DIY economy, and that's why -- I took this picture in 2007, and this is the same market in 2009 -- and I think, when the organizers of this conference were talking about radical openness, they didn't mean that the streets should be open and the people should be gone. 

I think what we have is a pickle problem.

This is the pickle economy.

We're all focusing on — this is a statistic from earlier this month in the Financial Times — we're all focusing on the luxury economy.

It's worth 1.5 trillion dollars every year, and that's a vast amount of money, right?

1.8 billion people around the world work in the economy that is unregulated and informal.

That's a huge number, and what does that mean?

Well, it means if it were united in a single political system, one country, call it "The United Street Sellers Republic," the U.S.S.R., or "Bazaaristan," it would be worth 10 trillion dollars every year, and that would make it the second largest economy in the world, after the United States.

And given that projections are that the bulk of economic growth over the next 15 years will come from emerging economies in the developing world, it could easily overtake the United States and become the largest economy in the world. 

So the implications of that are vast, because it means that this is where employment is — 1.8 billion people — and this is where we can create a more egalitarian world, because people are actually able to earn money and live and thrive, as Andrew Saboru did. 

it's that the Gala sausage roll is a product that's made by a global company called UAC foods that's active throughout Africa and the Middle East, but the Gala sausage roll is not sold in stores.

UAC foods has recognized that it won't sell if it's in stores.

It's only sold by a phalanx of street hawkers who run around the streets of Lagos at bus stations and in traffic jams and sell it as a snack, and it's been sold that way for 40 years.

It's a business plan for a corporation. 

And it's not just in Africa.

And then there's mobile phones.

This is an ad for MTN, which is a South African multinational active in about 25 countries, and when they came into Nigeria — Nigeria is the big dog in Africa.

And where's the airtime sold?

It's sold at umbrella stands all over the streets, where people are unregistered, unlicensed, but MTN makes most of its profits, perhaps 90 percent of its profits, from selling through System D, the informal economy. 

They're going to Eddy in Lagos.

Now, most of the phones there are not second-hand at all.

The name is a misnomer.

You can buy New York Yankees caps in all sorts of unauthorized patterns.

You can buy cuecas baratas, designer underwear that isn't really manufactured by a designer, and even pirated evangelical mixtapes.

The sneaker manufacturer told me that if they find that Pumas are being pirated, or Adidas are being pirated and their sneakers aren't being pirated, they know they've done something wrong.

Now, there's another problem.

This is a real street sign in Lagos, Nigeria.

All of System D really doesn't pay taxes, right?

I just want to end by saying that if Adam Smith had framed out a theory of the flea market instead of the free market, what would be some of the principles? 

First, it would be to understand that it could be considered a cooperative, and this is a thought from the Brazilian legal scholar Roberto Mangabeira Unger.

Cooperative development is a way forward. 

And third is, and I'm taking this from the great American beat poet Allen Ginsberg, that alternate economies barter and different kinds of currency, alternate currencies are also very important, and he talked about buying what he needed just with his good looks. 

