I'm 150 feet down an illegal mine shaft in Ghana.

The air is thick with heat and dust, and it's hard to breathe.

I can feel the brush of sweaty bodies passing me in the darkness, but I can't see much else.

I hear voices talking, but mostly the shaft is this cacophony of men coughing, and stone being broken with primitive tools.

When my hand slips, I suddenly remember a miner I had met days before who had lost his grip and fell countless feet down that shaft. 

I got to climb out of that hole, and I got to go home, but they likely never will, because they're trapped in slavery. 

For the last 28 years, I've been documenting indigenous cultures in more than 70 countries on six continents, and in 2009 I had the great honor of being the sole exhibitor at the Vancouver Peace Summit.

It started burning a hole in my stomach, so within weeks, I flew down to Los Angeles to meet with the director of Free the Slaves and offer them my help. 

Thus began my journey into modern day slavery.

Oddly, I had been to many of these places before.

Some I even considered like my second home.

But this time, I would see the skeletons hidden in the closet. 

A conservative estimate tells us there are more than 27 million people enslaved in the world today.

That's double the amount of people taken from Africa during the entire trans-Atlantic slave trade.

A hundred and fifty years ago, an agricultural slave cost about three times the annual salary of an American worker.

That equates to about $50,000 in today's money.

Yet today, entire families can be enslaved for generations over a debt as small as $18.

Astonishingly, slavery generates profits of more than $13 billion worldwide each year. 

Many have been tricked by false promises of a good education, a better job, only to find that they're forced to work without pay under the threat of violence, and they cannot walk away. 

Deadened by monotony and exhaustion, they work silently, doing this task over and over for 16 or 17 hours a day.

There were no breaks for food, no water breaks, and the severe dehydration made urinating pretty much inconsequential.

So pervasive was the heat and the dust that my camera became too hot to even touch and ceased working.

Every 20 minutes, I'd have to run back to our cruiser to clean out my gear and run it under an air conditioner to revive it, and as I sat there, I thought, my camera is getting far better treatment than these people. 

Back in the kilns, I wanted to cry, but the abolitionist next to me quickly grabbed me and he said, "Lisa, don't do that.

I couldn't give them money, nothing.

I wasn't a citizen of that country.

I could get them in a worse situation than they were already in.

As for me, I'd have to wait until I got home to really feel my heartbreak. 

In the Himalayas, I found children carrying stone for miles down mountainous terrain to trucks waiting at roads below.

It's difficult to witness something so overwhelming.

How can we affect something so insidious, yet so pervasive?

They have nothing to compare it to.

When these villagers claimed their freedom, the slaveholders burned down all of their houses.

In Kathmandu, I was escorted by women who had previously been sex slaves themselves.

They ushered me down a narrow set of stairs that led to this dirty, dimly fluorescent lit basement.

I had only one way out: the stairs from where I'd come in.

These people have no escape at all, and as we take in such a difficult subject, it's important to note that slavery, including sex trafficking, occurs in our own backyard as well. 

Recently, the New York Times reported that between 100,000 and 300,000 American children are sold into sex slavery every year.

The textile industry is another one we often think of when we hear about slave labor.

I visited villages in India where entire families were enslaved in the silk trade.

They mix dye in these big barrels, and they submerge the silk into the liquid up to their elbows, but the dye is toxic. 

My interpreter told me their stories. 

This young child is eight years old.

He was petrified he would be knocked in the water.

Many of them drown. 

For as long as he can recall, he's been forced to work on the lake.

Terrified of his master, he will not run away, and since he's been treated with cruelty all his life, he passes that down to the younger slaves that he manages. 

And it's important to note that these nets weigh more than a thousand pounds when they're full of fish. 

I want to introduce you to Kofi.

Kofi is the embodiment of possibility.

Who will he become because someone took a stand and made a difference in his life? 

He told us to follow him down a dirt road into the jungle.

At the end of the road, he urged us out of the car, and told the driver to quickly leave.

Then he pointed toward this barely visible footpath, and said, "This is the path, this is the path.

Many women had children strapped to their backs while they were panning for gold, wading in water poisoned by mercury.

Mercury is used in the extraction process. 

These miners are enslaved in a mine shaft in another part of Ghana.

All of them are victim to injury, illness and violence.

In fact, it's very likely that this muscular person will end up like this one here, racked with tuberculosis and mercury poisoning in just a few years. 

I want to shine a light on slavery.

in those who view them, people like you, and I hope that force will ignite a fire, and that fire will shine a light on slavery, for without that light, the beast of bondage can continue to live in the shadows. 

Thank you very much. 

