We're going to begin in 1964.

Bob Dylan is 23 years old, and his career is just reaching its pinnacle.

"The Grey Album" becomes an immediate sensation online, and the Beatles' record company sends out countless cease-and-desist letters for "unfair competition and dilution of our valuable property."

Now, "The Grey Album" is a remix.

It is new media created from old media.

But I think these aren't just the components of remixing.

I think these are the basic elements of all creativity.

I think everything is a remix, and I think this is a better way to conceive of creativity. 

All right, let's head back to 1964, and let's hear where some of Dylan's early songs came from.

We'll do some side-by-side comparisons here. 

After that, you'll hear Dylan's "Masters of War."

Last one, this is "Who's Going To Buy You Ribbons," another traditional folk tune.

Alongside that is "Don't Think Twice, It's All Right."

This one's more about the lyric. 

KF: Okay, now, there's a lot of these.

It's been estimated that two thirds of the melodies Dylan used in his early songs were borrowed.

This is pretty typical among folk singers.

Here's the advice of Dylan's idol, Woody Guthrie. 

Actually you don't.

That is "When the World's on Fire," a very old melody, in this case performed by the Carter Family.

Guthrie adapted it into "This Land Is Your Land."

Now, American copyright and patent laws run counter to this notion that we build on the work of others.

Instead, these laws and laws around the world use the rather awkward analogy of property.

Now, creative works may indeed be kind of like property, but it's property that we're all building on, and creations can only take root and grow once that ground has been prepared. 

Progress happens when all the factors that make for it are ready and then it is inevitable."

That's multi-touch, controlling a device by touching its display.

Here is Steve Jobs introducing multi-touch and making a rather foreboding joke. 

Steve Jobs: And we have invented a new technology called multi-touch.

(Laughter) KF: Yes.

This is at TED, actually, about a year earlier.

This is Jeff Han, and, I mean, that's multi-touch.

It's the same animal, at least.

Let's hear what Jeff Han has to say about this newfangled technology.

The technology, you know, isn't the most exciting thing here right now other than probably its newfound accessibility.

KF: So he's pretty frank about it not being new.

(Laughter) I'm only exaggerating a little bit.

Now, can someone own this idea?

Now, back in the '80s, there were no software patents, and it was Xerox that pioneered the graphical user interface.

What if they had patented pop-up menus, scrollbars, the desktop with icons that look like folders and sheets of paper?

Would a young and inexperienced Apple have survived the legal assault from a much larger and more mature company like Xerox? 

Now, this idea that everything is a remix might sound like common sense until you're the one getting remixed.

(Laughter) 

So here's the sort of equation we're looking at.

And the sum looks like this.

That is the last four years of lawsuits in the realm of smartphones.

Is this promoting the progress of useful arts? 

I think this is mostly what we do.

It's a liberation from our misconceptions, and it's an incentive to not expect so much from ourselves and to simply begin. 

