Today 40 million Americans are indebted for their passage to the new economy.

Too poor to pay their way through college, they now owe lenders more than one trillion US dollars.

They do find what jobs they can get to pay off a debt that is secured on their person.

In America, even a bankrupt gambler gets a second chance.

But it is nearly impossible for an American to get discharged their student loan debts. 

Once upon a time in America, going to college did not mean graduating with debt.

Not anymore.

Not anymore.

Paul's daughter followed in his footsteps, but with one difference: when she graduated five years ago, it was with a whopping debt. 

But so what?

Getting into debt to buy an expensive education is not all bad if you could pay it off with the increased income that you earned from it.

But that's where the rubber meets the road.

Even a college grad earned 10 percent more in 2001 than she did in 2013. 

So ... tuition costs up, public funding down, family incomes diminished, personal incomes weak.

Is it any wonder that more than a quarter of those who must cannot make their student loan payments?

I want to speak of three of them today. 

1.2 trillion dollars of debts for diplomas make it abundantly obvious that higher education is a consumer product you can buy.

The language is peppered with barbarisms.

Teachers are called "service providers," students are called "consumers."

Sociology and Shakespeare and soccer and science, all of these are "content."

Student debt is profitable.

Only not on you.

Your debt fattens the profit of the student loan industry.

The two 800-pound gorillas of which -- Sallie Mae and Navient -- posted last year a combined profit of 1.2 billion dollars.

And just like home mortgages, student loans can be bundled and packaged and sliced and diced, and sold on Wall Street.

And colleges and universities that invest in these securitized loans profit twice.

Once from your tuition, and then again from the interest on debt. 

Third: diplomas are a brand.

But why stop there?

Higher education is also marketed as a status object.

But these truths are often times hidden by a very noisy sales pitch.

Of the 55 that do graduate, two will remain unemployed, and another 18 are underemployed.

So, college grads earn more than high school grads, but does it pay for the exorbitant tuition and the lost wages while at college? 

But that's only because high school wages have been cut to the bone, for decades now.

For decades, workers with a high school degree have been denied a fair share of what they have produced.

And had they received as they should have, then going to college would have been a bad investment for many.

College premium?

I think it's a high school discount. 

So what do we do?

What if students and parents treated higher education as a consumer product?

Everybody else seems to.

Then, like any other consumer product, you would demand to know what you're paying for.

When you buy a car, it tells you how many miles per gallon to expect.

Who knows what to expect from a degree say, in Canadian Studies.

There is such a thing, by the way. 

What if there was an app for that?

One that linked up the cost of a major to the expected income.

Let's call it Income-Based Tuition or IBT.

One of you make this. 

Discover your reality. 

There are three advantages, three benefits to Income-Based Tuition.

Any user can figure out how much money he or she will make from a given college and major.

Why would anybody pay more for college than let's say, 15 percent of the additional income they earn? 

For instance, all of you students here pay roughly the same tuition for every major.

That is manifestly unfair, and should change.

An engineering student uses more resources and facilities and labs and faculty than a philosophy student.

But the philosophy student, as a consequence, is subsidizing the engineering student.

Who then, by the way, goes on and earns more money.

Why should two people buy the same product, pay the same, but one person receive half or a third of the service.

In fact, college grads, some majors, pay 25 percent of their income servicing their student debt, while others pay five percent.

That kind if inequity would end when majors are priced more correctly. 

Now of course, all this data -- and one of you is going to do this, right?

But be that as it may, the third and biggest benefit of Income-Based Tuition, is it would free Americans from the fear and the fact of financial ruin because they bought a defective product. 

Thank you for your attention. 

