No one knows what the hell we do.

So I am going to give you some -- attempt today to try and explain to you what I do. 

So, dancing is one of the most human of activities.

But what if patients could do this test at home?

No expensive staff time required.

Takes about $300, by the way, in the neurologist's clinic to do it. 

So here we have a video of the vibrating vocal folds.

And like ballet, it takes an extraordinary level of training.

I mean, just think how long it takes a child to learn to speak.

So on the bottom trace, you can see an example of irregular vocal fold tremor.

We see all the same symptoms.

We see vocal tremor, weakness and rigidity.

They're high-speed, take about 30 seconds at most.

They're ultra-low cost, and we all know what happens.

We can reduce logistical difficulties with patients.

No need to go to the clinic for a routine checkup.

We can do high-frequency monitoring to get objective data.

We can perform low-cost mass recruitment for clinical trials, and we can make population-scale screening feasible for the first time.

We have the opportunity to start to search for the early biomarkers of the disease before it's too late. 

We have local numbers accessible to three quarters of a billion people on the planet.

What are you going to get out of those samples? 

But we'll get a very large sample of data that is collected from all different circumstances, and it's getting it in different circumstances that matter because then we are looking at ironing out the confounding factors, and looking for the actual markers of the disease. 

TR: So you're 86 percent accurate right now? 

ML: It's much better than that.

So what that means is that people will be able to — ML: (Laughs) TR: People will be able to call in from their mobile phones and do this test, and people with Parkinson's could call in, record their voice, and then their doctor can check up on their progress, see where they're doing in this course of the disease. 

ML: Absolutely. 

