In half a century of trying to help prevent wars, there's one question that never leaves me: How do we deal with extreme violence without using force in return?

Use more force? 

And so I got some training and went and worked in Africa during most of my 20s.

But I realized that what I really needed to know I couldn't get from training courses.

I wanted to understand how violence, how oppression, works.

And what I've discovered since is this: Bullies use violence in three ways.

They use political violence to intimidate, physical violence to terrorize and mental or emotional violence to undermine.

And only very rarely in very few cases does it work to use more violence. 

And they did it in a total devotion to non-violence.

They realized that using force against force doesn't work. 

So what does work?

And the first is that the change that has to take place has to take place here, inside me.

It's my response, my attitude, to oppression that I've got control over, and that I can do something about. 

And what I need to develop is self-knowledge to do that.

That means I need to know how I tick, when I collapse, where my formidable points are, where my weaker points are.

When do I give in?

What will I stand up for?

And meditation or self-inspection is one of the ways -- again it's not the only one -- it's one of the ways of gaining this kind of inner power. 

And my heroine here -- like Satish's -- is Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma.

She was leading a group of students on a protest in the streets of Rangoon.

They came around a corner faced with a row of machine guns.

But she told the students to sit down.

And no one got killed. 

So what about our fear?

I have a little mantra.

My fear grows fat on the energy I feed it.

And if it grows very big it probably happens. 

The only thing to do is to get up, make a cup of tea and sit down with the fear like a child beside you.

You're the adult.

The fear is the child.

How can this be made better?

How can the child feel stronger?

I had one of these 3 a.m. episodes on Sunday -- paralyzed with fear at coming to talk to you.

(Laughter) So I did the thing.

I got up, made the cup of tea, sat down with it, did it all and I'm here -- still partly paralyzed, but I'm here. 

Wherever there is injustice there's anger.

But anger as an engine -- in an engine -- is powerful.

And I learned this in my work with nuclear weapon policy-makers.

Because at the beginning I was so outraged at the dangers they were exposing us to that I just wanted to argue and blame and make them wrong.

Totally ineffective.

They are human beings just like us.

And they're doing what they think is best.

And that's the basis on which we have to talk with them. 

It was still governments telling people what to do.

This century there's a shift.

It's bottom-up or grassroots power.

And Peace Direct spotted quite early on that local people in areas of very hot conflict know what to do.

They know best what to do.

So Peace Direct gets behind them to do that.

And the kind of thing they're doing is demobilizing militias, rebuilding economies, resettling refugees, even liberating child soldiers.

And they have to risk their lives almost every day to do this.

And what they've realized is that using violence in the situations they operate in is not only less humane, but it's less effective than using methods that connect people with people, that rebuild. 

And I think that the U.S. military is finally beginning to get this.

So the training of the troops has to change.

And I think there are signs that it is beginning to change.

The British military have always been much better at this.

And complete silence fell.

And after about two minutes, everybody moved aside and went home. 

Now that to me is wisdom in action.

In the moment, that's what he did.

And it's happening everywhere now.

You don't believe me?

And this hasn't just happened.

A lot of it is due to a book written by an 80-year-old man in Boston, Gene Sharp.

And it's been translated into 26 languages.

It's flown around the world.

And it's being used by young people and older people everywhere, because it works and it's effective. 

Because finally human beings are getting it.

We're getting practical, doable methodologies to answer my question: How do we deal with a bully without becoming a thug?

Now I don't just believe in non-violence.

I don't have to believe in it.

I see evidence everywhere of how it works.

And I see that we, ordinary people, can do what Aung San Suu Kyi and Ghandi and Mandela did.

We can bring to an end the bloodiest century that humanity has ever known.

And we can organize to overcome oppression by opening our hearts as well as strengthening this incredible resolve. 

And this open-heartedness is exactly what I've experienced in the entire organization of this gathering since I got here yesterday.

Thank you. 

