Before March, 2011, I was a photographic retoucher based in New York City.

We're pale, gray creatures.

We hide in dark, windowless rooms, and generally avoid sunlight.

We make skinny models skinnier, perfect skin more perfect, and the impossible possible, and we get criticized in the press all the time, but some of us are actually talented artists with years of experience and a real appreciation for images and photography. 

On March 11, 2011, I watched from home, as the rest of the world did, as the tragic events unfolded in Japan.

Soon after, an organization I volunteer with, All Hands Volunteers, were on the ground, within days, working as part of the response efforts.

I, along with hundreds of other volunteers, knew we couldn't just sit at home, so I decided to join them for three weeks. 

The waters here have been recorded at reaching over 24 meters in height, and traveled over two miles inland.

As you can imagine, the town had been devastated. 

We cleared tons and tons of stinking, rotting fish carcasses from the local fish processing plant.

We got dirty, and we loved it. 

For weeks, all the volunteers and locals alike had been finding similar things.

They'd been finding photos and photo albums and cameras and SD cards.

Now, it wasn't until this point that I realized that these photos were such a huge part of the personal loss these people had felt.

As they had run from the wave, and for their lives, absolutely everything they had, everything had to be left behind. 

At the end of my first week there, I found myself helping out in an evacuation center in the town.

I was helping clean the onsen, the communal onsen, the huge giant bathtubs.

This happened to also be a place in the town where the evacuation center was collecting the photos.

This is where people were handing them in, and I was honored that day that they actually trusted me to help them start hand-cleaning them. 

So that evening, I just reached out on Facebook and asked a few of them, and by morning the response had been so overwhelming and so positive, I knew we had to give it a go.

So we started retouching photos. 

This was the very first.

Not terribly damaged, but where the water had caused that discoloration on the girl's face had to be repaired with such accuracy and delicacy.

Within Japan, by July, we'd branched out to the neighboring town of Rikuzentakata, further north to a town called Yamada.

Once a week, we would set up our scanning equipment in the temporary photo libraries that had been set up, where people were reclaiming their photos.

The kimono in this shot pretty much had to be hand-drawn, or pieced together, picking out the remaining parts of color and detail that the water hadn't damaged.

It was very time-consuming. 

Now, all these photos had been damaged by water, submerged in salt water, covered in bacteria, in sewage, sometimes even in oil, all of which over time is going to continue to damage them, so hand-cleaning them was a huge part of the project.

We couldn't retouch the photo unless it was cleaned, dry and reclaimed. 

It's very easy to do more damage to those damaged photos.

As my team leader Wynne once said, it's like doing a tattoo on someone.

You don't get a chance to mess it up. 

The lady who brought us these photos was lucky, as far as the photos go.

She had started hand-cleaning them herself and stopped when she realized she was doing more damage.

When she collected the photos from us, she shared a bit of her story with us.

The day of the tsunami, he'd actually been in charge of making sure the tsunami gates were closed.

He had to go towards the water as the sirens sounded.

Her two little boys, not so little anymore, but her two boys were both at school, separate schools.

One of them got caught up in the water.

It took her a week to find them all again and find out that they had all survived. 

The day I gave her the photos also happened to be her youngest son's 14th birthday.

Over five hundred volunteers around the globe helped us get 90 families hundreds of photographs back, fully restored and retouched.

During this time, we hadn't really spent more than about a thousand dollars in equipment and materials, most of which was printer inks. 

We take photos constantly.

A photo is a reminder of someone or something, a place, a relationship, a loved one.

That's all this project was about, about restoring those little bits of humanity, giving someone that connection back. 

When a photo like this can be returned to someone like this, it makes a huge difference in the lives of the person receiving it. 

