Good afternoon.

I am not a farmer. 

And this is my world.

And along the way I've started noticing -- I'm on my third generation of kids -- that they're getting bigger.

They're getting sicker.

In addition to these complexities, I just learned that 70 percent of the kids that I see who are labeled learning disabled would not have been had they had proper prenatal nutrition. 

Kids should not have to grow up and look at things like this.

And as jobs continue to leave my community, and energy continues to come in, be exported in, it's no wonder that really some people refer to the South Bronx as a desert.

And with that note, I come to you with this belief that kids should not have to leave their communities to live, learn and earn in a better one. 

So I'm here to tell you a story about me and this wall that I met outside, which I'm now bringing inside.

And it starts with three people.

But it all starts with seeds in classrooms, in my place, which looks like this.

And I'm here today hoping that my reach will exceed my grasp.

And that's really what this is all about. 

And it starts with incredible kids like this, who come early and stay late.

All of my kids are either IEP or ELL learners, most come with a lot of handicaps, most are homeless and many are in foster care.

Almost all of my kids live below poverty.

And you see how attentive these kids are to these seeds.

And then you notice that those seeds become farms across the Bronx that look like this. 

And I don't like weeding, and I don't like back-breaking labor.

So I called George Irwin, and what do you know?

He came to my class and we built an indoor edible wall.

And what we do is we partner it with authentic learning experiences, private-based learning.

And lo and behold, we gave birth to the first edible wall in New York City. 

We decided to go to Boston.

But closer to home, we started installing these walls in schools that look like this with lighting like that, real LED stuff, 21st-century technology.

And those are my heirloom students making heirloom sauce, with plastic forks, and we get it into the cafeteria, and we grow stuff and we feed our teachers.

And that is the youngest nationally certified workforce in America with our Bronx Borough President. 

So I call this "from South Bronx to Southampton."

And we started putting in roofs that look like this, and we came in from destitute neighborhoods to start building landscape like this, wow!

And so we got invited back this past summer, and we actually moved into the Hamptons, payed 3,500 dollars a week for a house, and we learned how to surf.

And when you can do stuff like this -- These are my kids putting in this technology, and when you can build a roof that looks like that on a house that looks like that with sedum that looks like this, this is the new green graffiti. 

So, you may wonder what does a wall like this really do for kids, besides changing landscapes and mindsets?

Okay, I'm going to tell you what it does.

It gets me to meet incredible contractors like this, Jim Ellenberger from Ellenberger Services.

And this is where it becomes true triple bottom line.

Because Jim realized that these kids, my future farmers, really had the skills he needed to build affordable housing for New Yorkers, right in their own neighborhood.

And this is what my kids are doing, making living wage. 

That's the beauty of this economy.

This immigrant student is the first one in his family to use an ATM.

And this is the true triple bottom line, because we can take neighborhoods that were abandoned and destitute and turn them into something like this with interiors like this. 

So CNN called, and we were delighted to have them come to our farmer's market.

But this, I show you, when kids from the poorest congressional district in America can build a 30-foot by 15-foot wall, design it, plant it and install it in the heart of New York City, that's a true "sí se puede" moment.

Really scholastic, if you ask me. 

That's our State Senator Gustavo Rivera and Bob Bieder, coming to my classroom to make my kids feel important.

And when the Bronx Borough President shows up and the State Senator comes to our class, believe you me, the Bronx can change attitudes now.

We are poised, ready, willing and able to export our talent and diversity in ways we've never even imagined.

And when the local senator gets on the scale in public and says he's got to lose weight, so do I!

And I tell you what, I'm doing it and so are the kids. 

Produce Pete can't believe what we grow.

And when we realized that we were growing for food justice in the South Bronx, so did the international community.

And my kids in the South Bronx were repped in the first international green roof conference.

And that's just great. 

Except what about locally?

Well, we met this woman, Avis Richards, with the Ground Up Campaign.

A year ago today, I was invited to the New York Academy of Medicine.

I thought this concept of designing a strong and healthy New York made sense, especially when the resources were free.

So thank you all and I love them.

The greenest class in New York City.

But more importantly is my kids learned to get, they learned to give.

And we took the money that we made from our farmer's market, and started buying gifts for the homeless and for needy around the world.

So we started giving back.

And that's when I realized that the greening of America starts first with the pockets, then with the heart and then with the mind. 

So we were onto something, and we're still onto something.

And thank God Trinity Wall Street noticed, because they gave us the birth of Green Bronx Machine.

We're 3,000 strong right now.

And what does it really do?

It teaches kids to re-vision their communities, so when they grow up in places like this, they can imagine it like this.

And my kids, trained and certified -- Ma, you get the tax abatement.

No more little Knicks and little Nets.

And we're building teepees in neighborhoods that were burning down.

And that's a true "sí se puede" moment.

And again, Brook Park feeds hundreds of people without a food stamp or a fingerprint.

The poorest congressional district in America, the most migratory community in America, we can do this.

Bissel Gardens is cranking out food in epic proportions, moving kids into an economy they never imagined. 

Thank God Omar knows that carrots come from the ground, and not aisle 9 at the supermarket or through a bullet-proof window or through a piece of styrofoam.

And when Henry knows that green is good, so do I.

And when you expand their palates, you expand their vocabulary.

And most importantly, when you put big kids together with little kids, you get the big fat white guy out of the middle, which is cool, and you create this kind of accountability amongst peers, which is incredible. 

This is what we're doing.

And behold the glory and bounty that is Bronx County.

Nothing thrills me more than to see kids pollinating plants instead of each other.

I gotta tell you, I'm a protective parent.

But those kids are the kids who are now putting pumpkin patches on top of trains.

We're also designing coin ponds for the rich and affluent.

We're also becoming children of the corn, creating farms in the middle of Fordham Road for awareness and window bottles out of garbage. 

Now I don't expect every kid to be a farmer, but I expect you to read about it, write about it, blog about it, offer outstanding customer service.

I expect them to be engaged, and man, are they!

Or more importantly, to local shelters, where most of our kids are getting one to two meals a day.

And we're stepping it up.

No Air Jordans were ever ruined on my farm.

And in his day, a million dollar gardens and incredible installations. 

And again, when you can take kids from backgrounds as diverse as this to do something as special as this, we're really creating a moment. 

Now, you may ask about these kids.

Forty percent attendance to 93 percent attendance.

All start overage and under-credit.

They are now, my first cohort is all in college, earning a living wage.

The rest are scheduled to graduate this June.

Happy kids, happy families, happy colleagues.

But, understand this is my intellectual Viagra.

Ladies and gentlemen, I gotta move quick, but understand this: The borough that gave us baggy pants and funky fresh beats is becoming home to the organic ones.

So help us go from this to this.

Martin Luther King said that people need to be uplifted with dignity.

One got us invited to the White House, one's a recent incarnation. 

And most importantly, get the biggest bully out of schools.

This has got to go tomorrow.

People, you can all do that.

Keep kids out of stores that look like this.

But most importantly, just love them.

Nothing works like unconditional love. 

Right now, we're all tadpoles, but I urge you to become a big frog and take that big, green leap.

We can do something here.

And along the way, please take time to smell the flowers, especially if you and your students grew them. 

I've got to say thank you to my wife and family, for my kids, thank you for coming every day, and for my colleagues, believing and supporting me.

We are growing our way into a new economy.

