In the past several days, I heard people talking about China.

And also, I talked to friends about China and Chinese Internet.

Something is very challenging to me.

BRIC country means Brazil, Russia, India and China.

This emerging economy really is helping the revival of the world economy.

He said the SICK country means Syria, Iran, China and North Korea.

The four countries have no access to Facebook.

So basically, China is a SICK BRIC country. 

Another project was built up to watch China and Chinese Internet.

And now, today I want to tell you my personal observation in the past several years, from that wall.

So, if you are a fan of the Game of Thrones, you definitely know how important a big wall is for an old kingdom.

It prevents weird things from the north. 

Same was true for China.

But China also has a great firewall.

That's the biggest digital boundary in the whole world.

It's not only to defend the Chinese regime from overseas, from the universal values, but also to prevent China's own citizens to access the global free Internet, and even separate themselves into blocks, not united. 

So, basically the "Internet" has two Internets.

One is the Internet, the other is the Chinanet.

But if you think the Chinanet is something like a deadland, wasteland, I think it's wrong.

But we also use a very simple metaphor, the cat and the mouse game, to describe in the past 15 years the continuing fight between Chinese censorship, government censorship, the cat, and the Chinese Internet users.

But sometimes this kind of a metaphor is too simple. 

So today I want to upgrade it to 2.0 version.

In China, we have 500 million Internet users.

That's the biggest population of Netizens, Internet users, in the whole world.

You have Google, we have Baidu.

You have Twitter, we have Weibo.

You have Facebook, we have Renren.

You have YouTube, we have Youku and Tudou.

The Chinese government blocked every single international Web 2.0 service, and we Chinese copycat every one. 

So, that's the kind of the thing I call smart censorship.

That's not only to censor you.

But on the other hand, they want to keep the server in Beijing so they can access the data any time they want.

Sometimes the Arab dictators didn't understand these two hands.

For example, Mubarak, he shut down the Internet.

He wanted to prevent the Netizens [from criticizing] him.

But once Netizens can't go online, they go in the street.

And now the result is very simple.

We all know Mubarak is technically dead.

But also, Ben Ali, Tunisian president, didn't follow the second rule.

That means keep the server in your hands.

He allowed Facebook, a U.S.-based service, to continue to stay on inside of Tunisia.

So he can't prevent it, his own citizens to post critical videos against his corruption.

But those two very smart international censorship policies didn't prevent Chinese social media [from] becoming a really public sphere, a pathway of public opinion and the nightmare of Chinese officials.

Because we have 300 million microbloggers in China.

It's the entire population of the United States.

2011, in July, two [unclear] trains crashed, in Wenzhou, a southern city.

Right after the train crash, authorities literally wanted to cover up the train, bury the train.

So it angered the Chinese Netizens.

The first five days after the train crash, there were 10 million criticisms of the posting on social media, which never happened in Chinese history.

And later this year, the rail minister was sacked and sentenced to jail for 10 years. 

So, the up is the Embassy data, the PM 2.5.

He showed 148, they showed it's dangerous for the sensitive group.

But 99 percent of Chinese microbloggers stand firmly on the Embassy's side.

You know, Twitter and Twitter clones have a kind of a limitation of 140 characters.

But in English it's 20 words or a sentence with a short link.

Maybe in Germany, in German language, it may be just "Aha!"

But in Chinese language, it's really about 140 characters, means a paragraph, a story.

You can almost have all the journalistic elements there.

So because of this, the Chinese really regard this microblogging as a media, not only a headline to media. 

And also, the clone, Sina company is the guy who cloned Twitter.

It even has its own name, with Weibo.

"Weibo" is the Chinese translation for "microblog".

It has its own innovation.

At the commenting area, [it makes] the Chinese Weibo more like Facebook, rather than the original Twitter.

So these innovations and clones, as the Weibo and microblogging, when it came to China in 2009, it immediately became a media platform itself.

It became the media platform of 300 million readers.

It became the media.

Anything not mentioned in Weibo, it does not appear to exist for the Chinese public. 

But also, Chinese social media is really changing Chinese mindsets and Chinese life.

But when more and more people go to Beijing, they also cause the risk of a revolution.

So they send them back in recent years.

And even some of them were put into black jails.

But now we have Weibo, so I call it the Weibo petition.

People just use their cell phones to tweet. 

So your sad stories, by some chance your story will be picked up by reporters, professors or celebrities.

One of them is Yao Chen, she is the most popular microblogger in China, who has about 21 million followers.

So this Weibo social media, even in the censorship, still gave the Chinese a real chance for 300 million people every day chatting together, talking together.

It's like a big TED, right?

But also, it is like the first time a public sphere happened in China.

Chinese people start to learn how to negotiate and talk to people. 

But also, the cat, the censorship, is not sleeping.

It's so hard to post some sensitive words on the Chinese Weibo.

For example, you can't post the name of the president, Hu Jintao, and also you can't post the city of Chongqing, the name, and until recently, you can't search the surname of top leaders.

So, the Chinese are very good at these puns and alternative wording and even memes.

They even name themselves -- you know, use the name of this world-changing battle between the grass-mud horse and the river crab.

The grass-mud horse is caoníma, is the phonogram for motherfucker, the Netizens call themselves.

So, when some very political, exciting moments happened, you can see on Weibo, you see a lot of very weird stories happened.

Weird phrases and words, even if you have a PhD of Chinese language, you can't understand them. 

That means from the very beginning, Weibo has already convinced the Chinese government, we will not become the stage for any kind of a threat to the regime.

For example, anything you want to post, like "get together" or "meet up" or "walk," it is automatically recorded and data mined and reported to a poll for further political analyzing.

So the crackdown is very serious. 

But I want you to notice a very funny thing during the process of the cat-and-mouse.

The cat is the censorship, but Chinese is not only one cat, but also has local cats.

The server is in Beijing.

The story about the train crash, maybe the question is not about why 10 million criticisms in five days, but why the Chinese central government allowed the five days of freedom of speech online.

It's never happened before.

But also, the Bo Xilai case recently, very big news, he's a princeling.

But from February to April this year, Weibo really became a marketplace of rumors.

But if you dare to retweet or mention any fake coup about Beijing, you definitely will be arrested.

So this kind of freedom is a targeted and precise window. 

So Chinese in China, censorship is normal.

Something you find is, freedom is weird.

Something will happen behind it.

Because he was a very popular Leftist leader, so the central government wanted to purge him, and he was very cute, he convinced all the Chinese people, why he is so bad.

So Weibo, the 300 million public sphere, became a very good, convenient tool for a political fight. 

But this technology is very new, but technically is very old.

It was made famous by Chairman Mao, Mao Zedong, because he mobilized millions of Chinese people in the Cultural Revolution to destroy every local government.

Not censoring in China has become a political tool. 

So that's the update about this game, cat-and-mouse.

Social media changed Chinese mindset.

More and more Chinese intend to embrace freedom of speech and human rights as their birthright, not some imported American privilege.

But also, it gave the Chinese a national public sphere for people to, it's like a training of their citizenship, preparing for future democracy.

But it didn't change the Chinese political system, and also the Chinese central government utilized this centralized server structure to strengthen its power to counter the local government and the different factions. 

So, what's the future?

After all, we are the mouse.

Whatever the future is, we should fight against the [cat].

SOPA, PIPA, ACTA, TPP and ITU.

So my conclusion is very simple.

Thank you. 

