What kind of forms could we design if we wouldn't work with references anymore?

If we had no bias, if we had no preconceptions, what kind of forms could we design if we could free ourselves from our experience?

Would they delight us?

If so, then how can we go about creating something that is truly new? 

I propose we look to nature.

Nature has been called the greatest architect of forms.

We can abstract them and to create something that is new.

If we abstract this process, and simplify it as much as possible, then we could start with a single sheet of paper, one surface, and we could make a fold and divide the surface into two surfaces.

We're free to choose where we make the fold.

And by doing so, we can differentiate the surfaces.

Through this very simple process, we can create an astounding variety of forms. 

Now, we can take this form and use the same process to generate three-dimensional structures, but rather than folding things by hand, we'll bring the structure into the computer, and code it as an algorithm.

And in doing so, we can suddenly fold anything.

We can fold a million times faster, we can fold in hundreds and hundreds of variations. 

And as we're seeking to make something three-dimensional, we start not with a single surface, but with a volume.

A simple volume, the cube.

If we take its surfaces and fold them again and again and again and again, then after 16 iterations, 16 steps, we end up with 400,000 surfaces and a shape that looks, for instance, like this.

And if we change where we make the folds, if we change the folding ratio, then this cube turns into this one.

And we can play with this.

We can apply different folding ratios to different parts of the form to create local conditions.

We can begin to sculpt the form. 

And because we're doing the folding on the computer, we are completely free of any physical constraints.

Surfaces can become porous.

And all of this expounds the scope of forms that we can produce. 

But in each case, I didn't design the form.

I designed the process that generated the form.

In general, if we make a small change to the folding ratio, which is what you're seeing here, then the form changes correspondingly. 

A far more effective way to create forms, I have found, is to use information that is already contained in forms.

A very simple form such as this one actually contains a lot of information that may not be visible to the human eye.

So, for instance, we can plot the length of the edges.

White surfaces have long edges, black ones have short ones.

And because I've designed the process and not the form, I can run the process again and again and again to produce a whole family of forms. 

A challenge to me was how we could express this new algorithmic order in a column.

I started using four cylinders.

Through a lot of experimentation, these cylinders eventually evolved into this. 

And these columns, they have information at very many scales.

Some formations are almost at the threshold of human visibility.

And unlike traditional architecture, it's a single process that creates both the overall form and the microscopic surface detail.

These forms are undrawable.

An architect who's drawing them with a pen and a paper would probably take months, or it would take even a year to draw all the sections, all of the elevations, you can only create something like this through an algorithm. 

Usually, an architect can somehow envision the end state of what he is designing.

In this case, the process is deterministic.

There's too many surfaces, there's too much detail, one can't see the end state. 

So this leads to a new role for the architect.

One needs a new method to explore all of the possibilities that are out there.

And to go back to the analogy with nature, one can begin to think in terms of populations, one can talk about permutations, about generations, about crossing and breeding to come up with a design.

And the architect is really, he moves into the position of being an orchestrator of all of these processes. 

But enough of the theory.

There's been a lot of talk now about 3D printing.

What you're looking at here is an X-ray of the column that you just saw, viewed from the top.

Almost all of the details, almost all of the surface intricacies were preserved. 

But it was very labor intensive.

There's a huge disconnect at the moment still between the virtual and the physical.

The physical model, on the other hand, is 2,700 layers, one millimeter thick, it weighs 700 kilos, it's made of sheet that can cover this entire auditorium.

And the cutting path that the laser followed goes from here to the airport and back again. 

But it is increasingly possible.

Machines are getting faster, it's getting less expensive, and there's some promising technological developments just on the horizon.

These are images from the Gwangju Biennale.

Each column is effectively a hybrid of two columns.

So where does this leave us?

In short, we have no constraints.

And, if I may add, at one point we will build them. 

