So here I was, the founding principal of a middle school that was a district public school, and I only had 45 kids to start.

If our children are not in our classrooms, how will they learn?

And if they're not learning, where would they end up? 

It was evident when I would ask my 13-year-old, "Young man, where do you see yourself in five years?"

And his response: "I don't know if I'm gonna live that long."

To me, this was unacceptable.

It was also evident that they had no idea that there was a landscape of opportunity that existed beyond their neighborhood. 

We call our students "scholars," because they're lifelong learners.

And the skills that they learn today will prepare them for college and career readiness.

At a 98-percent graduation rate.

This is nearly 200 children, who are now going to some of the most competitive high schools in New York City. 

Yet he can still be influenced by a principal who had opened up a school that believes in all children.

Vidal embodies the story of so many of our underprivileged children who are struggling to survive, which is why we must make education a priority. 

Brandon's post created a global sensation that touched the lives of millions.

The revolution in education is happening in our schools, with adults who provide love, structure, support and knowledge.

These are the things that inspire children.

But it is not an easy task.

But I have a dynamic group of educators who collaborate as a team to determine what is the best curriculum.

They take time beyond their school day, and come in on weekends and even use their own money to often provide resources when we do not have it.

And as the principal, I have to inspect what I expect. 

But we are all connected to succeed, and good leaders do this.

Tomorrow's future is sitting in our classrooms.

And they are our responsibility.

That means everyone in here, and those who are watching the screen.

We must believe in their brilliance, and remind them by teaching them that there indeed is power in education. 

Thank you. 

