If you say, "I'm a Monkey," they immediately know you are either 24, 36, 48 or 60 years old. 

(Laughter) Asking a zodiac sign is a polite way of asking your age. 

By revealing your zodiac sign, you are also being evaluated.

Judgments are being made about your fortune or misfortune, your personality, career prospects and how you will do in a given year.

If you share you and your partner's animal signs, they will paint a picture in their mind about your private life.

Maybe you don't believe in the Chinese zodiac.

As a quarter of the world population is influenced by it, you'd be wise to do something about that. 

So what is the Chinese zodiac, exactly?

For example, if you were born in 1975, you are a Rabbit.

Can you see your zodiac sign there?

And some of the implications are quite amazing. 

The Chinese believe certain animals get on better than the others.

Chinese people believe some animals are natural enemies.

As a Pig, I need to be careful with a Snake.

Raise your hand if you are a Snake.

Let's have a chat later. 

(Laughter) 

Unlike the Western tradition, the Chinese Dragon is a symbol for power, strength and wealth.

It's everyone's dream to have a Dragon baby.

Jack Ma's parents must have been very proud.

And they are not the only ones.

In 2012, the Year of the Dragon, the birthrate in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan increased by five percent.

That means another one million more babies.

With a traditional preference to baby boys, the boy-girl ratio that year was 120 to 100.

When those Dragon boys grow up, they will face much more severe competition in love and job markets. 

According to the BBC and the Chinese government's press release, January 2015 saw a peak of Cesarean sections.

Why?

That was the last month for the Year of the Horse.

It's not because they like horses so much, it's because they try to avoid having unlucky Goat babies. 

(Laughter) 

If you are a Goat, please don't feel bad.

Those are Goat babies.

They don't look like losers to me. 

(Laughter) 

Many Chinese regions saw a sharp decline of birthrate during those years.

Maybe they are the lucky ones.

One last but interesting point: many Chinese people make their investment decisions based on the zodiac sign index.

Although the belief and tradition of the zodiac sign has been over thousands of years, the trend of using it in making major decisions did not really happen until the past few decades.

Are there any Monkeys here?

2016 is the Year of the Monkey.

Monkeys are clever, curious, creative and mischievous. 

Thank you. 

