I'm going to tell you about an affliction I suffer from.

And I have a funny feeling that quite a few of you suffer from it as well.

When I'm walking around an art gallery, rooms and rooms full of paintings, after about 15 or 20 minutes, I realize I'm not thinking about the paintings.

I'm suffering from gallery fatigue. 

How many of you out there suffer from -- yes.

And I leave feeling actually unhappy.

And that's not a good experience, to leave a gallery like that. 

The thing is, I think we should give ourselves a break.

How come, then, it's not so expected to be selective when we go to an art gallery?

Why are we supposed to have a connection with every single painting? 

Well I'm trying to take a different approach.

And then the second thing I do is I stand in front of that painting, and I tell myself a story about it. 

Why not apply that to our looking at paintings?

So I now have this sort of restaurant menu visiting of art galleries. 

This is the most glorious painting.

What made me stop in my tracks about her to begin with was just the gorgeous colors he uses and the light falling on her face.

But I think what's kept me still coming back year after year is another thing, and that is the look on her face, the conflicted look on her face.

So that keeps me coming back. 

And it was the first time I'd ever thought that the expression on her face is actually reflecting how she feels about him.

And I thought, well, what is that relationship? 

Which made me go, "Yippee!"

I can do whatever I want, I can come up with whatever story I want to. 

So here's how I came up with the story.

First of all, I thought, I've got to get her into the house.

How does Vermeer know her?

Well, there've been suggestions that she is his 12-year-old daughter.

For one thing, in Dutch painting of the time, if a woman's mouth was open, it was indicating sexual availability.

It would have been inappropriate for Vermeer to paint his daughter like that. 

Well, who else would be in the house?

A servant, a lovely servant.

So, she's in the house.

How do we get her into the studio?

We don't know very much about Vermeer, but the little bits that we do know, one thing we know is that he married a Catholic woman, they lived with her mother in a house where he had his own room where he -- his studio.

It would have been a chaotic, noisy household.

And if you've seen Vermeer's paintings before, you know that they're incredibly calm and quiet. 

How does a painter paint such calm, quiet paintings with 11 kids around?

Well, he compartmentalizes his life.

And he decides to paint her. 

He has her wear very plain clothes.

Now, all of the women, or most of the women in Vermeer's other paintings wore velvet, silk, fur, very sumptuous materials.

We happen to know, there's a list of Catharina, the wife's clothes.

So clearly, her clothes were lent to various different women.

It's not such a leap of faith to take that that pearl earring actually belongs to his wife. 

So we've got all the elements for our story.

She's in the studio with him for a long time.

These paintings took a long time to make.

They would have spent the time alone, all that time.

And if she doesn't, well -- that's the story. 

The next painting I'm going to talk about is called "Boy Building a House of Cards" by Chardin.

He's not quite a child, and he's not quite a man.

And that is, to me, the sign of a masterpiece, of a painting when there's a lack of resolution.

He's never going to look at me. 

I'm thinking of an older version of himself.

He's a man, a servant, an older servant looking at this younger servant, saying, "Look at me.

And he never does. 

And that lack of resolution, the lack of resolution in "Girl with a Pearl Earring" -- we don't know if she's happy or sad.

I've written an entire novel about her, and I still don't know if she's happy or sad.

Again and again, back to the painting, looking for the answer, looking for the story to fill in that gap.

And we may make a story, and it satisfies us momentarily, but not really, and we come back again and again. 

This is a Tudor portrait bought by the National Portrait Gallery.

Now, in the National Portrait Gallery, if you don't know the biography of the painting, it's kind of useless to you.

They can't hang it on the wall, because they don't know who he is.

This must be a guy who blushes all the time.

What is he thinking about that's making him blush?

Well, what would a Tudor gentleman be preoccupied with?

Who is going to inherit his name and his fortune?

You put all those together, and you've got your story to fill in that gap that makes you keep coming back.

Now, here's the story.

It's short. 

I am still wearing the white brocade doublet Caroline gave me.

Perhaps that was the intention.

I first wore it at an elaborate dinner her parents held in our honor.

I knew even before I stood up to speak that my cheeks were inflamed.

I have always flushed easily, from physical exertion, from wine, from high emotion. 

As a boy, I was teased by my sisters and by schoolboys, but not by George.

Only George could call me Rosy.

I would not allow anyone else.

He managed to make the word tender.

When I made the announcement, George did not turn rosy, but went pale as my doublet.

But it is difficult to hear the words aloud.

I know, I could barely utter them. 

Afterwards, I found George on the terrace overlooking the kitchen garden.

Despite drinking steadily all afternoon, he was still pale.

"We will still see each other," I insisted.

George drained another glass of claret and turned to me.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

