And with a mobile phone, you can record a song, load it up to SoundCloud and become famous.

All this is possible with your mobile phone. 

I'm a child of 1984, and I live in the city of Berlin.

Let's go back to that time, to this city.

Here you can see how hundreds of thousands of people stood up and protested for change.

This is autumn 1989, and imagine that all those people standing up and protesting for change had a mobile phone in their pocket. 

Who in the room has a mobile phone with you?

Hold it up.

But today I will talk about me and my mobile phone, and how it changed my life.

Raw data.

And why are these informations there?

Because in the summer of 2006, the E.U.

All this information is stored for at least six months, up to two years by your phone company or your Internet service provider. 

And all over Europe, people stood up and said, "We don't want this."

They were lawyers, journalists, priests, they all said: "We don't want this."

And here you can see, like 10 thousands of people went out on the streets of Berlin and said, "Freedom, not fear."

And I also ask myself, does it really work?

And I asked them once, and I asked them again, and I got no real answer.

But then I said, I want to have this information, because this is my life you are protocoling.

So I decided to start a lawsuit against them, because I wanted to have this information.

But Deutsche Telekom said, no, we will not give you this information.

Because in the mean time, the German Constitutional Court ruled that the implementation of this E.U.

So I got this ugly brown envelope with a C.D.

At first I saw it, and I said, okay, it's a huge file.

But then after a while I realized, this is my life.

This is six months of my life, into this file. 

But then I said, I want to go out with this information.

You can zoom in and zoom out, you can wind back and fast forward.

You can see every step I take.

And you can even see how I go from Frankfurt by train to Cologne, and how often I call in between. 

All this is possible with this information.

You can see the hubs, like who are the leaders in the group.

If you have access to this information, you can see what your society is doing.

If you have access to this information, you can control your society. 

And this information is stored for at least six months in Europe, up to two years. 

Like I said at the beginning, imagine that all those people on the streets of Berlin in autumn of 1989 had a mobile phone in their pocket.

The fall of the Berlin Wall would maybe not [have been] there.

And in the aftermath, also not the fall of the Iron Curtain.

Because today, state agencies and companies want to store as much information as they can get about us, online and offline.

They want to have the possibility to track our lives, and they want to store them for all time. 

But self-determination and living in the digital age is no contradiction.

So, when you go home, tell your friends that privacy is a value of the 21st century, and it's not outdated.

When you go home, tell your representative only because companies and state agencies have the possibility to store certain information, they don't have to do it.

And if you don't believe me, ask your phone company what information they store about you. 

So, in the future, every time you use your mobile phone, let it be a reminder to you that you have to fight for self-determination in the digital age.

Thank you. 

