Let me start by saying, let's look back to the 20th century, and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us. 

We go into the Cold War, and we continue to try and build walls.

We go from the trench warfare of the First World War to the Maginot Line of the Second World War, and then we go into the Cold War, the Iron Curtain, the Berlin Wall.

Walls don't work. 

My thesis for us today is, instead of building walls to create security, we need to build bridges.

This is a famous bridge in Europe.

It's in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

More recently, in the last decade, we begin to see these communities start, hesitatingly, to come together. 

I would argue, again, open-source security is about connecting the international, the interagency, the private-public, and lashing it together with strategic communication, largely in social networks. 

Now, I'm a sailor, obviously.

This is a ship, a liner, clipping through the Indian Ocean.

What's wrong with this picture?

It's got concertina wire along the sides of it.

That's to prevent pirates from attacking it.

It's active in the Gulf of Guinea.

We see it in the Caribbean.

It's a $10-billion-a-year discontinuity in the global transport system.

Last year, at this time, there were 20 vessels, 500 mariners held hostage.

This is an attack on the global commons.

We need to think about how to address it. 

Let's shift to a different kind of sea, the cyber sea.

Here are photographs of two young men.

At the moment, they're incarcerated.

They conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars.

This is part of cybercrime which is a $2-trillion-a-year discontinuity in the global economy.

Two trillion a year.

That's just under the GDP of Great Britain.

So this cyber sea, which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness, is very much under threat as well. 

Another thing I worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking, by the movement of narcotics, opium, here coming out of Afghanistan through Europe over to the United States.

We worry about cocaine coming from the Andean Ridge north.

Trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons. 

The bad news is, this is a semi-submersible run by drug cartels.

This kind of trafficking, in narcotics, in humans, in weapons, God forbid, in weapons of mass destruction, is part of the threat to the global commons. 

And let's pull it together in Afghanistan today.

This is a field of poppies in Afghanistan.

Eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy, opium and heroin, comes out of Afghanistan.

We also see there, of course, terrorism.

This is where al Qaeda is staged from.

We also see a very strong insurgency embedded there.

So this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons, and what we must address. 

So here we are, 21st century.

We know our 20th-century tools are not going to work.

What should we do? 

I would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun.

We will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun.

We will need the application of military force.

When we do it, we must do it well, and competently. 

But my thesis is, open-source security is about international, interagency, private-public connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the Internet. 

You would be correct. 

So the question is, so, why are they all standing there holding books?

The answer is, we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by NATO in partnership with private sector entities, in partnership with development agencies.

We've taught well over 200,000 Afghan Security Forces to read and write at a basic level. 

When you can read and write in Afghanistan, you will typically put a pen in your pocket.

At the ceremonies, when these young men and women graduate, they take that pen with great pride, and put it in their pocket.

Now, we are also teaching them combat skills, of course, but I would argue, open-source security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect. 

Here's another example.

This is a US Navy warship.

It's called the Comfort.

There's a sister ship called the Mercy.

They are hospital ships.

This one, the Comfort, operates throughout the Caribbean and the coast of South America conducting patient treatments.

On a typical cruise, they'll do 400,000 patient treatments.

It is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: Operation Hope, Project Smile.

Other organizations send volunteers.

Interagency physicians come out.

They're all part of this. 

To give you one example of the impact this can have, this little boy, eight years old, walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the Comfort.

Here you see baseball players.

Can you pick out the two US Army soldiers in this photograph?

Another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief.

This is a US Air Force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250,000 people.

In each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004, 250,000 dead, the Kashmiri earthquake in Pakistan, 2005, 85,000 dead, the Haitian earthquake, about 300,000 dead, more recently the awful earthquake-tsunami combination which struck Japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances, we see partnerships between international actors, interagency, private-public working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster.

So these are examples of this idea of open-source security. 

We tie it together, increasingly, by doing things like this.

White is the synthesis.

(Laughter) 

Why do we want to get in these nets?

Why do we want to be involved?

We talked earlier about the Arab Spring, and the power of all this.

There was an article which was run by AP, on the wire.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Yeah, we laugh, but this is how we move the message, and moving that message is how we connect international, interagency, private-public, and these social nets to help create security. 

Now, let me hit a somber note.

This is a photograph of a brave British soldier.

He's in the Scots Guards.

He's standing the watch in Helmand, in southern Afghanistan.

I put him here to remind us, I would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable, competent militaries who can create real military effect.

That is the core of who we are and what we do, and we do it to protect freedom, freedom of speech, all the things we treasure in our societies. 

But, you know, life is not an on-and-off switch.

You don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks. 

I would argue life is a rheostat.

Wikipedia, every day, is tens of thousands of people inputting information, and every day millions of people withdrawing that information.

It's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together.

No one person, no one alliance, no one nation, no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together. 

