To me, the sky is always gray, flowers are always gray, and television is still in black and white. 

But, since the age of 21, instead of seeing color, I can hear color.

In 2003, I started a project with computer scientist Adam Montandon, and the result, with further collaborations with Peter Kese from Slovenia and Matias Lizana from Barcelona, is this electronic eye.

(Frequency sounds) So, for example, if I have, like — This is the sound of purple.

At the start, though, I had to memorize the names you give for each color, so I had to memorize the notes, but after some time, all this information became a perception.

I started to have favorite colors, and I started to dream in colors. 

This is my passport from 2004.

Also, the way I dress has changed.

Before, I used to dress in a way that it looked good.

So today I'm dressed in C major, so it's quite a happy chord.

Here's some faces. 

Some people, I would never relate, but they sound similar.

So you relate people that you wouldn't relate, and you can actually also create concerts by looking at the audience faces.

So I connect the eye, and then I play the audience's faces.

And so another thing that happens is that I started having this secondary effect that normal sounds started to become color.

The BBC beeps, they sound turquoise, and listening to Mozart became a yellow experience, 

so I started to paint music and paint people's voices, because people's voices have frequencies that I relate to color. 

And here's some music translated into color.

For example, Mozart, "Queen of the Night," looks like this.

(Music) Very yellow and very colorful, because there's many different frequencies.

(Music) And this is a completely different song.

(Music) It's Justin Bieber's "Baby."

(Music) It's Justin Bieber's "Baby."

One of them is Martin Luther King's "I Have A Dream," and the other one is Hitler.

And I like to exhibit these paintings in the exhibition halls without labels, and then I ask people, "Which one do you prefer?"

And most people change their preference when I tell them that the one on the left is Hitler and the one on the right is Martin Luther King. 

So I got to a point when I was able to perceive 360 colors, just like human vision.

I was able to differentiate all the degrees of the color wheel.

But then, I just thought that this human vision wasn't good enough.

There's many, many more colors around us that we cannot perceive, but that electronic eyes can perceive.

We should all think that knowledge comes from our senses, so if we extend our senses, we will consequently extend our knowledge.

I think life will be much more exciting when we stop creating applications for mobile phones and we start creating applications for our own body.

I think this will be a big, big change that we will see during this century. 

So I do encourage you all to think about which senses you'd like to extend.

