Well, traditionally that was seen as science fiction, but now we've moved to a world where actually this has become possible. 

So the best way of explaining it is to just show it.

What you can see over here is Tamara, who is holding my phone that's now plugged in.

So let me start with this.

Matt Mills: Now, what's great about this is, there's no trickery here.

There's nothing done to this image.

And what's great about this is the technology's actually allowing the phone to start to see and understand much like how the human brain does.

Not only that, but as I move the object around, it's going to track it and overlay that content seamlessly.

So a newspaper becomes out of date as soon as it's printed.

Now what we can do is point at the front of the newspaper and immediately get the bulletin. 

Voice: ... To the grass, and it's very important that you adapt and you, you have to be flexible, you have to be willing to change direction at a split second, and she does all that.

MM: And that linking of the digital content to something that's physical is what we call an aura, and I'll be using that term a little bit as we go through the talk. 

So, what's great about this is it isn't just a faster, more convenient way to get information in the real world, but there are times when actually using this medium allows you to be able to display information in a way that was never before possible. 

So now what I can do is, rather than getting the instructions for the device online, I can simply point at it, the device is recognized, and then -- 

They couldn't all be on stage, but we're going to bring their aura to the stage, so here they are.

Tamara, would you like to jump in? 

(Music) (Dinosaur roaring) (Applause) 

I have a picture here from a video, and we're now going to play it. 

Child: Oh my God. 

Child: Oh my God. 

Second child: It's magic. 

(Laughter) MM: (Laughs) So, it's not magic.

So, as sort of — I'm told it's called a stadium wave, so we're going to start from this side of the room on the count of three, and go over to here.

We're all very, very familiar with the Internet.

The only difference is that you've got the ability to add in links and slightly more content.

Tamara Roukaerts: We're ready to go. 

