Well, I'm afraid I used to be the cat.

So, what people were saying to me about the cause of cancer, sources of cancer, or, for that matter, why you are who you are, didn't make sense. 

So, let me quickly try and tell you why I thought that and how I went about it.

So, to begin with, however, I have to give you a very, very quick lesson in developmental biology, with apologies to those of you who know some biology.

So, why doesn't it do it?

So, have a guess of how many cells he has in his body.

Somewhere between 10 trillion to 70 trillion cells in his body.

And so, the question I raised before becomes even more interesting if you thought about the enormity of this in every one of your bodies. 

Now, the dominant cancer theory would say that there is a single oncogene in a single cancer cell, and it would make you a cancer victim.

Well, this did not make sense to me.

Do you even know how a trillion looks?

Now, let's look at it.

There it comes, these zeroes after zeroes after zeroes.

Why not? 

So, I decided over the years, because of a series of experiments that this is because of context and architecture. 

And let me quickly tell you some crucial experiment that was able to actually show this.

To begin with, I came to work with this virus that causes that ugly tumor in the chicken.

Rous discovered this in 1911.

All you need is a single oncogene.

And again this didn't make sense to me.

Every one of those blue cells are a cancer gene inside a cancer cell, and they're part of the feather.

So, when we dissociated the feather and put it in a dish, we got a mass of blue cells.

What does that mean?

That means that microenvironment and the context which surrounds those cells actually are telling the cancer gene and the cancer cell what to do. 

Now, let's take a normal example.

The normal example, let's take the human mammary gland.

I work on breast cancer.

So, here is a lovely human breast.

You take these cells, you put them in a dish, and within three days, they look like that.

They completely forget.

They are completely different from each other. 

So, what does this tell you?

This tells you that here also, context overrides.

In different contexts, cells do different things.

But how does context signal?

So, Einstein said that "For an idea that does not first seem insane, there is no hope."

So, you can imagine the amount of skepticism I received -- couldn't get money, couldn't do a whole lot of other things, but I'm so glad it all worked out. 

So I said, extracellular matrix, which is this stuff called ECM, signals and actually tells the cells what to do. 

So, we decided to make things that would look like that.

So, what do we do now?

I made a radical hypothesis.

I said, if it's true that architecture is dominant, architecture restored to a cancer cell should make the cancer cell think it's normal.

Could this be done?

So, we tried it.

On the right, you see it looks very ugly, the cells continue to grow, the normal ones stop.

And you see here in higher magnification the normal acinus and the ugly tumor. 

So we said, what is on the surface of these ugly tumors?

This is what we got.

We can revert the malignant phenotype. 

So, it's a new way of thinking about cancer, it's a hopeful way of thinking about cancer.

All right, thus form and function interact dynamically and reciprocally.

And of course, we now ask, where do we go now?

We'd like to take this kind of thinking into the clinic.

We have shown that there's little pieces of DNA on the specific genes of the mammary gland that actually respond to extracellular matrix.

It has taken many years, but it has been very rewarding. 

And before I get to the next slide, I have to tell you that there are so many additional discoveries to be made.

There is so much mystery we don't know.

And I always say to the students and post-docs I lecture to, don't be arrogant, because arrogance kills curiosity.

And maybe my discovery needs to be added to or maybe it needs to be changed. 

We didn't have high images in the old days.

So she, being an imager and a physicist, did this incredible thing.

Has a coherent movement.

You put the cancer cells there, and they do go all over, they do this.

And when we revert the cancer cell, it again does this.

Absolutely boggles my mind.

So I'd like to finish with a poem.

It's called "Among the School Children."

The minute he stops, we have neither.

So it's like form and function. 

Now, I'd like to show you a current picture of my group.

I have been fortunate to have had these magnificant students and post-docs who have taught me so much, and I have had many of these groups come and go.

They are the future and I try to make them not be afraid of being the cat and being told, don't think outside the box. 

And I'd like to leave you with this thought.

On the left is water coming through the shore, taken from a NASA satellite.

On the right, there is a coral.

Why is it that nature keeps doing that over and over again? 

So, it's a wonderful new horizon, it's a wonderful thing to discover for the young and the passionate old, and that's me. 

So go to it! 

