I love to collect things.

Ever since I was a kid, I've had massive collections of random stuff, everything from bizarre hot sauces from all around the world to insects that I've captured and put in jars. 

Now, it's no secret, because I like collecting things, that I love the Natural History Museum and the collections of animals at the Natural History Museum in dioramas.

These, to me, are like living sculptures, right, that you can go and look at, and they memorialize a specific point of time in this animal's life. 

So what I did was, I filmed six of my friends and then, using video mapping and video projection, I created a video sculpture, which was these six friends projected into jars.

(Laughter) So now I have this collection of my friends I can take around with me whenever I go, and this is called Animalia Chordata, from the Latin nomenclature for human being, classification system.

So, this is interesting to me, but it lacked a certain human element.

So this was really interesting to me, this idea of taking video off the screen and putting it in real life, and also adding interactivity to sculpture.

(Laughter) This is a piece called Blend, and what it does is it actually makes you implicit in the work of art.

You may never experience the entire thing yourself.

You can walk away, you can just watch as this character stands there in the blender and looks at you, or you can actually choose to interact with it.

So if you do choose to interact with the piece, and you press the blender button, it actually sends this character into this dizzying disarray of dishevelment.

By doing that, you are now part of my piece.

But, but this seems a bit unfair, right?

I'd never really memorialized myself.

So I decided to create a piece which is a self-portrait piece.

So I start as a baby, and then if you punch the clock, you'll actually transform the baby into a toddler, and then from a toddler I'm transformed into a teenager.

And if you punch the punch card clock a hundred times in one day, the piece goes black and is not to be reset until the next day.

So, in doing so, you're erasing time.

You're actually implicit in this work and you're erasing my life. 

