The world is filled with incredible objects and rich cultural heritage.

And when we get access to them, we are blown away, we fall in love.

But most of the time, the world's population is living without real access to arts and culture.

What might the connections be when we start exploring our heritage, the beautiful locations and the art in this world? 

Before we get started in this presentation, I just want to take care of a few housekeeping points.

First, I am no expert in art or culture.

I fell into this by mistake, but I'm loving it.

Secondly, all of what I'm going to show you belongs to the amazing museums, archives and foundations that we partner with.

None of this belongs to Google.

And finally, what you see behind me is available right now on your mobile phones, on your laptops. 

The diversity of the content is what's amazing.

If we just had European paintings, if we just had modern art, I think it gets a bit boring.

For example, this month, we launched the "Black History" channel with 82 curated exhibitions, which talk about arts and culture in that community.

But I am, thanks to this exhibition, that has really taught me about the craftsmanship behind the soul of a Japanese doll.

Trust me, it's very exciting.

Take my word for it. 

So, moving on swiftly.

One quick thing I wanted to showcase in this platform, which you can share with your kids and your friends right now, is you can travel to all these amazing institutions virtually, as well.

And you can see the architectural masterpiece that it is.

There's a lot of information here. 

But this is not the purpose of my talk today.

This exists right now.

What Cyril and our team of engineers have been doing is trying to find these connections and visualize a few of these. 

So I'm going to go quite quick now.

In case people think I'm trying to replicate the real thing.

So, moving on.

This object you see behind me is the Venus of Berekhat Ram.

It is also one of the oldest objects on our platform. 

So let's zoom.

We start from this one object.

What if we zoomed out and actually tried to experience our own cultural big bang?

What might that look like?

You can travel through time, you can understand more about our society through these.

You can look at it from the perspective of our planet, and try to see how it might look without borders, if we just organized art and culture.

You can spend hours looking at every decade and the contributions in that decade and in those years for art, history and cultures.

We would love to spend hours showing you each and every decade, but we don't have the time right now.

So you can go on your phone and actually do it yourself. 

It's a crazy Matrix experience. 

Thanks to the diversity of the institutions we have, we have over 211 high-definition, amazing artworks by this artist, now organized in one beautiful view.

And as it resolves, and as Cyril goes deeper, you can see all the self-portraits, you can see still life.

We want the image to speak as much as it can on a digital platform.

And all you need is an internet connection and a computer 

I love my mother, but she thought I was wasting my life with this museum stuff.

Once you get in, you're hooked. 

We don't have a good name for this.

But essentially, we have around 1,000 amazing institutions, 68 countries.

But let's start with Rembrandt.

We might have time for only one example.

But thanks to the diversity, we've got around 500 amazing Rembrandt object artworks from 46 institutions and 17 countries.

Let's say that on your next vacation, you want to go see every single one of them.

Moving on swiftly from here, is something a little bit more technical and more interesting.

All that we've shown you so far uses metadata to make the connections.

But obviously we have something cool nowadays that everyone likes to talk about, which is machine learning.

So what we thought is, let's strip out all the metadata, let's look at what machine learning can do based purely on visual recognition of this entire collection.

Each cluster is an art to us by itself of discovery.

But one of the clusters we want to show you very quickly is this amazing cluster of portraits that we found from museums around the world.

If you could zoom in a little bit more, Cyril.

Just to show you, you can just travel through portraits.

And I don't know about you, but I've shown it to my nephew and sister, and the reaction is just phenomenal.

All they ask me is, "When can we go see this?"

And by the way, if we're nice, maybe, Cyril, you can smile and find a happy one?

Oh, perfect.

We show you clusters, visual clusters, but what if we could ask the machine to also name these clusters?

What if it could automatically tag them, using no actual metadata?

And we found interesting categories.

We can start with horses, a very straightforward category.

You would expect to see that the machine has put images of horses, right?

We also have an amazing head in terms of a horse.

And each one has the tags as to why it got categorized in this. 

It's called "Lady in Waiting."

If, Cyril, you do it very quickly, you will see that we have these amazing images of ladies, I guess, in waiting or posing.

I don't really understand it.

Coming back to gold very quickly, I wanted to search for gold and see how the machine tagged all the gold.

But, actually, it doesn't tag it as gold.

We are living in popular times.

It tags it as "bling-bling."

I'm being hard on Cyril, because I'm moving too fast.

Essentially, here you have all the bling-bling of the world's museums organized for you. 

And finally, to end this talk and these experiments, what I hope you feel after this talk is happiness and emotion.

And what would we see when we see happiness?

If we actually look at all the objects that have been tagged under "happiness," you would expect happiness, I guess.

I don't know why the machine feels like it misses its pre-Internet brain and it's been tagged here, but it's a very interesting thought.

I sometimes do miss my pre-Internet brain, but not when it comes to exploring arts and culture online. 

And the least we can do is get our daily dose of art and culture for ourselves and our kids. 

Thank you. 

