Something happened in the early morning hours of May 2nd, 2000, that had a profound effect on the way our society operates.

Ironically, hardly anyone noticed at the time.

On that morning, U.S. President Bill Clinton ordered that a special switch be thrown in the orbiting satellites of the Global Positioning System.

Instantaneously, every civilian GPS receiver around the globe went from errors the size of a football field to errors the size of a small room. 

It's hard to overstate the effect that this change in accuracy has had on us.

Before this switch was thrown, we didn't have in-car navigation systems giving turn-by-turn directions, because back then, GPS couldn't tell you what block you were on, let alone what street. 

For geolocation, accuracy matters, and things have only improved over the last 10 years.

With more base stations, more ground stations, better receivers and better algorithms, GPS can now not only tell you what street you are on, but what part of the street. 

This level of accuracy has unleashed a firestorm of innovation.

In fact, many of you navigated here today with the help of your TomTom or your smartphone.

Paper maps are becoming obsolete. 

But we now stand on the verge of another revolution in geolocation accuracy.

What if I told you that the two-meter positioning that our current cell phones and our TomToms give us is pathetic compared to what we could be getting?

For some time now, it's been known that if you pay attention to the carrier phase of the GPS signal, and if you have an Internet connection, then you can go from meter level to centimeter level, even millimeter-level positioning. 

So why don't we have this capability on our phones?

Only, I believe, for a lack of imagination.

I could build for you a structure up here in 3D, millimeter accurate, that only you could see, or my friends at home. 

The Holy Grail, of course, is the GPS dot.

Do you remember the movie "The Da Vinci Code?"

Well, these objections were perfectly reasonable a few years ago, but things have changed.

Imagine what we could do with a world full of GPS dots.

You'll buy GPS dots in bulk, and you'll stick them on everything you own worth more than a few tens of dollars. 

I couldn't find my shoes one recent morning, and, as usual, had to ask my wife if she had seen them.

But I shouldn't have to bother my wife with that kind of triviality.

Those of you who have made the switch to Gmail, remember how refreshing it was to go from organizing all of your email to simply searching it.

The GPS dot will do the same for our possessions. 

Now, of course, there is a flip side to the GPS dot.

I was in my office some months back and got a telephone call.

The woman on the other end of the line, we'll call her Carol, was panicked.

Apparently, an ex-boyfriend of Carol's from California had found her in Texas and was following her around.

So you might ask at this point why she's calling you.

Well, so did I.

But it turned out there was a technical twist to Carol's case.

In fact, as I looked into her case, I discovered to my surprise that it's not clearly illegal for you or me to put a tracking device on someone else's car.

With a flip of the switch you create a bubble around you within which GPS signals can't reside.

They get drowned out by the bubble.

And Limor designed this, in part, because, like Carol, she felt threatened by GPS tracking.

Chinese manufacturers now sell thousands of nearly identical devices on the Internet. 

But you should be aware that its use is very much illegal in the United States.

And why is that?

Well, because it's not a bubble at all.

They -- in fact, they don't update or upkeep lighthouses anymore, and LORAN, the only backup to GPS, was discontinued last year. 

Our modern society has a special relationship with GPS.

We're almost blindly reliant on it.

It's built deeply into our systems and infrastructure.

Some call it "the invisible utility."

The idea behind the GPS spoofer is simple.

So let me show you how this works.

In any GPS receiver, there's a peak inside that corresponds to the authentic signals.

But if you send in a fake GPS signal, another peak pops up, and if you can get these two peaks perfectly aligned, the tracking points can't tell the difference, and they get hijacked by the stronger counterfeit signal, with the authentic peak getting forced off.

At this point, the game is over.

The fake signals now completely control this GPS receiver. 

So is this really possible?

Can someone really manipulate the timing and positioning of a GPS receiver just like that, with a spoofer?

Well, the short answer is yes.

They're wide open, vulnerable to a kind of spoofing attack.

Even so, up until very recently, nobody worried about GPS spoofers.

People figured that it would be too complex or too expensive for some hacker to build one. 

But I, and a friend of mine from graduate school, we didn't see it that way.

We knew it wasn't going to be so hard, and we wanted to be the first to build one so we could get out in front of the problem and help protect against GPS spoofing.

I remember vividly the week it all came together.

At first, the spoofer was just a jumble of cables and computers, though we eventually got it packaged into a small box. 

Let me show you some actual footage from that very first experiment.

I had come to completely trust this little blue dot and its reassuring blue halo.

What I then saw in this little moving blue dot was the potential for chaos.

I saw airplanes and ships veering off course, with the captain learning only too late that something was wrong.

I saw the GPS-derived timing of the New York Stock Exchange being manipulated by hackers.

You can scarcely imagine the kind of havoc you could cause if you knew what you were doing with a GPS spoofer. 

There is, though, one redeeming feature of the GPS spoofer.

Or, if you're Carol, you could lure your ex-boyfriend into some empty parking lot where the police are waiting for him. 

I hold out hope that we'll be able to reconcile this conflict with some sort of, some yet uninvented technology.

But meanwhile, grab some popcorn, because things are going to get interesting. 

Within the next few years, many of you will be the proud owner of a GPS dot.

Maybe you'll have a whole bag full of them.

You'll never lose track of your things again.

The GPS dot will fundamentally reorder your life.

But will you be able to resist the temptation to track your fellow man?

Or will you be able to resist the temptation to turn on a GPS spoofer or a Wave Bubble to protect your own privacy? 

So, as usual, what we see just beyond the horizon is full of promise and peril.

It'll be fascinating to see how this all turns out. 

