My passions are music, technology and making things.

So, let's fire it up and see what it does.

So let's play a 550-herz frequency and watch what happens. 

So let's change the frequency of the sound, and watch what happens to the fire. 

I also have with me a flame table.

It's very similar to a Rubens' tube, and it's also used for visualizing the physical properties of sound, such as eigenmodes, so let's fire it up and see what it does. 

All right, so it's a delicate dance.

If you watch closely — (Applause) If you watch closely, you may have seen some of the eigenmodes, but also you may have seen that jazz music is better with fire.

It shows very well that eyes can hear, and this is interesting to me because technology allows us to present sound to the eyes in ways that accentuate the strength of the eyes for seeing sound, such as the removal of time. 

All right, now for some more sound data.

This is data from a skate park, and this is Mabel Davis skate park in Austin, Texas.

So if we were to render these sounds visually, we might end up with something like this.

All right, from skate physics to theoretical physics.

It listens to the lecture, and then it uses the amplitude of each word to move a point on the x-axis, and it uses the inflection of sentences to move a same point up and down on the y-axis. 

And these trend lines, you can see, there's more questions than answers in the laws of physics, and when we reach the end of a sentence, we place a star at that location.

This is Stephen Hawking's universe. 

I'm going to wave through the Kinect here and take control, and now I'm going to reach out and I'm going to touch a star, and when I do, it will play the sentence that generated that star. 

Stephen Hawking: There is one, and only one, arrangement in which the pieces make a complete picture. 

(Applause) There are 1,400 stars.

It's a really fun way to explore the lecture, and, I hope, a fitting homage. 

I think, after 30 years, the opportunity exists to create an enhanced version of closed captioning.

Now, we've all seen a lot of TEDTalks online, so let's watch one now with the sound turned off and the closed captioning turned on. 

It usually begins here, and it grows and then it falls.

Sometimes you get a little star applause, and then I think even Bill Gates takes a nervous breath, and the talk begins. 

All right, so let's watch this clip again.

This time, I'm not going to talk at all.

So watch closely and see what your eyes can hear. 

This is fairly amazing to me.

Even on the first view, your eyes will successfully pick out patterns, but on repeated views, your brain actually gets better at turning these patterns into information.

Actually, it's all just an idea. 

