I'm afraid by what I see.

My work with criminals and terrorists has actually been highly educational.

They have taught me a lot, and I'd like to be able to share some of these observations with you. 

Today I'm going to show you the flip side of all those technologies that we marvel at, the ones that we love.

In the hands of the TED community, these are awesome tools which will bring about great change for our world, but in the hands of suicide bombers, the future can look quite different. 

I started observing technology and how criminals were using it as a young patrol officer.

In those days, this was the height of technology.

Laugh though you will, all the drug dealers and gang members with whom I dealt had one of these long before any police officer I knew did. 

They have a national encrypted radio communications system.

Think about that.

Think about the innovation that went into that.

Think about the infrastructure to build it.

We consistently underestimate what criminals and terrorists can do.

Technology has made our world increasingly open, and for the most part, that's great, but all of this openness may have unintended consequences. 

Consider the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai.

The men that carried that attack out were armed with AK-47s, explosives and hand grenades.

They threw these hand grenades at innocent people as they sat eating in cafes and waited to catch trains on their way home from work.

But heavy artillery is nothing new in terrorist operations.

Guns and bombs are nothing new.

They were armed with mobile phones.

They had BlackBerries.

They did all of this in real time. 

The innovation of the terrorist operations center gave terrorists unparalleled situational awareness and tactical advantage over the police and over the government.

What did they do with this?

They used it to great effect. 

At one point during the 60-hour siege, the terrorists were going room to room trying to find additional victims.

They came upon a suite on the top floor of the hotel, and they kicked down the door and they found a man hiding by his bed.

And they said to him, "Who are you, and what are you doing here?"

The op center had found him and they had a match.

He was not a schoolteacher.

Terrorists are doing this.

A search engine can determine who shall live and who shall die.

This is the world that we live in. 

In the end, 300 people were gravely wounded and over 172 men, women and children lost their lives that day. 

Think about what happened.

During this 60-hour siege on Mumbai, 10 men armed not just with weapons, but with technology, were able to bring a city of 20 million people to a standstill.

This is what radicals can do with openness. 

This was done nearly four years ago.

What could terrorists do today with the technologies available that we have?

What will they do tomorrow?

The ability of one to affect many is scaling exponentially, and it's scaling for good and it's scaling for evil. 

It's not just about terrorism, though.

There's also been a big paradigm shift in crime.

You see, you can now commit more crime as well.

When in the history of humanity has it ever been possible for one person to rob 100 million? 

Of course, it's not just about stealing things.

There are other avenues of technology that criminals can exploit.

Many of you will remember this super cute video from the last TED, but not all quadcopter swarms are so nice and cute.

They don't all have drumsticks.

Some can be armed with HD cameras and do countersurveillance on protesters, or, as in this little bit of movie magic, quadcopters can be loaded with firearms and automatic weapons.

Little robots are cute when they play music to you.

When they swarm and chase you down the block to shoot you, a little bit less so. 

But they're adapting quickly.

Recently, the FBI arrested an al Qaeda affiliate in the United States, who was planning on using these remote-controlled drone aircraft to fly C4 explosives into government buildings in the United States.

By the way, these travel at over 600 miles an hour. 

Every time a new technology is being introduced, criminals are there to exploit it.

We've all seen 3D printers.

We know with them that you can print in many materials ranging from plastic to chocolate to metal and even concrete.

With great precision I actually was able to make this just the other day, a very cute little ducky.

But I wonder to myself, for those people that strap bombs to their chests and blow themselves up, how might they use 3D printers? 

Perhaps like this.

But as these get bigger in the future, what other items will you be able to print?

The technologies are allowing bigger printers. 

As we move forward, we'll see new technologies also, like the Internet of Things.

If you control the code, you control the world.

This is the future that awaits us. 

There has not yet been an operating system or a technology that hasn't been hacked.

That's troubling, since the human body itself is now becoming an information technology.

As we've seen here, we're transforming ourselves into cyborgs.

Every year, thousands of cochlear implants, diabetic pumps, pacemakers and defibrillators are being implanted in people.

In the United States, there are 60,000 people who have a pacemaker that connects to the Internet.

The defibrillators allow a physician at a distance to give a shock to a heart in case a patient needs it.

But if you don't need it, and somebody else gives you the shock, it's not a good thing. 

Of course, we're going to go even deeper than the human body.

We're going down to the cellular level these days.

Up until this point, all the technologies I've been talking about have been silicon-based, ones and zeroes, but there's another operating system out there: the original operating system, DNA.

It's a great challenge for them.

So how will criminals abuse this?

Well, with synthetic biology you can do some pretty neat things.

You can just take the DNA code from marijuana or poppies or coca leaves and cut and past that gene and put it into yeast, and you can take those yeast and make them make the cocaine for you, or the marijuana, or any other drug.

So how we use yeast in the future is going to be really interesting.

In fact, we may have some really interesting bread and beer as we go into this next century. 

The cost of sequencing the human genome is dropping precipitously.

It was proceeding at Moore's Law pace, but then in 2008, something changed.

That has significant implications for us. 

We recently saw a case where some researchers made the H5N1 avian influenza virus more potent.

But it goes deeper than that.

How will we protect them in the future? 

That's what I get asked all the time.

For those of you who follow me on Twitter, I will be tweeting out the answer later on today.

Actually, it's a bit more complex than that, and there are no magic bullets.

I don't have all the answers, but I know a few things.

Law enforcement is currently a closed system.

But this is not going to work.

The cost of doing a DNA sequence is going to be trivial.

Anybody will have it and we will all have them in the future. 

So maybe there's a more radical way that we can look at this.

What happens if we were to take the President's DNA, or a king or queen's, and put it out to a group of a few hundred trusted researchers so they could study that DNA and do penetration testing against it as a means of helping our leaders?

Or what if we sent it out to a few thousand?

Or, controversially, and not without its risks, what happens if we just gave it to the whole public?

Then we could all be engaged in helping. 

We've already seen examples of this working well.

So in Mexico, citizens, at great risk to themselves, are fighting back to build an effective solution.

They're crowd-mapping the activities of the drug dealers. 

The threat is serious, and the time to prepare for it is now.

I can assure you that the terrorists and criminals are. 

My personal belief is that, rather than having a small, elite force of highly trained government agents here to protect us all, we're much better off having average and ordinary citizens approaching this problem as a group and seeing what we can do.

If we all do our part, I think we'll be in a much better space.

The tools to change the world are in everybody's hands.

How we use them is not just up to me, it's up to all of us. 

This was a technology I would frequently deploy as a police officer.

This technology has become outdated in our current world.

We've seen paradigm shifts in crime and terrorism.

So I invite you to join me.

After all, public safety is too important to leave to the professionals. 

