Or maybe your mind was just entirely elsewhere. 

Does this sound familiar to you?

Now, in those situations, wouldn't it be great if there was a button on your dashboard that you could push, and the car would get you home safely?

Now, it's been one of those dreams that's always seemed about 20 years in the future.

Now, California's considering similar legislation, and this would make sure that the autonomous car is not one of those things that has to stay in Vegas. 

Now, why would we want to do such a thing?

Well, there's two really good reasons for this.

First, we believe that before people turn over control to an autonomous car, that autonomous car should be at least as good as the very best human drivers.

Now, if you're like me, and the other 70 percent of the population who know that we are above-average drivers, you understand that's a very high bar.

There's another reason as well.

Just like race car drivers can use all of the friction between the tire and the road, all of the car's capabilities to go as fast as possible, we want to use all of those capabilities to avoid any accident we can. 

In those situations, we want a car that is capable enough to avoid any accident that can physically be avoided. 

I must confess, there's kind of a third motivation as well.

You see, I have a passion for racing.

One of the things that we've developed in the lab -- we've developed several vehicles -- is what we believe is the world's first autonomously drifting car.

It can get sideways like a rally car driver, always able to take the tightest curve, even on slippery, changing surfaces, never spinning out. 

We've also worked with Volkswagen Oracle, on Shelley, an autonomous race car that has raced at 150 miles an hour through the Bonneville Salt Flats, gone around Thunderhill Raceway Park in the sun, the wind and the rain, and navigated the 153 turns and 12.4 miles of the Pikes Peak Hill Climb route in Colorado with nobody at the wheel. 

I guess it goes without saying that we've had a lot of fun doing this.

But in fact, there's something else that we've developed in the process of developing these autonomous cars.

We have developed a tremendous appreciation for the capabilities of human race car drivers.

Not only that, they're able to do it lap after lap after lap.

It's extraordinary to watch.

It really makes you think, we'd love to know what's going on inside their brain.

So as researchers, that's what we decided to find out.

Now, this is Dr. Lene Harbott applying electrodes to the head of John Morton.

John Morton is a former Can-Am and IMSA driver, who's also a class champion at Le Mans.

Fantastic driver, and very willing to put up with graduate students and this sort of research.

She's putting electrodes on his head so that we can monitor the electrical activity in John's brain as he races around the track. 

Now, clearly we're not going to put a couple of electrodes on his head and understand exactly what all of his thoughts are on the track.

For instance, the resting brain tends to generate a lot of alpha waves.

Now, we can measure this, and we can look at the relative power between the theta waves and the alpha waves.

Laguna Seca is a legendary raceway about halfway between Salinas and Monterey.

Now, the strategy for driving this as explained to me was, you aim for the bush in the distance, and as the road falls away, you realize it was actually the top of a tree. 

Life is way too short for boring cars.

Not surprisingly, you can see this is a pretty challenging task.

But what's really interesting is to look at areas of the track where his mental workload doesn't increase.

He's going to have to correct for that with steering.

So watch as John does this here.

Watch the mental workload, and watch the steering.

Not a challenging task.

In fact, entirely reflexive. 

Now, our data processing on this is still preliminary, but it really seems that these phenomenal feats that the race car drivers are performing are instinctive.

They are things that they have simply learned to do.

It requires very little mental workload for them to perform these amazing feats.

And their actions are fantastic.

This is exactly what you want to do on the steering wheel to catch the car in this situation. 

Now, this has given us tremendous insight and inspiration for our own autonomous vehicles.

We've started to ask the question: Can we make them a little less algorithmic and a little more intuitive?

That would take us a long step along the road to autonomous vehicles that drive as well as the best humans. 

But it's made us think a little bit more deeply as well.

Do we want something more from our car than to simply be a chauffeur?

Do we want our car to perhaps be a partner, a coach, someone that can use their understanding of the situation to help us reach our potential?

Can, in fact, the technology not simply replace humans, but allow us to reach the level of reflex and intuition that we're all capable of? 

So, as we move forward into this technological future, I want you to just pause and think of that for a moment.

What is the ideal balance of human and machine?

And as we think about that, let's take inspiration from the absolutely amazing capabilities of the human body and the human mind. 

Thank you. 

