In the ocean, what is the common point between oil, plastic and radioactivity? 

On the top line, this is the BP oil spill: billions of barrels of oil gushing in the Gulf of Mexico.

Well, the three big problems have in common that they are man-made problems but they are controlled by natural forces.

But what about natural forces?

I was working at MIT, and I was in charge of developing an oil spill-cleaning technology.

And I had a chance to go in the Gulf of Mexico and meet some fishermen and see the terrible conditions in which they were working.

Currently, what they were doing is that they were using these small fishing boats, and they were cleaning clean lines in an ocean of dirt.

If you're using the exact same amount of surface of oil absorbent, but you're just paying attention to natural patterns, and if you're going up the winds, you can collect a lot more material.

If you're multiplying the rig, so you multiply how many layers of absorbent you're using, you can collect a lot more.

But it's extremely difficult to move oil absorbent against the winds, the surface currents and the waves.

These are enormous forces.

So the very simple idea was to use the ancient technique of sailing and tacking of the wind to capture or intercept the oil that is drifting down the wind.

So this didn't require any invention.

And so, I thought, what about if we just take the rudder from the back of the boat to the front, would we have better control?

Then I was so happy that I kept playing with the robot, and so you see the robot has a front rudder here.

Normally it's at the back.

When we're turning, we have the feeling of surfing, and the way it's going up-wind, it's very efficient.

This is low speed, low wind speed, and the maneuverability is very increased, and here I'm going to do a small jibe, and look at the position of the sail.

What's happening is that, because the boat changes shape, the position of the front sail and the main sail are different to the wind.

We're catching wind from both sides.

So, we used the same bladder-inflated system, and we took it for testing.

So this is happening in the Netherlands.

We tried in the water without any skin or ballast just to see how it works.

So what we are doing is an accelerated evolution of sailing technology.

We went from a back rudder to a front rudder to two rudders to multiple rudders to the whole boat changing shape, and the more we are moving forward, and the more the design looks simple and cute.

So I brought to you for the first time on the TED stage Protei Number Eight.

So we may have developed the technology which is very efficient for pulling something long and heavy, but the idea is, what is the purpose of technology if it doesn't reach the right hands? 

What you really want is not a sequential, not parallel development.

It's to replace competition by collaboration.

It's to transform any new product into a new market.

So what is open hardware?

Essentially, open hardware is a license.

It's just an intellectual property setup.

So it's a very simple condition. 

They also made it into an Instructable, and in less than one week, they had almost 10,000 views, and they got many new friends.

We're working on also simpler technology, not that complex, with younger people and also older people, like this dinosaur is from Mexico.

So Protei is now an international network of innovation for selling technology using this shape-shifting hull.

And what puts us together is that we have a common, at least, global understanding of what the word "business" is, or what it should be.

This is how most work today.

It will be just a way to, say, greenwash your audience and, say, increase your price tag. 

What we're trying to do, or what we believe, because this is how we believe the world really works, is that without the environment you have nothing.

What's next for us? 

So imagine yourself.

Our hope is that we can use open hardware technology to better understand and protect our oceans. 

