About 75 years ago, my grandfather, a young man, walked into a tent that was converted into a movie theater like that, and he fell hopelessly in love with the woman he saw on the silver screen: none other than Mae West, the heartthrob of the '30s, and he could never forget her.

In fact, when he had his daughter many years later, he wanted to name her after Mae West, but can you imagine an Indian child name Mae West?

The Indian family said, no way! 

So when my twin brother Kaesava was born, he decided to tinker with the spelling of Keshava's name.

He said, if Mae West can be M-A-E, why can't Keshava be K-A-E?

So he changed Kaesava's spelling.

Now Kaesava had a baby boy called Rehan a couple of weeks ago.

He decided to spell, or, rather, misspell Raehan with an A-E. 

You know, my grandfather died many years ago when I was little, but his love for Mae West lives on as a misspelling in the DNA of his progeny.

You know, as for me, my wife and I have our own crazy legacy project.

We actually sit every few years, argue, disagree, fight, and actually come up with our very own 200-year plan. 

Our friends think we're mad.

Our parents think we're cuckoo.

You know? 

So when Netra and I sat down to make our first plan 10 years ago, we said we want the focus of this plan to go way beyond ourselves.

What do we mean by beyond ourselves? 

Well 200 years, we calculated, is at the end of our direct contact with the world.

It caused so much trouble for me.

I was so upset.

You know, a cartoon that was meant to be a cartoon of the week ended up staying so much longer. 

Now I'm in the business of creating art that will definitely even outlive me, and I think about what I want to leave behind through those paintings. 

You know, the 9/11 cartoon upset me so much that I decided I'll never cartoon again.

I said, I'm never going to make any honest public commentary again. 

You know, sometimes forgetting is so important to remain idealistic.

Perhaps loss of memory is so crucial for our survival as human beings. 

One of the most important things in my 200-year plan that Netra and I write is what to forget about ourselves.

We actually put an expiry date on all our childhood problems.

Anyway, you know, I really make decisions all the time about how I want to remember myself, and that's the most important kind of decisions I make.

And this directly translates into my paintings.

It's so easy to think of technology as a metaphor for memory, but our brains are not perfect storage devices like technology.

Netra and I use our technology as a tool in our 200-year plan to really curate our digital legacy. 

That is a picture of my mother, and she recently got a Facebook account.

You know where this is going.

Maybe we are among the first generation that really understands this digital curating of ourselves.

Maybe we are the first to even actively record our lives. 

You know, whether you agree with, you know, legacy or not, we are actually leaving behind digital traces all the time.

How, you may ask? 

I can actually visualize my future approaching.

I can dodge what I don't want and pull in what I want.

Are they feeling it from their heart, or is it just a cerebral thing?

And it really informs my painting.

Even when I do an art show, I really think about, what should people walk away with? 

I remember when I was 19, I did, I wanted to do my first art exhibition, and I wanted the whole world to know about it.

She's the co-creator of my 200-year plan. 

She gave me an indulgent smile, and as punishment, she said, "Tomorrow I'm teaching a class on Indian history, and you are sitting in it, and I'm grading you."

I said, "Wow," again.

Then she said, "Choose your facts and biases and create an image of your own story of dignity."

History as an imaging tool?

I was so inspired. 

I went and created my own version of Indian history.

I actually included stories from my grandmother.

She used to work for the telephone exchange, and she used to actually overhear conversations between Nehru and Edwina Mountbatten.

This is my version of Indian history. 

You know, if this is so, it occurred to me that maybe, just maybe, the primary objective of our brains is to serve our dignity.

Go tell Facebook to figure that out! 

We actually write it only to set our attitudes right. 

You know, I used to believe that education is the most important tool to leave a meaningful legacy.

Education is great.

I'd like to make the argument that creativity is the most important tool we have.

It lets us create who we are, and curate what is to come. 

I like to think of myself as a storyteller, where my past and my future are only stories, my stories, waiting to be told and retold.

Thank you so much. 

