I'd like to talk about my dad.

My dad has Alzheimer's disease.

My dad was my hero and my mentor for most of my life, and I've spent the last decade watching him disappear. 

Prevention is good, and I'm doing the things that you can do to prevent Alzheimer's.

I'm eating right, I'm exercising every day, I'm keeping my mind active, that's what the research says you should do.

But the research also shows that there's nothing that will 100 percent protect you.

If the monster wants you, the monster's gonna get you.

So I'm preparing to get Alzheimer's disease. 

It's confusing to watch television, and often very frightening.

And reading is just about impossible.

When you care for someone with dementia, and you get training, they train you to engage them in activities that are familiar, hands-on, open-ended.

He'll sign his name on every line, he'll check all the boxes, he'll put numbers in where he thinks there should be numbers.

Would they give me academic journals so I could scribble in the margins?

Would they give me charts and graphs that I could color?

So I've been trying to learn to do things that are hands-on.

(Laughter) And I'm teaching myself to knit, which so far I can knit a blob. 

Because the more things that are familiar, the more things my hands know how to do, the more things that I can be happy and busy doing when my brain's not running the show anymore.

They say that people who are engaged in activities are happier, easier for their caregivers to look after, and it may even slow the progress of the disease.

That all seems like win to me.

I want to be as happy as I can for as long as I can.

I'm doing weight-bearing exercise, so that I have the muscle strength so that when I start to wither, I have more time that I can still move around. 

My dad was kind and loving before he had Alzheimer's, and he's kind and loving now.

And that love makes us want to be around him, even now.

even when it's so hard.

When you take away everything that he ever learned in this world, his naked heart still shines.

I was never as kind as my dad, and I was never as loving.

And what I need now is to learn to be like that.

I need a heart so pure that if it's stripped bare by dementia, it will survive. 

I don't want to get Alzheimer's disease.

What I want is a cure in the next 20 years, soon enough to protect me.

But if it comes for me, I'm going to be ready.

Thank you. 

