The phenomenon you saw here for a brief moment is called quantum levitation and quantum locking.

And the object that was levitating here is called a superconductor.

Superconductivity is a quantum state of matter, and it occurs only below a certain critical temperature. 

Now, it's quite an old phenomenon; it was discovered 100 years ago.

However, only recently, due to several technological advancements, we are now able to demonstrate to you quantum levitation and quantum locking. 

So, a superconductor is defined by two properties.

The first is zero electrical resistance, and the second is the expulsion of a magnetic field from the interior of the superconductor.

That sounds complicated, right?

But what is electrical resistance?

So, electricity is the flow of electrons inside a material.

In classical physics, there is always some friction, some energy loss.

So a superconductor will try to expel magnetic field from the inside, and it has the means to do that by circulating currents.

Now, the combination of both effects -- the expulsion of magnetic fields and zero electrical resistance -- is exactly a superconductor. 

Now, under proper conditions, which we have here, these strands of magnetic field can be trapped inside the superconductor.

And it turns out that they behave like quantum particles. 

So, this is why we call this effect quantum levitation and quantum locking. 

But what happens to the superconductor when we put it inside a magnetic field?

I have here a superconductor, which I wrapped up so it'd stay cold long enough.

And when I place it on top of a regular magnet, it just stays locked in midair. 

I can rearrange the fluxons, and it will be locked in this new configuration.

Of course, I can turn it upside down, and it will remain locked. 

You won't be surprised to hear that if I take this circular magnet, in which the magnetic field is the same all around, the superconductor will be able to freely rotate around the axis of the magnet.

So, we have quantum locking and we can levitate it on top of this magnet.

One hundred billion strands of magnetic field inside this three-inch disk. 

And this extremely thin layer is able to levitate more than 70,000 times its own weight.

For example, I can make a large circular rail here.

And when I place the superconducting disk on top of this rail, it moves freely. 

And I can even try a new thing; let's try it for the first time.

You see, it's quantum locking, not levitation.

Now, while I'll let it circulate for a little more, let me tell you a little bit about superconductors.

And we could also produce power cables, to transfer enormous amounts of current between power stations.

Imagine you could back up a single power station with a single superconducting cable.

But what is the future of quantum levitation and quantum locking?

Well, let me answer this simple question by giving you an example.

Imagine you would have a disk similar to the one I have here in my hand, three-inch diameter, with a single difference.

