What is it that French people do better than all the others?

If you would take polls, the top three answers might be: love, wine and whining. 

Maybe.

Did you know that Paris has more mathematicians than any other city in the world?

And more streets with mathematicians' names, too.

And if you look at the statistics of the Fields Medal, often called the Nobel Prize for mathematics, and always awarded to mathematicians below the age of 40, you will find that France has more Fields medalists per inhabitant than any other country. 

What is it that we find so sexy in math?

After all, it seems to be dull and abstract, just numbers and computations and rules to apply.

It is about finding the truth.

There's nothing like the feeling which invades you when after months of hard thinking, you finally understand the right reasoning to solve your problem.

The great mathematician André Weil likened this -- no kidding -- to sexual pleasure.

But noted that this feeling can last for hours, or even days. 

The reward may be big.

Hidden mathematical truths permeate our whole physical world.

Close your eyes for moment and think of what is occurring right now around you.

And still, their statistics can be accurately predicted by mathematical physics.

And open your eyes now to the statistics of the velocities of these particles. 

The famous bell-shaped Gauss Curve, or the Law of Errors -- of deviations with respect to the mean behavior.

It's one of the most important curves ever.

All in complete randomness and chaos.

Let's see what happens when we look at all these random trajectories together. 

There it is.

For you I have shown it, but to my students I explain why it could not be any other curve.

And this is touching the mystery of that goddess, replacing a beautiful coincidence by a beautiful explanation. 

All of science is like this.

And beautiful mathematical explanations are not only for our pleasure.

They also change our vision of the world.

For instance, Einstein, Perrin, Smoluchowski, they used the mathematical analysis of random trajectories and the Gauss Curve to explain and prove that our world is made of atoms. 

It was not the first time that mathematics was revolutionizing our view of the world.

More than 2,000 years ago, at the time of the ancient Greeks, it already occurred.

Here's another example.

In 1673, Jean Richer noticed that a pendulum swings slightly slower in Cayenne than in Paris.

Let's work out a baby problem.

Who do you want to interview first?

And maybe person number three, in turn, points at person number one as the primary source.

And from the graph we also see that person number four is a prime witness.

Which ones are the most authoritative?

Not so clear. 

So let's send into this graph a bunch of tiny, digital marbles and let them go randomly through the graph.

Each time they arrive at some site, they will go out through some link chosen at random to the next one.

And again, and again, and again.

And with small, growing piles, we'll keep the record of how many times each site has been visited by these digital marbles. 

Here we go.

The highest piles correspond to those sites which somehow are better connected than the others, more pointed at than the others.

And here we see clearly which are the web pages we want to first try.

Once again, the solution emerges from the randomness.

Of course, since that time, Google has come up with much more sophisticated algorithms, but already this was beautiful. 

And still, just one problem in a million.

Mathematician -- best job in the world.

And through them, there is big money in mathematics.

It is filled with perplexity, frustration, a desperate fight for understanding. 

Or should I say, one of the most striking nights.

It was all about understanding the paradoxical stability property of plasmas, which are a crowd of electrons.

And together with my former student and main collaborator Clément Mouhot, in Paris at the time, we had been working for months and months on such a proof.

In spite of more than 100 pages of complicated, mathematical arguments, and a bunch discoveries, and huge calculation, it was not working.

And that night in Princeton, a certain gap in the chain of arguments was driving me crazy.

I was putting in there all my energy and experience and tricks, and still nothing was working.

1 a.m., 2 a.m., 3 a.m., not working.

Around 4 a.m., I go to bed in low spirits.

Damn it, that was the start of the solution! 

That being said, it does not harm when you do get a promotion in reward for your hard work.

And gratitude to the many collaborators who made this possible.

And because it was a collective adventure, you need to share it, not just with your collaborators.

Thank you. 

