That's not to say that I've remained clear of all psychiatric struggles.

My best friend Steve, sensing that something was terribly wrong, flew out to New Haven to be with me.

For a week or more, I had barely eaten.

My face looked and felt like a mask.

As a young woman, I was in a psychiatric hospital on three different occasions for lengthy periods.

My doctors diagnosed me with chronic schizophrenia, and gave me a prognosis of "grave."

That is, at best, I was expected to live in a board and care, and work at menial jobs.

Fortunately, I did not actually enact that grave prognosis.

(Applause) Thank you.

He's definitely the star of my show. 

I'd like to share with you how that happened, and also describe my experience of being psychotic.

Let's start with the definition of schizophrenia.

Schizophrenia is a brain disease.

Its defining feature is psychosis, or being out of touch with reality.

Delusions are fixed and false beliefs that aren't responsive to evidence, and hallucinations are false sensory experiences.

I sometimes have the idea that nuclear explosions are about to be set off in my brain.

Imagine having a nightmare while you're awake. 

Often, speech and thinking become disorganized to the point of incoherence.

Contrary to what many people think, schizophrenia is not the same as multiple personality disorder or split personality.

The schizophrenic mind is not split, but shattered. 

This person is likely to have some form of schizophrenia.

I had two earlier in England. 

To support this view, they wrote in my chart that I was unable to do my Yale Law School homework.

During the next year, I would spend five months in a psychiatric hospital.

Every week in the United States, it's been estimated that one to three people die in restraints.

They strangle, they aspirate their vomit, they suffocate, they have a heart attack.

It's unclear whether using mechanical restraints is actually saving lives or costing lives.

I didn't have the courage to tell him in that moment that, no, we're not that different from him.

We don't like to be strapped down to a bed and left to suffer for hours any more than he would.

In fact, until very recently, and I'm sure some people still hold it as a view, that restraints help psychiatric patients feel safe.

I've never met a psychiatric patient who agreed with that view.

Today, I'd like to say I'm very pro-psychiatry but very anti-force.

I don't think force is effective as treatment, and I think using force is a terrible thing to do to another person with a terrible illness. 

My motto was the less medicine, the less defective.

The mission is not yet complete. 

He was under the impression that I had a mild psychotic illness.

Once in his office, I sat on his couch, folded over, and began muttering.

Eventually, I broke down in front of friends, and everybody convinced me to take more medication.

I could no longer deny the truth, and I could not change it.

The wall that kept me, Elyn, Professor Saks, separate from that insane woman hospitalized years past, lay smashed and in ruins."

Four- to five-day-a-week psychoanalytic psychotherapy for decades and continuing, and excellent psychopharmacology.

Second, I have many close family members and friends who know me and know my illness.

Third, I work at an enormously supportive workplace at USC Law School.

This is a place that not only accommodates my needs but actually embraces them.

If you hear nothing else today, please hear this: There are not "schizophrenics."

There are people with schizophrenia, and these people may be your spouse, they may be your child, they may be your neighbor, they may be your friend, they may be your coworker. 

So let me share some final thoughts.

We need to invest more resources into research and treatment of mental illness.

Also, we must stop criminalizing mental illness.

It's a national tragedy and scandal that the L.A. County Jail is the biggest psychiatric facility in the United States.

What I rather wish to say is that the humanity we all share is more important than the mental illness we may not.

What those of us who suffer with mental illness want is what everybody wants: in the words of Sigmund Freud, "to work and to love."

