And everywhere the world is opening up, and it's a good thing. 

Why is this happening?

The technology revolution is opening the world. 

Yesterday's Internet was a platform for the presentation of content.

The Internet of today is a platform for computation.

Collaboration can occur on an astronomical basis. 

Now a new generation is opening up the world as well.

I call them the Net Generation.

It's like the air.

And there's no more powerful force to change every institution than the first generation of digital natives.

I'm a digital immigrant.

I had to learn the language. 

The global economic crisis is opening up the world as well.

I mean, think about Wall Street.

The core modus operandi of Wall Street almost brought down global capitalism. 

Now, you know the idea of a burning platform, that you're somewhere where the costs of staying where you are become greater than the costs of moving to something different, perhaps something radically different.

And we need to change and open up all of our institutions. 

So this technology push, a demographic kick from a new generation and a demand pull from a new economic global environment is causing the world to open up. 

The first is collaboration.

Now, this is openness in the sense of the boundaries of organizations becoming more porous and fluid and open. 

He takes over this gold mine, and his geologists can't tell him where the gold is.

He wonders, "If my geologists don't know where the gold is, maybe somebody else does."

So he does a "radical" thing.

He takes his geological data, he publishes it and he holds a contest on the Internet called the Goldcorp Challenge.

It's basically half a million dollars in prize money for anybody who can tell me, do I have any gold, and if so, where is it?

He gets submissions from all around the world.

They use techniques that he's never heard of, and for his half a million dollars in prize money, Rob McEwen finds 3.4 billion dollars worth of gold.

The market value of his company goes from 90 million to 10 billion dollars, and I can tell you, because he's my neighbor, he's a happy camper.

Your most precious asset goes out the elevator every night.

He viewed talent differently.

He wondered, who are their peers?

He should have fired his geology department, but he didn't.

You know, some of the best submissions didn't come from geologists.

They came from computer scientists, engineers.

The winner was a computer graphics company that built a three dimensional model of the mine where you can helicopter underground and see where the gold is. 

He helped us understand that social media's becoming social production.

It's not about hooking up online.

This is a new means of production in the making.

Openness is about collaboration. 

Now secondly, openness is about transparency.

And everywhere, our institutions are becoming naked.

People are all bent out of shape about WikiLeaks, but that's just the tip of the iceberg.

You see, people at their fingertips now, everybody, not just Julian Assange, have these powerful tools for finding out what's going on, scrutinizing, informing others, and even organizing collective responses.

Institutions are becoming naked, 

and if you're going to be naked, well, there's some corollaries that flow from that.

I mean, one is, fitness is no longer optional.

But you also need to have values.

Sunlight is the best disinfectant.

And we need a lot of sunlight in this troubled world. 

Now, the third meaning and corresponding principle of openness is about sharing.

Now this is different than transparency.

Transparency is about the communication of information.

Sharing is about giving up assets, intellectual property. 

And there are all kinds of famous stories about this.

IBM gave away 400 million dollars of software to the Linux movement, and that gave them a multi-billion dollar payoff. 

I mean, they took — They had a technology disruption, and rather than taking a business model innovation to correspond to that, they took and sought a legal solution and the industry that brought you Elvis and the Beatles is now suing children and is in danger of collapse. 

So we need to think differently about intellectual property. 

I'll give you an example.

The pharmaceutical industry is in deep trouble.

Do you know about this?

They're going to lose 20 to 35 percent of their revenue in the next 12 months.

And what are you going to do, like, cut back on paper clips or something?

We need to reinvent the whole model of scientific research.

Now, the fourth meaning of openness, and corresponding principle, is about empowerment.

The open world is bringing freedom. 

Now, take the Arab Spring.

The debate about the role of social media and social change has been settled.

You know, one word: Tunisia.

And then it ended up having a whole bunch of other words too.

Social media didn't create the revolution; it was created by a new generation of young people who wanted jobs and hope and who didn't want to be treated as subjects anymore. 

But just as the Internet drops transaction and collaboration costs in business and government, it also drops the cost of dissent, of rebellion, and even insurrection in ways that people didn't understand. 

You know, during the Tunisian revolution, snipers associated with the regime were killing unarmed students in the street.

You think that social media is about hooking up online?

For these kids, it was a military tool to defend unarmed people from murderers.

It was a tool of self-defense. 

You know, as we speak today, young people are being killed in Syria, and up until three months ago, if you were injured on the street, an ambulance would pick you up, take you to the hospital, you'd go in, say, with a broken leg, and you'd come out with a bullet in your head. 

So this is a time of great change. 

Now, it's not without its problems.

Up until two years ago, all revolutions in human history had a leadership, and when the old regime fell, the leadership and the organization would take power.

You can see this playing out today in Egypt. 

I mean, we're not putting this one back.

The open world is bringing empowerment and freedom. 

I think, at the end of these four days, that you'll come to conclude that the arc of history is a positive one, and it's towards openness. 

If you go back a few hundred years, all around the world it was a very closed society.

It was agrarian, and the means of production and political system was called feudalism, and knowledge was concentrated in the church and the nobility.

People didn't know about things.

There was no concept of progress.

You were born, you lived your life and you died. 

People started to learn about things, and when they did, the institutions of feudal society appeared to be stalled, or frozen, or failing.

It didn't make sense for the church to be responsible for medicine when people had knowledge. 

So we saw the Protestant Reformation.

Martin Luther called the printing press "God's highest act of grace."

The creation of a corporation, science, the university, eventually the Industrial Revolution, and it was all good. 

But it came with a cost. 

And now, once again, the technology genie is out of the bottle, but this time it's different.

The printing press gave us access to the written word.

The Internet enables each of us to be a producer.

To me, this is not an information age, it's an age of networked intelligence.

You know, bees come in swarms and fish come in schools.

And scientists that have studied this have said they've never seen an accident.

Now, this thing has a function.

It protects the birds.

Now, is this some kind of fanciful analogy, or could we actually learn something from this?

This is a huge collaboration.

It's an openness, it's a sharing of all kinds of information, not just about location and trajectory and danger and so on, but about food sources.

Perhaps like we should understand that business can't succeed in a world that's failing. 

Well, I look at this thing, and I get a lot of hope.

Could we start to share our intelligence?

Could we create some kind of collective intelligence that goes beyond an individual or a group or a team to create, perhaps, some kind of consciousness on a global basis?

Well, if we could do this, we could attack some big problems in the world. 

