So a few weeks ago, a friend of mine gave this toy car to his 8-year-old son.

But instead of going into a store and buying one, like we do normally, he went to this website and he downloaded a file, and then he printed it on this printer.

So this idea that you can manufacture objects digitally using these machines is something that The Economist magazine defined as the Third Industrial Revolution. 

So you go to the same website, you can download all the files that you need in order to make that printer: the construction files, the hardware, the software, all the instruction is there.

You don't need anybody's permission to create something great.

Well, when you design an object that's supposed to interact with a human being, if you make a foam model of a mobile phone, it doesn't make any sense.

You have to have something that actually interacts with people.

So how do I make something that even a kid can use?

The gentleman who made this project had two cats.

So he made this thing that recognizes the cat from a chip mounted inside on the collar of the cat, and opens the door and the cat can eat the food.

And I like this phrase: "Scratch your own itch."

If you have an idea, you just go and you make it.

You know, when I was learning about programming, I learned by looking at other people's code, or looking at other people's circuits in magazines.

And this is a good way to learn, by looking at other people's work.

So the different elements of the project are all open, so the hardware is released with a Creative Commons license.

Or, the software is GPL, so it's open-source as well.

The documentation and the hands-on teaching methodology is also open-source and released as the Creative Commons.

Just the name is protected so that we can make sure that we can tell people what is Arduino and what isn't. 

Now, Arduino itself is made of a lot of different open-source components that maybe individually are hard to use for a 12-year-old kid, so Arduino wraps everything together into a mashup of open-source technologies where we try to give them the best user experience to get something done quickly. 

So, this idea that you have a new, sort of turbo-charged DIY community that believes in open-source, in collaboration, collaborates online, collaborates in different spaces.

Or you have websites, like this one, like Instructables, where people actually teach each other about anything.

So this one is about Arduino projects, the page you see on the screen, but effectively here you can learn how to make a cake and everything else.

So let's look at some projects. 

So this one is a quadcopter.

It's a small model helicopter.

In a way, it's a toy, no?

DIY Drones is the community; they do this thing called ArduCopter.

(Applause) MB: Check this out.

MR: Our producers caught up with Kim Kardashian earlier today to find out what she was planning on wearing to her — MB: Eh?

It's also used, Arduino's used, in serious places like, you know, the Large Hadron Collider.

There's some Arduino balls collecting data and sort of measuring some parameters.

Or it can be used to make an assistive device.

Or this is a project from the ITP part of NYU, where they met with this boy who has a severe disability, cannot play with the PS3, so they built this device that allows the kid to play baseball although he has limited movement capability. 

Or you can find it in arts projects.

So this is the txtBomber.

(Applause) Then we have this plant here.

He has 280,000 followers.

He's 14 and he anticipated a governmental project by one year.

So you can find out everything about this project on the website.

So very serious project.

Or you have students in developing countries making replicas of scientific instruments that cost a lot of money to make.

Actually they just build them themselves for a lot less using Arduino and a few parts.

This is a pH probe.

Or you get kids, like these kids, they're from Spain.

Also, I come from Italy, and the design is important in Italy, and yet very conservative.

So we worked with a design studio called Habits, in Milan, to make this mirror, which is completely open-source.

This doubles also as an iPod speaker.

So the idea is that the hardware, the software, the design of the object, the fabrication, everything about this project is open-source and you can make it yourself.

So we want other designers to pick this up and learn how to make great devices, to learn how to make interactive products by starting from something real. 

But when you have this idea, you know, what happens to all these ideas?

So imagine, if you as a high school can have the satellite for a week and do satellite space experiments like that. 

And thanks to the community. 

Chris Anderson: Massimo, you told me earlier today that you had no idea, of course, that it would take off like this. 

MB: No. 

CA: I mean, how must you feel when you read this stuff and you see what you've unlocked? 

It's just, it's difficult to describe this.

