And I wondered if I could update that game, not just for modern methods, but for the modern me. 

So I tried.

And the first rule of the game is pretty simple.

The Earth spins, of course, as it travels around the sun, so the Earth bulges a little bit around the middle, like some Earthlings.

And even though Mount Chimborazo isn't the tallest mountain in the Andes, it's one degree away from the equator, it's riding that bulge, and so the summit of Chimborazo is the farthest point on Earth from the center of the Earth. 

And it is really fun to say.

You can use it at TED.

Chimborazo, right?

It's like "eureka" and "bingo" had a baby.

So the next rule of the game is also pretty simple.

You just have to find another term and look that up.

Now in the old days, that meant getting out a volume and browsing through it alphabetically, maybe getting sidetracked, that was fun. 

Nowadays there are hundreds of links to choose from.

I can go literally anywhere in the world, I think since I was already in Ecuador, I just decided to click on the word "tropical."

That took me to this wet and warm band of the tropics that encircles the Earth. 

In fact, for years, the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn have been steadily drifting towards the equator at the rate of about 15 meters per year, and nobody told me that.

So to keep the game going, I just have to find another term and look that one up.

Since I'm already in the tropics, I chose "Tropical rainforest."

Famous for its diversity, human diversity.

There are still dozens and dozens of uncontacted tribes living on this planet.

They're all over the globe, but virtually all of them live in tropical rainforests.

This is the only place you can go nowadays and not get "friended."

The link that I clicked on here was exotic in the beginning and then absolutely mysterious at the very end.

It mentioned leopards and ring-tailed coatis and poison dart frogs and boa constrictors and then coleoptera, which turn out to be beetles. 

And if it is you, you are astonishingly well adapted.

There are scavenger beetles that pick the skin and flesh off of bones in museums.

There are predator beetles, that attack other insects and still look pretty cute to us.

There are beetles that roll little balls of dung great distances across the desert floor to feed to their hatchlings.

This reminded the ancient Egyptians of their god Khepri, who renews the ball of the sun every morning, which is how that dung-rolling scarab became that sacred scarab on the breastplate of the Pharaoh Tutankhamun. 

Fireflies are coleoptera, and coleoptera communicate in other ways as well. 

Like my next link: The chemical language of pheromones.

And the link to aphrodisiac.

Now that's something that increases sexual desire, possibly chocolate.

There is a compound in chocolate called phenethylamine that might be an aphrodisiac.

But as the article mentions, because of enzyme breakdown, it's unlikely that phenethylamine will reach your brain if taken orally.

So those of you who only eat your chocolate, you might have to experiment. 

The link I clicked on here, "sympathetic magic," mostly because I understand what both of those words mean.

So when I click on "sympathetic magic," I get sympathetic magic and voodoo dolls. 

This is the boy in me getting lucky again.

Sympathetic magic is imitation.

If you imitate something, maybe you can have an effect on it.

That's the idea behind voodoo dolls, and possibly also cave paintings. 

The link to cave paintings takes me to some of the oldest art known to humankind.

I would love to see Google maps inside some of these caves.

We've got tens-of-thousands-years-old artwork.

Common themes around the globe include large wild animals and tracings of human hands, usually the left hand. 

Now that's embarrassing, because up until now, every time I've said, "I know it like the back of my hand," I've really been saying, "I'm totally familiar with that, I just don't know it's freaking name, right?"

And the link I clicked on here, well, lemurs, monkeys and chimpanzees have the little opisthenar. 

I click on chimpanzee, and I get our closest genetic relative.

Pan troglodytes, the name we give him, means "cave dweller."

He doesn't.

He lives in rainforests and savannas.

It's just that we're always thinking of this guy as lagging behind us, evolutionarily or somehow uncannily creeping up on us, and in some cases, he gets places before us. 

Like my next link, the almost irresistible link, Ham the Astrochimp.

I click on him, and I really thought he was going to bring me full circle twice, in fact.

In between those two landmarks in Ham's life, he flew into space.

When I click on Yuri Gagarin's page, I get this guy who was surprisingly short in stature, huge in heroism.

Germans occupied Russia.

A Nazi officer took over the Gagarin household, and he and his family built and lived in a mud hut.

And he didn't just leave it, he circled it once. 

And then when you've had your fill of that, you can click on one more link.

You can come back to Earth.

You return to where you started.

You can finish your game.

You just need to find one more fact that you didn't know. 

It's got some math that I can do.

I'm pretty sure my dad doesn't know it.

That's pretty cool.

Thank you. 

