And you might like to hear some of the principles that I've developed in doing that teaching and counseling. 

Humanity is now fully into the techno-scientific age.

There is going to be no turning back. 

Although varying among disciplines -- say, astrophysics, molecular genetics, the immunology, the microbiology, the public health, to the new area of the human body as a symbiont, to public health, environmental science.

Knowledge in medical science and science overall is doubling every 15 to 20 years.

Technology is increasing at a comparable rate.

Between them, the two already pervade, as most of you here seated realize, every dimension of human life. 

So swift is the velocity of the techno-scientific revolution, so startling in its countless twists and turns, that no one can predict its outcome even a decade from the present moment. 

The revolution is going to continue for at least several more decades.

It'll render the human condition radically different from what it is today.

In time, all of science will come to be a continuum of description, an explanation of networks, of principles and laws.

That's why you need not just be training in one specialty, but also acquire breadth in other fields, related to and even distant from your own initial choice. 

Keep your eyes lifted and your head turning.

The search for knowledge is in our genes.

It was put there by our distant ancestors who spread across the world, and it's never going to be quenched.

To understand and use it sanely, as a part of the civilization yet to evolve requires a vastly larger population of scientifically trained people like you.

In education, medicine, law, diplomacy, government, business and the media that exist today. 

Our political leaders need at least a modest degree of scientific literacy, which most badly lack today -- no applause, please.

It will be better for all if they prepare before entering office rather than learning on the job.

Therefore you will do well to act on the side, no matter how far into the laboratory you may go, to serve as teachers during the span of your career. 

If you are a bit short in mathematical skills, don't worry.

Many of the most successful scientists at work today are mathematically semi-literate. 

Some may have considered me foolhardy, but it's been my habit to brush aside the fear of mathematics when talking to candidate scientists.

During 41 years of teaching biology at Harvard, I watched sadly as bright students turned away from the possibility of a scientific career or even from taking non-required courses in science because they were afraid of failure.

These math-phobes deprive science and medicine of immeasurable amounts of badly needed talent. 

I didn't take algebra until my freshman year at the University of Alabama.

They didn't teach it before then. 

A couple of them were students in a course I was giving on evolutionary biology.

I swallowed my pride, and I learned calculus. 

I found out that in science and all its applications, what is crucial is not that technical ability, but it is imagination in all of its applications.

The ability to form concepts with images of entities and processes pictured by intuition.

I found out that advances in science rarely come upstream from an ability to stand at a blackboard and conjure images from unfolding mathematical propositions and equations.

They are instead the products of downstream imagination leading to hard work, during which mathematical reasoning may or may not prove to be relevant.

Ideas emerge when a part of the real or imagined world is studied for its own sake. 

Of foremost importance is a thorough, well-organized knowledge of all that is known of the relevant entities and processes that might be involved in that domain you propose to enter.

When something new is discovered, it's logical then that one of the follow-up steps is to find the mathematical and statistical methods to move its analysis forward.

If that step proves too difficult for the person or team that made the discovery, a mathematician can then be added by them as a collaborator. 

Consider the following principle, which I will modestly call Wilson's Principle Number One: It is far easier for scientists including medical researchers, to require needed collaboration in mathematics and statistics than it is for mathematicians and statisticians to find scientists able to make use of their equations.

It is important in choosing the direction to take in science to find the subject at your level of competence that interests you deeply, and focus on that. 

In selecting a subject in which to conduct original research, or to develop world-class expertise, take a part of the chosen discipline that is sparsely inhabited.

Judge opportunity by how few other students and researchers are on hand. 

This is not to de-emphasize the essential requirement of broad training, or the value of apprenticing yourself in ongoing research to programs of high quality.

We have seen this demonstrated already in the talks preceding mine.

Make a fray of your own.

There are thousands of professionally delimited subjects sprinkled through physics and chemistry to biology and medicine.

When the subject is still very thinly populated, you can with diligence and hard work become the world authority. 

The existing information and what you self-discover may at first seem skimpy and difficult to connect to other bodies of knowledge.

Well, if that's the case, good.

Now this brings me to a basic categorization in the way scientific discoveries are made.

As the answer is sought, other phenomena are typically discovered and other questions are asked. 

Find out what they are.

You'll find your own way to discover, to learn, to teach. 

The decades ahead will see dramatic advances in disease prevention, general health, the quality of life.

All of humanity depends on the knowledge and practice of the medicine and the science behind it you will master.

You have chosen a calling that will come in steps to give you satisfaction, at its conclusion, of a life well lived.

And I thank you for having me here tonight. 

Oh, thank you.

Thank you very much.

I salute you. 

