When this is combined with the loss of manufacturing jobs to China, it has, you know, led to considerable angst amongst the Western populations. 

In fact, if you look at polls, they show a declining trend for support for free trade in the West.

Now, the Western elites, however, have said this fear is misplaced.

Now, what we were trying to understand was, is this true?

Could India become a source, or a global hub, of innovation, just like it's become a global hub for back office services and software development?

And for the last four years, my coauthor Phanish Puranam and I spent investigating this topic. 

Initially, or, you know, as people would say, you know, in fact the more aggressive people who are supporting the Western innovative model, say, "Where are the Indian Googles, iPods and Viagras, if the Indians are so bloody smart?"

So we started examining the R&amp;amp;D and innovation labs of Silicon Valley.

And what we found was, as we progressed in our research, was, that we were asking really the wrong question.

Instead, innovation, if you remember, some of you may have read the famous economist Schumpeter, he said, "Innovation is novelty in how value is created and distributed."

It could be new products and services, but it could also be new ways of producing products.

It could also be novel ways of organizing firms and industries. 

And specifically, there are four types of invisible innovation that are coming out of India. 

Now, when you consider the fact that, historically, the R&amp;amp;D center of a multinational company was always in the headquarters, or in the country of origin of that multinational company, to have 750 R&amp;amp;D centers of multinational corporations in India is truly a remarkable figure. 

When we went and talked to the people in those innovation centers and asked them what are they working on, they said, "We are working on global products."

The other thing we were told then was, "Yes, but, you know, the kind of work that is coming out of the Indian R&amp;amp;D center cannot be compared to the kind of work that is coming out of the U.S. R&amp;amp;D centers."

So my coauthor Phanish Puranam, who happens to be one of the smartest people I know, said he's going to do a study.

What we find is that the data says that the number of forward citations of a patent filed out of a U.S. R&amp;amp;D subsidiary is identical to the number of forward citations of a patent filed by an Indian subsidiary of the same company within that company.

So within the company, there's no difference in the forward citation rates of their Indian subsidiaries versus their U.S. subsidiaries.

So that's the first kind of invisible innovation coming out of India. 

For example, in the pharma industry, a lot of the molecules are being developed, but you see a major part of that work is being sent to India.

But of course, when you climb onto the Boeing 787, you are not going to know that this is invisible innovation out of India. 

The third kind of invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call process innovations, because of an injection of intelligence by Indian firms.

Process innovation is different from product innovation.

It's about how do you create a new product or develop a new product or manufacture a new product, but not a new product itself? 

Only in India do millions of young people dream of working in a call center.

What happens — You know, it's a dead end job in the West, what high school dropouts do.

What happens when you put hundreds of thousands of smart, young, ambitious kids on a call center job?

It's because of an injection of intelligence into a process which was considered dead for a long time in the West. 

And the last kind of innovation, invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call management innovation.

What the global delivery model allows is, it allows you to take previously geographically core-located tasks, break them up into parts, send them around the world where the expertise and the cost structure exists, and then specify the means for reintegrating them.

Without that, you could not have any of the other invisible innovations today. 

So, what I'm trying to say is, what we are finding in our research is, that if products for end users is the visible tip of the innovation iceberg, India is well represented in the invisible, large, submerged portion of the innovation iceberg. 

Now, of course, when we first, as a multinational company, decide to outsource jobs to India in the R&amp;amp;D, what we are going to do is we are going to outsource the bottom rung of the ladder to India, the least sophisticated jobs, just like Tom Friedman would predict. 

You can't be a professor without having been a student.

You can't be a consultant without having been a research associate.

So, if you outsource the least sophisticated jobs, at some stage, the next step of the ladder has to follow. 

The second thing we bring up is what we call the browning of the TMT, the top management teams.

So finally, I want to conclude by showing you the profile of one company, IBM.

As many of you know, IBM has always been considered for the last hundred years to be one of the most innovative companies.

In fact, if you look at the number of patents filed over history, I think they are in the top or the top two or three companies in the world of all patents filed in the USA as a private company. 

Here is the profile of employees of IBM over the last decade.

In 2009, they had 400,000 employees, by which time the U.S. employees had moved to 105,000, whereas the Indian employees had gone to 100,000. 

It gives you a sense of the trend.

