Now, the kicker is, everything I'm about to do here you can do at home, because we built this for the public for you guys to use. 

So what you're looking at right now is the Earth.

You can see the United States and California and San Diego, and you can use the mouse or the keyboard to spin things around. 

Google Earth goes from this view down to your backyard.

We go from this view out to the stars.

These are a number of our science space Earth orbiters.

We haven't included military satellites and weather satellites and communication satellites and reconnaissance satellites.

If we did, it would be a complete mess, because there's a lot of stuff out there.

So I'm going to find the International Space Station, double-click, and it will take us all the way down to the ISS.

And now you're riding along with the ISS where it is right now. 

All right, so what about the rest of it?

Well, I can click on this home button over here, and that will take us up to the inner solar system, and now we're looking at the rest of the solar system.

It's actually pretty busy. 

Here we have the Mars Science Laboratory on its way to Mars, just launched last weekend. 

Here we have Juno on its cruise to Jupiter, there.

We have Dawn orbiting Vesta, and we have over here New Horizons on a straight shot to Pluto. 

And I mention this because there's this strange public perception that NASA's dead, that the space shuttles stopped flying and all of the sudden there's no more spacecraft out there. 

Well, a lot of what NASA does is robotic exploration, and we have a lot of spacecraft out there.

Anyway, while we're here, again, if you want to visit anything, all you need to do is double-click.

I'm going to double-click on Uranus, and we can see Uranus rotating on its side along with its moons.

You can see how it's tilted at about 89 degrees. 

And just being able to visit different places and go through different times, we have data from 1950 to 2050.

Granted, we don't have everything in between, because some of the data is hard to get.

So now we've gone back in time.

Now, there's a funny thing going on here.

It doesn't look like anything's going on.

It looks like I've paused the program.

It only looks like nothing's moving because, well, Saturn here is 700,000 miles away, and Titan here is 4,000 to 5,000 miles away.

It's just the vastness of space makes it look like nothing's happening. 

But to make it more interesting, I'm going to speed up time, and we can watch as Voyager 1 flies by Titan, which is a hazy moon of Saturn.

It actually has a very thick atmosphere.

And I'm going to recenter the camera on Saturn, here.

I'm going to pull out, and I want to show you Voyager 1 as it flies by Saturn. 

There's a point to be made here.

And even better, because it's an interactive application, you can tell the story for yourself.

If you want to pause it, you can pause it.

It actually flies underneath Saturn.

Right there, above, way above the solar system, way beyond our solar system. 

You can manipulate it yourself.

You can fly around yourself and you can learn for yourself. 

You know, the theme today is "The World In Your Grasp."

And my personal dream is for kids to take this and explore and see the wonders out there and be inspired, as I was as a kid, to pursue STEM education and to pursue a dream in space exploration. 

