Good evening. 

And when Qatar has been assigned to the World Cup all, many people around the world have been wondering, how would it be possible that football players show spectacular football, run around in this desert climate?

Together with the architects of Albert Speer &amp; Partner, our engineers from Transsolar have been supporting, have been developing open-air stadia based on 100 percent solar power, on 100 percent solar cooling. 

But air temperature is not the full set of climatic parameters which define comfort. 

Mexico temperature has been, air temperature has been something between 15, up to 30 degrees C, and people enjoyed themselves.

And we know that from Spain, we know that "sol y sombra."

If you have a ticket, and you get a ticket for the shade, you pay more, because you're in a more comfortable environment. 

What about Beijing?

It's again, sun in the day and high humidity, and it was not comfortable. 

So why is that?

This is because there are more parameters influencing our thermal comfort, which is the sun, the direct sun, the diffuse sun, which is wind, strong wind, mild wind, which is air humidity, which is the radiant temperature of the surroundings where we are in.

And this is air temperature. 

All these parameters go into the comfort feeling of our human body, and scientists have developed a parameter, which is the perceived temperature, where all these parameters go in and help designers to understand which is the driving parameter that I feel comfort or that I don't feel comfort.

Because of our metabolism, we as human beings, we produce heat.

If we overlay what happens during the football World Cup, what will happen in June, July, we will see, yes, air temperature will be much higher, but because the games and the plays will be in the afternoon, it's probably the same comfort rating we've found in other places which has perceived as non-comfortable. 

People would feel really fine in an open outdoor environment. 

But what does it mean?

If we just look on what happens, we see, temperature's too high.

If we apply the best architectural design, climate engineering design, we won't get much better. 

So we need to do something active.

We need, for instance, to bring in radiant cooling technology, and we need to combine this with so-called soft conditioning. 

And how does it look like in a stadium?

Instead of blowing a hurricane of chilled air through the stadium, we can use radiant cooling technologies, like a floor heating system where water pipes are embedded in the floor.

They can adjust and find their comfort they need to find. 

There are 12 stadia probably to come, but there are 32 training pitches where all the individual countries are going to train.

We applied the same concept: shading of the training pitch, using a shelter against wind, then using the grass.

Natural-watered lawn is a very good cooling source stabilizing temperature, and using dehumidified air to create comfort. 

But even the best passive design wouldn't help.

We need active system.

And how do we do that? 

We don't borrow any energy from history.

We are not using fossil energies.

We are not borrowing energy from our neighbors.

And I can do that in the first year and I can balance that in the next 10, and the next 20 years, this energy, which is necessary to condition a World Cup in Qatar, the next 20 years, this energy goes into the grid of Qatar. 

So this -- (Applause) 

And I had the pleasure to work on the central plaza.

And the same concept: shade against the sun, shade against the wind, and use, use and take advantage of the sun you can harvest on your footprint.

And these beautiful umbrellas. 

So I'd like to encourage you to pay attention to your thermal comfort, to your thermal environment, tonight and tomorrow, and if you'd like to learn more about that, I invite you to go to our website.

We uploaded a very simple perceived temperature calculator where you can check out about your outdoor comfort.

