I'm driven by pure passion to create photographs that tell stories.

Photography can be described as the recording of a single moment frozen within a fraction of time.

Each moment or photograph represents a tangible piece of our memories as time passes.

But what if you could capture more than one moment in a photograph?

What if a photograph could actually collapse time, compressing the best moments of the day and the night seamlessly into one single image? 

I know it has for me. 

I photograph from a fixed vantage point, and I never move.

I capture the fleeting moments of humanity and light as time passes.

Using time as a guide, I seamlessly blend those best moments into one single photograph, visualizing our conscious journey with time.

I can take you to Paris for a view from the Tournelle Bridge.

And I can show you the early morning rowers along the River Seine.

And simultaneously, I can show you Notre Dame aglow at night.

And in between, I can show you the romance of the City of Light. 

Day to Night is a global project, and my work has always been about history.

I'm fascinated by the concept of going to a place like Venice and actually seeing it during a specific event.

And I decided I wanted to see the historical Regata, an event that's actually been taking place since 1498.

The boats and the costumes look exactly as they did then.

I am a relentless collector of magical moments.

And the thing that drives me is the fear of just missing one of them. 

The entire concept came about in 1996.

So the only way I could actually create a panoramic was to shoot a collage of 250 single images.

So I had DiCaprio and Claire Danes embracing.

This is an image I created of the Santa Monica Pier, Day to Night.

One of the things that's great is I love to people-watch.

But this is really how I go about creating these photographs.

So once I decide on my view and the location, I have to decide where day begins and night ends.

And that's what I call the time vector.

Einstein described time as a fabric.

I am exploring the space-time continuum within a two-dimensional still photograph. 

Now when I do these pictures, it's literally like a real-time puzzle going on in my mind.

I build a photograph based on time, and this is what I call the master plate.

This can take us several months to complete.

The fun thing about this work is I have absolutely zero control when I get up there on any given day and capture photographs.

I'll take those best moments that I pick over a month of editing and they get seamlessly blended into the master plate.

He inspired a recent series that I did on the National Parks.

This is Bierstadt's Yosemite Valley.

So this is the photograph I created of Yosemite.

This is actually the cover story of the 2016 January issue of National Geographic.

I photographed for over 30 hours in this picture.

I was literally on the side of a cliff, capturing the stars and the moonlight as it transitions, the moonlight lighting El Capitan.

And I also captured this transition of time throughout the landscape.

The best part is obviously seeing the magical moments of humanity as time changed -- from day into night. 

And on a personal note, I actually had a photocopy of Bierstadt's painting in my pocket.

It's about landscape, it's about street photography, it's about color, it's about architecture, perspective, scale -- and, especially, history. 

This is one of the most historical moments I've been able to photograph, the 2013 Presidential Inauguration of Barack Obama.

And if you look closely in this picture, you can actually see time changing in those large television sets.

You can see Michelle waiting with the children, the president now greets the crowd, he takes his oath, and now he's speaking to the people.

There's so many challenging aspects when I create photographs like this.

So every time my assistant and I shifted our weight, our horizon line shifted.

I've learned so many extraordinary things doing this work.

I think the two most important are patience and the power of observation.

They feel like a giant school of fish, it was a form of emergent behavior.

And when people describe the energy of New York, I think this photograph begins to really capture that.

When you look closer in my work, you can see there's stories going on.

You realize that Times Square is a canyon, it's shadow and it's sunlight.

Time is this extraordinary thing that we never can really wrap our heads around.

But in a very unique and special way, I believe these photographs begin to put a face on time.

They embody a new metaphysical visual reality.

This was a perfect example.

I call it "Sacré-Coeur Selfie."

I watched over 15 hours all these people not even look at Sacré-Coeur.

They were more interested in using it as a backdrop.

They would walk up, take a picture, and then walk away.

And this is photographed in the middle of the Seronera, this is not a reserve.

So all the animals were drawn to the water.

We spent three days studying it, and nothing could have prepared me for what I witnessed during our shoot day.

I photographed for 26 hours in a sealed crocodile blind, 18 feet in the air.

What I witnessed was unimaginable.

Frankly, it was Biblical.

We saw, for 26 hours, all these competitive species share a single resource called water.

The same resource that humanity is supposed to have wars over during the next 50 years.

The animals never even grunted at each other.

They seem to understand something that we humans don't.

That this precious resource called water is something we all have to share. 

When I created this picture, I realized that Day to Night is really a new way of seeing, compressing time, exploring the space-time continuum within a photograph. 

As technology evolves along with photography, photographs will not only communicate a deeper meaning of time and memory, but they will compose a new narrative of untold stories, creating a timeless window into our world. 

Thank you. 

