Those of you who have seen the film "Moneyball," or have read the book by Michael Lewis, will be familiar with the story of Billy Beane.

Now for many of you in this room, ending up in management, which is also what I've done, is seen as a success.

I can assure you that for a kid trying to make it in the Bigs, going into management ain't no success story.

And yet, every day thousands of people in this country are diagnosed with preconditions. 

We hear about pre-hypertension, we hear about pre-dementia, we hear about pre-anxiety, and I'm pretty sure that I diagnosed myself with that in the green room. 

We also refer to subclinical conditions.

There's subclinical atherosclerosis, subclinical hardening of the arteries, obviously linked to heart attacks, potentially.

You don't have the pustules or the redness and inflammation.

Maybe that's because you don't actually have acne. 

In baseball, the game follows the pre-game.

We have pre-cancerous lesions, which often don't turn into cancer.

And yet, if you take, for example, subclinical osteoporosis, a bone thinning disease, the precondition, otherwise known as osteopenia, you would have to treat 270 women for three years in order to prevent one broken bone.

That's an awful lot of women when you multiply by the number of women who were diagnosed with this osteopenia. 

We've medicalized everything in this country.

Women in the audience, I have some pretty bad news that you already know, and that's that every aspect of your life 

has been medicalized.

Strike one is when you hit puberty.

You now have something that happens to you once a month that has been medicalized.

That's been medicalized as well.

You have to have a high-tech experience of pregnancy, otherwise something might go wrong. 

Strike three is menopause.

It said, actually, a lot of that hormone replacement therapy may be doing more harm than good for many of those women. 

So, just take a moment.

I made up pre-death.

If I used someone else's pre-death, I apologize, I think I made it up.

I didn't make up pre-vivor.

Pre-vivor is what a particular cancer advocacy group would like everyone who just has a risk factor, but hasn't actually had that cancer, to call themselves.

You are a pre-vivor. 

If you develop a disease, you're off the island. 

We've selected, at every point in this system, to do what we do, and to give everyone a precondition and then eventually a condition, in some cases.

That's not very good for doctors' business.

Or even worse, if you are diagnosed with something eventually, and the doctor didn't order that test, you get sued. 

But this isn't actually, despite what journalists typically do, this isn't actually about blaming particular players.

We are all responsible.

I'm responsible.

Thank you.

But everyone is responsible. 

And that's actually true.

Because what we've created is a sort of Field of Dreams, when it comes to medical technology.

So when you put another MRI in every corner, you put a robot in every hospital saying that everyone has to have robotic surgery.

Well, we've created a system where if you build it, they will come.

But you can actually perversely tell people to come, convince them that they have to come. 

It was when I became a journalist that I really realized how I was part of this problem, and how we all are part of this problem.

But, you know, there are ways out.

So that's, to me, a way forward.

Billy Beane, by the way, learned the same thing.

