(Applause) 

In fact, here's some footage from about 1984.

Oh, watch this.

So, as she mentioned, that is overstated for sure, but that's why they called me the godfather of modern street skating.

Here's some images of that. 

Now, I was about halfway through my pro career in, I would say, the mid-'80s.

So it was evolving upwards.

That's how you make your money, you know?

You have a signature board and wheels and shoes and clothes.

Champion sounds so goofy, but it's what it was, right?

The other thing that I had was a deep well of tricks to draw from that were rooted in these flat ground tricks.

Stuff the normal guys were doing was very much different. 

So, as humbling and rotten as it was — And believe me, it was rotten.

So, humbling as it was, I began again.

Here are some tricks that I started to bring to that new terrain.

(Skateboard noises) And again, there's this undergirding layer of influence of freestyle that made me — Oh, that one?

A little indulgent, I understand.

There's something called a primo slide.

And this one, look how it slides sideways, every which way?

So let me give you another example of how context shapes content.

This one, a little sketchy going backwards, and watch the back foot, watch the back foot.

What makes them great is the degree to which they use their skateboarding to individuate themselves.

Every single one of these guys, you look at them, you can see a silhouette of them, and you realize, like, "Oh, that's him, that's Haslam, that's Koston, there's these guys, these are the guys. 

It's knowing a technology so well that you can manipulate it and steer it to do things it was never intended to do, right?

And they're not all bad.

Not authorized, but not illegal.

And then you've got some of these guys, right?

What they do is very similar to our creative process.

In fact, one of them, he was Ernst &amp; Young's Entrepreneur of the Year for San Diego County, so they're not, you never know who you're dealing with. 

We've all had some degree of fame.

In fact, I've had so much success that I strangely always feel unworthy of.

Because it's not just the mind.

It's like, it's disorienting.

And you get in a car, and you drive away, and 10-minute drive, and you get out, and no one gives a rat's who you are.

And he made this statement that was so profound to me.

It's just that I'm in front of a very privileged audience.

(Applause) 

Krisztina Holly: I have a question for you.

So you've really reinvented yourself in the past from freestyle to street, and, I think it was about four years ago you officially retired.

Rodney Mullen: That's a good question. 

KH: Something tells me it's not the end. 

(Applause) (Applause) 

