So my freshman year of college I signed up for an internship in the housing unit at Greater Boston Legal Services.

Showed up the first day ready to make coffee and photocopies, but was paired with this righteous, deeply inspired attorney named Jeff Purcell, who thrust me onto the front lines from the very first day. 

And over the course of nine months I had the chance to have dozens of conversations with low-income families in Boston who would come in presenting with housing issues, but always had an underlying health issue.

So I had a client who came in, about to be evicted because he hasn't paid his rent.

But he hasn't paid his rent, of course, because he's paying for his HIV medication and just can't afford both.

We had moms who would come in, daughter has asthma, wakes up covered in cockroaches every morning.

And one of our litigation strategies was actually to send me into the home of these clients with these large glass bottles.

And I would collect the cockroaches, hot glue-gun them to this poster board that we'd bring to court for our cases.

Far more effective, I have to say, than anything I later learned in law school. 

And at the end of my freshman year of college, I read an article about the work that Dr. Barry Zuckerman was doing as Chair of Pediatrics at Boston Medical Center.

And his first hire was a legal services attorney to represent the patients. 

So I called Barry, and with his blessing, in October 1995 walked into the waiting room of the pediatrics clinic at Boston Medical Center.

And I heard the same story again and again, a story we've heard hundreds of times since then.

So we began with a card table in the clinic waiting room -- totally lemonade stand style.

But today we have a thousand college student advocates who are working to connect nearly 9,000 patients and their families with the resources that they need to be healthy. 

So 18 months ago I got this email that changed my life.

And the email was from Dr. Jack Geiger, who had written to congratulate me on Health Leads and to share, as he said, a bit of historical context.

In 1965 Dr. Geiger founded one of the first two community health centers in this country, in a brutally poor area in the Mississippi Delta.

And so many of his patients came in presenting with malnutrition that be began prescribing food for them.

And they would take these prescriptions to the local supermarket, which would fill them and then charge the pharmacy budget of the clinic.

And when the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington, D.C. -- which was funding Geiger's clinic -- found out about this, they were furious.

And they sent this bureaucrat down to tell Geiger that he was expected to use their dollars for medical care -- to which Geiger famously and logically responded, "The last time I checked my textbooks, the specific therapy for malnutrition was food."

So when I got this email from Dr. Geiger, I knew I was supposed to be proud to be part of this history.

But the truth is I was devastated.

So I have spent hours upon hours trying to make sense of this weird Groundhog Day.

How is it that if for decades we had a pretty straightforward tool for keeping patients, and especially low-income patients, healthy, that we didn't use it?

If we know what it takes to have a healthcare system rather than a sick-care system, why don't we just do it? 

These questions, in my mind, are not hard because the answers are complicated, they are hard because they require that we be honest with ourselves.

My belief is that it's almost too painful to articulate our aspirations for our healthcare system, or even admit that we have any at all.

Because if we did, they would be so removed from our current reality.

But that doesn't change my belief that all of us, deep inside, here in this room and across this country, share a similar set of desires.

That if we are honest with ourselves and listen quietly, that we all harbor one fiercely held aspiration for our healthcare: that it keep us healthy. 

This aspiration that our healthcare keep us healthy is an enormously powerful one.

And the way I think about this is that healthcare is like any other system.

It's just a set of choices that people make.

These things are ours.

They will be used for our purposes.

They will be used to realize our aspiration"?

What if everything we needed to realize our aspiration for healthcare was right there in front of us just waiting to be claimed? 

So that's where Health Leads began.

We started with the prescription pad -- a very ordinary piece of paper -- and we asked, not what do patients need to get healthy -- antibiotics, an inhaler, medication -- but what do patients need to be healthy, to not get sick in the first place?

And we chose to use the prescription for that purpose.

So just a few miles from here at Children's National Medical Center, when patients come into the doctor's office, they're asked a few questions.

The problem is, once you get a taste of what it's like to realize your aspiration for healthcare, you want more.

And we gave it a shot. 

So now at Harlem Hospital Center when patients come in with an elevated body mass index, the electronic medical record automatically generates a prescription for Health Leads.

And our volunteers can then work with them to connect patients to healthy food and excercise programs in their communities.

We've created a presumption that if you're a patient at that hospital with an elevated BMI, the four walls of the doctor's office probably aren't going to give you everything you need to be healthy.

You need more. 

So on the one hand, this is just a basic recoding of the electronic medical record.

In the private sector, when you squeeze that kind of additional value out of a fixed-cost investment, it's called a billion-dollar company.

But in my world, it's called reduced obesity and diabetes.

It's called healthcare -- a system where doctors can prescribe solutions to improve health, not just manage disease. 

Same thing in the clinic waiting room.

So every day in this country three million patients pass through about 150,000 clinic waiting rooms in this country.

And what do they do when they're there?

They sit, they watch the goldfish in the fish tank, they read extremely old copies of Good Housekeeping magazine.

But mostly we all just sit there forever, waiting.

How did we get here where we devote hundreds of acres and thousands of hours to waiting?

And of course all of this requires a broader workforce.

But if we're creative, we already have that too.

Health just takes more time.

What if a small part of that next healthcare workforce were the 11 million college students in this country?

Unencumbered by clinical responsibilities, unwilling to take no for an answer from those bureaucracies that tend to crush patients, and with an unparalleled ability for information retrieval honed through years of using Google. 

Now we may think that's good or bad, but in either case it's real.

And Health Leads is based on the presumption that for too long we have asked too little of our college students when it comes to real impact in vulnerable communities.

So our feeling is, if it's good enough for the rugby team, it's good enough for health and poverty.

Health Leads too recruits competitively, trains intensively, coaches professionally, demands significant time, builds a cohesive team and measures results -- a kind of Teach for America for healthcare. 

Now in the top 10 cities in the U.S. with the largest number of Medicaid patients, each of those has at least 20,000 college students.

New York alone has half a million college students.

And this isn't just a sort of short-term workforce to connect patients to basic resources, it's a next generation healthcare leadership pipeline who've spent two, three, four years in the clinic waiting room talking to patients about their most basic health needs.

And they leave with the conviction, the ability and the efficacy to realize our most basic aspirations for health care.

And the thing is, there's thousands of these folks already out there. 

Now none of these solutions -- the prescription pad, the electronic medical record, the waiting room, the army of college students -- are perfect.

But they are ours for the taking -- simple examples of the vast under-utilized healthcare resources that, if we reclaimed and redeployed, could realize our most basic aspiration of healthcare. 

So I had been at Legal Services for about nine months when this idea of Health Leads started percolating in my mind.

And I knew I had to tell Jeff Purcell, my attorney, that I needed to leave.

I just wanted a blessing, I didn't want some kind of mandate.

But the truth is I've spent every waking minute nearly since then chasing that vision. 

I believe that we all have a vision for healthcare in this country.

I believe that at the end of the day when we measure our healthcare, it will not be by the diseases cured, but by the diseases prevented.

It will not be by the excellence of our technologies or the sophistication of our specialists, but by how rarely we needed them.

And most of all, I believe that when we measure healthcare, it will be, not by what the system was, but by what we chose it to be. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

