I had to figure out what it is my dad did and why it was important. 

Good design," my dad said, "is about supplying intent."

That's what he said. 

And design was in everything my dad did.

The song is just a given.

It's how you cover it that matters.

Well, let's hold on to that thought for just a minute.

I don't like to talk about this very much, but I'll tell you guys the story today.

But ever since then, the wheelchair has been a given in my life.

My life, at the mercy of good design and bad design. 

So I would roll, I'd make no eye contact -- just kinda frown, right?

Or I'd dress up really, really sharply or something.

(Laughter) You know anything, I'd try.

(Laughter) You know anything, I'd try.

Nothing whatsoever worked until a few years ago, my six-year-old daughters were looking at this wheelchair catalog that I had, and they said, 

(Laughter) Look at that!

(Laughter) Look at that!

Instead of blank stares and awkwardness, now it is pointing and smiling! 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

No, no, no, no, no. 

No, no, no, no, no. 

Intent changes the picture completely.

I choose to enhance this rolling experience with a simple design element.

It suggests that someone is driving.

It's reassuring; people are drawn to it.

Someone making the experience their own.

Covering the tragic tune with something different, something radically different.

People respond to that. 

But, if he instead acted out of a delusional fantasy, if he was motivated by some random mental illness, he's in a completely different category.

We may put him away for life, but we watch him clinically.

It's a completely different domain.

As an intentional murderer, Anders Breivik is merely evil.

But as a dysfunctional, as a dysfunctional murderer/psychotic, he's something much more complicated.

He's the breath of some primitive, ancient chaos.

He's the random state of nature we emerged from.

He's something very, very different. 

It's as though intent is an essential component for humanity.

It's what we're supposed to do somehow.

We're supposed to act with intent.

We're supposed to do things by design.

Intent is a marker for civilization. 

Now here's an example a little closer to home: My family is all about intent.

Anyway, in vitro technology, IVF, is about as intentional as agriculture.

He would say, "You're right between horse and squirrel, John."

(Laughter) But anyway, so when my wife and I decided to upgrade our early middle age -- we had four kids, after all -- with a little different technology that I won't explain in too much detail here -- my urologist assured me I had nothing whatsoever to worry about. 

(Laughter) But anyway, so when my wife and I decided to upgrade our early middle age -- we had four kids, after all -- with a little different technology that I won't explain in too much detail here -- my urologist assured me I had nothing whatsoever to worry about. 

I wasn't exactly a form of birth control.

I mean, did a designer come up with that?

No, I don't think a designer did come up with that.

In fact, maybe that's the problem.

And so, little Ajax was born.

It's something like my accident, right?

He came out of nowhere.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Man, I love that thing.

I could afford that.

Other designs I really couldn't afford, like the 1974 911 Targa.

It's a grand idea of design -- a huge idea of design, common to all of the voices of religion and philosophy that emerged in the Classical period.

What was going on then?

They were trying to answer the question of what would human beings do now that they were no longer simply trying to survive?

As the human race emerged from a prehistoric chaos, a confrontation with random, brutal nature, they suddenly had a moment to think -- and there was a lot to think about.

All of a sudden, human existence needed an intent.

Human life needed a reason.

Reality itself needed a designer.

Today we don't confront the chaos of nature.

Today it is the chaos of humanity's impact on the Earth itself that we confront.

This young discipline called design, I think, is in fact the emerging ethos formulating and then answering a very new question: What shall we do now in the face of the chaos that we have created?

What shall we do?

How shall we inscribe intent on all the objects we create, on all the circumstances we create, on all the places we change?

The consequences of a planet with 7 billion people and counting.

That won't do.

That won't do at all. 

There was rioting in the middle of Kinshasa.

People were carrying off vehicles, carrying off pieces of buildings.

Soldiers were in the streets shooting at looters and herding some in mass arrests.

And I didn't look like a soldier, that's for sure.

I was part of this sort of background noise of the misery of Zaire, completely invisible.

And I looked at him -- he didn't know any other English than that, but we didn't need English, no, no, no, no, no.

We sat there and compared wheels and tires and spokes and tubes.

And I looked at his whacky pedal mechanism; he was full of pride over his design.

I wish I could show you that contraption.

His smile, our glow as we talked a universal language of design, invisible to the chaos around us.

He would have understood those; a chariot of pure intent -- think about it -- in a city out of control.

Design blew it all away for a moment.

We spoke for a few minutes and then each of us vanished back into the chaos.

He went back to the streets of Kinshasa; I went to my hotel.

And I pose this question.

An object imbued with intent -- it has power, it's treasure, we're drawn to it.

And I have to say that on that score, I have a very unfair advantage over all of you. 

And I want to explain it to you now because this is a very special day.

