I always wanted to become a walking laboratory of social engagement, to resonate other people's feelings, thoughts, intentions, motivations, in the act of being with them.

As a scientist, I always wanted to measure that resonance, that sense of the other that happens so quickly, in the blink of an eye.

It's so important that the very tools that we use to understand ourselves, to understand the world around them, is shaped by that stance.

We are social to the core. 

So my journey in autism really started when I lived in a residential unit for adults with autism.

And for them, autism was devastating.

So they may be looking at a light in the ceiling, or they may be isolated in the corner, or they might be engaged in these repetitive movements, in self-stimulatory movements that led them nowhere.

Extremely, extremely isolated. 

Well, now we know that autism is this disruption, the disruption of this resonance that I am telling you.

These are survival skills.

These are survival skills that we inherited over many, many hundreds of thousands of years of evolution. 

You see, babies are born in a state of utter fragility.

Without the caregiver, they wouldn't survive, so it stands to reason that nature would endow them with these mechanisms of survival.

They orient to the caregiver.

From the first days and weeks of life, babies prefer to hear human sounds rather than just sounds in the environment.

The caregiver seeks the baby.

And it's out of this mutually reinforcing choreography that a lot that is of importance to the emergence of mind, the social mind, the social brain, depends on. 

As babies engage with caregivers, they soon realize that, well, there is something in between the ears that is very important -- it's invisible, you can't see -- but is really critical, and that thing is called attention.

And they learn soon enough, even before they can utter one word that they can take that attention and move somewhere in order to get things they want.

Those are meanings that are acquired as part of their shared experiences with others. 

And I am coming so close to her that I am maybe two inches from her face, and she's quite oblivious to me.

And this is not something that happens to humans only.

So something that in other species are survival mechanisms, without them they wouldn't basically live, we bring into the context of human beings, and this is what we need to simply act, act socially. 

Now, most of us make a big dichotomy between the world of things and the world of people.

Now remember that we learn a great deal by sharing experiences.

Well, autism is the most strongly genetic condition of all developmental disorders, and it's a brain disorder.

It's a disorder that begins much prior to the time that the child is born.

We now know that there is a very broad spectrum of autism.

There are those individuals who are profoundly intellectually disabled, but there are those that are gifted.

Well, this is much more prevalent than we thought at the time.

Well, now we know it's more like one in 100.

There are millions of individuals with autism all around us. 

The societal cost of this condition is huge.

Those are individuals who did not benefit from early treatment, because now we know that autism creates itself as they diverge in that pathway of learning that I mentioned to you.

But it diminishes considerably.

So I feel that we have a bio-ethical imperative.

So this is our view of autism. 

So how do you go from multiple causes to a syndrome that has some homogeneity?

And the answer is, what lies in between, which is development.

And in fact, we are very interested in those first two years of life, because those liabilities don't necessarily convert into autism.

Autism creates itself.

Were we to be able to intervene during those years of life, we might attenuate for some, and God knows, maybe even prevent for others. 

So how do we do that?

How do we enter that feeling of resonance, how do we enter another person's being?

And so in the past many years we've been building these new technologies that are based on eye tracking.

We can see moment by moment what children are engaging with.

Well, we created those measures, and here, what you see is what we call a funnel of attention.

In this scan pass, in green here, are two-year-olds with autism.

What are the children with autism doing?

It happens moment by moment in their real lives, and their minds are being formed, and their brains are being specialized in something other than what is happening with their typical peers. 

Well, we took a construct from our pediatrician friends, the concept of growth charts.

You know, when you take a child to the pediatrician, and so you have physical height, and weight.

It sort of goes up a little bit in those initial months.

Now, let's see what's happening with babies who became autistic.

It's something very different.

It starts way up here, but then it's a free fall.

It's very much like they brought into this world the reflex that orients them to people, but it has no traction.

It's almost as if that stimulus, you, you're not exerting influence on what happens as they navigate their daily lives. 

And what we see in the first six months of life is that those two groups can be segregated very easily.

We didn't have to wait for the behaviors of autism to emerge in the second year of life.

Now, we can create the very best technologies and the very best methods to identify the children, but this would be for naught if we didn't have an impact on what happens in their reality in the community.

Now, when we think about what we [can] do in those first years, I can tell you, having been in this field for so long, one feels really rejuvenated.

I thought at the time that this was an intractable condition.

And there are those individuals who have incredible artistic abilities.

We want them to be free of that.

We want that the next generations of individuals with autism will be able not only to express their strengths but to fulfill their promise. 

