(Laughter) But I'm also a famous minor television personality and an avid collector of Design Within Reach catalogs, so I pretty much know everything there is. 

(Laughter) But I'm also a famous minor television personality and an avid collector of Design Within Reach catalogs, so I pretty much know everything there is. 

Now, I'm sure you recognize this object; many of you probably saw it as you were landing your private zeppelins at Los Angeles International Airport over the past couple of days.

And it is perhaps the best example we have in Los Angeles of ancient extraterrestrial architecture. 

It is thought to have been a replacement for the older space ports located, of course, at Stonehenge and considered to be quite an improvement due to the uncluttered design, the lack of druids hanging around all the time and obviously, the much better access to parking.

After all, the ancient astronauts who used it did not travel by jet very often, preferring instead to travel by feathered serpent powered by crystal skulls. 

Ah yes, a table.

We use these every day.

And on top of it, the juicy salif.

This is a design by Philippe Starck, who I believe is in the audience at this very moment.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

It is a design that challenges your intuition -- it is not what you think it is when you first see it.

And despite its obvious influence by the ancient astronauts and its space agey-ness and tripodism, it is not something designed to attach to your brain and suck out your thoughts.

It is in fact a citrus juicer and when I say that, you never see it as anything else again. 

It is also not a monument to design, it is a monument to design's utility.

Here is my well-loved iPhone.

I do so many things on this little device.

Every now and then, I admit that I complete a phone call on it occasionally.

And yet I forget about it all the time.

This is a design that once you saw it, you forgot about it.

It is easy to forget the gasp-inducement that occurred in 2007 when you first touched this thing because it became so quickly pervasive and because of how instantly we adopted these gestures and made it an extension of our life.

Unlike the Theme Building, this is not alien technology.

Or I should say, what it did was it took technology which, unlike people in this room, to many other people in the world, still feels very alien, and made it immediately and instantly feel familiar and intimate. 

And unlike the juicy salif, it does not threaten to attach itself to your brain, rather, it simply attaches itself to your brain.

Thank you very much. 

