EH: New Haven, Connecticut. 

NL: There goes seven more seconds. 

EH: Nailed it. 

NL: Radio operator. 

EH: You came to LA to break into Hollywood, first in publicity, then in TV.

You had no training as a writer, formally, but you hustled your way in.

You have seven shows in the top 10 at one time.

At one point, you aggregate an audience of 120 million people per week watching your content.

EH: And we're not even to the holy shit part. 

You land yourself on Richard Nixon's enemies list -- he had one. 

That's an applause line, too. 

Again, just to name a fraction. 

Then you wipe the slate clean, start a third act as a political activist focusing on protecting the First Amendment and the separation of church and state.

You stay active in both entertainment and politics until the ripe old of age of 93, when you write a book and make a documentary about your life story.

And after all that, they finally think you're ready for a TED Talk. 

NL: I love being here.

And I love you for agreeing to do this. 

So here's my first question.

Was your mother proud of you? 

NL: My mother ... what a place to start.

This really sums up my mother.

They were love letters, as if I had written them to -- they were love letters.

That's my mother. 

I started to say "Richard Nixon," because Richard Nixon -- 

EH: I don't think he was on their list. 

I tell her the list of names and me, and she says, "Listen, if that's what they want to do, who am I to say?"

That's my Ma.

I think it earns that kind of a laugh because everybody has a piece of that mother. 

EH: And the sitcom Jewish mother is born, right there. 

NL: Yeah. 

EH: Tell us what happened when you were nine years old. 

It turns out he was picking up some fake bonds, which he was flying across the country to sell.

But the fact that he was going to Oklahoma in a plane, and he was going to bring me back a 10-gallon hat, just like Ken Maynard, my favorite cowboy wore.

You know, this was a few years after Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic.

I mean, it was exotic that my father was going there.

But when he came back, they arrested him as he got off the plane. 

And selling the furniture -- the house was loaded with people. 

EH: It's interesting you call it a benefit. 

EH: So you have a father who's absent, you have a mother for whom apparently nothing is good enough.

Do you think that starting out as a kid who maybe never felt heard started you down a journey that ended with you being an adult with a weekly audience of 120 million people? 

Yeah, somebody laughed. 

But not funny, this was a horse's -- another horse's ass -- who was very vocal about hating the New Deal and Roosevelt and Jews.

The first time I ran into an understanding that there were people in this world that hated me because I was born to Jewish parents.

And that had an enormous effect on my life. 

Tell us about him. 

There were parades, lots of parades when I was a kid.

There were parades on Veteran's Day -- there wasn't a President's Day.

There was Abraham Lincoln's birthday, George Washington's birthday and Flag Day ... And lots of little parades.

And he used to write presidents of the United States.

Every letter started, "My dearest, darling Mr. President," and he'd tell him something wonderful about what he did.

But when he disagreed with the President, he also wrote, "My dearest, darling Mr. President, Didn't I tell you last week ...?"

And I would run down the stairs every now and then and pick up the mail.

EH: They wrote him back on the envelopes -- 

NL: They wrote back.

When I started to write my memoir -- "Even this --" How about that?

So much so that I appropriated Arthur Marshall's grandfather.

But I stole the man's identity because I needed the father. 

NL: I'm a pro. 

EH: You're a pro. 

And that quote is widely attributed to John Lennon, but it turns out he stole it from T.S.

So you're in good company. 

EH: I want to talk about your work.

But have there ever been any stories about the impact of your work that surprised you? 

Russell Simmons was among seven on the stage.

He saw George Jefferson write a check on "The Jeffersons," and he never knew that a black man could write a check.

And he says it just impacted his life so -- it changed his life. 

EH: So in addition to the long list I shared in the beginning, I should have also mentioned that you invented hip-hop. 

NL: Well, then do it. 

EH: You've lead a life of accomplishment, but you've also built a life of meaning.

And all of us strive to do both of those things -- not all of us manage to.

But even those of us who do manage to accomplish both of those, very rarely do we figure out how to do them together.

You managed to push culture forward through your art while also achieving world-beating commercial success.

How did you do both? 

NL: Here's where my mind goes when I hear that recitation of all I accomplished.

EH: It's an articulate deflection -- 

NL: But you have to really buy into the size and scope of the creator's enterprise, here. 

EH: But here on this planet you have really mattered. 

NL: I'm a son of a gun. 

EH: So I have one more question for you.

How old do you feel? 

NL: I am the peer of whoever I'm talking to. 

EH: Well, I feel 93. 

NL: We out of here? 

EH: Well, I feel 93 years old, but I hope to one day feel as young as the person I'm sitting across from. 

Ladies and gentlemen, the incomparable Norman Lear. 

NL: Thank you. 

