All energy is concentrated into a single point of energy.

For some reason it explodes, and you begin to get these things.

So you're now about 14 billion years into this.

And these things expand and expand and expand into these giant galaxies, and you get trillions of them.

in the center of this picture.

If you take a close-up of those, they look like this.

And so what you're watching is the birth of stars.

This one happens to be a particularly important galaxy, because you are here.

(Laughter) And as you take a close-up of this galaxy, you find a relatively normal, not particularly interesting star. 

By the way, you're now about two-thirds of the way into this story.

So this star doesn't even appear until about two-thirds of the way into this story.

And then what happens is there's enough dust left over that it doesn't ignite into a star, it becomes a planet.

And this is about a little over four billion years ago. 

And soon thereafter there's enough material left over that you get a primordial soup, and that creates life.

And life starts to expand and expand and expand, until it goes kaput. 

(Laughter) 

Now the really strange thing is life goes kaput, not once, not twice, but five times.

So almost all life on Earth is wiped out about five times.

And as you're thinking about that, what happens is you get more and more complexity, more and more stuff to build new things with.

And we don't appear until about 99.96 percent of the time into this story, just to put ourselves and our ancestors in perspective. 

So within that context, there's two theories of the case as to why we're all here.

The first theory of the case is that's all she wrote.

Under that theory, we are the be-all and end-all of all creation.

(Laughter) 

The only question you might want to ask yourself is, could that be just mildly arrogant?

(Laughter) 

So maybe you have to think about a second theory if the first one isn't good enough.

Second theory is: Could we upgrade?

(Laughter) Well, why would one ask a question like that?

Because there have been at least 29 upgrades so far of humanoids.

So it turns out that we have upgraded.

We found this one last year.

We found another one last month. 

Well Svante Paabo has the answer.

The difference between humans and Neanderthal is 0.004 percent of gene code.

That's how big the difference is one species to another.

This explains most contemporary political debates. 

(Laughter) 

But as you're thinking about this, one of the interesting things is how small these mutations are and where they take place.

Difference human/Neanderthal is sperm and testis, smell and skin.

And those are the specific genes that differ from one to the other.

So very small changes can have a big impact. 

So about 10,000 years ago by the Black Sea, we had one mutation in one gene which led to blue eyes.

And this is continuing and continuing and continuing. 

And when we find these, we may find differences. 

In the 1920s, we thought there were major differences between people.

That was partly based on Francis Galton's work.

He was Darwin's cousin.

But the U.S., the Carnegie Institute, Stanford, American Neurological Association took this really far.

That got exported and was really misused.

In fact, it led to some absolutely horrendous treatment of human beings.

So since the 1940s, we've been saying there are no differences, we're all identical.

We're going to know at year end if that is true. 

And as we think about that, we're actually beginning to find things like, do you have an ACE gene?

Why would that matter?

Because nobody's ever climbed an 8,000-meter peak without oxygen that doesn't have an ACE gene.

And if you want to get more specific, how about a 577R genotype?

Well it turns out that every male Olympic power athelete ever tested carries at least one of these variants. 

If that is true, it leads to some very complicated questions for the London Olympics.

(Laughter) Option number two: Why don't we play it like golf or sailing?

Because you have one and you don't have one, I'll give you a tenth of a second head start.

And it turns out that as we discover these things, we human beings really like to change how we look, how we act, what our bodies do.

And we had about 10.2 million plastic surgeries in the United States, except that with the technologies that are coming online today, today's corrections, deletions, augmentations and enhancements are going to seem like child's play. 

You already saw the work by Tony Atala on TED, but this ability to start filling things like inkjet cartridges with cells are allowing us to print skin, organs and a whole series of other body parts.

And we may just be in some of these weeks. 

That's a big deal.

So they go down one side of the mountain, they go down another.

But it's really hard, once you ski down, to get back up.

Unless, of course, if you have a ski lift.

And then what they did in October is they took skin cells, turned them into stem cells and began to turn them into liver cells.

So in theory, you could grow any organ from any one of your cells. 

Here's a second experiment: If you could photocopy your body, maybe you also want to take your mind.

And one of the things you saw at TED about a year and a half ago was this guy.

And he gave a wonderful technical talk.

He's a professor at MIT.

And you can map the exact pathways when a mouse sees, feels, touches, remembers, loves.

And then you can take a fiber optic cable and light up some of the same things.

And by the way, as you do this, you can image it in two colors, which means you can download this information as binary code directly into a computer. 

And maybe you can upload other people's memories as well.

(Laughter) Just a thought. 

Do we have any evidence that that is happening?

Well let's take a look at something like autism incidence per thousand.

Here's what it looks like in 2000.

And we still don't know why this is happening.

And this is only one of the conditions that's out there.

One option is the fast food fetish.

A second option is the sexy geek option.

These conditions are highly rare.

So this is the assortative mating hypothesis of these genes reinforcing one another in these structures. 

We're trying to process so much stuff that some people get synesthetic and just have huge pipes that remember everything.

Other people get hyper-sensitive to the amount of information.

Other people react with various psychological conditions or reactions to this information.

Or maybe it's chemicals. 

But when you see an increase of that order of magnitude in a condition, either you're not measuring it right or there's something going on very quickly, and it may be evolution in real time. 

Here's the bottom line.

What I think we are doing is we're transitioning as a species.

And I didn't think this when Steve Gullans and I started writing together.

And I think that's such an order of magnitude change that your grandkids or your great-grandkids may be a species very different from you. 

Thank you very much. 

