And he's so good at it, that when he was in prison, everybody in prison, the governor and whatever, wanted him to paint masterpieces to put on the walls, because they were so good.

So why is that a good example?

That's the example of how legacy thinking about identity subverts the security of a well-constructed system.

And for a joke, we take that super-secure chip and we bond it to a trivially counterfeitable magnetic stripe and for very lazy criminals, we still emboss the card.

So if you're a criminal in a hurry and you need to copy someone's card, you can just stick a piece of paper on it and rub a pencil over it just to sort of speed things up.

And even more amusingly, and on my debit card too, we print the name and the SALT code and everything else on the front too.

Why?

There is no earthly reason why your name is printed on a chip and PIN card.

And if you think about it, it's even more insidious and perverse than it seems at first.

Because the only people that benefit from having the name on the card are criminals.

You know what your name is, right?

The only place where you ever have to write your name on the back is in America at the moment.

(Laughter) So if you drop your card in the street, it means a criminal can pick it up and read it.

So the second example I thought I'd use is chatrooms.

(Laughter) And I love that picture.

I like the picture of him getting into medical school a lot better, (Laughter) I like that picture for the moment.

So you've got to give them your Facebook password.

The teacher can't log into Facebook, because the school has blocked access to Facebook.

So the teacher can't log into Facebook until she gets home.

And so when the teacher logged in, there was nothing there.

Identity is, especially when you're a teenager, a fluid thing.

You have lots of identities.

And you can have an identity, you don't like it, because it's subverted in some way, or it's insecure, or it's inappropriate, you just delete it and get another one.

There's my visitor's badge.

(Laughter) 

That gets you security theater, where there's no actual security, but people are sort of playing parts in a play about security.

And as long as everybody learns their lines, everyone's happy.

But it's not real security.

I know that things are actually worse than these guys think.

(Laughter) But suppose I worked next to somebody in a bank who was doing something.

Suppose I was sitting next to a rogue trader, and I want to report it to the boss of the bank.

So I log on to do a little bit of whistleblowing.

I send a message, this guy's a rogue trader.

That message is meaningless if you don't know that I'm a trader at the bank.

If that message just comes from anybody, it has zero information value.

There's no point in sending that message.

That message will only happen if I'm anonymous.

Well, what we tend to do about it is we think about Orwell space.

And we try to make electronic versions of the identity card that we got rid of in 1953.

Almost all of the transactions you do are not, who are you?

They're, are you allowed to drive the car, are you allowed in the building, are you over 18, etcetera, etcetera.

Naturally, in these circumstances, I turn to Doctor Who.

Because in this, as in so many other walks of life, Doctor Who has already shown us the answer.

So I should say, for some of our foreign visitors, Doctor Who is the greatest living scientist in England, (Laughter) and a beacon of truth and enlightenment to all of us.

And this is Doctor Who with his psychic paper.

Come on, you guys must have seen Doctor Who's psychic paper.

You're not nerds if you say yes.

Is that what you're going to tell us?

Doctor Who's psychic paper is when you hold up the psychic paper, the person, in their brain, sees the thing that they need to see.

So I want to show you a British passport, I hold up the psychic paper, you see a British passport.

It'll only show you the party invitation if I actually have one.

So you're the bouncer at the pub, you need to know that I'm over 18, instead of showing you my driving license, which shows you I know how to drive, what my name is, my address, all these kind of things, I show you my psychic paper, and all it tells you is am I over 18 or not.

Right. 

So when you want to draw money out, you put the mobile phone on the ATM, and touch your finger, your fingerprint goes through to the phone, the phone says yes, that's whoever, and the ATM then gives you some money.

It has to be a utility that you can use everywhere.

All the device on the door of the pub is allowed is, is this person over 18 and not barred from the pub?

And so the idea is, you touch your ID card to the door, and if I am allowed in, it shows my picture, if I'm not allowed in, it shows a red cross.

It doesn't disclose any other information.

It has to have no special gadgets.

That can only mean one thing, following on from Ross's statement, which I agree with completely.

If it means no special gadgets, it has to run on a mobile phone.

(Laughter) I rely on our futurologists to tell me.

It has to be a utility which is extensible.

So it has to be something that anybody could build on.

You know what symmetry is, so you don't need a picture of it.

This is how we're going to do it.

We're going to do it using phones, and we're going to do it using mobile proximity.

And what's more, although some of those things sounded a bit counter-intuitive, like proving I'm over 18 without proving who I am, the cryptography to do that not only exists, it's extremely well-known and well-understood.

This was a very special case.

So in the episode where he goes to Mars in a London bus, I can't show you the clip, due to the outrageous restrictions of Queen Anne-style copyright by the BBC, but in the episode where he goes to Mars in a London bus, Doctor Who is clearly shown getting on to the bus with the Oyster card reader using his psychic paper.

Which proves that psychic paper has an MSE interface.

Thank you very much. 

