This thing — whoops, can we go back?

Hello, come in, Earth.

So here are pictures of myself.

Now, Frank didn't hear anything.

But Drake's idea here became very popular because it was very appealing — and I'll get back to that — and on the basis of this experiment, which didn't succeed, we have been doing SETI ever since, not continuously, but ever since. 

This is Frank Drake's electronics in 1960.

This is the Allen Telescope Array electronics today.

In fact, those of you who are still conscious and mathematically competent, will note that this is a semi-log plot.

Well, a million star systems, is that interesting?

I mean, how many of those star systems have planets?

So in fact, this is a pretty accurate estimate of the number of planets in our galaxy, just in our galaxy, by the way, and I remind the non-astronomy majors among you that our galaxy is only one of 100 billion that we can see with our telescopes. 

Neptune's probably not very big in your life.

Okay, now I've given you a lot of numbers here, but they're mostly big numbers, okay, so, you know, keep that in mind.

You're not going to hear from alien Neanderthals.

They're not building transmitters.

Because they survived their technology, we could do it too.

Normally when you look out into the universe, you're looking back in time.

That's interesting to cosmologists.

They're the ones you find on the kitchen countertop.

You gotta get them with your thumb before they find the sugar or something.

Now, look, a lot has been written about the deplorable state of science literacy in this country.

You've heard about it.

It shows like roughly one third of the public thinks that aliens are not only out there, we're looking for them out there, but they're here, right?

Sailing the skies in their saucers and occasionally abducting people for experiments their parents wouldn't approve of.

Well, that would be interesting if it was true, and job security for me, but I don't think the evidence is very good.

These sorts of ideas don't really have any validity, that you can't trust the scientists. 

I mean, in the 18th century, in the 18th century you could become an expert on any field of science in an afternoon by going to a library, if you could find the library, right?

Now, that's not true anymore.

Today, you've got to spend years in grad school and post-doc positions just to figure out what the important questions are.

SETI, on the other hand, is really simple.

I mean, this is analogous to our interest in things that have big teeth.

You notice they make very few programs about gerbils.

It's mostly about things that have big teeth.

But if you give talks to kids, you know, one in 50 of them, some light bulb goes off, and they think, "Gee, I'd never thought of that," and then they go, you know, read a book or a magazine or whatever.

They get interested in something. 

In fact, this reminds me, I don't know, a couple years ago I gave a talk at a school in Palo Alto where there were about a dozen 11-year-olds that had come to this talk.

I had been brought in to talk to these kids for an hour.

What they wanted was my email address so they could ask me more questions.

Previous generations couldn't do this experiment at all.

