And then, in 1918, coal production in Britain peaked, and has declined ever since.

In due course, Britain started using oil and gas from the North Sea, and in the year 2000, oil and gas production from the North Sea also peaked, and they're now on the decline. 

These observations about the finiteness of easily accessible, local, secure fossil fuels, this is a motivation for saying, "Well, what's next?

Let me illustrate this with what physicists call a back-of-envelope calculation.

We love back-of-envelope calculations.

You ask a question, you write down some numbers, and you get yourself an answer.

Okay, so let's put in some numbers.

Let's say the productivity of biofuel plantations is 1,200 litres of biofuel per hectare per year.

That's true of European biofuels.

What do we do with these numbers?

Well, you take the first number, and you divide by the other three, and you get eight kilometers.

And that's the answer.

And it might make you think, perhaps there's an issue to do with areas, and in this talk, I'd like to talk about land areas, and ask, is there an issue about areas?

So let's start in the United Kingdom, since that's where we are today.

Let's add European countries in blue, and you can see there's quite a variety.

Next, let's add Asia in red, the Middle East and North Africa in green, sub-Saharan Africa in blue, black is South America, purple is Central America, and then in pukey-yellow, we have North America, Australia and New Zealand.

And you can see the great diversity of population densities and of per capita consumptions.

Countries are different from each other. 

Bottom left, well, there's no one.

But there used to be a whole load of people.

Here's another message from this diagram.

I've added on little blue tails behind Sudan, Libya, China, India, Bangladesh.

That's 15 years of progress.

Where were they 15 years ago, and where are they now?

So, we may be off in the top right-hand corner, slightly unusual, the United Kingdom accompanied by Germany, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, and a bunch of other slightly odd countries, but many other countries are coming up and to the right to come and join us, so we're a picture, if you like, of what the future energy consumption might be looking like in other countries too. 

The United Kingdom is consuming 1.25 watts per square meter.

So's Germany, and Japan is consuming a bit more. 

Well, we consume 1.25 watts per square meter.

What this means is, even if you covered the whole of the United Kingdom with energy crops, you couldn't match today's energy consumption.

Next, let's look at solar power.

So here's a summary so far.

All renewables, much as I love them, are diffuse.

And that means, if you do want renewables to make a substantial difference for a country like the United Kingdom on the scale of today's consumption, you need to be imagining renewable facilities that are country-sized, not the entire country but a fraction of the country, a substantial fraction. 

So by this particular metric, nuclear power isn't as intrusive as renewables. 

But the same goes for renewables as well.

What can a country like the U.K. do on the supply side?

It's a way for the world to handle this issue.

So countries like Australia, Russia, Libya, Kazakhstan, could be our best friends for renewable production.

And a third option is nuclear power.

So that's some supply side options. 

The energy consumption of this typical tank here is 80 kilowatt-hours per hundred person kilometers.

Next, there's the heating lever.

Heating is a third of our energy consumption in Britain, and quite a lot of that is going into homes and other buildings doing space heating and water heating.

What can we do to it?

If you really want to get a bit closer to Swedish building standards with a crappy house like this, you need to be putting external insulation on the building as shown by this block of flats in London.

The third demand side option I want to talk about, the third way to reduce energy consumption is, read your meters.

And people talk a lot about smart meters, but you can do it yourself.

Nuclear power, to get 16 light bulbs per person, you'd need two gigawatts at each of the purple dots on the map.

That's a fourfold increase over today's levels of nuclear power. 

We need a plan that adds up.

