Let's begin with a story.

Let's call it Island Networks.

But in order to enter and to stay these migrants had to pass a few tests.

But then something unexpected happened.

The medical personnel who took blood samples from the man never actually told him what they were testing for.

He was never informed of the results of the test.

He was released, but then a day or two later, he was taken to the airport and he was deported.

What on earth did this man do to merit this treatment?

What was his terrible crime?

He was infected with HIV. 

Now the kingdom is one of about 50 countries that imposes restrictions on the entry or stay of people living with HIV.

The kingdom argues that its laws allow it to detain or deport foreigners who pose a risk to the economy or the security or the public health or the morals of the state.

But these laws, when applied to people living with HIV, are a violation of international human rights agreements to which these countries are signatories.

But you know what?

Matters of principle aside, practically speaking, these laws drive HIV underground.

Today we can prevent the transmission of HIV.

And with treatment, it is a manageable condition.

We are very far from the days when the only practical response to dread disease was to have banished the afflicted -- like this, "The Exile of the Leper."

So you tell me why, in our age of science, we still have laws and policies which come from an age of superstition. 

Time for a quick show of hands.

And the laws reflect these attitudes.

Now there are laws in many parts of the world which reflect the best of human nature.

These laws treat people touched by HIV with compassion and acceptance.

These laws respect universal human rights and they are grounded in evidence.

These laws ensure that people living with HIV and those at greatest risk are protected from violence and discrimination and that they get access to prevention and to treatment.

(Video) Nick Rhoades: If something is against the law then that is telling society that is unacceptable, that's bad behavior.

And I think the severity of that punishment tells you how bad you are as a person.

You're a class B felon, lifetime sex offender.

You are a very, very, very bad person.

And you did a very, very, very bad thing.

And so that's just programmed into you.

And you go through the correctional system and everyone's telling you the same thing.

And you're just like, I'm a very bad person. 

Shereen El-Feki: It's not just a question of unfair or ineffective laws.

Some countries have good laws, laws which could stem the tide of HIV.

The problem is that these laws are flouted.

Because stigma gives unofficial license to treat people living with HIV or those at greatest risk unlike other citizens.

And this is exactly what happened to Helma and Dongo from Namibia. 

(Video) Hilma: I found out when I went to the hospital for a pregnancy check-up.

The nurse announced that every pregnant woman must also be tested for HIV that day.

I took the test and the result showed I was positive.

That's the day I found out.

The nurse just came with it already marked where I had to sign.

And with the labor pain, I didn't have the strength to ask them to read it to me.

I just signed. 

According to those same estimates, in 2010 1.8 million people died of AIDS related causes.

These are terrible and tragic figures.

But if we look a little more broadly into the statistics, we actually see some reason for hope. 

Looking globally, the number of new infections of HIV is declining.

And looking globally as well, deaths are also starting to fall.

Now there are still many problems.

Only about half of the people who need treatment are currently receiving it.

In some parts of the world -- like here in the Middle East and North Africa -- new infections are rising and so are deaths.

And the money, the money we need for the global response to HIV, that is shrinking.

But for the first time in three decades into this epidemic we have a real chance to come to grips with HIV.

But in order to do that we need to tackle an epidemic of really bad law. 

In fact, one in every 10 new infections of HIV is among people who inject drugs.

Now drug use or possession is illegal in almost every country.

But some countries take a harder line on this than others. 

In Thailand people who use drugs, or are merely suspected of using drugs, are placed in detention centers, like the one you see here, where they are supposed to clean up.

There is absolutely no evidence to show that throwing people into detention cures their drug dependence.

There is, however, ample evidence to show that incarcerating people increases their risk of HIV and other infections. 

We know how to reduce HIV transmission and other risks in people who inject drugs.

It involves providing information and education and condoms to reduce HIV transmission, and also providing HIV testing and counseling and treatment should people become infected.

Where the legal environment allows for harm reduction the results are striking. 

Australia and Switzerland were two countries which introduced harm reduction very early on in their HIV epidemics, and they have a very low rate of HIV among injecting drug users.

The U.S. and Malaysia came to harm reduction a little later, and they have higher rates of HIV in these populations.

Thailand and Russia, however, have resisted harm reduction and have stringent laws which punish drug use.

Where you criminalize people living with HIV or those at greatest risk, you fuel the epidemic.

Now coming up with a vaccine for HIV or a cure for AIDS -- now that's rocket science.

But changing the law isn't.

And in fact, a number of countries are starting to make progress on a number of points.

To begin, countries need to review their legislation as it touches HIV and vulnerable groups.

On the back of those reviews, governments should repeal laws that punish or discriminate against people living with HIV or those at greatest risk. 

But there's plenty you can do while that process is underway.

One of the key points is to reform the police so that they have better practices on the ground.

So for example, outreach workers who are distributing condoms to vulnerable populations are not themselves subject to police harassment or abuse or arbitrary arrest.

We can also train judges so that they find flexibilities in the law and so that they rule on the side of tolerance rather than prejudice.

We can retool prisons so that HIV prevention and harm reduction is available to prisoners. 

The key to all this is reinforcing civil society.

Because civil society is key to raising awareness among vulnerable groups of their legal rights.

But awareness needs action.

And so we need to ensure that these people who are living with HIV or at greatest risk of HIV have access to legal services and they have equal access to the courts.

And also important is talking to communities so that we change interpretations of religious or customary law, which is too often used to justify punishment and fuel stigma. 

For many of us here HIV is not an abstract threat.

It hits very close to home.

The law, on the other hand, can seem remote, arcane, the stuff of specialists, but it isn't.

Because for those of us who live in democracies, or in aspiring democracies, the law begins with us. 

Thank you. 

