There was this wondrous ending when people and fire fell asleep almost in unison.

It was dreaming time. 

Now my story has a lot to do with dreaming, although I'm known to make my dreams come true.

Last year, I created a one-man show.

For an hour and a half I shared with the audience a lifetime of creativity, how I pursue perfection, how I cheat the impossible. 

But here I am.

No, the best way for me to start is to pay my respects to the gods of creativity.

So please join me for a minute of silence. 

But hey, we're on TED time. 

When I was six years old, I fell in love with magic.

For Christmas I got a magic box and a very old book on card manipulation.

Somehow I was more interested in pure manipulation than in all the silly little tricks in the box.

Now I'm not supposed to share that with you, but I have to show you the card is hidden in the back of the hand.

Now that manipulation was broken down into seven moves described over seven pages.

The cards were bigger than my hands. 

Two months later, six years old, I'm able to do one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.

And I go to see a famous magician and proudly ask him, "Well what do you think?"

Six years old.

The magician looked at me and said, "This is a disaster.

Passion is the motto of all my actions.

As I'm studying magic, juggling is mentioned repeatedly as a great way to acquire dexterity and coordination.

Now I had long admired how fast and fluidly jugglers make objects fly.

Nothing to do with golf.

They have to be precisely lathed.

Oh, when I was buying the clubs, somehow the young juggler was hiding from the others.

Well I didn't think much of it at the time. 

Anyway, here I was progressing with my new clubs.

But I could not understand.

I was pretty fast, but I was not fluid at all.

The clubs were escaping me at each throw.

And I was trying constantly to bring them back to me.

Until one day I practiced in front of Francis Brunn, the world's greatest juggler.

And he was frowning.

And he finally asked, "Can I see those?"

Now I have been playing with ropes and climbing all my childhood, so that's it.

And I put the rope around and around and around and around and around till I had no more rope.

Now I have all of those ropes parallel like this.

I get a pair of pliers and some coat hangers, and I gather them together in some kind of ropey path.

Well within a few days I'm able to do one crossing.

So I cut one rope off.

And the next day one rope off.

And a few days later, I was practicing on a single tightrope.

Now you can imagine at that time I had to switch the ridiculous boots for some slippers.

So that is how -- in case there are people here in the audience who would like to try -- this is how not to learn wire walking. 

Intuition is a tool essential in my life.

I was starting to invent my own moves and bring them to perfection.

But nobody wanted to hire me.

So I started putting a wire up in secret and performing without permission.

Notre Dame, the Sydney Harbor Bridge, the World Trade Center.

And I developed a certitude, a faith that convinced me that I will get safely to the other side.

If not, I will never do that first step. 

Well nonetheless, on the top of the World Trade Center my first step was terrifying.

All of a sudden the density of the air is no longer the same.

Manhattan no longer spreads its infinity.

I step over the beam.

I put my left foot on the cable, the weight of my body raised on my right leg anchored to the flank of the building.

Shall I ever so slightly shift my weight to the left?

My right leg will be unburdened, my right foot will freely meet the wire.

On one side, a mass of a mountain, a life I know.

At my feet, the path to the north tower -- 60 yards of wire rope.

It's a straight line, which sags, which sways, which vibrates, which rolls on itself, which is ice, which is three tons tight, ready to explode, ready to swallow me.

But it is too late.

The wire is ready.

Decisively my other foot sets itself onto the cable. 

Faith is what replaces doubt in my dictionary. 

So after the walk people ask me, "How can you top that?"

Well I didn't have that problem.

I was not interested in collecting the gigantic, in breaking records.

Let's see, such as my street juggling, for example. 

But this here, this is not the street.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Each time I street juggle I use improvisation.

And since what's impossible is always unknown, it allows me to believe I can cheat the impossible. 

Now I have done the impossible not once, but many times.

Some years ago I was invited to open the Israel Festival by a high-wire walk.

And I chose to put my wire between the Arab quarters and the Jewish quarter of Jerusalem over the Ben Hinnom Valley.

And I thought it would be incredible if in the middle of the wire I stopped and, like a magician, I produce a dove and send her in the sky as a living symbol of peace. 

Well now I must say, it was a little bit hard to find a dove in Israel, but I got one.

I mean, a bird needs space to fly.

It will go perfectly on the day of the walk. 

Now comes the day of the walk.

Eighty thousand people spread over the entire valley.

The mayor of Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek, comes to wish me the best.

But he seemed nervous.

There was tension in my wire, but I also could feel tension on the ground.

Because all those people were made up of people who, for the most part, considered each other enemies. 

I stop in the middle.

I make the dove appear.

People applaud in delight.

And then in the most magnificent gesture, I send the bird of peace into the azure.

But the bird, instead of flying away, goes flop, flop, flop and lands on my head.

(Laughter) And people scream.

So I grab the dove, and for the second time I send her in the air.

But the dove, who obviously didn't go to flying school, goes flop, flop, flop and ends up at the end of my balancing pole. 

Now in the meantime, the audience, they go crazy.

They must think this guy with this dove, he must have spent years working with him.

What a genius, what a professional. 

And at the end I bang my hand against the pole to dislodge the bird.

And the entire valley goes crazy. 

Now but hold on, I'm not finished.

And something happened.

Somebody somewhere, a group of people, starts clapping in rhythm with my steps.

And within seconds the entire valley is applauding in unison with each of my steps.

But not an applause of delight like before, an applause encouragement.

For a moment, the entire crowd had forgotten their differences.

They had become one, pushing me to triumph. 

I want you just for a second to experience this amazing human symphony.

So let's say I am here and the chair is my arrival.

So I walk, you clap, everybody in unison. 

And he tells me, he has on his desk a picture of me in the middle of the wire with a dove on my head.

He didn't know the true story.

And when you see mountains, remember mountains can be moved. 

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

