So, I'm going to start off with kind of the buzzkill a little bit.

Forty-two million people were displaced by natural disasters in 2010.

Now, usually when people hear statistics or stats like that, you start thinking about places like Haiti or other kind of exotic or maybe even impoverished areas, but it happens right here in the United States every single year.

Now, how does the most powerful country in the world handle these displaced people?

They cram them onto cots, put all your personal belongings in a plastic garbage bag, stick it underneath, and put you on the floor of an entire sports arena, or a gymnasium. 

Before that time, people are left to their own devices. 

So I became obsessed with trying to figure out a way to actually fill this gap.

This actually became my creative obsession.

I put aside all my freelance work after hours and started just focusing particularly on this problem. 

So I started sketching.

It can be put up in any environment, from an asphalt parking lot to pastures or fields, because it doesn't require any special setup or specialty tools. 

Now, at the foundation and kind of the core of this whole system is the Exo Housing Unit, which is just the individual shelter module.

And though it's light, light enough that you can actually lift it by hand and move it around, and it actually sleeps four people. 

Now we have instant neighborhoods outside. 

In fact, 15 Exos can fit on a single semi truck by itself.

This means the Exo can actually be transported and set up faster than any other housing option available today.

Sounds like a great idea, but how do you make it real?

And we found through this whole process, we found this great little manufacturer in Virginia, and if his body language is any indication, that's the owner — (Laughter) — of what it's like for a manufacturer to work directly with a designer, you've got to see what happens here.

They actually built three prototypes for us by hand.

So now we have prototypes that can show that four people can actually sleep securely and much more comfortably than a tent could ever provide.

And they actually shipped them here to Texas for us.

Now, a funny thing started happening.

And on top of that, now we have a whole plethora of other individuals that have come up and started to talk to us from doing it for mining camps, mobile youth hostels, right down to the World Cup and the Olympics.

So, in closing, on this whole thing here is hopefully very soon we will not have to respond to these painful phone calls that we get after disasters where we don't really have anything to sell or give you yet.

