This is a thousand-year-old drawing of the brain.

It's a diagram of the visual system.

And some things look very familiar today.

Two eyes at the bottom, optic nerve flowing out from the back.

Imagine you wanted to understand how a computer works and all you could see was a keyboard, a mouse, a screen.

You really would be kind of out of luck.

You want to be able to open it up, crack it open, look at the wiring inside.

And up until a little more than a century ago, nobody was able to do that with the brain.

Nobody had had a glimpse of the brain's wiring. 

And that's because if you take a brain out of the skull and you cut a thin slice of it, put it under even a very powerful microscope, there's nothing there.

And this all changed in the late 19th century.

The computer was cracked open. 

So what really launched modern neuroscience was a stain called the Golgi stain.

And it works in a very particular way.

Instead of staining all of the cells inside of a tissue, it somehow only stains about one percent of them.

It clears the forest, reveals the trees inside.

If everything had been labeled, nothing would have been visible.

So somehow it shows what's there. 

And if you're thinking of the brain as a computer, this is the transistor.

Today, a century later, when researchers want to visualize neurons, they light them up from the inside rather than darkening them.

And there's several ways of doing this.

But one of the most popular ones involves green fluorescent protein.

Now green fluorescent protein, which oddly enough comes from a bioluminescent jellyfish, is very useful.

Because if you can get the gene for green fluorescent protein and deliver it to a cell, that cell will glow green -- or any of the many variants now of green fluorescent protein, you get a cell to glow many different colors. 

And so coming back to the brain, this is from a genetically engineered mouse called "Brainbow."

And it's so called, of course, because all of these neurons are glowing different colors. 

Now sometimes neuroscientists need to identify individual molecular components of neurons, molecules, rather than the entire cell.

And there's several ways of doing this, but one of the most popular ones involves using antibodies.

And you're familiar, of course, with antibodies as the henchmen of the immune system.

And a lot of the images I've been showing you here are very beautiful, but they're also very powerful.

They have great explanatory power.

This, for example, is an antibody staining against serotonin transporters in a slice of mouse brain. 

And you've heard of serotonin, of course, in the context of diseases like depression and anxiety.

You've heard of SSRIs, which are drugs that are used to treat these diseases.

And in order to understand how serotonin works, it's critical to understand where the serontonin machinery is.

And antibody stainings like this one can be used to understand that sort of question. 

I'd like to leave you with the following thought: Green fluorescent protein and antibodies are both totally natural products at the get-go.

They were evolved by nature in order to get a jellyfish to glow green for whatever reason, or in order to detect the coat protein of an invading virus, for example.

