I wanted to talk to you today about creative confidence.

I remember one day my best friend Brian was working on a project.

I never saw Brian do a project like that ever again. 

And I wonder how often that happens.

And some opt out thinking of themselves as creative at that point.

And I see that opting out that happens in childhood, and it moves in and becomes more ingrained, even by the time you get to adult life. 

So we see a lot of this.

When we have a workshop or when we have clients in to work with us side-by-side, eventually we get to the point in the process that's fuzzy or unconventional.

And eventually these bigshot executives whip out their Blackberries and they say they have to make really important phone calls, and they head for the exits.

And they're just so uncomfortable.

So I've been looking at this fear of judgment that we have.

That you don't do things, you're afraid you're going to be judged.

Bandura's 86 and he still works at Stanford.

And he's just a lovely guy. 

We talked about snakes and fear of snakes as a phobia. 

He told me that he'd invite the test subject in, and he'd say, "You know, there's a snake in the next room and we're going to go in there."

To which, he reported, most of them replied, "Hell no, I'm not going in there, certainly if there's a snake in there."

But Bandura has a step-by-step process that was super successful.

And he'd get them comfortable with that.

They tried harder, they persevered longer, and they were more resilient in the face of failure.

They just gained a new confidence.

That we could take people who had the fear that they weren't creative, and we could take them through a series of steps, kind of like a series of small successes, and they turn fear into familiarity, and they surprise themselves.

That transformation is amazing. 

And they're totally emotionally excited about the fact that they walk around thinking of themselves as a creative person. 

So I thought one of the things I'd do today is take you through and show you what this journey looks like.

To me, that journey looks like Doug Dietz.

Doug Dietz is a technical person.

He's worked for GE, and he's had a fantastic career.

But at one point he had a moment of crisis. 

And Doug was really disappointed to learn that nearly 80 percent of the pediatric patients in this hospital had to be sedated in order to deal with his MRI machine.

And this was really disappointing to Doug, because before this time he was proud of what he did.

And he would take this new knowledge and do something quite extraordinary.

He would redesign the entire experience of being scanned.

And this is what he came up with. 

He turned it into an adventure for the kids.

And now when the kid comes, it's an experience.

And the results were super dramatic.

So from something like 80 percent of the kids needing to be sedated, to something like 10 percent of the kids needing to be sedated.

And the hospital and GE were happy too.

Because you didn't have to call the anesthesiologist all the time, they could put more kids through the machine in a day.

So the quantitative results were great.

But Doug's results that he cared about were much more qualitative.

Doug's story takes place in a hospital.

I know a thing or two about hospitals.

I was told I had a 40 percent chance of survival. 

Mostly you think about, Am I going to survive?

And so there were lots of projects that I could work on.

And if I was going to survive, that's what I wanted to do.

I survived, just so you know. 

I really believe that when people gain this confidence -- and we see it all the time at the d.school and at IDEO -- they actually start working on the things that are really important in their lives.

And they just make better decisions. 

So I know at TED you're supposed to have a change-the-world kind of thing.

It would be really great if you didn't let people divide the world into the creatives and the non-creatives, like it's some God-given thing, and to have people realize that they're naturally creative.

Thank you. 

