So it turns out that mathematics is a very powerful language.

But I don't think that's right.

I want to show you a couple of examples why. 

So my collaborator Erez and I were considering the following fact: that two kings separated by centuries will speak a very different language.

That's a powerful historical force.

So Erez and I wanted to know more about that.

So we paid attention to a particular grammatical rule, past-tense conjugation.

Like the verb "to wed" that you see here has become regular. 

That's a piece of history, but it comes in a mathematical wrapping. 

Now in some cases math can even help explain, or propose explanations for, historical forces.

So here Steve Pinker and I were considering the magnitude of wars during the last two centuries.

So what kind of historical mechanism can produce that?

What's the origin of this? 

This is a very well-known feature in which we perceive quantities in relative ways -- quantities like the intensity of light or the loudness of a sound.

For instance, committing 10,000 soldiers to the next battle sounds like a lot.

It's relatively enormous if you've already committed 1,000 soldiers previously.

So you see that because of the way we perceive quantities, as the war drags on, the number of soldiers committed to it and the casualties will increase not linearly -- like 10,000, 11,000, 12,000 -- but exponentially -- 10,000, later 20,000, later 40,000.

And so that explains this pattern that we've seen before. 

So these types of examples, today there are just a few of them, but I think in the next decade they will become commonplace.

The reason for that is that the historical record is becoming digitized at a very fast pace.

Companies like Google have digitized many of them -- above 20 million actually.

And when the stuff of history is available in digital form, it makes it possible for a mathematical analysis to very quickly and very conveniently review trends in our history and our culture. 

And I think that mathematics will be a very powerful language to do that.

Thank you very much. 

