It's our tendency to overestimate our likelihood of experiencing good events in our lives and underestimate our likelihood of experiencing bad events.

So we underestimate our likelihood of suffering from cancer, being in a car accident.

We overestimate our longevity, our career prospects.

Take marriage for example.

In the Western world, divorce rates are about 40 percent.

That means that out of five married couples, two will end up splitting their assets.

But when you ask newlyweds about their own likelihood of divorce, they estimate it at zero percent.

And even divorce lawyers, who should really know better, hugely underestimate their own likelihood of divorce.

In the words of Samuel Johnson, "Remarriage is the triumph of hope over experience."

So if we're married, we're more likely to have kids.

And we all think our kids will be especially talented.

This, by the way, is my two-year-old nephew, Guy.

And I'm not alone.

Out of four British people, three said that they were optimistic about the future of their own families.

That's 75 percent.

But only 30 percent said that they thought families in general are doing better than a few generations ago. 

But private optimism about our own personal future remains persistent.

And it doesn't mean that we think things will magically turn out okay, but rather that we have the unique ability to make it so. 

Now I'm a scientist, I do experiments.

So to show you what I mean, I'm going to do an experiment here with you.

So I'm going to give you a list of abilities and characteristics, and I want you to think for each of these abilities where you stand relative to the rest of the population. 

The first one is getting along well with others.

Who here believes they're at the bottom 25 percent?

How interesting are you?

How attractive are you?

How honest are you?

And finally, how modest are you? 

So most of us put ourselves above average on most of these abilities.

Now this is statistically impossible.

We can't all be better than everyone else.

And it's a global phenomenon.

It's quite widespread. 

Some people say the secret to happiness is low expectations.

I think the logic goes something like this: If we don't expect greatness, if we don't expect to find love and be healthy and successful, well we're not going to be disappointed when these things don't happen.

Number one: Whatever happens, whether you succeed or you fail, people with high expectations always feel better.

Because how we feel when we get dumped or win employee of the month depends on how we interpret that event. 

The psychologists Margaret Marshall and John Brown studied students with high and low expectations.

And they found that when people with high expectations succeed, they attribute that success to their own traits.

Next time they will do better.

People with low expectations do the opposite.

Next time reality would catch up with them.

So they felt worse. 

Number two: Regardless of the outcome, the pure act of anticipation makes us happy.

The behavioral economist George Lowenstein asked students in his university to imagine getting a passionate kiss from a celebrity, any celebrity.

They were willing to pay extra in order to wait.

But three days seemed to be the optimum amount. 

So why is that?

Well if you get the kiss now, it's over and done with.

But if you get the kiss in three days, well that's three days of jittery anticipation, the thrill of the wait.

Anticipation made them happy. 

This is, by the way, why people prefer Friday to Sunday.

We know that, because when you ask people about their ultimate favorite day of the week, surprise, surprise, Saturday comes in at first, then Friday, then Sunday.

People prefer Friday because Friday brings with it the anticipation of the weekend ahead, all the plans that you have.

On Sunday, the only thing you can look forward to is the work week. 

So optimists are people who expect more kisses in their future, more strolls in the park.

And that anticipation enhances their wellbeing.

In fact, without the optimism bias, we would all be slightly depressed.

People with mild depression, they don't have a bias when they look into the future.

They're actually more realistic than healthy individuals.

But individuals with severe depression, they have a pessimistic bias.

So they tend to expect the future to be worse than it ends up being. 

So optimism changes subjective reality.

The way we expect the world to be changes the way we see it.

But it also changes objective reality.

It acts as a self-fulfilling prophecy.

Controlled experiments have shown that optimism is not only related to success, it leads to success.

Optimism leads to success in academia and sports and politics.

And maybe the most surprising benefit of optimism is health.

If we expect the future to be bright, stress and anxiety are reduced. 

So all in all, optimism has lots of benefits.

But the question that was really confusing to me was, how do we maintain optimism in the face of reality?

But this is not what we find.

We asked people to come into our lab in order to try and figure out what was going on. 

So, for example, what is your likelihood of suffering from cancer?

And then we told them the average likelihood of someone like them to suffer these misfortunes.

So cancer, for example, is about 30 percent.

And then we asked them again, "How likely are you to suffer from cancer?"

What we wanted to know was whether people will take the information that we gave them to change their beliefs.

And indeed they did -- but mostly when the information we gave them was better than what they expected.

So they learned quickly and efficiently.

But they didn't think that those numbers were related to them. 

What this means is that warning signs such as these may only have limited impact.

Yes, smoking kills, but mostly it kills the other guy. 

What I wanted to know was what was going on inside the human brain that prevented us from taking these warning signs personally.

But at the same time, when we hear that the housing market is hopeful, we think, "Oh, my house is definitely going to double in price."

To try and figure that out, I asked the participants in the experiment to lie in a brain imaging scanner.

It looks like this.

And using a method called functional MRI, we were able to identify regions in the brain that were responding to positive information. 

One of these regions is called the left inferior frontal gyrus.

The more optimistic you were, the less likely this region was to respond to unexpected negative information.

And if your brain is failing at integrating bad news about the future, you will constantly leave your rose-tinted spectacles on. 

So we wanted to know, could we change this?

Could we alter people's optimism bias by interfering with the brain activity in these regions?

And there's a way for us to do that. 

This is my collaborator Ryota Kanai.

And what he's doing is he's passing a small magnetic pulse through the skull of the participant in our study into their inferior frontal gyrus.

So let's see what happens.

First of all, I'm going to show you the average amount of bias that we see.

So if I was to test all of you now, this is the amount that you would learn more from good news relative to bad news.

Now we interfere with the region that we found to integrate negative information in this task, and the optimism bias grew even larger.

We made people more biased in the way that they process information.

Then we interfered with the brain region that we found to integrate good news in this task, and the optimism bias disappeared.

We were quite amazed by these results because we were able to eliminate a deep-rooted bias in humans. 

Take for example this email I recieved from a firefighter here in California.

So they have adjusted the 2012 Olympic budget for the optimism bias. 

My friend who's getting married in a few weeks has done the same for his wedding budget.

And by the way, when I asked him about his own likelihood of divorce, he said he was quite sure it was zero percent. 

And I believe there's a way for us to do that.

The key here really is knowledge.

We're not born with an innate understanding of our biases.

These have to be identified by scientific investigation.

But the good news is that becoming aware of the optimism bias does not shatter the illusion.

It's like visual illusions, in which understanding them does not make them go away.

I think this cartoon portrays it nicely.

Because if you're one of these pessimistic penguins up there who just does not believe they can fly, you certainly never will.

But if you are an extreme optimistic penguin who just jumps down blindly hoping for the best, you might find yourself in a bit of a mess when you hit the ground.

But if you're an optimistic penguin who believes they can fly, but then adjusts a parachute to your back just in case things don't work out exactly as you had planned, you will soar like an eagle, even if you're just a penguin. 

Thank you. 

