This was my world going into September, 2001. 

And over time, all the political and personal bravado that led me to the military dissolved, and for me, the Marine Corps became synonymous with my friends. 

And then, a few years into my service and months away from deploying to Iraq, I dislocated my sternum in a mountain-biking accident, and had to be medically separated.

Those never in the military may find this hard to understand, but being told I wasn't getting deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan was very devastating for me.

I have a very clear image of leaving the base hospital on a stretcher and my entire platoon is waiting outside to see if I was OK. 

And then, suddenly, I was a civilian again.

I mean, what can you really bitch about now, you know?

And I was relatively healthy; I can't imagine going through that process on top of a mental or physical injury.

But regardless, it was difficult.

while my friends were serving without me overseas.

But also, because I didn't know how to apply the things I learned in the military to a civilian context.

How diligently you followed those rules spoke volumes about the kind of Marine you were.

Your rank said something about your history and the respect you had earned. 

In the civilian world there's no rank.

And the respect civilians were giving me while I was in uniform didn't exist when I was out of it.

I was really, for the first time, discovering playwrights and characters and plays that had nothing to do with the military, but were somehow describing my military experience in a way that before to me was indescribable.

I saw my friends battling these circumstances, and I watched the anxiety it produced in them and me, not being able to express our feelings about it. 

The military and theater communities are actually very similar.

You have a role, you have to know your role within that team.

The point is more, how great would it be to have theater presented through characters that were accessible without being condescending.

And for an organization like the military, that prides itself on having acronyms for acronyms, you can get lost in the sauce when it comes to explaining a collective experience.

And I can think of no better community to arm with a new means of self-expression than those protecting our country. 

And for the performing artists we bring, it's a window into a culture they otherwise would not have had exposure to.

And for the military, it's the exact same. 

But it's also a service.

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Jesse Perez and Matt Johnson. 

(Beat) 

And I'm frickin' Batman. 

(Beat) 

(Beat) 

(Beat) 

And nobody calls Batman simple or stupid or skinny.

And nobody fires Batman's brother from the Eastern Taxi Company 'cause they was making cutbacks, neither.

(Beat) 

And half a block away from janitor man, there's a group of good-for-nothings who don't know no better, waiting for janitor man with rusted bicycle chains and imitation Louisville Sluggers, and if they don't find a cent on him, which they won't, they'll just pound at him till the muscles in their arms start burning, till there's no more teeth to crack out. 

But then ... one out of the three good-for-nothings gets it to the head -- pow! 

And number two swings blindly into the dark cape before him, but before his fist hits anything, I grab a trash can lid and -- right in the gut!

And number one comes back with the jump kick, but I know judo karate, too, so I'm like -- 

But before I can do any more damage, suddenly we all hear a "click-click."

(Beat) Bulletproof chest heaving, my heart beating right through it in a Morse code for: "Fuck with me just once come on just try."

(Beat) 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

