And my passion was inspired at the age of seven, when my parents first took me to Morocco, at the edge of the Sahara Desert.

And it made me want to explore more. 

So as a filmmaker, I've been from one end of the Earth to the other trying to get the perfect shot and to capture animal behavior never seen before.

And what's more, I'm really lucky, because I get to share that with millions of people worldwide.

Now the idea of having new perspectives of our planet and actually being able to get that message out gets me out of bed every day with a spring in my step. 

You might think that it's quite hard to find new stories and new subjects, but new technology is changing the way we can film.

Images of grizzly bears are pretty familiar.

You see them all the time, you think.

But there's a whole side to their lives that we hardly ever see and had never been filmed.

And the only way to film that is a shoot from the air. 

(Video) David Attenborough: Throughout Alaska and British Columbia, thousands of bear families are emerging from their winter sleep.

There is nothing to eat up here, but the conditions were ideal for hibernation.

Lots of snow in which to dig a den.

To find food, mothers must lead their cubs down to the coast, where the snow will already be melting.

But getting down can be a challenge for small cubs.

KB: I love that shot.

I always get goosebumps every time I see it.

But technology alone isn't enough.

The first year we got nothing.

We had to go back the following year, all the way back to the remote parts of Alaska.

And we hung around with a helicopter for two whole weeks.

And eventually we got lucky.

And we managed to get that magic moment. 

In 2005, a new species of bat was discovered in the cloud forests of Ecuador.

And what was amazing about that discovery is that it also solved the mystery of what pollinated a unique flower.

It depends solely on the bat. 

Now, the series hasn't even aired yet, so you're the very first to see this.

Necessity is the mother of evolution.

If human, he'd have a nine-foot tongue.

So imagine how quick that thing is in real life. 

There are so many wonderful places.

But some locations draw you back time and time again.

But at 15,000 feet, it's tough.

It's freezing cold, and that thin air really gets you.

And that pounding head just feels like a constant hangover.

Have a look. 

(Video) Narrator: Some 1,500 miles south of the tropics, between Chile and Bolivia, the Andes completely change.

Where deserts freeze and waters boil.

More like Mars than Earth, it seems just as hostile to life.

Some of the world's astronomers have telescopes nearby.

