I love my food.

And I love information.

(Laughter) 

But what I want to do in the next eight minutes or so is to take you through how those passions developed, the point in my life when the two passions merged, the journey of learning that took place from that point.

That was the family business.

And as a result of that, I grew up with books everywhere around the house.

And I mean books everywhere around the house.

And that's actually a shop in Calcutta, but it's a place where we like our books.

By the time I was 18, I had a deep passion for books.

It wasn't the only passion I had.

I was a South Indian brought up in Bengal.

And two of the things about Bengal: they like their savory dishes and they like their sweets.

So by the time I grew up, again, I had a well-established passion for food.

(Laughter) 

And apparently it's being remade right now and it's going to be coming out next year.

It's the story of this experimental robot which got electrocuted and found a life.

And I suddenly realized that for a robot both information as well as food were the same thing.

Energy came to it in some form or shape, data came to it in some form or shape.

And I began to think, I wonder what it would be like to start imagining myself as if energy and information were the two things I had as input -- as if food and information were similar in some form or shape. 

That actually for a given body mass of a primate the metabolic rate was static.

What changed was the balance of the tissues available.

And two of the most expensive tissues in our human body are nervous tissue and digestive tissue.

And the paper then suggested that you traded one for the other.

If you wanted your brain for a particular body mass to be large, you had to live with a smaller gut. 

That then set me off completely to say, Okay, these two are connected.

So I looked at the cultivation of information as if it were food and said, So we were hunter-gathers of information.

We moved from that to becoming farmers and cultivators of information. 

Does that really explain what we're seeing with the intellectual property battles nowadays?

Because those people who were hunter-gatherers in origin wanted to be free and roam and pick up information as they wanted, and those that were in the business of farming information wanted to build fences around it, create ownership and wealth and structure and settlement.

So there was always going to be a tension within that.

And everything I saw in the cultivation said there were huge fights amongst the foodies between the cultivators and the hunter-gatherers.

And this is happening here. 

The same is again true with information. 

But consumption was where it started getting really enjoyable.

Because what I began to see then was there were so many different ways people would consume this.

Do you go to a restaurant?

The same is true every time as I started thinking about information. 

The analogies were getting crazy -- that information had sell-by dates, that people had misused information that wasn't dated properly and could really make an effect on the stock market, on corporate values, etc.

And by this time I was hooked.

And this is about 23 years into this process. 

And I began to start thinking of myself as we start having mash-ups of fact and fiction, docu-dramas, mockumentaries, whatever you call it.

Are we going to reach the stage where information has a percentage for fact associated with it?

We start labeling information for the fact percentage?

Are we going to start looking at what happens when your information source is turned off, as a famine? 

Which brings me to the final element of this.

Clay Shirky once stated that there is no such animal as information overload, there is only filter failure.

I put it to you that information, if viewed from the point of food, is never a production issue; you never speak of food overload.

Fundamentally it's a consumption issue.

In fact, when I saw "Supersize Me," I starting thinking of saying, What would happen if an individual had 31 days nonstop Fox News?

(Laughter) Would there be time to be able to work with it? 

But I'd like to leave you with just that question: If you began to think of all the information that you consume the way you think of food, what would you do differently? 

Thank you very much for your time. 

