I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.

And the amount of time each of us is spending doing all of this is also continuing to go grow.

A recent study showed that the young generation alone is spending over eight hours a day online.

Today, what many of us would love to believe is that the Internet is a private place; it's not.

And with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen, we are like Hansel and Gretel leaving breadcrumbs of our personal information everywhere we travel through the digital woods.

We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence, our interests and preferences, our relationships, our financial histories, and on and on it goes. 

Now don't get me wrong, I'm not for one minute suggesting that sharing data is a bad thing.

In fact, when I know the data that's being shared and I'm asked explicitly for my consent, I want some sites to understand my habits.

It helps them suggest books for me to read or movies for my family to watch or friends for us to connect with.

But when I don't know and when I haven't been asked, that's when the problem arises.

It's a phenomenon on the Internet today called behavioral tracking, and it is very big business. 

In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us.

And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it.

This is an area today that has very few regulations and even fewer rules.

Except for some of the recent announcements here in the United States and in Europe, it's an area of consumer protection that's almost entirely naked. 

So let me expose this lurking industry a little bit further.

The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you.

The red dots you see up there are sites that are behavioral tracking that I have not navigated to, but are following me.

The blue dots are the sites that I've actually navigated directly to.

And the gray dots are sites that are also tracking me, but I have no idea who they are.

All of them are connected, as you can see, to form a picture of me on the Web.

And this is my profile. 

So let me go from an example to something very specific and personal.

I installed Collusion in my own laptop two weeks ago and I let it follow me around for what was a pretty typical day.

So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.

Now let me stop here.

We are not even two bites into breakfast and there are already nearly 25 sites that are tracking me.

I have navigated to a total of four. 

So let me fast-forward through the rest of my day.

All in all, there's over 150 sites that are now tracking my personal information, most all of them without my consent. 

And why is this happening?

Pretty simple -- it's huge business.

The revenue of the top handful of companies in this space is over 39 billion dollars today.

And as adults, we're certainly not alone.

This is a nine-year-old girl navigating to principally children's sites.

I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.

This is no longer me being a tech pioneer or a privacy advocate; this is me being a parent.

(Laughter) We can't sit idly by here either.

This is happening today. 

Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet.

Our voices matter and our actions matter even more. 

Today we've launched Collusion.

You can download it, install it in Firefox, to see who is tracking you across the Web and following you through the digital woods.

Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard.

We are being watched.

It's now time for us to watch the watchers. 

Thank you. 

