But we're less attuned to the nuances of the public.

What translates generic public space into qualitative space?

I mean, this is something that our studio has been working on for the past decade.

And we're doing this through some case studies. 

We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket.

So we've been eating, drinking, thinking, living public space for quite a long time.

It really goes beyond distinction. 

The Mall is a symbol of American democracy.

The Mall is the greatest civic stage in this country for dissent.

There is a huge disconnect, we believe, between the communicative and discursive space of the Mall and the museums that line it to either side.

And that is that those museums are usually passive, they have passive relationships between the museum as the presenter and the audience, as the receiver of information.

There should be a way of harnessing all of that intellectual and global energy into, and somehow through, the museum.

There should be some kind of brain trust. 

So the Hirshhorn, as we began to think about it, and as we evolved the mission, with Richard and his team -- it's really his life blood.

But beyond exhibiting contemporary art, the Hirshhorn will become a public forum, a place of discourse for issues around arts, culture, politics and policy.

It would have the global reach of the World Economic Forum.

And for this new initiative, the Hirshhorn would have to expand or appropriate a site for a contemporary, deployable structure. 

It's hulking, it's silent, it's cloistered, it's arrogant, it's a design challenge.

Architects love to hate it.

And around that space, the ring is actually galleries.

Almost four decades later, how will this building expand for a new progressive program?

Where would it go?

It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures.

How could it become iconic?

And what language would it take? 

Most are neoclassical, heavy and opaque, made of stone or concrete.

And the question is, if one inhabits that space, what is the material of the Mall?

It has to be different from the buildings there.

So this is the big idea.

It's a giant airbag.

The expansion takes the shape of its container and it oozes out wherever it can -- the top and sides.

But more poetically, we like to think of the structure as inhaling the democratic air of the Mall, bringing it into itself.

The before and the after. 

It was dubbed "the bubble" by the press.

That was the lounge.

It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction.

The membrane is translucent.

It's made of silcon-coated glass fiber.

And it's inflated twice a year for one month at a time. 

This is the view from the inside.

And one is there to preserve the dignity and sanctity of the Mall.

I blush whenever I show this.

It is yours to interpret. 

But one thing I can say is that it's a combination of iconoclasm and adoration.

There was also some creative interpretation involved.

The Congressional Buildings Act of 1910 limits the height of buildings in D.C. to 130 feet, except for spires, towers, domes and minarets.

This pretty much exempts monuments of the church and state.

It's about 1.2 million cubic feet of compressed air.

And so we argued it on the merits of being a dome. 

So there it is, very stately, among all the stately buildings in the Mall.

So it's down the hierarchy on lighting. 

It's taken off the delivery truck.

It's hoisted.

And then it's inflated with this low-pressure air.

And then it was really easy all the way through.

So we didn't really have that many hurdles, I have to say, with the government and all the authorities. 

This is the warp and weft.

This is a point cloud.

There are extreme pressures.

And this is the space in action.

So flexible interior for discussions, just like this, but in the round -- luminous and reconfigurable.

Could be used for anything, for performances, films, for installations.

And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations. 

Form and content are together here.

The bubble is an anti-monument.

The ideals of participatory democracy are represented through suppleness rather than rigidity. 

And the bubble will inflate hopefully for the first time at the end of 2013. 

Thank you. 

