When we think of games, there's all kinds of things.

All these things happen to me.

This is one my partner and I worked on.

This would be one of those tragically boring board games that you can figure out.

Or maybe you're in your living room, you know, playing with the Wii with the kids, or something like that, and, you know, there's this whole range of games, and that's very much what I think about.

But we think about games as fun, and that's completely reasonable, but let's just think about this.

So this one here, this is the 1980 Olympics.

And so this was just an amazing experience. 

So games, it means something more to us.

It absolutely means something more. 

So now, just, this is an abrupt transition here.

There was three years where I actually did have a real job, sort of.

And he goes all around the country taking pictures of himself, and you can see here he's got Zig's Indian Reservation.

And this is one of my favorite shots here.

And this is actually from his Degradation series.

Just imagine if that's a black guy.

So, "Honey, come here, let's get your picture with the black guy."

But every other medium does it. 

So she proceeded to tell me, and so any of you who are parents will recognize the bingo buzzwords here.

Pause for about 10 seconds. 

And so I happened to have all of these little pieces.

I'm a game designer, so I have this stuff sitting around my house.

So she's painting her little families.

And so, we made this game, and she got it.

She got it because she spent time with these people.

It wasn't abstract stuff in a brochure or in a movie. 

And so it was just an incredibly powerful experience.

This is the game, which I've ended up calling The New World, because I like the phrase.

I don't think the New World felt too new worldly exciting to the people who were brought over on slave ships. 

It's the entire history of my family in a single game. 

I made another game called Train.

I was making a series of six games that covered difficult topics, and if you're going to cover a difficult topic, this is one you need to cover, and I'll let you figure out what that's about on your own. 

And I also made a game about the Trail of Tears.

This is a game with 50,000 individual pieces.

I was crazy when I decided to start it, but I'm in the middle of it now.

It's the same thing.

I'm hoping that I'll teach culture through these games. 

And originally it was a math problem more or less.

Like, here's the economics of illegal immigration.

It's how they say they care, and you can't hear somebody talk about their Mexican grandmother without saying "food" in the first sentence.

And so to me, this beautiful culture, this beautiful expression is something that I want to capture through games. 

