What do you see?

For black men, the barbershop is not just a place where you get your hair cut or your beard trimmed.

No, it's much more than that.

Historically, the barbershop has been a safe haven for black men.

It's a place where we go for friendship, solidarity and solace.

It's a place where we go to get away from the stress of the grind of work and sometimes home life.

It's a place where we don't have to worry about how we're being perceived by the outside world.

It's a place where we don't feel threatened, or threatening.

It's a place of loyalty and trust.

For that reason, it's one of the few places where we can fearlessly be ourselves and just ... talk.

The talk, the shop talk, the conversation, that is the essence of the black barbershop. 

I can remember going to the barbershop with my dad as a kid.

We went to Mr. Mike's barbershop every other Saturday.

And like clockwork, the same group of men would be there every time we went, either waiting on their favorite barber or just soaking up the atmosphere. 

I can remember the jovial greeting that warmly welcomed us every time we went. 

I remember the range of the conversations was immense.

The men would talk about politics and sports and music and world news, national news, neighborhood news.

There was some talk about women and what it was like to be a black man in America.

But many times they also talked about health.

The conversations about health were lengthy and deep.

all ways to treat high blood pressure. 

There's a lot of talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop.

That's because almost 40 percent of black men have it.

That means that almost every single black man either has high blood pressure or knows a black man who has it. 

Sometimes, those conversations in the barbershop would be about what happens when high blood pressure is not adequately addressed. 

So why is high blood pressure so differentially deadly for black men?

Black men, in particular those with high blood pressure, are less likely to have a primary care doctor than other groups. 

But why?

Some of our earliest research on black men's health revealed that for many, the doctor's office is associated with fear, mistrust, disrespect, and unnecessary unpleasantness.

But herein lies the problem.

You can feel just fine while high blood pressure ravages your most vital organs. 

I've been lucky enough to have Denny as my barber for the last eight years. 

He said to me once, "Hey Doc, you know, lots of black men trust their barbers more than they trust their doctors."

Black men have been with their current barbers on average as long as I've been with Denny, about eight years.

And black men see their barbers about every two weeks.

Not only do you trust your barber with your look and with your style, but you also trust him with your secrets and sometimes your life.

Denny, like many barbers, is more than just an artist, a businessman and confidant.

He's a leader and a passionate advocate for the well-being of his community.

The very first time I walked into Denny Moe's shop, he wasn't just cutting hair.

He was also orchestrating a voter registration drive to give a voice to his customers and his community. 

With this kind of activism, and community investment that typifies the black barbershop, of course the barbershop is a perfect place to talk about high blood pressure and other health concerns in the community. 

First, the barbershop is not a medical setting, and so it doesn't have all the negative psychological baggage that comes along with that.

When you're in a barbershop, you're in your territory, and you're among friends who share your history, your struggle and your health risks. 

Second, because the barbershop is a place of connection, loyalty and trust, it's a place where you're more open to have a conversation about health and especially about high blood pressure.

After all, conversations about high blood pressure have all the elements of great shop talk: stress and high blood pressure, food and high blood pressure, relationships and high blood pressure, and yes, what it's like to be a black man in America and high blood pressure. 

But you can do more than just talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop.

You can concretely take action.

Here we have an opportunity to partner with the Denny Moe's of the world and empower communities to address the health inequities that uniquely affect it.

When high blood pressure screening expanded from clinics and hospitals to communities in the 1960s and '70s, black physicians like Dr. Eli Saunders in Baltimore and Dr. Keith Ferdinand in New Orleans were at the forefront of bringing health promotion to community hubs in urban black neighborhoods. 

These pioneers paved the way for my professional journey with barbershops and health, which began in Chicago in medical school. 

The very first research project that I worked on as a medical student was to help design healthcare interventions that would appeal to black men.

We conducted about a dozen focus groups with a broad cross-section of black men, and we learned that for them, being healthy was as much about being perceived as healthy as it was about feeling healthy, and that feeling good went hand in hand with looking good.

