It's a great honor to be here.

It's a great honor to be here talking about cities, talking about the future of cities.

It's great to be here as a mayor.

I really do believe that mayors have the political position to really change people's lives.

That's the place to be.

And it's great to be here as the mayor of Rio.

Rio's a beautiful city, a vibrant place, special place.

Actually, you're looking at a guy who has the best job in the world.

And I really wanted to share with you a very special moment of my life and the history of the city of Rio. 

(Video) Announcer: And now, ladies and gentlemen, the envelope containing the result.

Actually it was a very hard challenge.

We had to beat the European monarchy.

This is Juan Carlos, king of Spain.

We had to beat the powerful Japanese with all of their technology.

We had to beat the most powerful man in the world defending his own city.

So it was not easy at all.

And actually this last guy here said a phrase a few years ago that I think fits perfectly to the situation of Rio winning the Olympic bid.

We really showed that, yes, we can. 

And really, this is the reason I came here tonight.

I came here tonight to tell you that things can be done, that you don't have always to be rich or powerful to get things on the way, that cities are a great challenge.

It's a difficult task to deal with cities.

But with some original ways of getting things done, with some basic commandments, you can really get cities to be a great, great place to live.

And nobody showed that better than Carlos Saldanha in last year's "Rio."

We're like every big city in the world.

These pictures I'm showing here, they are some pictures from Madureira.

It's like the heart of the suburb in Rio.

So every time you see a concrete jungle like that, what you've got to do is find open spaces.

If you don't have open spaces, you've got to go there and open spaces.

So go inside these open spaces and make it that people can get inside and use those spaces.

This is going to be the third largest park in Rio by June this year.

It's going to be a place where people can meet, where you can put nature.

The temperature's going to drop two, three degrees centigrade.

So the first commandment I want to leave you tonight is, a city of the future has to be environmentally friendly.

So moving to our second commandment that I wanted to show you.

Let's think that cities are made of people, lots of people together.

cities are packed with people.

So how do you move these people around?

When you have 3.5 billion people living in cities -- by 2050, it's going to be 6 billion people.

So every time you think about moving these people around, you think about high-capacity transportation.

But there is a problem.

High-capacity transportation means spending lots and lots of money. 

So what I'm going to show here is something that was already presented in TED by the former mayor of Curitiba who created that, a city in Brazil, Jaime Lerner.

And it's something that we're doing, again, lots in Rio.

You transform it inside as a train car.

You use separate lanes, dedicated lanes.

The contractors, they don't like that.

You don't have to dig deep down underground.

You can build nice stations.

This is actually a station that we're doing in Rio.

Again, you don't have to dig deep down underground to make a station like that.

This station has the same comfort, the same features as a subway station.

A kilometer of this costs a tenth of a subway.

So spending much less money and doing it much faster, you can really change the way people move. 

This is a map of Rio.

All the lines, the colored lines you see there, it's our high-capacity transportation network.

In this present time today, we only carry 18 percent of our population in high-capacity transportation.

With the BRTs we're doing, again, the cheapest and fastest way, we're going to move to 63 percent of the population being carried by high-capacity transportation. 

You can find original ways to get things done.

So the second commandment I want to leave you tonight is, a city of the future has to deal with mobility and integration of its people. 

Moving to the third commandment.

And this is the most controversial one.

But the point we want to make here tonight is, favelas are not always a problem.

Let me just show a map of Rio again.

All these red parts are favelas.

So you see, they are spread all over the city.

This is a typical view of a favela in Rio.

You see the contrast between the rich and poor. 

So I want to make two points here tonight about favelas.

The first one is, you can change from what I call a [vicious] circle to a virtual circle.

But what you've got to do to get that is you've got to go inside the favelas, bring in the basic services -- mainly education and health -- with high quality.

I'm going to give a fast example here.

We call it a family clinic.

So the first point is bring basic services inside the favelas with high quality. 

The second point I want to make about the favelas is, you've got to open spaces in the favela.

Another example, this was completely packed with houses, and then we built this, what we call, a knowledge square.

This is a place with high technology where the kids that live in a poor house next to this place can go inside and have access to all technology.

We even built a theater there -- 3D movie.

And this is the kind of change you can get for that.

And by the end of the day you get something better than a TED Prize, which is this great laugh from a kid that lives in the favela.

So the third commandment I want to leave here tonight is, a city of the future has to be socially integrated.

You cannot deal with a city if it's not socially integrated. 

But moving to our fourth commandment, I really wouldn't be here tonight.

Between November and May, Rio's completely packed.

We have New Year's Eve.

There's like two million people on Copacabana Beach.

We have problems.

We fight floods, tropical rains at this time of the year.

You can imagine how people get happy with me watching these kinds of scenes.

We have problems with the tropical rains.

Almost every year we have these landslides, which are terrible. 

But the reason I could come here is because of that.

This was something we did with IBM that's a little bit more than a year old.

It's what we call the Operations Center of Rio.

We're going to speak now to the Operations Center.

So Osorio, good to be there with you.

I've already told the people that we have tropical rain this time of year.

So how's the weather in Rio now? 

Let me get you our weather satellite radar.

You see just a little bit of moisture around the city.

EP: Okay, how's the traffic?

We, at this time of year, get lots of traffic jams.

Osario: Well traffic tonight is fine.

Nothing of concern in terms of traffic.

I'll get to you now the incidents of the day.

We had heavy traffic early in the morning and in the rush hour in the afternoon, but nothing of big concern.

We are below average in terms of traffic incidents in the city. 

EP: Okay, so you're showing now some public services.

These are the cars. 

This is live transmission.

We have GPS's in all of our trucks.

And you can see them working in all parts of the city.

Waste collection on time.

Public services working well. 

EP: Okay, Osorio, thank you very much.

It was great to have you here.

We're going to move so that I can make a conclusion.

(Applause) Okay, so no files, this place, no paperwork, no distance, 24/7 working.

So the fourth commandment I want to share with you here tonight is, a city of the future has to use technology to be present.

I don't need to be there anymore to know and to administrate the city. 

But at the end of the day, when we talk about cities, we talk about a gathering of people.

And we cannot see that as a problem.

That is fantastic.

Thank you very much. 

