And a lot of us resonate with this phrase.

So we see it in religions and self-help books, that money can't buy happiness.

And I want to suggest today that, in fact, that's wrong.

So that instead of spending it the way you usually spend it, maybe if you spent it differently, that might work a little bit better.

And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.

We had a little natural experiment.

So CNN, a little while ago, wrote this interesting article on what happens to people when they win the lottery.

It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives are going to be amazing.

This article's about how their lives get ruined.

So what happens when people win the lottery is, number one, they spend all the money and go into debt, and number two, all of their friends and everyone they've ever met find them and bug them for money.

And it ruins their social relationships, in fact.

So they have more debt and worse friendships than they had before they won the lottery.

What was interesting about the article was people started commenting on the article, readers of the thing.

And here's just two of the ones we saw that are just really interesting to think about.

So I told you that it ruins people's lives and that their friends bug them.

It also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves.

Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.

And we thought, I wonder what would happen if we made people spend more of their money on other people.

So instead of being antisocial with your money, what if you were a little more prosocial with your money?

So the first way that we did this.

We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.

Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else."

Also inside the envelope was money.

And we manipulated how much money we gave them.

We found out that they did in fact spend it in the way that we asked them to.

We called them up at night and asked them, "What'd you spend it on, and how happy do you feel now?"

What did they spend it on?

Well these are college undergrads, so a lot of what they spent it on for themselves were things like earrings and makeup.

One woman said she bought a stuffed animal for her niece.

People gave money to homeless people.

Huge effect here of Starbucks.

(Laughter) So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.

But some people bought a coffee for themselves, the way they usually would, but other people said that they bought a coffee for somebody else.

So the very same purchase, just targeted toward yourself or targeted toward somebody else.

What did we find when we called them back at the end of the day?

People who spent money on other people got happier.

People who spent money on themselves, nothing happened.

It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them.

And the other thing we saw is the amount of money doesn't matter that much.

So people thought that 20 dollars would be way better than five dollars.

In fact, it doesn't matter how much money you spent.

What really matters is that you spent it on somebody else rather than on yourself.

We see this again and again when we give people money to spend on other people instead of on themselves.

We wanted to see if this holds true everywhere in the world or just among wealthy countries.

So we went, in fact, to Uganda and ran a very similar experiment.

Here's a guy from Canada.

Very similar thing.

Maybe you have something in mind, maybe not.

But then we see extraordinary differences.

So look at these two.

It's good to get gifts for people that you know.

Compare that to this woman from Uganda.

So it's a very small amount of money, in fact.

But enormously different motivations here.

Above, it's just kind of, I bought a gift for my mother.

So you don't have to do amazing things with your money to make yourself happy.

You can do small, trivial things and yet still get these benefits from doing this.

These are only two countries.

We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.

Or are they negatively correlated?

And you can see, the world is crazily green.

So in almost every country in the world where we have this data, people who give money to charity are happier people that people who don't give money to charity.

I know you're all looking at that red country in the middle.

So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.

What about your work life, which is where we spend all the rest of our time when we're not with the people we know.

We decided to infiltrate some companies and do a very similar thing.

So these are sales teams in Belgium.

They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.

So we can look and see how well they sell things as a function of being a member of a team.

Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.

Buy them something as a gift or a present and give it to them.

And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.

The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.

You actually lose money because it doesn't motivate them to perform any better.

But when you give them 15 euro to spend on their teammates, they do so much better on their teams that you actually get a huge win on investing this kind of money.

And basically that if he doesn't show me that it works here, I don't believe anything he said.

And I know what you're all thinking about are dodgeball teams.

(Laughter) This was a huge criticism that we got to say, if you can't show it with dodgeball teams, this is all stupid.

The teams that spend money on themselves are just the same winning percentages as they were before.

The teams that we give the money to spend on each other, they become different teams and, in fact, they dominate the league by the time they're done.

Across all of these different contexts -- your personal life, you work life, even silly things like intramural sports -- we see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself.

And so I'll just say, I think if you think money can't buy happiness you're not spending it right.

And we luckily have an opportunity for you.

Sometimes they send you pictures of them using the microscope.

It's an extraordinary thing.

Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.

