A few months ago the Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to two teams of astronomers for a discovery that has been hailed as one of the most important astronomical observations ever.

Now the idea of a multiverse is a strange one.

I mean, most of us were raised to believe that the word "universe" means everything.

But barring such an anomalous upbringing, it is strange to imagine other realms separate from ours, most with fundamentally different features, that would rightly be called universes of their own.

And yet, speculative though the idea surely is, I aim to convince you that there's reason for taking it seriously, as it just might be right.

I'm going to tell the story of the multiverse in three parts.

In part one, I'm going to describe those Nobel Prize-winning results and to highlight a profound mystery which those results revealed.

Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together. 

Now this was revolutionary.

The prevailing wisdom was that on the largest of scales the universe was static.

But even so, there was one thing that everyone was certain of: The expansion must be slowing down.

That, much as the gravitational pull of the Earth slows the ascent of an apple tossed upward, the gravitational pull of each galaxy on every other must be slowing the expansion of space. 

And they did this by painstaking observations of numerous distant galaxies, allowing them to chart how the expansion rate has changed over time.

That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.

Similarly, the astronomers' results are surely well-deserving of the Nobel Prize, but they raised an analogous question.

What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?

Well the most promising answer comes from an old idea of Einstein's.

You see, we are all used to gravity being a force that does one thing, pulls objects together.

But in Einstein's theory of gravity, his general theory of relativity, gravity can also push things apart. 

And this explanation represents great progress. 

But I promised you a mystery here in part one.

Here it is.

And the mystery is to explain this peculiar number.

We want this number to emerge from the laws of physics, but so far no one has found a way to do that. 

Now you might wonder, should you care?

Maybe explaining this number is just a technical issue, a technical detail of interest to experts, but of no relevance to anybody else.

Well it surely is a technical detail, but some details really matter.

So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.

First off, what is it?

Well it's an approach to realize Einstein's dream of a unified theory of physics, a single overarching framework that would be able to describe all the forces at work in the universe.

And the central idea of string theory is quite straightforward.

It says that if you examine any piece of matter ever more finely, at first you'll find molecules and then you'll find atoms and subatomic particles.

But the theory says that if you could probe smaller, much smaller than we can with existing technology, you'd find something else inside these particles -- a little tiny vibrating filament of energy, a little tiny vibrating string.

It's a compelling picture, a kind of cosmic symphony, where all the richness that we see in the world around us emerges from the music that these little, tiny strings can play. 

That is, we all know about the usual three dimensions of space.

But even though the dimensions are hidden, they would have an impact on things that we can observe because the shape of the extra dimensions constrains how the strings can vibrate.

And in string theory, vibration determines everything.

So particle masses, the strengths of forces, and most importantly, the amount of dark energy would be determined by the shape of the extra dimensions.

So if we knew the shape of the extra dimensions, we should be able to calculate these features, calculate the amount of dark energy. 

All we have is a list of candidate shapes allowed by the math.

So, what to do?

Well some researchers lost heart, concluding that was so many candidate shapes for the extra dimensions, each giving rise to different physical features, string theory would never make definitive, testable predictions.

But others turned this issue on its head, taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.

Each is as real as every other, in the sense that there are many universes, each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.

And this radical proposal has a profound impact on this mystery: the amount of dark energy revealed by the Nobel Prize-winning results. 

Because you see, if there are other universes, and if those universes each have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions, then the physical features of each universe will be different, and in particular, the amount of dark energy in each universe will be different.

Which means we have been asking the wrong question.

It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there? 

And that's a question on which we can make headway.

And in those universes that have much less dark energy, well they collapse back on themselves so quickly that, again, galaxies don't form.

So we find ourselves in a universe with the particular amount of dark energy we've measured simply because our universe has conditions hospitable to our form of life.

But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided. 

Kepler was asking the wrong question. 

We now know that there are many planets at a wide variety of different distances from their host stars.

So hoping that the laws of physics will explain one particular number, 93 million miles, well that is simply wrongheaded.

Instead the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance, instead of any of the other possibilities?

And again, that's a question we can answer.

Those planets which are much closer to a star like the Sun would be so hot that our form of life wouldn't exist.

And those planets that are much farther away from the star, well they're so cold that, again, our form of life would not take hold.

So we find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance simply because it yields conditions vital to our form of life.

And when it comes to planets and their distances, this clearly is the right kind of reasoning.

The point is, when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain, it may also be the right kind of reasoning. 

One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.

So to pull it all together, we need a mechanism that can actually generate other universes.

And that takes me to my final part, part three.

Because such a mechanism has been found by cosmologists trying to understand the Big Bang.

You see, when we speak of the Big Bang, we often have an image of a kind of cosmic explosion that created our universe and set space rushing outward. 

But there's a little secret.

The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important, the Bang.

It tells us how the universe evolved after the Bang, but gives us no insight into what would have powered the Bang itself.

And now, when we meld this with string theory, here's the picture we're led to.

The different shapes yield different physical features.

And we find ourselves in one universe instead of another simply because it's only in our universe that the physical features, like the amount of dark energy, are right for our form of life to take hold.

One big remaining question, of course, is, could we ever confirm the existence of other universes?

Well let me describe one way that might one day happen.

The inflationary theory already has strong observational support.

Going further, if there are other universes, the theory predicts that every so often those universes can collide.

And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.

And so exotic as this picture is, it may one day be grounded in observations, establishing the existence of other universes. 

I'll conclude with a striking implication of all these ideas for the very far future.

The light those galaxies emit, even traveling at the fastest speed, the speed of light, will not be able to overcome the ever-widening gulf between us.

Now maybe those future astronomers will have records handed down from an earlier era, like ours, attesting to an expanding cosmos teeming with galaxies.

Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.

and the message echoing across the ages is clear.

Sometimes nature guards her secrets with the unbreakable grip of physical law.

Sometimes the true nature of reality beckons from just beyond the horizon. 

Thank you very much. 

Chris Anderson: Brian, thank you.

The range of ideas you've just spoken about are dizzying, exhilarating, incredible.

Are we in the middle of something unusual historically in your opinion? 

So from that perspective, maybe we will always be asking questions and never be able to fully answer them. 

So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future. 

