Last January, my company, Fark.com, was sued along with Yahoo, MSN, Reddit, AOL, TechCrunch and others by a company called Gooseberry Natural Resources.

Gooseberry owned a patent for the creation and distribution of news releases via email.

(Laughter) Now it may seem kind of strange that such a thing can actually be patented, but it does happen all the time. 

Take something already being done and patent it for an emerging technology -- like phone calls on the internet or video listings for TV shows or radio but for cellphones, and so on.

And because these settlements are under a non-disclosure agreement, no one knows what the terms were.

And as a result, the patent troll can claim that they won the case. 

Wrong. 

And this can take quite a while.

That is your best case outcome when you get sued by a patent troll. 

And they started settling out.

It would also constitute a massive distraction for management of a company, especially a small eight-man shop like my company. 

Six months into the lawsuit, we finally reached the discovery phase.

And in discovery phase, we asked the patent troll to please provide screenshots of Fark where the infringement of their patent was actually occurring.

Now perhaps it's because no such screenshots actually existed, but suddenly Gooseberry wanted to settle.

(Laughter) But they settled.

No counter offer. 

Now, as mentioned before, one of the reasons I can talk to you about this is because there's no non-disclosure agreement on this case.

Now how did that happen?

They're not under NDA either. 

First of all, if you can, don't fight the patent, fight the infringement.

Patents are very difficult to overturn.

Infringement is a lot easier to disprove.

Secondly, make it clear from the beginning that either you have no money at all or that you would rather spend money with your attorney fighting the troll than actually giving them the money.

Now the reason this works is because patent trolls are paid a percentage of what they're able to recover in settlements.

If it becomes clear to them that they cannot recover any money, they become less interested in pursuing the case. 

Finally, make sure that you can tell them that you will make this process as annoying and as painful and as difficult as possible for them.

Now this is a tactic that patent trolls are supposed to use on people to get their way.

It turns out, because they're paid on contingency, it works really, really well in reverse.

Don't forget that. 

So what does all this mean?

(Applause) Patent trolls have done more damage to the United States economy than any domestic or foreign terrorist organization in history every year.

And what do they do with that money?

They plow it right back into filing more troll lawsuits. 

Now this is the point in the Talk where I'm supposed to come up with some kind of a solution for the patent system.

And the problem with that is that there are two very large industry groups that have different outcomes in mind for the patent system.

The health care industry would like stronger protections for inventors.

The hi-tech industry would like stronger protections for producers.

So unfortunately I'm not smart enough to have a solution for the patent troll problem.

Thank you. 

