This year, if you think about it, over a billion couples will have sex with one another.

And they should be able to use one of these birth control methods to act on their decision.

Now, I think you'd have a hard time finding many people who disagree with this idea.

Over one billion people use birth control without any hesitation at all.

Some people worry that the real goal of family planning is to control populations.

These are all side issues that have attached themselves to this core idea that men and women should be able to decide when they want to have a child.

And as a result, birth control has almost completely and totally disappeared from the global health agenda. 

The victims of this paralysis are the people of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.

Their contraception rate -- 29 percent.

Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, 10 percent.

Chad, 2 percent.

One reason is that the most popular contraceptives are rarely available.

The problem is every other time a woman goes into a clinic in Senegal, that injection is stocked out.

It's stocked out 150 days out of the year.

This is the same story across the continent of Africa today. 

I know everyone wants to save these mothers and these children.

So if we're going to make progress on this issue, we have to be really clear about what our agenda is.

And I think as long as we're really clear about what our agenda is, there's a global movement waiting to happen and ready to get behind this totally uncontroversial idea. 

I was very close to her.

And I went to Catholic schools for my entire childhood until I left home to go to university.

In my high school, Ursuline Academy, the nuns made service and social justice a high priority in the school.

Today, in the [Gates] Foundation's work, I believe I'm applying the lessons that I learned in high school. 

So, in the tradition of Catholic scholars, the nuns also taught us to question received teachings.

And one of the teachings that we girls and my peers questioned was is birth control really a sin?

Because I think one of the reasons we have this huge discomfort talking about contraception is this lingering concern that if we separate sex from reproduction, we're going to promote promiscuity.

I still remember, though, when I left my parents' home to move across the country to start this new job at Microsoft.

They had sacrificed a lot to give me five years of higher education.

And so now, Bill and I have three.

And so we waited a little while before we had our second child.

Now, as a mother, what do I want the very most for my children?

And so, what has struck me as I've travelled the last decade for the foundation around the world is that all women want that same thing. 

Last year, I was in Nairobi, in the slums, in one called Korogocho -- which literally means when translated, "standing shoulder to shoulder."

Marianne, in the center of the screen in the red sweater, she summed up that entire two-hour conversation in a phrase that I will never forget.

We all want to bring every good thing to our children. 

But what's not universal is our ability to provide every good thing.

There are many women who lack basic education.

Even many of the women who do have knowledge and do have power don't have access to contraceptives. 

The reason that trend toward smaller families spread was that this whole way was driven by an idea -- the idea that couples can exercise conscious control over how many children they have.

This is a very powerful idea.

It means that parents have the ability to affect the future, not just accept it as it is. 

In France, the average family size went down every decade for 150 years in a row until it stabilized.

It took so long back then because the contraceptives weren't that good.

In Germany, this transition started in the 1880s, and it took just 50 years for family size to stabilize in this country.

And in Asia and Latin America, the transition started in the 1960s, and it happened much faster because of modern contraception. 

For instance, in the 1960s, India adopted very specific numeric targets and they paid women to accept having an IUD placed in their bodies.

They waited a few hours or a few days, and they went to another service provider and had the IUD removed for one rupee.

For decades in the United States, African-American women were sterilized without their consent.

And as recently as the 1990s, in Peru, women from the Andes region were given anesthesia and they were sterilized without their knowledge. 

Because in region after region, again and again, parents have wanted to have smaller families.

There's no reason to believe that African women have innately different desires.

Given the option, they will have fewer children.

Or, are we going to condemn them to some century-long struggle, as if this was still revolutionary France and the best method was coitus interruptus? 

Empowering parents -- it doesn't need justification.

But here's the thing -- our desire to bring every good thing to our children is a force for good throughout the world.

It's what propels societies forward.

She was incredibly optimistic about her family's future.

They are able to give their children more opportunities by exercising control over when they have them. 

Finally, their sons and daughters had more schooling.

So when you multiply these types of effects over millions of families, the product can be large-scale economic development.

When they make that change and that decision, those become sweeping regional and national trends.

When families in sub-Saharan Africa are given the opportunity to make those decisions for themselves, I think it will help spark a virtuous cycle of development in communities across the continent.

And for that to happen, it means that both rich and poor governments alike must make contraception a total priority.

I think if Marianne and the members of her women's group can talk about this openly and have this discussion out amongst themselves and in public, we can, too.

And we need to start now.

Because like Marianne, we all want to bring every good thing to our children.

And where is the controversy in that?

Thank you. 

I have some questions for Melinda. 

Melinda Gates: If you look at the statistics across Africa, they are wrong.

And I think we need to look at it, though, from a different lens.

We need to look at it from the ground upwards.

I think that's one of the reasons we got ourselves in so much trouble on this issue of contraception.

But the choices have to be made at the family level.

MG: I would say that sex is absolutely sacred.

And it's sacred in Germany, and it's sacred in the United States, and it's sacred in France and so many places around the world.

And the fact that 98 percent of women in my country who are sexually experienced say they use birth control doesn't make sex any less sacred.

It just means that they're getting to make choices about their lives.

And I think in that choice, we're also honoring the sacredness of the family and the sacredness of the mother's life and the childrens' lives by saving their lives.

To me, that's incredibly sacred, too. 

CA: So what is your foundation doing to promote this issue?

Tell your story about how contraception has either changed your life or somebody's life that you know.

And say that you're for this.

We need a groundswell of people saying, "This makes sense.

We've got to give all women access -- no matter where they live."

CA: Melinda, I'm guessing that some of those nuns who taught you at school are going to see this TED Talk at some point.

Are they going to be horrified, or are they cheering you on? 

And, you know, the nuns who taught me were incredibly progressive.

I have come to feel incredibly passionate about this issue because of what I've seen in the developing world.

And for me, this topic has become very close to heart because you meet these women and they are so often voiceless.

CA: So, you and your team brought together today an amazing group of speakers to whom we're all grateful.

Did you learn anything? 

And I think a lot of this work is a journey.

And it's the questions you ask.

So I have lots of questions for the panelists from today.

And I thought it was just an amazing day. 

CA: Melinda, thank you for inviting all of us on this journey with you. 

