I was born in Den Bosch, where the painter Hieronymus Bosch named himself after.

And so I've always been very fond of this painter who lived and worked in the 15th century.

And what is interesting about him in relation to morality is that he lived at a time where religion's influence was waning, and he was sort of wondering, I think, what would happen with society if there was no religion or if there was less religion.

And so it makes you wonder, what would happen if we hadn't tasted the fruit of knowledge, so to speak, and what kind of morality would we have? 

And so it makes you wonder, what would happen if we hadn't tasted the fruit of knowledge, so to speak, and what kind of morality would we have? 

Much later, as a student, I went to a very different garden, a zoological garden in Arnhem where we keep chimpanzees.

This is me at an early age with a baby chimpanzee.

(Laughter) And I discovered there that the chimpanzees are very power hungry and wrote a book about it.

And at that time the focus in a lot of animal research was on aggression and competition.

I painted a whole picture of the animal kingdom, and humanity included, was that deep down we are competitors, we are aggressive, we're all out for our own profit basically.

This is the launch of my book.

I'm not sure how well the chimpanzees read it, but they surely seemed interested in the book. 

Now in the process of doing all this work on power and dominance and aggression and so on, I discovered that chimpanzees reconcile after fights.

And so what you see here is two males who have had a fight.

They ended up in a tree, and one of them holds out a hand to the other.

And about a second after I took the picture, they came together in the fork of the tree and they kissed and embraced each other. 

Now this is very interesting because at the time everything was about competition and aggression, and so it wouldn't make any sense.

The only thing that matters is that you win or that you lose.

But why would you reconcile after a fight?

But the principle is exactly the same.

The principle is that you have a valuable relationship that is damaged by conflict, so you need to do something about it.

So my whole picture of the animal kingdom, and including humans also, started to change at that time. 

I think it's a very unfair image for the wolf.

The wolf is, after all, a very cooperative animal.

And that's why many of you have a dog at home, which has all these characteristics also.

So these are the pillars of morality.

And human morality is more than this, but if you would remove these two pillars, there would be not much remaining I think.

And so they're absolutely essential. 

So let me give you a few examples here.

This is a very old video from the Yerkes Primate Center where they train chimpanzees to cooperate.

["1937"] So this is already about a hundred years ago that we were doing experiments on cooperation.

What you have here is two young chimpanzees who have a box, and the box is too heavy for one chimp to pull in.

And of course, there's food on the box.

Otherwise they wouldn't be pulling so hard.

You can see that they work together, they pull at the same moment.

It's already a big advance over many other animals who wouldn't be able to do that.

And now you're going to get a more interesting picture, because now one of the two chimps has been fed.

So one of the two is not really interested in the task anymore.

(Laughter) He takes basically everything. 

(Laughter) He takes basically everything. 

(Laughter) He takes basically everything. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

There's actually a lot of evidence in primates and other animals that they return favors.

So he will get a return favor at some point in the future.

And so that's how this all operates. 

We do the same task with elephants.

Now with elephants, it's very dangerous to work with elephants.

Another problem with elephants is that you cannot make an apparatus that is too heavy for a single elephant.

Now you can probably make it, but it's going to be a pretty flimsy apparatus I think.

So two elephants need to pick it up at exactly the same time and pull.

Otherwise nothing is going to happen and the rope disappears. 

And the first tape you're going to see is two elephants who are released together arrive at the apparatus.

The apparatus is on the left with food on it.

And so they come together, they arrive together, they pick it up together and they pull together.

So it's actually fairly simple for them.

There they are.

And so that's how they bring it in.

But now we're going to make it more difficult.

Because the whole purpose of this experiment is to see how well they understand cooperation.

Do they understand that as well as the chimps, for example? 

Now this elephant does something illegal that we did not teach it.

So it's what we call freeloading.

(Laughter) But it shows the intelligence that the elephants have.

They develop several of these alternative techniques that we did not approve of necessarily.

(Laughter) This was the cooperation, reciprocity part. 

(Laughter) This was the cooperation, reciprocity part. 

(Laughter) This was the cooperation, reciprocity part. 

Now something on empathy.

Empathy is my main topic at the moment of research.

And so empathy has basically two channels. 

One is the body channel.

If you talk with a sad person, you're going to adopt a sad expression and a sad posture, and before you know it you feel sad.

And that's sort of the body channel of emotional empathy, which many animals have.

Your average dog has that also.

That's actually why people keep mammals in the home and not turtles or snakes or something like that who don't have that kind of empathy.

And then there's a cognitive channel, which is more that you can take the perspective of somebody else.

So synchronization, which is part of that whole empathy mechanism is a very old one in the animal kingdom.

And in humans, of course, we can study that with yawn contagion.

Humans yawn when others yawn.

Also, we know that people who have a lot of yawn contagion are highly empathic.

People who have problems with empathy, such as autistic children, they don't have yawn contagion.

So it is connected. 

And we study that in our chimpanzees by presenting them with an animated head.

(Laughter) So yawn contagion that you're probably all familiar with -- and maybe you're going to start yawning soon now -- is something that we share with other animals.

And that's related to that whole body channel of synchronization that underlies empathy and that is universal in the mammals basically. 

And consolation behavior, it's empathy driven.

Actually the way to study empathy in human children is to instruct a family member to act distressed, and then they see what young children do.

And so it is related to empathy, and that's the kind of expressions we look at. 

We also recently published an experiment you may have heard about.

It's on altruism and chimpanzees where the question is, do chimpanzees care about the welfare of somebody else?

And for decades it had been assumed that only humans can do that, that only humans worry about the welfare of somebody else.

Now we did a very simple experiment.

We do that on chimpanzees that live in Lawrenceville, in the field station of Yerkes.

And so that's how they live.

And we call them into a room and do experiments with them.

In this case, we put two chimpanzees side-by-side.

So this is a study we did with Vicky Horner.

And here you have the two color tokens.

You will see how that goes.

Then the next one is the pro-social token. 

And if the partner puts pressure on them -- so if the partner starts spitting water and intimidating them -- then the choices go down.

It's as if they're saying, "If you're not behaving, I'm not going to be pro-social today."

And this is what happens without a partner, when there's no partner sitting there.

And so we found that the chimpanzees do care about the well-being of somebody else -- especially, these are other members of their own group. 

So the final experiment that I want to mention to you is our fairness study.

It has now been done with dogs and with birds and with chimpanzees.

But with Sarah Brosnan we started out with capuchin monkeys. 

We take them out of the group, put them in a test chamber.

And there's a very simple task that they need to do.

And if you give both of them cucumber for the task, the two monkeys side-by-side, they're perfectly willing to do this 25 times in a row.

So cucumber, even though it's only really water in my opinion, but cucumber is perfectly fine for them.

Now if you give the partner grapes -- the food preferences of my capuchin monkeys correspond exactly with the prices in the supermarket -- and so if you give them grapes -- it's a far better food -- then you create inequity between them.

So that's the experiment we did. 

Recently we videotaped it with new monkeys who'd never done the task, thinking that maybe they would have a stronger reaction, and that turned out to be right.

The other one needs to give a rock to us.

The other one sees that.

She gives a rock to us now, gets, again, cucumber.

(Laughter) She tests a rock now against the wall.

She needs to give it to us.

And she gets cucumber again.

(Laughter) So this is basically the Wall Street protest that you see here. 

(Laughter) So this is basically the Wall Street protest that you see here. 

(Laughter) So this is basically the Wall Street protest that you see here. 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Let me tell you -- I still have two minutes left, let me tell you a funny story about this.

This study became very famous and we got a lot of comments, especially anthropologists, economists, philosophers.

They didn't like this at all.

Because they had decided in their minds, I believe, that fairness is a very complex issue and that animals cannot have it.

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

(Laughter) 

Now another one wrote a whole chapter saying that he would believe it had something to do with fairness if the one who got grapes would refuse the grapes.

Now the funny thing is that Sarah Brosnan, who's been doing this with chimpanzees, had a couple of combinations of chimpanzees where, indeed, the one who would get the grape would refuse the grape until the other guy also got a grape.

So we're getting very close to the human sense of fairness.

And I think philosophers need to rethink their philosophy for awhile. 

I think morality is much more than what I've been talking about, but it would be impossible without these ingredients that we find in other primates, which are empathy and consolation, pro-social tendencies and reciprocity and a sense of fairness.

And so we work on these particular issues to see if we can create a morality from the bottom up, so to speak, without necessarily God and religion involved, and to see how we can get to an evolved morality. 

And I thank you for your attention. 

