It all started with a crazy idea in November of 2004.

I asked people to anonymously share an artful secret they'd never told anyone before.

But soon the idea began spreading virally.

People began to buy their own postcards and make their own postcards.

Soon my crazy idea didn't seem so crazy.

PostSecret.com is the most visited advertisement-free blog in the world.

And this is my postcard collection today.

You can see my wife struggling to stack a brick of postcards on a pyramid of over a half-million secrets. 

They can be shocking or silly or soulful.

They can connect us to our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet.

(Laughter) Maybe one of you sent this one in.

I don't know.

This one does a great job of demonstrating the creativity that people have when they make and mail me a postcard.

This one obviously was made out of half a Starbucks cup with a stamp and my home address written on the other side. 

This next one takes a little explanation before I share it with you.

I love to speak on college campuses and share secrets and the stories with students.

And sometimes afterwards I'll stick around and sign books and take photos with students.

And this next postcard was made out of one of those photos.

And I should also mention that, just like today, at that PostSecret event, I was using a wireless microphone.

Matty was inspired by that secret to start his own website, a website called IFoundYourCamera.

And people come to visit to see if they can identify a picture they've lost or help somebody else get the photos back to them that they might be desperately searching for.

This one's my favorite. 

Matty has found this ingenious way to leverage the kindness of strangers.

Matty shared with me an emotional email he received from the mother in that picture.

This is the last postcard I have to share with you today.

They said that by preserving those voices and sharing them, it helped them keep the spirit of their loved ones alive.

One young girl posted the last message she ever heard from her grandmother. 

They can connect us with our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet again. 

Voicemail recording: First saved voice message.

FW: Thank you. 

Thank you. 

June Cohen: Frank, that was beautiful, so touching.

Have you ever sent yourself a postcard?

Have you ever sent in a secret to PostSecret? 

FW: I have one of my own secrets in every book.

I think in some ways, the reason I started the project, even though I didn't know it at the time, was because I was struggling with my own secrets.

And it was through crowd-sourcing, it was through the kindness that strangers were showing me, that I could uncover parts of my past that were haunting me. 

JC: And has anyone ever discovered which secret was yours in the book?

Has anyone in your life been able to tell? 

FW: Sometimes I share that information, yeah. 

