But first, I want to take you on a little journey.

Let's first visit our planet, but at night, and from space.

But let's go back and drop it a little deeper and look during the daytime.

What we see during the day is our landscapes. 

This is part of the Amazon Basin, a place called Rondônia in the south-center part of the Brazilian Amazon.

But this kind of fishbone pattern of deforestation is something we notice a lot of around the tropics, especially in this part of the world. 

Let's come back again a few years later, here in 2003, and we'll see that that landscape actually looks a lot more like Iowa than it does like a rainforest.

In fact, what you're seeing here are soybean fields.

Well, again and again, what we find as we look around the world in our little tour of the world is that landscape after landscape after landscape have been cleared and altered for growing food and other crops. 

So one of the questions we've been asking is, how much of the world is used to grow food, and where is it exactly, and how can we change that into the future, and what does it mean?

This map shows the presence of agriculture on planet Earth.

The green areas are the areas we use to grow crops, like wheat or soybeans or corn or rice or whatever.

That's 16 million square kilometers' worth of land.

If you put it all together in one place, it'd be the size of South America.

The second area, in brown, is the world's pastures and rangelands, where our animals live.

We're using a planet's worth of land already.

Half of humanity lives in cities today, but a 60-times-larger area is used to grow food.

So we're using an enormous amount of land for agriculture, but also we're using a lot of water.

Now, the irony is, it's probably sold in our supermarket shelves in the Twin Cities.

But what's really interesting is, this water's got to come from some place, and it comes from here, the Colorado River in North America.

But if we come back today, during a normal condition to the exact same location, this is what's left.

The difference is mainly irrigating the desert for food, or maybe golf courses in Scottsdale, you take your pick.

We've literally consumed an entire river in North America for irrigation. 

Well, that's not even the worst example in the world.

This probably is: the Aral Sea.

Now, a lot you will remember this from your geography classes.

This is in the former Soviet Union in between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, one of the great inland seas of the world.

The reason it's here is because, on the right-hand side, you see two little rivers kind of coming down through the sand, feeding this basin with water.

It's pretty extraordinary.

This is not only a change in water and where the shoreline is, this is a change in the fundamentals of the environment of this region.

Let's start with this.

The Soviet Union didn't really have a Sierra Club.

Let's put it that way.

So what you find in the bottom of the Aral Sea ain't pretty.

There's a lot of toxic waste, a lot of things that were dumped there that are now becoming airborne.

One of those small islands that was remote and impossible to get to was a site of Soviet biological weapons testing.

You can walk there today.

Weather patterns have changed.

Nineteen of the unique 20 fish species found only in the Aral Sea are now wiped off the face of the Earth.

This is an environmental disaster writ large. 

But let's bring it home.

You see the canal they dug?

I don't know about you, but I'm terrified that future archaeologists will dig this up and write stories about our time in history, and wonder, "What were you thinking?"

Well, that's the future we have to look forward to. 

We already use about 50 percent of the Earth's fresh water that's sustainable, and agriculture alone is 70 percent of that.

So we use a lot of water, a lot of land for agriculture.

We also use a lot of the atmosphere for agriculture.

If you look at carbon dioxide from burning tropical rainforest, or methane coming from cows and rice, or nitrous oxide from too many fertilizers, it turns out agriculture is 30 percent of the greenhouse gases going into the atmosphere from human activity.

It's the single largest emitter of greenhouse gases of any human activity in the world.

And yet, we don't talk about it very much. 

We've doubled the flows of nitrogen and phosphorus around the world simply by using fertilizers, causing huge problems of water quality from rivers, lakes, and even oceans, and it's also the single biggest driver of biodiversity loss.

So without a doubt, agriculture is the single most powerful force unleashed on this planet since the end of the ice age.

And it rivals climate change in importance.

And they're both happening at the same time. 

More importantly, changing diets.

We could farm more land, but the problem is the remaining lands are in sensitive areas.

They have a lot of biodiversity, a lot of carbon, things we want to protect.

Instead, we maybe want to freeze the footprint of agriculture and farm the lands we have better.

This is work that we're doing to try to highlight places in the world where we could improve yields without harming the environment.

You see a lot of this in Africa, even Latin America, but interestingly, Eastern Europe, where Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc countries used to be, is still a mess agriculturally.

Now, this would require nutrients and water.

It's going to either be organic or conventional or some mix of the two to deliver that.

Plants need water and nutrients.

But we can do this, and there are opportunities to make this work. 

But we have to do it in a way that is sensitive to meeting the food security needs of the future and the environmental security needs of the future.

We have to figure out how to make this tradeoff between growing food and having a healthy environment work better. 

We need to figure out how to bring both of those together into a new kind of agriculture that brings them all together. 

(Music) ("Institute on the Environment, University of Minnesota: Driven to Discover") (Music) ("The world population is growing by 75 million people each year.

That's almost the size of Germany.

Today, we're nearing 7 billion people.

At this rate, we'll reach 9 billion people by 2040.

And we all need food.

But how?

How do we feed a growing world without destroying the planet?

We already know climate change is a big problem.

But it's not the only problem.

We need to face 'the other inconvenient truth.'

A global crisis in agriculture.

Global croplands cover 16 million km².

That's almost the size of South America.

Global pastures cover 30 million km².

That's the size of Africa.

Agriculture uses 60 times more land than urban and suburban areas combined.

Irrigation is the biggest use of water on the planet.

We use 2,800 cubic kilometers of water on crops every year.

That's enough to fill 7,305 Empire State Buildings every day.

Today, many large rivers have reduced flows.

Some dry up altogether.

Fertilizers have more than doubled the phosphorus and nitrogen in the environment.

The consequence?

Widespread water pollution and massive degradation of lakes and rivers.

Surprisingly, agriculture is the biggest contributor to climate change.

It generates 30% of greenhouse gas emissions.

That's more than the emissions from all electricity and industry, or from all the world's planes, trains and automobiles.

Most agricultural emissions come from tropical deforestation, methane from animals and rice fields, and nitrous oxide from over-fertilizing.

There is nothing we do that transforms the world more than agriculture.

And there's nothing we do that is more crucial to our survival.

So where do we go from here?

We need a bigger conversation, an international dialogue.

Advocates of commercial agriculture, environmental conservation, and organic farming... must work together.

There is no single solution.

