Just a moment ago, my daughter Rebecca texted me for good luck.

Getting that text was like getting a hug.

I'm a woman who loves getting texts who's going to tell you that too many of them can be a problem. 

Actually that reminder of my daughter brings me to the beginning of my story.

We were exploring different aspects of ourselves.

And then we unplugged.

I was excited.

And, as a psychologist, what excited me most was the idea that we would use what we learned in the virtual world about ourselves, about our identity, to live better lives in the real world. 

Now fast-forward to 2012.

So what happened?

And what I've found is that our little devices, those little devices in our pockets, are so psychologically powerful that they don't only change what we do, they change who we are.

So just to take some quick examples: People text or do email during corporate board meetings.

They text and shop and go on Facebook during classes, during presentations, actually during all meetings.

People talk to me about the important new skill of making eye contact while you're texting.

(Laughter) People explain to me that it's hard, but that it can be done.

Parents text and do email at breakfast and at dinner while their children complain about not having their parents' full attention.

But then these same children deny each other their full attention.

This is a recent shot of my daughter and her friends being together while not being together.

And we even text at funerals.

I study this.

We remove ourselves from our grief or from our revery and we go into our phones. 

We remove ourselves from our grief or from our revery and we go into our phones. 

We remove ourselves from our grief or from our revery and we go into our phones. 

We remove ourselves from our grief or from our revery and we go into our phones. 

Why does this matter?

So you want to go to that board meeting, but you only want to pay attention to the bits that interest you.

A 50-year-old business man lamented to me that he feels he doesn't have colleagues anymore at work.

When he goes to work, he doesn't stop by to talk to anybody, he doesn't call.

Across the generations, I see that people can't get enough of each other, if and only if they can have each other at a distance, in amounts they can control.

I call it the Goldilocks effect: not too close, not too far, just right.

But what might feel just right for that middle-aged executive can be a problem for an adolescent who needs to develop face-to-face relationships.

An 18-year-old boy who uses texting for almost everything says to me wistfully, "Someday, someday, but certainly not now, I'd like to learn how to have a conversation."

Texting, email, posting, all of these things let us present the self as we want to be.

We get to edit, and that means we get to delete, and that means we get to retouch, the face, the voice, the flesh, the body -- not too little, not too much, just right. 

And we clean them up with technology.

And when we do, one of the things that can happen is that we sacrifice conversation for mere connection.

We short-change ourselves.

And over time, we seem to forget this, or we seem to stop caring. 

For kids growing up, that skill is the bedrock of development. 

Over and over I hear, "I would rather text than talk."

And what I'm seeing is that people get so used to being short-changed out of real conversation, so used to getting by with less, that they've become almost willing to dispense with people altogether.

So for example, many people share with me this wish, that some day a more advanced version of Siri, the digital assistant on Apple's iPhone, will be more like a best friend, someone who will listen when others won't.

I believe this wish reflects a painful truth that I've learned in the past 15 years.

That feeling that no one is listening to me is very important in our relationships with technology.

And the feeling that no one is listening to me make us want to spend time with machines that seem to care about us. 

Have we so lost confidence that we will be there for each other?

During my research I worked in nursing homes, and I brought in these sociable robots that were designed to give the elderly the feeling that they were understood.

And one day I came in and a woman who had lost a child was talking to a robot in the shape of a baby seal.

It seemed to be looking in her eyes.

It seemed to be following the conversation.

It comforted her.

And many people found this amazing. 

But that woman was trying to make sense of her life with a machine that had no experience of the arc of a human life.

That robot put on a great show.

And we're vulnerable.

People experience pretend empathy as though it were the real thing.

And I believe it's because technology appeals to us most where we are most vulnerable.

And we are vulnerable.

We turn to technology to help us feel connected in ways we can comfortably control.

But we're not so comfortable.

We are not so much in control. 

One, that we can put our attention wherever we want it to be; two, that we will always be heard; and three, that we will never have to be alone.

Just think of people at a checkout line or at a red light.

But here, connection is more like a symptom than a cure.

It expresses, but it doesn't solve, an underlying problem.

But more than a symptom, constant connection is changing the way people think of themselves.

It's shaping a new way of being. 

The best way to describe it is, I share therefore I am.

So before it was: I have a feeling, I want to make a call.

Now it's: I want to have a feeling, I need to send a text.

The problem with this new regime of "I share therefore I am" is that, if we don't have connection, we don't feel like ourselves.

But in the process, we set ourselves up to be isolated. 

How do you get from connection to isolation?

You end up isolated if you don't cultivate the capacity for solitude, the ability to be separate, to gather yourself.

When we don't have the capacity for solitude, we turn to other people in order to feel less anxious or in order to feel alive.

When this happens, we're not able to appreciate who they are.

If we're not able to be alone, we're going to be more lonely.

And if we don't teach our children to be alone, they're only going to know how to be lonely. 

There's plenty of time for us to reconsider how we use it, how we build it.

I'm not suggesting that we turn away from our devices, just that we develop a more self-aware relationship with them, with each other and with ourselves. 

I see some first steps.

Start thinking of solitude as a good thing.

Make room for it.

Do the same thing at work.

At work, we're so busy communicating that we often don't have time to think, we don't have time to talk, about the things that really matter.

Change that.

Because it's when we stumble or hesitate or lose our words that we reveal ourselves to each other. 

I'm optimistic.

We have everything we need to start.

We have each other.

And we have the greatest chance of success if we recognize our vulnerability.

That we listen when technology says it will take something complicated and promises something simpler. 

It's like calling in the cavalry.

But our fantasies of substitution have cost us.

Let's talk about how we can use digital technology, the technology of our dreams, to make this life the life we can love. 

Thank you. 

