One natural idea is that the deepest aspects of human thought -- our ability to imagine, to be conscious, to dream -- have always been the same.

We may all have different opinions about this.

Actually, it's a long-standing philosophical debate.

But is this question even amenable to science? 

And only then, as time went on, they began to recognize that they were the creators, the owners of these inner voices.

So Jaynes's theory is that consciousness, at least in the way we perceive it today, where we feel that we are the pilots of our own existence -- is a quite recent cultural development.

So the question is whether the theory that introspection built up in human history only about 3,000 years ago can be examined in a quantitative and objective manner. 

And the problem of how to go about this is quite obvious.

It's not like Plato woke up one day and then he wrote, "Hello, I'm Plato, and as of today, I have a fully introspective consciousness."

And this tells us actually what is the essence of the problem.

We need to find the emergence of a concept that's never said.

The word introspection does not appear a single time in the books we want to analyze. 

So our way to solve this is to build the space of words.

This is a huge space that contains all words in such a way that the distance between any two of them is indicative of how closely related they are.

So for instance, you want the words "dog" and "cat" to be very close together, but the words "grapefruit" and "logarithm" to be very far away.

And this has to be true for any two words within the space. 

And there are different ways that we can construct the space of words.

And this simple hypothesis, this simple method, with some computational tricks that have to do with the fact that this is a very complex and high-dimensional space, turns out to be quite effective. 

And you can see first that words automatically organize into semantic neighborhoods.

So you get the fruits, the body parts, the computer parts, the scientific terms and so on. 

The algorithm also identifies that we organize concepts in a hierarchy.

And this is because, in a way, walking in this space is like walking in the mind. 

And the last thing is that this algorithm also identifies what are our intuitions, of which words should lead in the neighborhood of introspection.

All that we have to do is take the books, we digitize them, and we take this stream of words as a trajectory and project them into the space, and then we ask whether this trajectory spends significant time circling closely to the concept of introspection. 

And with this, we could analyze the history of introspection in the ancient Greek tradition, for which we have the best available written record.

And this is exactly what happens in the ancient Greek tradition.

So you can see that for the oldest books in the Homeric tradition, there is a small increase with books getting closer to introspection.

But about four centuries before Christ, this starts ramping up very rapidly to an almost five-fold increase of books getting closer, and closer and closer to the concept of introspection.

And one of the nice things about this is that now we can ask whether this is also true in a different, independent tradition. 

So we just ran this same analysis on the Judeo-Christian tradition, and we got virtually the same pattern.

Again, you see a small increase for the oldest books in the Old Testament, and then it increases much more rapidly in the new books of the New Testament.

So our algorithm, which has the virtue of being quantitative, of being objective, and of course of being extremely fast -- it just runs in a fraction of a second -- can capture some of the most important conclusions of this long tradition of investigation.

To put it more precisely, whether the words we say today can tell us something of where our minds will be in a few days, in a few months or a few years from now. 

And in the same way many of us are now wearing sensors that detect our heart rate, our respiration, our genes, on the hopes that this may help us prevent diseases, we can ask whether monitoring and analyzing the words we speak, we tweet, we email, we write, can tell us ahead of time whether something may go wrong with our minds.

And with Guillermo Cecchi, who has been my brother in this adventure, we took on this task.

And we did so by analyzing the recorded speech of 34 young people who were at a high risk of developing schizophrenia. 

And so what we did is, we measured speech at day one, and then we asked whether the properties of the speech could predict, within a window of almost three years, the future development of psychosis.

But despite our hopes, we got failure after failure.

There was just not enough information in semantics to predict the future organization of the mind.

It was good enough to distinguish between a group of schizophrenics and a control group, a bit like we had done for the ancient texts, but not to predict the future onset of psychosis. 

More specifically, it was not in which semantic neighborhoods the words were, but how far and fast they jumped from one semantic neighborhood to the other one.

And it turned out to be that for this group of 34 people, the algorithm based on semantic coherence could predict, with 100 percent accuracy, who developed psychosis and who will not.

And this was something that could not be achieved -- not even close -- with all the other existing clinical measures. 

So I picked up the phone, and I called Polo, and in fact he was not feeling well.

And this simple fact, that reading in between the lines, I could sense, through words, his feelings, was a simple, but very effective way to help. 

What I tell you today is that we're getting close to understanding how we can convert this intuition that we all have, that we all share, into an algorithm.

