You should be nice to nerds.

In fact, I'd go so far as to say, if you don't already have a nerd in your life, you should get one.

I'm just saying.

Scientists and engineers change the world.

I'd like to tell you about a magical place called DARPA where scientists and engineers defy the impossible and refuse to fear failure.

Now these two ideas are connected more than you may realize, because when you remove the fear of failure, impossible things suddenly become possible. 

If you want to know how, ask yourself this question: What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail?

If you really ask yourself this question, you can't help but feel uncomfortable.

I feel a little uncomfortable.

Because it's not failure itself that constrains us.

The path to truly new, never-been-done-before things always has failure along the way.

Clemenceau said, "Life gets interesting when we fail, because it's a sign that we've surpassed ourselves."

In 1895, Lord Kelvin declared that heavier-than-air flying machines were impossible.

In October of 1903, the prevailing opinion of expert aerodynamicists was that maybe in 10 million years we could build an aircraft that would fly.

And two months later on December 17th, Orville Wright powered the first airplane across a beach in North Carolina.

One year later, the next declarations of impossibilities began.

Ferdinand Foch, a French army general credited with having one of the most original and subtle minds in the French army, said, "Airplanes are interesting toys, but of no military value."

40 years later, aero experts coined the term transonic.

In 1947, there was no wind tunnel data beyond Mach 0.85.

And yet, on Tuesday, October 14th, 1947, Chuck Yeager climbed into the cockpit of his Bell X-1 and he flew towards an unknown possibility, and in so doing, he became the first pilot to fly faster than the speed of sound.

Six of eight Atlas rockets blew up on the pad.

It took a lot of failures to get there. 

Since we took to the sky, we have wanted to fly faster and farther.

And to do so, we've had to believe in impossible things.

And we've had to refuse to fear failure.

That's still true today.

Today, we don't talk about flying transonically, or even supersonically, we talk about flying hypersonically -- not Mach 2 or Mach 3, Mach 20.

At Mach 20, we can fly from New York to Long Beach in 11 minutes and 20 seconds.

At that speed, the surface of the airfoil is the temperature of molten steel -- 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit -- like a blast furnace.

We are essentially burning the airfoil as we fly it.

And we are flying it, or trying to. 

DARPA's hypersonic test vehicle is the fastest maneuvering aircraft ever built.

It's boosted to near-space atop a Minotaur IV rocket.

Now the Minotaur IV has too much impulse, so we have to bleed it off by flying the rocket at an 89 degree angle of attack for portions of the trajectory.

That's an unnatural act for a rocket.

And it's pointed at the hypersonic glider.

But this is what it looks like from the third stage of the rocket looking at the unmanned glider as it heads into the atmosphere back towards Earth. 

But we collected more hypersonic flight data than in 30 years of ground-based testing combined.

And in the second flight, three minutes of fully-controlled, aerodynamic flight at Mach 20.

We must fly again, because amazing, never-been-done-before things require that you fly.

You can't learn to fly at Mach 20 unless you fly.

And while there's no substitute for speed, maneuverability is a very close second. 

You see, hummingbirds are not hypersonic, but they are maneuverable.

In fact, the hummingbird is the only bird that can fly backwards.

It can fly up, down, forwards, backwards, even upside-down.

And so if we wanted to fly in this room or places where humans can't go, we'd need an aircraft small enough and maneuverable enough to do so. 

In 2008, it flew for a whopping 20 seconds, a year later, two minutes, then six, eventually 11.

Many prototypes crashed -- many.

But there's no way to learn to fly like a hummingbird unless you fly.

(Applause) It's beautiful, isn't it.

(Applause) 

Failure is part of creating new and amazing things.

We cannot both fear failure and make amazing new things -- like a robot with the stability of a dog on rough terrain, or maybe even ice; a robot that can run like a cheetah, or climb stairs like a human with the occasional clumsiness of a human.

Or perhaps, Spider Man will one day be Gecko Man.

A gecko can support its entire body weight with one toe.

One square millimeter of a gecko's footpad has 14,000 hair-like structures called setae.

They are used to help it grip to surfaces using intermolecular forces. 

That's enough to stick six 42-inch plasma TV's to your wall, no nails.

So much for Velcro, right? 

And it's not just passive structures, it's entire machines.

In the world of Godzilla spider mites, we can make millions of mirrors, each one-fifth the diameter of a human hair, moving at hundreds of thousands of times per second to make large screen displays, so that we can watch movies like "Godzilla" in high-def. 

And if we can build machines at that scale, what about Eiffel Tower-like trusses at the microscale?

From the smallest wisp of air to the powerful forces of nature's storms.

What if we could use these electromagnetic pulses as beacons, beacons in a moving network of powerful transmitters?

Experiments suggest that lightning could be the next GPS. 

Electrical pulses form the thoughts in our brains.

Using a grid the size of your thumb, with 32 electrodes on the surface of his brain, Tim uses his thoughts to control an advanced prosthetic arm.

And his thoughts made him reach for Katie.

This is the first time a human has controlled a robot with thought alone.

And it is the first time that Tim has held Katie's hand in seven years.

And if it seems far-fetched that tobacco plants could make people healthy, what about gamers that could solve problems that experts can't solve?

Last September, the gamers of Foldit solved the three-dimensional structure of the retroviral protease that contributes to AIDS in rhesus monkeys.

Now understanding this structure is very important for developing treatments.

The Internet is home to two billion people, or 30 percent of the world's population.

It allows us to contribute and to be heard as individuals.

It allows us to amplify our voices and our power as a group.

But it too had humble beginnings.

In 1969, the internet was but a dream, a few sketches on a piece of paper.

And then on October 29th, the first packet-switched message was sent from UCLA to SRI.

The first two letters of the word "Login," that's all that made it through -- an L and an O -- and then a buffer overflow crashed the system.

(Laughter) Two letters, an L and an O, now a worldwide force. 

So who are these scientists and engineers at a magical place called DARPA?

They are nerds, and they are heroes among us.

They challenge existing perspectives at the edges of science and under the most demanding of conditions.

Sometimes we just forget. 

You believed in impossible things and you were fearless.

You were born to.

So go ahead, ask yourself, what would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail? 

Now I want to say, this is not easy.

It's hard to hold onto this feeling, really hard.

I guess in some way, I sort of believe it's supposed to be hard.

Doubt and fear always creep in.

We think someone else, someone smarter than us, someone more capable, someone with more resources will solve that problem.

But there isn't anyone else; there's just you.

And if we're lucky, in that moment, someone steps into that doubt and fear, takes a hand and says, "Let me help you believe."

Jason Harley did that for me.

Jason started at DARPA on March 18th, 2010.

And more so than most, he saw the highs and the lows, the celebrations and the disappointments.

And on one particularly dark day for me, Jason sat down and he wrote an email.

He was encouraging, but firm.

And when he hit send, he probably didn't realize what a difference it would make.

It mattered to me.

In that moment and still today when I doubt, when I feel afraid, when I need to reconnect with that feeling, I remember his words, they were so powerful. 

Voice: Because that's what being a superhero is all about. 

(Applause) Thank you.

(Applause) 

Chris Anderson: Regina, thank you.

I have a couple of questions.

So that glider of yours, the Mach 20 glider, the first one, no control, it ended up in the Pacific I think somewhere. 

No, there are multiple portions of the trajectory that are demanding in terms of really flying at that speed.

And so in the second flight, we were able to get three minutes of fully aerodynamic control of the vehicle before we lost it. 

CA: I imagine you're not planning to open up to passenger service from New York to Long Beach anytime soon. 

RD: It might be a little warm. 

CA: What do you picture that glider being used for? 

Now the purpose of the vehicle though, the purpose of the technology, is to be able to reach anywhere in the world in less than 60 minutes. 

RD: Well I don't think we ultimately know what it will be, right.

We've got to fly it first. 

CA: But not necessarily just a camera? 

RD: No, not necessarily just a camera. 

RD: Yeah? 

Isn't that a very expensive solution for a small maneuverable flying object? 

RD: So I mean, in part, we wondered if it was possible to do it.

And you have to revisit these questions over time.

The folks at AeroVironment tried 300 or more different wing designs, 12 different forms of the avionics.

It took them 10 full prototypes to get something that would actually fly.

But there's something really interesting about a flying machine that looks like something you'd recognize.

So we often talk about stealth as a means for avoiding any type of sensing, but when things looks just natural, you also don't see them. 

(Laughter) Because I think, as well as the awe of looking at that, I'm sure some people here are thinking, technology catches up so quick, how long is it before some crazed geek with a little remote control flies one through a window of the White House?

I mean, do you worry about the Pandora's box issue here? 

RD: Well look, our singular mission is the creation and prevention of strategic surprise.

That's what we do.

It would be inconceivable for us to do that work if we didn't make people excited and uncomfortable with the things that we do at the same time.

It's just the nature of what we do.

Now our responsibility is to push that edge.

CA: I mean, you're clearly a really inspiring leader.

And you persuade people to go to these great feats of invention, but at a personal level, in a way I can't imagine doing your job.

Do you wake up in the night sometimes, just asking questions about the possibly unintended consequences of your team's brilliance? 

RD: Sure.

I think you couldn't be human if you didn't ask those questions. 

CA: How do you answer them? 

My job is one of the most exhilarating jobs you could have.

And so you have on the one hand this tremendous lift of what's possible and this tremendous seriousness of what it means. 

CA: Regina, that was jaw-dropping, as they say.

(Applause) 

