The electricity powering the lights in this theater was generated just moments ago.

Because the way things stand today, electricity demand must be in constant balance with electricity supply.

If in the time that it took me to walk out here on this stage, some tens of megawatts of wind power stopped pouring into the grid, the difference would have to be made up from other generators immediately.

But coal plants, nuclear plants can't respond fast enough.

A giant battery could.

With a giant battery, we'd be able to address the problem of intermittency that prevents wind and solar from contributing to the grid in the same way that coal, gas and nuclear do today. 

You see, the battery is the key enabling device here.

And that changes everything.

Today I want to tell you about such a device.

It's called the liquid metal battery.

It's a new form of energy storage that I invented at MIT along with a team of my students and post-docs. 

Now the theme of this year's TED Conference is Full Spectrum.

The OED defines spectrum as "The entire range of wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation, from the longest radio waves to the shortest gamma rays of which the range of visible light is only a small part."

So I'm not here today only to tell you how my team at MIT has drawn out of nature a solution to one of the world's great problems.

I want to go full spectrum and tell you how, in the process of developing this new technology, we've uncovered some surprising heterodoxies that can serve as lessons for innovation, ideas worth spreading.

Now let's get started.

The battery was invented about 200 years ago by a professor, Alessandro Volta, at the University of Padua in Italy.

His invention gave birth to a new field of science, electrochemistry, and new technologies such as electroplating.

The science is that simple.

Admittedly, I've left out a few details. 

We need to think about the problem differently.

Instead, let's invent to the price point of the electricity market.

So that means that certain parts of the periodic table are axiomatically off-limits.

This battery needs to be made out of earth-abundant elements.

And we need to be able to build this thing using simple manufacturing techniques and factories that don't cost us a fortune. 

So about six years ago, I started thinking about this problem.

And in order to adopt a fresh perspective, I sought inspiration from beyond the field of electricity storage.

I'm talking about the production of aluminum.

The process was invented in 1886 by a couple of 22-year-olds -- Hall in the United States and Heroult in France.

And just a few short years following their discovery, aluminum changed from a precious metal costing as much as silver to a common structural material. 

You're looking at the cell house of a modern aluminum smelter.

Volta's battery works at room temperature.

It's fitted with solid electrodes and an electrolyte that's a solution of salt and water.

The Hall-Heroult cell operates at high temperature, a temperature high enough that the aluminum metal product is liquid.

The electrolyte is not a solution of salt and water, but rather salt that's melted.

It's this combination of liquid metal, molten salt and high temperature that allows us to send high current through this thing.

Today, we can produce virgin metal from ore at a cost of less than 50 cents a pound.

That's the economic miracle of modern electrometallurgy. 

It is this that caught and held my attention to the point that I became obsessed with inventing a battery that could capture this gigantic economy of scale.

And I did.

I'll show you how.

So now, how to choose the metals?

Everything we know is made of some combination of what you see depicted here.

And that includes our own bodies.

I recall the very moment one day when I was searching for a pair of metals that would meet the constraints of earth abundance, different, opposite density and high mutual reactivity.

I felt the thrill of realization when I knew I'd come upon the answer.

You know, I've got to tell you, one of the greatest benefits of being a professor: colored chalk. 

The electrons go to work in the real world out here, powering our devices.

Now to charge the battery, we connect a source of electricity.

It could be something like a wind farm.

And then we reverse the current.

And the current passing between the electrodes generates enough heat to keep it at temperature. 

It's pretty cool, at least in theory.

But does it really work?

So what to do next?

We go to the laboratory.

Now do I hire seasoned professionals?

What I didn't tell David at the time was I myself wasn't convinced it would work. 

And that allowed me to expand my group to 20 people, a mix of graduate students, post-docs and even some undergraduates. 

And if you ask these people why they work on liquid metal battery, their answer would hearken back to President Kennedy's remarks at Rice University in 1962 when he said -- and I'm taking liberties here -- "We choose to work on grid-level storage, not because it is easy, but because it is hard."

So this is the evolution of the liquid metal battery.

We start here with our workhorse one watt-hour cell.

I called it the shotglass.

Along the way we scaled up to the 20 watt-hour cell.

I call it the hockey puck.

And we got the same remarkable results.

And then it was onto the saucer.

That's 200 watt-hours.

The technology was proving itself to be robust and scalable.

But the pace wasn't fast enough for us.

So a year and a half ago, David and I, along with another research staff-member, formed a company to accelerate the rate of progress and the race to manufacture product. 

So today at LMBC, we're building cells 16 inches in diameter with a capacity of one kilowatt-hour -- 1,000 times the capacity of that initial shotglass cell.

We call that the pizza.

And then we've got a four kilowatt-hour cell on the horizon.

It's going to be 36 inches in diameter.

And one variant of the technology has us stacking these bistro tabletops into modules, aggregating the modules into a giant battery that fits in a 40-foot shipping container for placement in the field.

And this has a nameplate capacity of two megawatt-hours -- two million watt-hours.

That's enough energy to meet the daily electrical needs of 200 American households.

So what have we learned from all this?

(Applause) So what have we learned from all this?

Let me share with you some of the surprises, the heterodoxies.

They lie beyond the visible.

Liquid metal battery is designed to operate at elevated temperature with minimum regulation.

Liquid metal battery is designed to reduce cost by producing fewer, but they'll be larger.

To develop liquid metal battery, I hired students and post-docs and mentored them.

