Look, I had second thoughts, really, about whether I could talk about this to such a vital and alive audience as you guys.

(Laughter) So -- (Laughter) 

So with that in mind, I'm going to set about trying to do those things here, and talk about dying in the 21st century.

Now the first thing that will piss you off, undoubtedly, is that all of us are, in fact, going to die in the 21st century.

There will be no exceptions to that.

There are, apparently, about one in eight of you who think you're immortal, on surveys, but -- (Laughter) Unfortunately, that isn't going to happen. 

This has been fantastic.

We have machines that go ping.

There's many of them up there.

Certainly, a lot of the technologies that we use have got something to do with that. 

What we do is prolong people's lives, and delay death, and redirect death, but we can't, strictly speaking, save lives on any sort of permanent basis. 

So what's happening now is there's been a big shift in the way that people die, and most of what they're dying of now isn't as amenable to what we can do as what it used to be like when I was doing this in the '80s and '90s. 

I was called down to the ward to see him.

His is the little hand.

I was called down to the ward to see him by a respiratory physician.

So I go down to the ward and see Jim, and his skin his translucent like this.

You can see his bones through the skin.

And I got talking to her, and after a while, she said to me, "You know, we always thought there'd be time."

(Laughter) And I realized that something wasn't happening here.

There wasn't this dialogue going on that I imagined was happening.

One in a hundred.

And only one in 500 of them had plan about what to do if they became seriously ill. And I realized, of course, this dialogue is definitely not occurring in the public at large. 

Now, I work in acute care.

This is John Hunter Hospital.

And I thought, surely, we do better than that.

And we didn't find a single record of any preference about goals, treatments or outcomes from any of the sets of notes initiated by a doctor or by a patient. 

So this is the sort of momentum that we've got at the moment. 

The reason why this is all happening is due to this, and I do have to take you through what this is about.

These are the four ways to go.

So one of these will happen to all of us.

The ones you may know most about are the ones that are becoming increasingly of historical interest: sudden death.

It's quite likely in an audience this size this won't happen to anybody here.

Sudden death has become very rare.

The death of Little Nell and Cordelia and all that sort of stuff just doesn't happen anymore.

The dying process of those with terminal illness that we've just seen occurs to younger people.

By the time you've reached 80, this is unlikely to happen to you.

Only one in 10 people who are over 80 will die of cancer. 

The big growth industry are these.

(Laughter) 

We are all, most of us, living to reach this point.

You know, historically, we didn't do that.

(Laughter) What we did, anyway, look, what we did, we didn't just take this lying down at John Hunter Hospital and elsewhere.

We've started a whole series of projects to try and look about whether we could, in fact, involve people much more in the way that things happen to them.

She looks terrified.

It's an amazing picture. 

Anyway, we had a major cultural issue.

So with loads of funding from the Federal Government and the local Health Service, we introduced a thing at John Hunter called Respecting Patient Choices.

Ninety-eight percent of people really thought this just should have been normal practice, and that this is how things should work.

We were able to make that happen for them.

The cultural issue had reasserted itself. 

There has to be a little side road off there for people who don't want to go on that track.

And I have one small idea, and one big idea about what could happen. 

Why can't we have these kinds of conversations with our own elders and people who might be approaching this?

There are a couple of things you can do.

The big idea, I think, is more political.

I think we have to get onto this.

I suggested we should have Occupy Death.

(Laughter) My wife said, "Yeah, right, sit-ins in the mortuary.

(Laughter) My wife said, "Yeah, right, sit-ins in the mortuary.

(Laughter) My wife said, "Yeah, right, sit-ins in the mortuary.

(Laughter) So that one didn't really run, but I was very struck by this.

Now, I'm an aging hippie.

Now, listen, that sounds like a pitch for euthanasia.

I don't think euthanasia matters.

I actually think that, in places like Oregon, where you can have physician-assisted suicide, you take a poisonous dose of stuff, only half a percent of people ever do that.

I'm more interested in what happens to the 99.5 percent of people who don't want to do that.

I think most people don't want to be dead, but I do think most people want to have some control over how their dying process proceeds.

So I'm an opponent of euthanasia, but I do think we have to give people back some control.

It deprives euthanasia of its oxygen supply.

I think we should be looking at stopping the want for euthanasia, not for making it illegal or legal or worrying about it at all. 

This is a quote from Dame Cicely Saunders, whom I met when I was a medical student.

She founded the hospice movement.

And she said, "You matter because you are, and you matter to the last moment of your life."

And I firmly believe that that's the message that we have to carry forward.

