I'm here to give you your recommended dietary allowance of poetry.

And the way I'm going to do that is present to you five animations of five of my poems.

And let me just tell you a little bit of how that came about.

Because the mixing of those two media is a sort of unnatural or unnecessary act. 

But when I was United States Poet Laureate -- and I love saying that.

(Laughter) It's a great way to start sentences.

And the idea was to have me record some of my poems and then they would find animators to animate them.

Attempts to put my poems to music have had disastrous results, in all cases.

And surely, if you're reading a poem that mentions a cow, you don't need on the facing page a drawing of a cow.

I mean, let's let the reader do a little work. 

I think more influential than Emily Dickinson or Coleridge or Wordsworth on my imagination were Warner Brothers, Merrie Melodies and Loony Tunes cartoons.

Bugs Bunny is my muse.

And this way poetry could find its way onto television of all places.

And I'm pretty much all for poetry in public places -- poetry on buses, poetry on subways, on billboards, on cereal boxes.

So you could tune into poetry as you were flying. 

When you get a poem on a billboard or on the radio or on a cereal box or whatever, it happens to you so suddenly that you don't have time to deploy your anti-poetry deflector shields that were installed in high school. 

So let us start with the first one.

I watch it sniffing the paper ceaselessly, intent as any forager that has nothing on its mind but the grubs and insects that will allow it to live another day.

But I like to pretend that it comes with ease.

One of my students came up after class, an introductory class, and she said, "You know, poetry is harder than writing," which I found both erroneous and profound.

(Laughter) So I like to at least pretend it just flows out.

The next poem is also rather short.

Poetry just says a few things in different ways.

All afternoon they face one another, the man in the brown suit, the woman in the blue dress -- perfectly motionless, perfectly behaved.

But other days I am the one who is lifted up by the ribs then lowered into the dining room of a dollhouse to sit with the others at the long table.

Very funny.

But how would you like it if you never knew from one day to the next if you were going to spend it striding around like a vivid god, your shoulders in the clouds, or sitting down there amidst the wallpaper staring straight ahead with your little plastic face? 

(Applause) 

BC: There's a horror movie in there somewhere.

It is as if, one by one, the memories you used to harbor decided to retire to the southern hemisphere of the brain to a little fishing village where there are no phones.

Long ago, you kissed the names of the nine muses good-bye and you watched the quadratic equation pack its bag.

No wonder you rise in the middle of the night to look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war.

No wonder the Moon in the window seems to have drifted out of a love poem that you used to know by heart. 

(Applause) 

He lived, and still does, in rural Vermont.

I lived in New York City.

And we would visit each other.

And then he'd come down to New York City and I'd teach him what I knew, which was largely smoking and drinking.

(Laughter) And in that way we traded lore with each other.

The poem that's coming up is based on him trying to tell me a little something about a domestic point of etiquette in country living that I had a very hard time, at first, processing.

It's called "The Country."

But your face was absolutely straight when you twisted the lid down on the round tin where the matches, you said, are always stowed.

Who could sleep that night?

Who could whisk away the thought of the one unlikely mouse padding along a cold water pipe behind the floral wallpaper, gripping a single wooden match between the needles of his teeth?

And who could fail to notice, lit up in the blazing insulation, the tiny looks of wonderment on the faces of his fellow mice -- one-time inhabitants of what once was your house in the country? 

(Applause) 

BC: Thank you.

I wrote this after a friend's funeral, but not so much about the friend as something the eulogist kept saying, as all eulogists tend to do, which is how happy the deceased would be to look down and see all of us assembled.

And that to me was a bad start to the afterlife, having to witness your own funeral and feel gratified.

So the little poem is called "The Dead."

While we are putting on our shoes or making a sandwich, they are looking down through the glass-bottom boats of heaven as they row themselves slowly through eternity.

They watch the tops of our heads moving below on Earth.

And when we lie down in a field or on a couch, drugged perhaps by the hum of a warm afternoon, they think we are looking back at them, which makes them lift their oars and fall silent and wait like parents for us to close our eyes. 

(Applause) 

But then again, it took us a long time to put the wheel and the suitcase together.

(Laughter) I mean, we had the wheel for some time.

And schlepping is an ancient and honorable art. 

I just have time to read a more recent poem to you.

It's called "To My Favorite 17-Year-Old High School Girl."

(Applause) 

(Applause) 

Thanks. 

Thanks. 

(Applause) 

