One out of two of you women will be impacted by cardiovascular disease in your lifetime.

So this is the leading killer of women.

It's a closely held secret for reasons I don't know.

Since 1984, more women die in the U.S. than men.

If we were to remain sexist, and that was not right, but if we were going to go forward and be sexist, it's actually a woman's disease.

So it's a woman's disease now. 

And one of the things that you see is that male line, the mortality is going down, down, down, down, down.

And you see the female line since 1984, the gap is widening.

More and more women, two, three, four times more women, dying of heart disease than men.

So that was a big wake-up call in the 1980's. 

Heart disease kills more women at all ages than breast cancer.

And the breast cancer campaign -- again, this is not a competition.

We're trying to be as good as the breast cancer campaign.

We need to be as good as the breast cancer campaign to address this crisis.

Now sometimes when people see this, I hear this gasp.

We can all think of someone, often a young woman, who has been impacted by breast cancer.

We often can't think of a young woman who has heart disease.

I'm going to tell you why.

Heart disease kills people, often very quickly.

Breast cancer, mortality is down to four percent.

And that is the 40 years that women have advocated.

Betty Ford, Nancy Reagan stood up and said, "I'm a breast cancer survivor," and it was okay to talk about it.

And then physicians have gone to bat.

That has to happen in heart disease, and it's time.

It's not happening, and it's time. 

We owe an incredible debt of gratitude to these two women.

As Barbara depicted in one of her amazing movies, "Yentl," she portrayed a young woman who wanted an education.

She had to impersonate a man.

She had to look like a man.

She had to make other people believe that she looked like a man and she could have the same rights that the men had.

Mortality is not going down, it's going up.

And she questioned, she hypothesized, is this a Yentl syndrome? 

And here's what the story is.

They don't get treated, they don't get detected, they don't get the benefit of all the modern medicines. 

Doctor Healy then subsequently became the first female director of our National Institutes of Health.

It was a very big deal for her to become director.

And she started, in the face of a lot of controversy, the Women's Health Initiative.

And every woman in the room here has benefited from that Women's Health Initiative.

Why are more and more women dying of ischemic heart disease?

You're going to find some interesting analogies in this physiology. 

EKG goes pbbrrhh, so the doctors can see this hugely abnormal EKG.

There's a big clot in the middle of the artery.

And they go up to the cath lab and boom, boom, boom get rid of the clot.

That's a man heart attack.

So what do you think happens to these gals?

They're often not recognized, sent home.

When we watch people become obese, where do men get fat?

Right here, it's just a focal -- right there.

Where do women get fat?

He's got a beer belly in his coronary arteries.

Panel B is the woman, very smooth.

She's just laid it down nice and tidy.

(Laughter) And if you did that angiogram, which is the red, you can see the man's disease.

So 50 years of honing and crafting these angiograms, we easily recognize male-pattern disease.

Now what are the implications of that?

Well once again, women get the angiogram and nobody can tell that they have a problem. 

So this is cardiac magnetic resonance imaging.

This is not in your community hospital, but we would hope to translate this.

And we're about two and a half years into a five-year study. 

The syndrome, the female-pattern now is called microvascular coronary dysfunction, or obstruction.

The second reason we really liked MRI is that there's no radiation.

So we're very excited about M.R.

You can't go and order it yet, but this is an area of active inquiry where actually studying women is going to advance the field for women and men. 

And when the woman has male-pattern disease -- so she looks like Barbara in the movie -- they get treated.

And when you have female-pattern and you look like a woman, as Barbara does here with her husband, they don't get the treatment.

So those are the consequences.

And that is female-pattern and why we think the Yentl syndrome actually is explaining a lot of these gaps. 

There's been wonderful news also about studying women, finally, in heart disease.

And one of the the cutting-edge areas that we're just incredibly excited about is stem cell therapy.

That's all stem cells.

These are female and male stem cells.

And if you had an injured organ, if you had a heart attack and we wanted to repair that injured area, do you want those robust, plentiful stem cells on the top?

So this is not a zero-sum game in anyway. 

We are bending the curve.

We're bending the curve.

Now are we happy with this?

We still have two to three more women dying for every man. 

We've worked on this for 15 years.

And I've told you, we've been working on male-pattern heart disease for 50 years.

So we're 35 years behind.

And we'd like to think it's not going to take 35 years.

And in fact, it probably won't.

But we cannot stop now.

Too many lives are at stake. 

So what do we need to do?

And it's political.

Women's health, from a federal funding standpoint, sometimes it's popular, sometimes it's not so popular.

So if we can be as good as breast cancer and give women this new charge, we have a lot of lives to save. 

So thank you for your attention. 

