I'm a believer.

I'm a believer in global warming, and my record is good on the subject.

But my subject is national security.

We have to get off of oil purchased from the enemy.

I'm talking about OPEC oil.

And let me take you back 100 years to 1912.

You're probably thinking that was my birth year.

A hundred years ago we were looking at coal, of course, and we were looking at whale oil and we were looking at crude oil.

At that point, we were looking for a fuel that was cleaner, it was cheaper, and it wasn't ours though, it was theirs. 

So at that point, 1912, we selected crude oil over whale oil and some more coal.

But as we moved on to the period now, 100 years later, we're back really at another decision point.

What is the decision point?

It's what we're going to use in the future.

So here you are, that the cost of all this to the world is 89 million barrels of oil, give or take a few barrels, every day.

And the cost annually is three trillion dollars.

Now if you look at the cost of OPEC, it cost seven trillion dollars -- on the Milken Institute study last year -- seven trillion dollars since 1976, is what we paid for oil from OPEC.

Now that includes the cost of military and the cost of the fuel both.

I know the response to this.

There are 12.

One is under construction by the Chinese and the other 11 belong to us. 

Why do we have 11 aircraft carriers?

If you look at where they're located -- and on this slide it's the red blobs on there -- there are five that are operating in the Mid-East, and the rest of them are in the United States.

They just move back to the Mid-East and those come back.

They're there to control, keep the shipping lanes open and make oil available.

And the United States uses about 20 million barrels a day, which is about 25 percent of all the oil used everyday in the world.

And we're doing it with four percent of the population.

Somehow that doesn't seem right.

That's not sustainable. 

So where do we go from here?

Does that continue?

Yes, it's going to continue.

But if you're going to do anything about the dependency on foreign oil, you have to address transportation. 

If you take the last 10 years and bring forward, you've transferred to OPEC a trillion dollars.

If you go forward the next 10 years and cap the price of oil at 100 dollars a barrel, you will pay 2.2 trillion.

That's not sustainable either. 

But the days of cheap oil are over.

They're over.

They make it very clear to you, the Saudis do, they have to have 94 dollars a barrel to make their social commitments.

That has nothing to do with it.

It's what they have to pay for is what we are going to pay for oil."

And the OPEC nations are the ones that price the oil. 

It comes out of the ground at 130 octane.

It's going to be simple to accomplish this.

You're going to find, and I'll tell you in just a minute, what you're looking for to make it happen.

It's what we use a year.

Go forward and the estimates that you have from the EIA and onto the industry estimates -- the industry knows what they're talking about -- we've got 4,000 trillion cubic feet of natural gas that's available to us.

How does that translate to barrels of oil equivalent?

It would be three times what the Saudis claim they have.

And they claim they have 250 billion barrels of oil, which I do not believe.

I think it's probably 175 billion barrels.

But anyway, whether they say they're right or whatever, we have plenty of natural gas. 

So I have tried to target on where we use the natural gas.

And where I've targeted is on the heavy-duty trucks.

There are eight million of them.

There are 250 million vehicles in America. 

So what you have is natural gas is the bridge fuel, is the way I see it.

I don't have to worry about the bridge to where at my age.

Now let me take you -- I've been a realist -- I went from theorist early to realist.

I'm back to theorist again.

If you look at the world, you have methane hydrates in the ocean around every continent.

So I think I've made my point that we have to get on our own resources in America.

So there's nothing going on that impresses me in Washington on that plan, other than I'm trying to focus on that eight million 18-wheelers.

Chris Anderson: Thanks for that.

TBP: I lost 150 million dollars.

(Laughter) That'll make you abandon something.

No, what happened to us, Chris, is that power, it's priced off the margin.

And so the margin is natural gas.

The first one was Barnett Shale in Texas and then the Marcellus up in the Northeast across New York, Pennsylvania, West Virginia; and Haynesville in Louisiana.

This stuff is everywhere.

We are overwhelmed with natural gas. 

CA: And now you're a big investor in that and bringing that to market? 

I'm a geologist, got out of school in '51, and I've been in the industry my entire life.

But I also am in the fueling business. 

Why doesn't that prospect concern you? 

(Laughter) 

And so everyone can be at least happy to see a shift from coal or oil to natural gas.

But if that's it and that becomes the reason that renewables don't get invested in, then, long-term, we're screwed anyway, right? 

And he said, "Well it's a bridge fuel, is what it is."

CA: But I don't think that's right, Boone.

I think you're a person who believes in your legacy.

You've made the money you need.

You're one of the few people in a position to really swing the debate.

Do you support the idea of some kind of price on carbon?

Does that make sense? 

The government is not successful on these things.

But Chris, I think where we're headed, the long-term, I don't mind going back to nuclear.

(Laughter) And number two, do not build a reformer on the ocean.

You can't -- okay. 

Is that a concern? 

TBP: I'm teasing. 

(Laughter) 

CA: We've got a little bit of accent incompatibility here, you know. 

I don't know what in the hell he's talking about.

I mean seriously, the Department of Energy did not have anything to do with fracking.

I don't understand why the media is focused on Eastern Pennsylvania. 

CA: All right, so you don't support a carbon tax of any kind or a price on carbon.

Your picture then I guess of how the world eventually gets off fossil fuels is through innovation ultimately, that we'll someday make solar and nuclear cost competitive? 

TBP: Solar and wind, Jim and I agreed on that in 13 seconds.

CA: So how does the world get off fossil fuels? 

Why are all the trash trucks today in Southern California on natural gas?

It's because of air quality.

I know what you're telling me, and I'm not disagreeing with you.

(Laughter) 

CA: All right, so it's the bridge fuel.

What is at the other end of that bridge is for this audience to figure out.

TBP: I lost 150 million on the wind, okay.

Yeah, sure, I'm game for it.

