On Sept. 30, I had dinner with aficionados of the Scotch whiskey industry and foreign correspondents at the 800-year-old Fyvie Castle in the Scottish Highlands.

To my left was Alan Winchester, master distiller of a prestigious single-malt whisky brand, and on my right was Ms. V., a half-British, half-Italian whiskey distributor who has been working in Hong Kong for 22 years.
Across the table sat Bridget, a British whiskey marketing professional in her 20s.

Mr. Winchester, who was wearing a kilt with a traditional Scottish tartan pattern, raised the subject of the Scottish independence vote.
He said that his wife opposed independence and his 27-year-old daughter supported it, adding that it was the first time that a political debate had taken place at home.

While he didn’t say which side he had voted for, he didn’t seem to find the result disappointing.
Before the Scottish referendum, there were different opinions about the fate of the Scotch whiskey industry.
Many predicted that the industry would contract because of funding from England and that the distribution network would change.
Winchester gently said that the Scots chose stability over risk.

Ms. V., who wishes to remain anonymous for security reasons, broke her silence in a serious manner.
She argued that Hong Kong’s autonomy will be completely gone within several years as protests there against China continue to rage on.

When Hong Kong’s sovereignty was handed over to China in 1997, she thought that it would be guaranteed for at least 50 years, but turmoil broke out in less than 20, she said.

“Hong Kong will soon become like Tibet,” Ms. V. stressed.

Ms. V. said that affluent families in Hong Kong send their children to universities in the United Kingdom or the United States and advise them to stay there instead of returning.

Bridget, who works in London, joined the conversation and added that she would like to live somewhere other than England.
Born to an Irish immigrant family in England, she is being transferred to her company’s New York office.

As I returned to my hotel, a Korean executive at a multinational liquor company expressed his worries, “When I visit Jeju Island nowadays, I feel like the entire island is turning into Chinese territory.”