Conspiracy theories and suspicions surrounding fabrication have continued to circulate over the death of Yoo Byung-eun, the de factor owner of the Sewol ferry.
The police announced that the DNA and fingerprint matches confirmed that the dead body found in Suncheon, South Jeolla, was indeed his.
His identity was confirmed 40 days after his body was found on June 12, though many Koreans don’t trust the police report.
Different theories spread on social network services, and the police and the prosecution are largely responsible for these rumors.

In the initial stages of the investigation, the prosecution was too passive in its efforts to capture Yoo, even when his charges, including embezzlement, were confirmed.
They believed Yoo would respond to a summons for questioning.
But when followers from the businessman’s religious cult, commonly known as the Salvation Sect, gathered at Geumsuwon, in Anseong, Gyeonggi, the group’s retreat where Yoo was staying in May, the police were reluctant to make an arrest.

The believers insisted that the manhunt was a religious persecution, and the police were unwilling to enforce the law.
Meanwhile, Yoo escaped from the retreat and hid in a villa in Suncheon.
By the time the police entered Geumsuwon to arrest him, he had already been found dead in a plum orchard near the villa.
An investigator from the prosecution was sleeping when the retreat was raided, and there were rumors that investigation information was leaked to Geumsuwon.

Cooperation between the prosecution and the police was also disorganized.
The police struggled in their arrest operation because the prosecution didn’t share certain information about Yoo and those close to him.

“The prosecution just notified them that the eldest son of Yoo Byung-eun was hiding in a certain area, without providing any details,” a police official said.
“The search operation could not be carried out thoroughly because the police did not have [all the necessary] information.”
But the police were also at fault.
When the body was found in the orchard in Suncheon, they didn’t believe it could be Yoo’s remains.
Even though the dead man was dressed in designer clothes, they believed it was the corpse of a homeless person.
The body was found just 2.5 kilometers (1.6 miles) from the villa at which Yoo had been hiding.

It was irrational for authorities to believe the man was homeless.
If they had checked the brand names on his clothing or the articles he was carrying, it would have been obvious.
The police admitted that there had been flaws in the initial investigation.

The Sewol ferry disaster has made citizens distrustful of the investigation authorities.
Overall slackness and incompetency have been revealed in the course of rescue operation by the coast guard.
Now, the slack investigation by the police and prosecutors is under fire.
They must thoroughly investigate the corruption of the Yoo family and present an outcome that can convince the citizens.