A day before the 100th anniversary of the Sewol ferry accident, we remain embarrassed by the dismal state of society.
The ruling and opposition parties continue to brawl over a bill aimed at laying bare the truth behind Korea’s worst maritime disaster and compensating the victims.
Meanwhile, the victims’ families and civic groups vehemently called for the immediate enactment of the bill in a rally in central Seoul.
After the tragedy, which left more than 300 passengers dead or missing, we all called for society to change.
Looking back on past 100 days, however, we are still no better off.

President Park Geun-hye vowed to eliminate all government irregularities, promising a national revamp.
Prime Minister Chung Hong-won also jumped on the bandwagon by announcing the establishment of a national committee solely devoted to a countrywide overhaul.
The Park administration has put top priority on rooting out decades-old dubious connections between bureaucrats and the industries they are supposed to monitor.

The government sent to the National Assembly a revised law concerning public servants and ethics after extending the scope of the institutions at which government officials can be hired after retiring.
It also lengthened the term of the employment ban.
In addition, the government submitted a bill that strictly prohibits any form of solicitations in exchange for special favors in regard to civil servants.
However, none of the bills have been enacted due to political wrangling.

Our society’s sense of public safety hasn’t improved either.
In the subway crash at Sangwangsimni Station, more than 200 passengers were injured just two weeks after the Sewol disaster due to a malfunctioning traffic signal system.
That was followed by a fire at a day care center for senior citizens, which took 21 lives.
The collision of a tourist train on Tuesday is another example of negligence.

In a survey of 1,000 citizens conducted ahead of the 100th day after the Sewol tragedy, seven out of 10 expressed deeper distrust of the government.
The Coast Guard and military fumbled in their rescue operations, the Blue House and other government agencies acted lethargically and the prosecution and police played out a comic drama in which they continued to search for Yoo Byung-eun, the de facto owner of the sunken ferry, even as his corpse rotted for more than 40 days.
If the government fails to regain the people’s trust, our society will pay the price.
We must not forget the Sewol tragedy, as we must not repeat it.
We must learn these lessons before it’s too late.