The ruling and opposition parties took the lead in attacking the Park Geun-hye administration during the Sewol ferry disaster.
They lambasted it for its lethargic response to the tragedy, the irresponsibility of bureaucrats, the immorality of Yoo Byung-eun, the de facto owner of the ferry, and the captain and crew of the ship in the face of the calamity.
However, we wonder if they really deserve to criticize all of them.

Our political parties are infamous for backward party nominations.
Whenever the Blue House has trouble appointing high-profile officials, they batter the presidential office.
When it comes to personnel affairs, however, they are even worse than the administration: They don’t have any principles, order or responsibility.
Both camps’ lack of firm nomination systems invites power intervention.
The main opposition New Politics Alliance for Democracy picked a close aide to Ahn Cheol-soo, co-chair of the party, as the party’s candidate for a district in Gwangju - the opposition’s home turf - without a nomination race in the June 4 local elections.

Ahead of the July 30 by-elections, the largest ever, both parties’ leaders are bent on top-down nominations, as many are determined by the leaders’ decisions.
The ruling Saenuri Party excluded Yim Tae-hee, former President Lee Myung-bak’s chief of staff, from the nomination race for Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi, citing his lack of regional ties, despite a strong need to develop the city.
But the party leadership nominated him for a district in Suwon, Gyeonggi.
Does that mean Pyeongtaek needs a regional representative but Suwon does not?
Given his lack of regional connections, lawmaker Suh Chung-won, the former chairman of the Grand National Party, the predecessor of the Saenuri Party, might also not have been nominated for a legislative seat representing Hwaseong, Gyeonggi.
He won in the Oct. 30, 2013 by-election.
The ruling party has again rolled up its sleeves to nominate former Gyeonggi Governor Kim Moon-soo for the Dongjak-B district in southern Seoul in the July 30 by-elections without holding a nomination race.

The NPAD is no exception.
The party nominated Ki Dong-min, former Seoul deputy mayor for political affairs and a confidant to Seoul mayor Park Won-soon, for Dongjak-B district, Seoul, without a nomination race.
Needless to say, nominations are essential for political reform.
Without a firm system established, incumbent lawmakers or aspiring politicians have to first read their leaders’ minds.
This is deplorable at a time when the nation needs a revamp.